August 20, 2020||Patna||Political parties in poll-bound Bihar vie for taking credit of Sushant case going to CBI||PATNA: Soon after the Supreme Court on Wednesday pronounced its order allowing a CBI probe in the film actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case, political parties in the poll-bound Bihar began competing to take credit for the case going in the hand of the central investigating agency. Assembly polls in Bihar are due in the month of October- November and political parties have already begun campaigning through virtual meetings using different social media platforms. As soon as the apex court order came, the Leader of Opposition in Bihar assembly and senior RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav turned up before media to remind that the case finally went to the CBI because it was he who first of all raised the demand for a CBI probe into the actor’s controversial death. “At a time when no one was talking about handing over the the SSR case to CBI, RJD state president Jagdanand Singh and I went to the house of Sushant at Rajiv Nagar in Patna, met his father K K Singh, and we demanded a CBI probe to unravel the truth. The RJD was the first party that demanded a CBI probe,” Tejashwi told this newspaper. However, ruling JD(U) leaders said the case went to the CBI only because of the efforts of CM Nitish Kumar. “Had Bihar Police not registered a case in Patna on the complaint of Sushant father’s written complaint, the case would not have gone to the CBI,” said senior JD(U) leader and minister Ashok Choudhary. “Sushant’s father's FIR was registered in Patna after the Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey called on Singh at the advice of the CM Nitish Kumar. Hence, all credit goes to the Bihar CM,” claims another JD(U) leader. BJP leaders too not remained behind in taking credit. Soon after the Supreme Court order, Bihar Deputy CM and senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi tweeted that their stand has been "vindicated". "We welcome the decision of the Supreme Court to allow CBI to continue with its probe of the Sushant death case on the basis of an FIR filed in Bihar. Our stand vindicated," Modi tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/political-parties-in-poll-bound-bihar-vie-for-taking-credit-of-sushant-case-going-to-cbi/articleshow/77642109.cms||Madan Kumar
August 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Family gatherings leave a trail of positives in rural panchayats||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Even while neighbourhood transmission has gone unabated in rural clusters, spate of cases emerging out of family gatherings, especially funerals, poses new challenges for health team. The district administration is now facing a double challenge; checking new cases centred around markets and commercial establishments during the unlock phase and addressing cases resulting from family gatherings. Madavoor, which had not reported any contact cases till two weeks ago, is now awaiting samples of 250 primary contacts and it began with a funeral. A man, who was discharged from Medical college hospital, died at his residence at Madavoor and the bout of positive cases in the area was traced to his funeral. A close relative of the deceased person; employed as a contractor, transmitted infection to workers. Another man, who was tested positive, was a friend of the relative and he distributed old age pension at homes and he had also attended the funeral. Another person, who attended the funeral at Madavoor, went on to conduct noolukettu function for his baby in another panchayat and there were same participants for both the functions. A woman in the neighbourhood was reported positive with an unidentified source of infection and contact tracing revealed the links between the two functions. There was also an instance where another family from Madavoor went to attend a funeral at Nilamel and there were some positive cases in the next week. Madavoor at present has 24 cases; majority of them linked to the funeral. Kuttichal, which has grown into a community cluster among rural local bodies, also reported an instance where a series of cases was traced to a funeral at Mangudi. A 14-year-old boy was the first to test positive for the infection and he came from Nedumangadu to attend the funeral at Kuttichal. Soon, there were connect cases. A person, who returned from the Gulf and got admitted to medical college, had returned to house following discharge, his condition worsened and he died and there was a gathering for his funeral. ``For all the restrictions in numbers, families seldom pay heed to regulating participation in gatherings. Even kids and elderly people, who are recommended reverse quarantine, are brought to attend these gatherings. When kids aged 2 years are tested positive, we have to deal with emotional parents. Since these functions happen within the families, we have our limitations in interventions,'' a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-family-gatherings-leave-a-trail-of-positives-in-rural-panchayats/articleshow/77642088.cms||Aswin J Kumar
August 20, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Ambala reports 68 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths||AMBALA: The district on Wednesday recorded two coronavirus-related deaths and 68 new patients, civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said. “A 68-year-old man of Nahan House, died of Covid-19 at PGIMER, Chandigarh on Tuesday. He was a patient of diabetes, heart, and lung diseases and had a history of brain stroke too. He got admitted at PGIMER on August 17 where his Covid-19 sample was taken at about 9pm and he died between 2am and 3am on August 18. He tested positive for Covid-19 later on Tuesday,” said Dr Kuldeep. “The second death was reported from Sullar village. The 42-year-old deceased was an ambulance driver working with the health department. He died of Covid-19 on Wednesday. We suspect he contracted the infection while he was on duty,” said Dr Kuldeep. Meanwhile, a total of 68 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Ambala, increasing the case tally to 2,771, with 345 active cases, said Dr Kuldeep.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-ambala-reports-68-new-covid-19-cases-2-deaths/articleshow/77642228.cms||Jaskaran Singh
August 20, 2020||World||Pelosi says postmaster has no plans to restore mail cuts||WASHINGTON: House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Wednesday that President Donald Trump's postmaster general has no intention of restoring mail equipment or funding overtime hours he cut, despite public outcry that operational changes are undermining service before the November election. Pelosi, D-Calif., said she told Postmaster General Louis DeJoy in phone call that his decision to temporarily pause any further postal operations changes is ``wholly insufficient and does not reverse damage already wreaked.'' She said DeJoy ``frankly admitted that he had no intention of replacing the sorting machines, blue mailboxes and other key mail infrastructure that have been removed and that plans for adequate overtime, which is critical for the timely delivery of mail, are not in the works.'' Her statement comes as the Postal Service faced more questions and concerns and a federal lawsuit Wednesday over mail delivery disruptions after DeJoy's abrupt decision to postpone any further changes until after the Nov. 3 election. The delays have stunned Americans and led to warnings that Trump is trying to undermine the Postal Service before a surge of mail-in ballots as voters avoid polling places during the coronavirus pandemic. Civil and voting rights organizations said Wednesday they are suing to immediately return postal operations to normal. ``We never imagined that we would be in this position with one of the oldest and most trusted institutions in our country,'' said Virginia Case of the League of Women Voters. Case said there was no choice but to sue, even with the reversal by DeJoy on Tuesday. ``The damage has been done,'' she said. ``We need guarantees in place that this will not happen again, prior to the election.'' At the White House, Trump's team has insisted the president has no intention of disrupting mail delivery now or before Election Day. But Trump leveled more attacks on absentee voting. ``IF YOU CAN PROTEST IN PERSON, YOU CAN VOTE IN PERSON!'' the president tweeted. IF YOU CAN PROTEST IN PERSON, YOU CAN VOTE IN PERSON!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 1597844311000Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer, who spoke to DeJoy late Tuesday, asked for a written explanation of exactly what changes he was reversing. Schumer, D-N.Y., called on the service's board of governors to provide ``answers on why Mr. DeJoy was selected'' for the job. DeJoy, who is set to testify Friday before senators, ignited an uproar over operational cutbacks and service changes he swiftly put in place since taking the helm in June. With mounting public pressure and a crush of state lawsuits, he hit pause Tuesday, saying he would hold off on any further changes until after the election. Nonetheless, there are concerns that mail delivery of from routine goods and the millions of mail-in ballots expected are still potentially at risk because of the changes pushed by DeJoy. Managers and workers have been let go, and mailboxes and machines have already been removed. One initiative that DeJoy didn't single out in his announcement was the newly imposed constraints on when mail can go out for delivery _ a change postal workers have said is fueling delays. DeJoy, a former supply chain CEO, is a Republican donor and Trump ally, and the first postmaster general who did not come from the ranks of the Postal Service. He has pledged to revamp the Postal Service, which has struggled financially ever since 2006, when it was saddled with a costly new requirement to pre-fund its employee retiree healthcare benefits. On Tuesday, he said he was halting those initiatives until after the election ``to avoid even the appearance of impact on election mail.'' ``We will deliver the nation's election mail on time,'' DeJoy said in a statement. DeJoy said he is halting the planned removal of mail-processing machines and blue collection boxes, as well as an initiative to change retail hours at post offices. He also said no mail processing facilities will be closed and said the agency has not eliminated overtime. The statement did not specify whether the agency would restore mail-sorting machines that have recently been taken offline. A Postal Service spokesman declined to comment beyond DeJoy's statement. Pelosi is gaining support from Republicans on Saturday's House vote on legislation that would prevent election-year mail changes and provide emergency postal funds. ``I don't, frankly, trust the postmaster general,'' Pelosi said in San Francisco. More than 20 states, from New York to California, announced they would be suing to stop the changes. Several vowed they would press on, keeping a watchful eye on the Postal Service ahead of the election. Trump made clear last week that he was blocking $25 billion in emergency aid to the Postal Service, acknowledging he wanted to curtail election mail operations, as well as a Democratic proposal to provide $3.6 billion in additional election money to the states to help process an expected surge of mail-in ballots. Those funds are tangled in a broader coronavirus aid package that was approved in the House but stalled in the Senate. While the House is expected to approve the $25 billion as part of Saturday's vote, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., has said he's not interested in a separate postal bill. He is eyeing a new virus aid package that would provide $10 billion for the Postal Service. Mark Dimondstein, president of the American Postal Workers Union, welcomed DeJoy's decision but said the Postal Service needs Covid-related financial relief. ``It's time for Congress to deliver,'' he said. Pelosi is calling lawmakers back to Washington for the ``Delivering for America Act,'' which would prohibit the Postal Service from implementing any changes to operations or the level of service it had in place on Jan. 1. The package would include the $25 billion the House has already approved as part of the Covid-19 rescue that is stalled in the Senate. Postal workers say they are increasingly worried about their ability to deliver for the fall election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/pelosi-says-postmaster-has-no-plans-to-restore-mail-cuts/articleshow/77643302.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Goa||After 3 seasons, 55 goals, FC Goa and Coro end partnership||PANAJI: It’s time for FC Goa to say goodbye, and a big thank you, to Ferran Corominas. The Spanish striker has won two Golden Boots in a row and finished just one goal behind the eventual winner last season. He’s scored 55 goals for the club, including seven in the Super Cup. But at 37, and with possibly his best football behind him, FC Goa have decided to move on. The signing of Igor Angulo, another Spanish striker, should have made it clear that the club is looking beyond the fan favourite. For about an hour during a team rebuilding meeting, there was a discussion of keeping both Coro and Angulo. But it soon dawned upon everyone that it was too much of a risk. Two well-paid strikers, one 37 and the other 36, just didn’t make sense. Given FC Goa’s policy of signing just six foreign players – for a happy dressing room and balancing the wage bill –keeping both would also mean sacrificing an attacking midfielder. “It’s tough to say this, but Coro won’t be with FC Goa this season,” a source told TOI late on Wednesday. Club sources were forced to admit that Coro won’t have a role to play at the club after Angulo spilled the beans during an online interaction with journalists. “Corominas is part of the good past of Goa but now we have to see the present and look at the future. He’s not going to be with us, unfortunately, but I think we have a very good squad to face both competitions in the best way possible,” Angulo told reporters. Angulo himself is no alien to pressure. A legend at Gornik Zabrze, he has scored approximately 80 goals for the Polish side and even won the Golden Boot in Ekstraklasa, the premier league in Poland. “I am used to this kind of pressure. At Gornik Zabrze, I was one of the captain and there was pressure. The fans expect the best from you, so I am used to this. I think Goa will be the same. Football is a collective sport and we need the help of everyone, not only one player," said Angulo. When the season ended and Goa were mulling over another disappointing loss in the semifinals against Chennaiyin FC, Coro was very much part of the plan. The two started talking and an offer was made. It was lower than what the Spanish striker – highest paid footballer in India last season -- was pocketing. In the end, the club and their most famous player could never really reach an agreement. That’s when Goa started looking at options. Angulo’s profile was quickly emailed to the club, and a decision was taken when the Spanish striker continued to score goals in the Polish top-tier as the league resumed post lockdown. “You cannot take anything away from Coro. He’s not just a fantastic player but also a big influence in the dressing room. The way he takes care of himself and gives his best every time he takes to the field is exemplary. He’s the best that Goa has had,” said one official. When Goa were sounded out about Coro’s availability in the summer of 2017, he was instantly snared. His profile was good, record even better, though nobody believed he would reach such great heights in India. After all, it was Adrian Colunga who was expected to get the club the goals, having been an established striker. Coro was largely a winger, who couldn’t stop scoring since he set foot on Goan soil. Coro scored 18 goals in his first season and didn’t miss a single game. He won the Golden Boot, finishing three goals ahead of Miku. The next season, he scored 16, four more than the second-placed strikers, Bartholomew Ogbeche and Modou Sougou. Coro could have so easily had a hat-trick of Golden Boots but missed three games due to injury last season. He finished a goal behind the trio of Nerijus Valskis, Roy Krishna and Ogbeche. Nobody could hold that against him. Here was a striker who gave the fans plenty to celebrate. No wonder fans sang, “Corominas, sha la la la la; he scores whenever he wants.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-3-seasons-55-goals-fc-goa-and-coro-end-partnership/articleshow/77643623.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
August 20, 2020||India||MHA pulls out 10k security personnel from J&K after 1 year||SRINAGAR: The home ministry on Wednesday ordered withdrawal of more than 10,000 security personnel from Jammu and Kashmir, brought to the erstwhile state before August 5 last year. The ministry had flown in at least 400 companies to J&K before nullification of Articles 370 and 35A and re-organisation of J&K into two Union Territories on August 5, 2019. Each company comprises 100-110 men, which means over 10,000 personnel are on their way out of J&K. “It has been decided to withdraw 100 companies of CAPFs with immediate effect from J&K and revert them back to their respective locations,” the MHA order said. The de-induction coincides with the appointment of a politician, former Union minister Manoj Sinha, as lieutenant governor in place of G C Murmu. The replacement is seen as reflecting the Centre;s assessment that the security situation may have stabilised, opening a window to explore revival of the political process. In the fortnight since his arrival here, Sinha has sought to reach out to different sections of society, holding interactions with vice-chancellors on improving education and implementing the New Education Policy, incentivising doctors serving in remote areas and calling for filling up vacant positions of public health personnel, and engaging with traders. He has also given instructions for swift and efficient implementation of the central scheme for construction of rural roads, and for involving representatives of local bodies in execution of development schemes and ensuring transparency. Notably, on Tuesday, there was no incident of violence reported from anywhere across the former state, particularly from any part of Kashmir division. At least 40,000 additional troops were deployed across J&K prior to last year’s nullification of Article 370 and dividing the erstwhile state into two UTs. They were positioned for almost four months — from August to November 2019 — on all streets and sensitive places to contain possible protests and to deal with law and order issues. Sources said the remaining troops sent to J&K last year — at least 300 companies — will continue to be stationed in Kashmir and their withdrawal will depend on the second review by the MHA next month. The break-up of 100 companies that are being pulled out of J&K include 40 companies from CRPF, 20 from BSF, 20 from SSB and 20 from ITBP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mha-pulls-out-10k-security-personnel-from-jk-after-1-year/articleshow/77644145.cms||M Saleem Pandit
August 20, 2020||India||City hotels, weekly markets to reopen, gyms to stay closed||NEW DELHI: After being closed for nearly five months due to the coronavirus lockdown, and following a fortnight-long tussle between the Delhi government and the lieutenant governor, hotels and weekly markets in Delhi are finally going to reopen, though gyms and yoga institutes will still remain closed. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Wednesday approved reopening of all hotels in the capital besides allowing weekly markets on a trial basis. All these will resume with social-distancing guidelines and preventive measures. Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal chaired the DDMA meeting attended by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and some members of his cabinet, besides officials from the central government, ICMR director general Balram Bhargava and AIIMS director Randeep Guleria, among others. DDMA's logic behind not reopening gyms was that people sweat a lot while working out and gym visitors are likely to come in contact with the body fluids of others, which could spread Covid. Hotels and weekly markets won’t open from Thursday as they have to wait for DDMA's order. A detailed standard operating procedure for the weekly markets will be prepared to maintain and monitor social distancing. The DDMA has asked chief secretary Vijay Dev to prepare the SOP in consultation with agencies concerned, like municipal corporations. "The Covid situation in Delhi is much better now. Now, the economy of Delhi must be brought on track… In the meantime, everyone must exercise precautions and follow social distancing," chief minster Arvind Kejriwal said in a statement. The DDMA also approved delinking nine banquet halls from Covid hospitals due to falling number of cases and many beds lying vacant. The LG office said that the administration needs to ensure strict compliance of social distancing and other protective and Covid-19 preventive measures and adhere to all guidelines issued by the central government to prevent the spread of the virus. "At present we are at a crucial stage where we need to continue our concerted efforts with the same pace to ensure that there is no resurgence of the virus in Delhi," sources in the LG office stated, adding that Delhi cannot afford to let its guard down till the situation is normalised. Hotels contribute 8% of Delhi’s GDP, and provide employment, while weekly bazaars emply approximately five lakh poor families, and the state government believed that opening these activities was important to kickstart the economy. In the last week of July, the AAP government decided to allow hotels to reopen and weekly markets to reopen on a trial basis for seven days with social distancing and preventive measures, which was rejected a day later by LG Baijal arguing that the Covid situation in the capital was fragile and cautious steps were needed. On August 6, the government sent a fresh proposal to the LG to allow hotels, gyms and weekly markets to reopen saying cases had dropped and recovery rate had improved. The government had argued that the activities had been allowed in many states with more coronavirus cases. Hotel owners were happy with the decision, saying the industry provides livelihood and employment opportunities for many. Delhi has nearly 2,500 hotels, including dozens of starred establishments. Gym owners, on the other hand, are unable to understand the logic to keep them closed when they are open in many other parts of the country. Chirag Sethi of the Delhi Gym Association said. "The DDMA decision would be responsible for killing the fitness industry and over one lakh people would be jobless," Sethi said. The DDMA, meanwhile, deferred the proposal of the Delhi government to allow public transport buses to ply at full capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/city-hotels-weekly-markets-to-reopen-gyms-to-stay-closed/articleshow/77644585.cms||AlokKNMishra
August 20, 2020||India||At least 8 states using CDRs to track patients||NEW DELHI: Kerala and Uttar Pradesh are not the only states tracing contacts of Covid positive patients with the help of their call detail records (CDRs). At least six other states are using or have taken this route earlier to contain the spread, while some are mulling using this method. In some states, this was done in the initial stages when the pandemic struck to trace contacts of those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi. Other states are using it for various reasons — from tracing contacts of patients not willing to reveal contact history to those who went missing after testing positive. In Himachal Pradesh, the police have been using CDRs to trace contacts of those patients “who do not cooperate and do not provide contact history”. “This is, however, not a regular practice. It was used mostly in the initial days to trace the contacts of Tablighi Jamaat members,” said a state government official. When Covid cases spiked in Rajasthan in the initial period, the police used CDRs of infected people. This practice stopped when unlocking began on June 1. Madhya Pradesh used CDRs to trace contacts till July 30. Now, CDRs are used only in “special cases, where contact tracing is proving impossible or if it is imperative to find out how the person got infected”. “Sometimes, a patient is not in a condition to speak and reveal who all he had met. However, there is no call interception involved,” said a senior police officer. Times ViewAccessing CDRs for contact tracing of Covid-19 patients is a gross invasion of privacy. It is worrying that several states are following this practice. Digital right experts have rightly pointed out that such a process leads to illegal expansion of police power. The outbreak must be fought, but it is equally important to ensure that certain rights guaranteed by the Constitution are not flung by the wayside in the process.The Haryana government, too, is using CDRs of Covid-19 patients for contact tracing. In Jharkhand, police are using CDRs in case a Covid1-19 patient is untraceable. “When a positive patient goes missing, CDRs are used to trace locations from where calls are being made or received, and thus track the person,” said Ranchi sub-divisional magistrate Lokesh Mishra. “In the first three months, we often sought police help. Now, more than 98% of contacts of positive patients are traced by health workers. The police use many methods including use of CDRs,” a senior official in the public health department in Tamil Nadu said. While state agencies in Gujarat have not issued official orders to use CDRs for contact tracing, sources in the government said CDRs were used initially — in an informal manner — by the police to track down people, especially after the Nizamuddin Markaz spread, when people were not open about coming out for testing fearing quarantine in government facilities. A few states are now mulling using CDRs. In Karnataka, the bureaucracy has advised the government to use the CDR model of contact tracing. “At present, we are conducting a door-to-door survey of people for contact tracing. We have advised the government to use CDR for tracing those who are not cooperating.” said an IAS officer, associated with the Covid-19 tracing programme. Dismissing concerns of privacy breach, the officer said CDRs of just 14 days prior to the date a person is found positive will be traced. Watch At least 8 states using CDRs to track Covid-19 patients||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/at-least-8-states-using-cdrs-to-track-patients/articleshow/77644710.cms||---
August 20, 2020||India||Transgenders get right to inherit agricultural land in UP||Transgender people in UP can now inherit ancestral agricultural land under a new law that has come into force after the Yogi Adityanath cabinet cleared an amendment to the UP Revenue Code of 2006, removing the limitations of nomenclature in inheritance laws that only mention “sons”, “daughters”, “married”, “unmarried” and “widow”. The proposal for a law acknowledging the inheritance rights of the "third gender", as recognised by the Supreme Court, had been submitted by the State Law Commission to Adityanath in March 2019. Commission chairperson Justice AN Mittal had pointed out that all inheritance laws leave out the third gender, who as it face social ostracism despite measures to protect them. In the UP Revenue Code (Amendment) Act, 2020, changes have been made to sections 4(10), 108 (2), 109 and 110 to include people of the third gender as members of a landowner’s family to give them succession and physical rights to the property. This will also accord equal rights and social recognition to the community, the cabinet note says. Times ViewEquality of genders is one of the basic values of any modern and democratic society. Treating the third gender as equal to others is part of this just and progressive concept. This is a welcome move by the Uttar Pradesh government. Other states should follow.Among other changes made to the code are amendments to section 59 (4), in which unreserved land can be earmarked for community use, such as a playground, grazing pasture and cremation ground. The remaining land can be returned to the gram sabha. Under the same section, another amendment makes it possible to denotify previously acquired land. Under section 60 (2), a provision has been inserted for creation of temporary tin sheds on grazing grounds for amenities like tubewells and feeding troughs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/transgenders-get-right-to-inherit-agricultural-land-in-up/articleshow/77644874.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Business||Apple bites into history, is first US firm to reach $2 trillion in market cap||NEW DELHI: Apple Inc made Wall Street history on Wednesday when its 2020 stock surge pushed the market value past $2 trillion, the first time a US company has surpassed that level. Shares of the iPhone maker rose as much as 1.4% to $468.7 in midday trading. The stock has more than doubled off a March low, in a rally that has been driven by strong earnings results and optimism over its upcoming 5G iPhone. The gains have solidified Apple’s position as the most valuable company in the world. While Saudi Aramco briefly boasted a $2 trillion valuation in December, shares of Saudi Arabia’s national oil company subsequently dropped, and it currently trades with a market cap of around $1.8 trillion. Among US companies, Apple is trailed by Amazon.com Inc and Microsoft Corp. Apple’s rapid rise to $2 trillion is particularly astonishing because the company has not done much new in the past two years. Apple bought back over $360bn shares since ’12, most by any coIt has simply built one of the tech industry’s most effective moneymakers, which has such a firm grip over how people communicate, entertain themselves and shop that it no longer relies on groundbreaking inventions to keep the business humming. Under its chief executive, Tim Cook, Apple’s most important innovation in recent years has arguably been its nearly unrivalled ability to generate profits. Cook has built a sophisticated global supply chain to produce billions of devices — most assembled in China — and leaned into a product line designed to lock customers into its ecosystem so they buy new gadgets every few years and pay monthly fees to use Apple’s suite of digital services. Apple has also grown despite its size by extracting more money from the companies that run businesses on iPhone apps, drawing accusations that its 30% cut of some app revenues is unfair. The Silicon Valley company’s business has been only further entrenched by Covid-19, which has forced people to work, learn and socialise virtually. From April through June, even as Apple shuttered many of its retail stores because of the virus, it posted $11.25 billion in profits, up 12% from a year ago. It increased its sales of every product and in every part of the world. Apple has also wielded another powerful tool to boost its valuation and enrich its investors and executives: stock buybacks. Since the company’s value hit $1 trillion, it has returned $175.6 billion to shareholders, including $141 billion in stock buybacks. Apple has repurchased more than $360 billion of its own shares since 2012, by far the most of any company, and has announced plans to spend at least tens of billions of dollars more on Apple stock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/apple-bites-into-history-is-first-us-firm-to-reach-2-trillion-in-market-cap/articleshow/77644916.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Business||AI Express Calicut crash evidence tampered with?||MUMBAI: The Air India Express Calicut accident site was not secured and evidence may have been displaced, tampered with and destroyed, said Capt Amit Singh, an air safety expert, in a letter sent to the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) this week. He based his observation on photographs and videos shot by the media at the crash site, about three hours after the accident. On August 7, an AIX aircraft from Dubai overshot the Calicut runway on landing and dropped off the table-top runway, killing 18 people, including both the pilots. The video showed a person dressed in military fatigues positioned outside the aircraft cockpit. He points to something inside the cockpit, while another person, who is inside the cockpit, hands over what appears to be a document, to the person outside, who in turn, hands over the document to a third person, said the letter, sent to the MoCA secretary, seeking a probe into the matter. “It might be a key evidence. A judicial probe must be initiated to carry out an unbiased investigation,’’ said Capt Singh. Speaking to TOI, Capt Singh said that he spoke to the media channels concerned and found out that the said clip was shot at 10.37pm, about three hours after the crash. The Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) team reached Calicut only at 5am the next day. The photographs “undoubtedly capture a scene of alleged tampering and destruction of evidence from the aircraft cockpit”, he said . If indeed that is what has happened, then the act, considered criminal in nature, is punishable under the Indian Penal Code, he said. The Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) procedures manual 2012 details the procedure for securing evidence on site (4.1.4). It says that the officer in-charge of the aerodrome closest to the site of accident shall assist in coordination with local police authorities and shall take all reasonable measures to protect the evidence until the arrival of the officer of AAIB or any other authorised person. It adds that the assistance of civil authorities, particularly that of local police, is also necessary to ensure that vital evidence is not lost. The International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) Doc. 9756 Part II states that “securing the occurrence site, aircraft, wreckage and other equipment involved to ensure their preservation, including protection against further damage, and the deterioration or disappearance of essential evidence due to theft, displacement or improper handling of the wreckage” should be accomplished without delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ai-express-calicut-crash-evidence-tampered-with/articleshow/77644977.cms||---
August 20, 2020||World||Trump: US demands restoration of UN sanctions against Iran||WASHINGTON: The United States will demand Thursday that all United Nations sanctions be reimposed against Iran, President Donald Trump said Wednesday, a move that follows America's embarrassing defeat to extend an arms embargo against Tehran. The administration's insistence on snapping back international sanctions against Iran sets the stage for a contentious dispute. It's possible that the US call will be ignored by other UN members an outcome that could call into question the UN Security Council's ability to enforce its own legally binding decisions. ``It's a snap back,'' Trump said Wednesday. Trump said Secretary of State Mike Pompeo will travel to New York on Thursday to present the US demand to reimpose the sanctions, accusing Iran of significant non-compliance with the 2015 nuclear deal. The Trump administration wants to reimpose all international sanctions that had been eased under that deal. Other nations claim the US has no standing to make the demand because the Trump administration pulled the US out of the Iran nuclear deal two years ago. ``Iran will never have a nuclear weapon,'' Trump said. Watch Trump seeks return of UN sanctions against Iran||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-us-demands-restoration-of-un-sanctions-against-iran/articleshow/77645058.cms||---
August 20, 2020||World||Obama, in scathing Trump rebuke, warns democracy on the line||WASHINGTON: Barack Obama will issue a blistering rebuke of President Donald Trump in Wednesday's Democratic Party convention, accusing his successor of unleashing America's ``worst impulses'' and treating the presidency as a reality show ``to get the attention he craves.`` In excerpts released ahead of his address, the former president also puts the stakes in the November election in stark terms, warning that the future of American democracy is on the line in the race between Trump and Democratic nominee Joe Biden. ``I am also asking you to believe in your own ability to embrace your own responsibility as citizens to make sure that the basic tenets of our democracy endure,'' Obama says in the excerpts. He will be speak live Wednesday night from Philadelphia's Museum of the American Revolution, ahead of Kamala Harris, Biden's running mate the nation's first Black president handing off to the first Black woman on a major party presidential ticket. Even in the heat of campaigns, former presidents are typically more restrained than other politicians in their criticisms of a sitting president. Yet Obama's remarks his most personal and direct critique of Trump yet reveal the 44th president's striking disregard for the nation's current commander in chief. He says that while he hoped Trump might come to take the presidency seriously, he now believes he is simply incapable of doing so. Obama's headlining role at the convention is aimed in part at galvanizing younger, more liberal voters who may not have a natural affinity for the 77-year-old Biden, a career politician with a more moderate record. Democrats see Obama as a bridge to those voters, someone who can speak both to Biden's character and to the urgency of progressives pushing for more sweeping change to the nation's economic and domestic policies. ``He is an incomparable witness for Biden,'' David Axelrod, a longtime Obama political adviser. ``But he also speaks compellingly to young people restless not just to purge Trump, but to achieve real, meaningful change.'' Obama forged a close personal relationship with Biden during their eight years together in the White House and has been a sounding board for him throughout the 2020 campaign. In excerpts of his speech, Obama says that when he set out to pick a vice president, ``I didn't know I'd end up finding a brother.'' Yet there's an inherent tension in Obama's role as one of the most powerful and important surrogates for Biden. Obama's own political rise was fueled by the power of barrier-breaking, generational change, and he's encouraged ``new blood'' in politics. More recently, Obama drew attention during the 2020 Democratic primary when he said many of the world's problems have been due to ``old people, usually old men, not getting out of the way.'' With the general election now in full swing, Obama confidantes say that while the former president's support for Biden is unequivocal, he does worry about enthusiasm among younger voters, particularly younger voters of color. He's well aware that one of the reasons Trump currently occupies the Oval Office is that those voters did not show up in the same large numbers in 2016 for Hillary Clinton as they did when he was on the ballot. Obama's wife, former first lady Michelle Obama, spoke directly to those concerns in her own well-received address on Monday's opening night of the convention, urging Democrats to ``vote like we did in 2008 and 2012.'' The president is expected to make a similarly urgent appeal, as well as take aim at what an aide described as ``the cynical moves by the current administration and the Republican Party to discourage Americans from voting.'' The fact that the Obamas are headliners on two of the four nights of the Democratic convention speaks to the crucial role they have in helping Biden try to reassemble the coalition that propelled them into the White House and the challenge the Democratic Party has in building a new bench of other leaders who can do the same. ``When you think about folks who have the capacity to really unify us, there are only a few people,'' said Yvette Simpson, chief executive of Democracy for America, a progressive political action committee. ``Certainly Barack Obama and Michelle Obama are among them.'' Indeed, the former president has enviable popularity, both among Democrats and all Americans. A Fox News poll conducted in May found 93% of Democrats had a favorable opinion of Obama, as did 63% of all registered voters. Despite that strong support, there has been some rethinking of Obama's legacy among some of his party's most liberal activists, who argue he didn't go far enough in overhauling the nation's health care system and gave too much away to Republicans in fiscal negotiations. Obama himself has acknowledged there was more he wanted to do, but argued he was hamstrung by the realities of a Republican-controlled House, and eventually Senate, for much of his tenure. But some of Obama's more recent comments have energized liberals, who see signs of him embracing some of the tactics of his party's activist wing. Progressives cheered in particular when Obama called for eliminating the Senate filibuster rules requiring 60 votes on major pieces of legislation, calling it a ``Jim Crow relic'' that is holding up rewriting voting rights laws. His surprise comments came during his eulogy at the funeral of the late civil rights leader and Georgia Rep. John Lewis. ``That's the guy we remember from the election of 2008,'' Simpson said of Obama's remarks at Lewis' funeral. ``It encouraged me that he might be the guy that pulls Joe Biden along a little bit.''||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/obama-in-scathing-trump-rebuke-warns-democracy-on-the-line/articleshow/77645097.cms||---
August 20, 2020||World||Obama, in scathing Trump rebuke, warns democracy on the line||WASHINGTON: Barack Obama will issue a blistering rebuke of President Donald Trump in Wednesday's Democratic Party convention, accusing his successor of unleashing America's ``worst impulses'' and treating the presidency as a reality show ``to get the attention he craves.`` In excerpts released ahead of his address, the former president also puts the stakes in the November election in stark terms, warning that the future of American democracy is on the line in the race between Trump and Democratic nominee Joe Biden. ``I am also asking you to believe in your own ability to embrace your own responsibility as citizens to make sure that the basic tenets of our democracy endure,'' Obama says in the excerpts. He will be speak live Wednesday night from Philadelphia's Museum of the American Revolution, ahead of Kamala Harris, Biden's running mate the nation's first Black president handing off to the first Black woman on a major party presidential ticket. Even in the heat of campaigns, former presidents are typically more restrained than other politicians in their criticisms of a sitting president. Yet Obama's remarks his most personal and direct critique of Trump yet reveal the 44th president's striking disregard for the nation's current commander in chief. He says that while he hoped Trump might come to take the presidency seriously, he now believes he is simply incapable of doing so. Obama's headlining role at the convention is aimed in part at galvanizing younger, more liberal voters who may not have a natural affinity for the 77-year-old Biden, a career politician with a more moderate record. Democrats see Obama as a bridge to those voters, someone who can speak both to Biden's character and to the urgency of progressives pushing for more sweeping change to the nation's economic and domestic policies. ``He is an incomparable witness for Biden,'' David Axelrod, a longtime Obama political adviser. ``But he also speaks compellingly to young people restless not just to purge Trump, but to achieve real, meaningful change.'' Obama forged a close personal relationship with Biden during their eight years together in the White House and has been a sounding board for him throughout the 2020 campaign. In excerpts of his speech, Obama says that when he set out to pick a vice president, ``I didn't know I'd end up finding a brother.'' Yet there's an inherent tension in Obama's role as one of the most powerful and important surrogates for Biden. Obama's own political rise was fueled by the power of barrier-breaking, generational change, and he's encouraged ``new blood'' in politics. More recently, Obama drew attention during the 2020 Democratic primary when he said many of the world's problems have been due to ``old people, usually old men, not getting out of the way.'' With the general election now in full swing, Obama confidantes say that while the former president's support for Biden is unequivocal, he does worry about enthusiasm among younger voters, particularly younger voters of color. He's well aware that one of the reasons Trump currently occupies the Oval Office is that those voters did not show up in the same large numbers in 2016 for Hillary Clinton as they did when he was on the ballot. Obama's wife, former first lady Michelle Obama, spoke directly to those concerns in her own well-received address on Monday's opening night of the convention, urging Democrats to ``vote like we did in 2008 and 2012.'' The president is expected to make a similarly urgent appeal, as well as take aim at what an aide described as ``the cynical moves by the current administration and the Republican Party to discourage Americans from voting.'' The fact that the Obamas are headliners on two of the four nights of the Democratic convention speaks to the crucial role they have in helping Biden try to reassemble the coalition that propelled them into the White House and the challenge the Democratic Party has in building a new bench of other leaders who can do the same. ``When you think about folks who have the capacity to really unify us, there are only a few people,'' said Yvette Simpson, chief executive of Democracy for America, a progressive political action committee. ``Certainly Barack Obama and Michelle Obama are among them.'' Indeed, the former president has enviable popularity, both among Democrats and all Americans. A Fox News poll conducted in May found 93% of Democrats had a favorable opinion of Obama, as did 63% of all registered voters. Despite that strong support, there has been some rethinking of Obama's legacy among some of his party's most liberal activists, who argue he didn't go far enough in overhauling the nation's health care system and gave too much away to Republicans in fiscal negotiations. Obama himself has acknowledged there was more he wanted to do, but argued he was hamstrung by the realities of a Republican-controlled House, and eventually Senate, for much of his tenure. But some of Obama's more recent comments have energized liberals, who see signs of him embracing some of the tactics of his party's activist wing. Progressives cheered in particular when Obama called for eliminating the Senate filibuster rules requiring 60 votes on major pieces of legislation, calling it a ``Jim Crow relic'' that is holding up rewriting voting rights laws. His surprise comments came during his eulogy at the funeral of the late civil rights leader and Georgia Rep. John Lewis. ``That's the guy we remember from the election of 2008,'' Simpson said of Obama's remarks at Lewis' funeral. ``It encouraged me that he might be the guy that pulls Joe Biden along a little bit.''||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/obama-in-scathing-trump-rebuke-warns-democracy-on-the-line/articleshow/77645114.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Patna||State govt cancels Pitrapaksha Mela||GAYA: Even as the state government on Tuesday evening decided to cancel the Pitrapaksha Mela thsi year, state agriculture minister and Gaya Town MLA supported the demand of Gayawal pandas to allow the event to be organised and requested the government to review its decision. The minister urged the state government to permit conditional ‘pindadaan’ in accordance with social distancing norms and other protocols as being followed in Vaishnodevi and other important places of worship . “The demand of the Pandas is genuine. I will write to the CM on the issue and hope that he would take a pragmatic view on the issue. The footfall, in any case would be low,” said the minister. The state government on its part said that the decision has been taken in view of the pandemic as it was not possible to maintain social distancing norms and other Covid-19 protocol during the Pitrapkasha. Earlier, Gaya DM Abhishek Singh sought guidelines from the government as holding the event would have compromised with the Unlock-3 conditions that prohibit religious congregation. According to a PRD press release, the revenue department of the state government, in response to the guidelines sought by the DM, did not allow. Gaya DM Abhishek Singh had conveyed the decision to Gayawal pandas. Strongly criticising the decision to cancel the event, Mahesh Lal Guput Pitalkewadwale, a prominent panda and member of the Vishnupad Temple Committee said that it was an assault on the ‘freedom of religion’ and offended the Hindu sentiments. “Never in recorded history, not even during the much-more deadly Spanish flu of the 1920s was the event cancelled,” said the panda leader. “If elections can be held during the pandemic why not a religious event,” asked Pitalkewadwale. Requesting the state government to review the cancellation, the Panda leader said that if the event was finally disallowed, the pandas may consider the poll boycott option. Criticising the decision not to hold Pitrapaksh, VHP leader Mani Lal Barik said that besides depriving the devotees of their right to perform religious rituals, the decision would also affect the livelihood of a large section of population, particularly nearly 4000 members of the ‘panda samaj’. “It was inconsistent with the PM Modi’s approach that favoured a balance between life and livelihood,” said Barik, a Gayawal panda. Central Bihar Chamber of Commerce (CBCC) president Sanjay Bhardwaj also requested the state government to re-visit the issue and allow conditional performance of ‘Pindadan’ rituals. “Already reeling under the pandemic impact, the Gaya economy was likely to suffer a loss of more than Rs 50 crore,” said Bharadwaj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-govt-cancels-pitrapaksha-mela/articleshow/77640200.cms||Abdul Qadir
August 20, 2020||Patna||Serological survey to test Covid-19 antibodies begins in four districts||PATNA: A serological survey to determine the prevalence of antibodies against the Covid-19 virus among people began in four districts of the state on Wednesday. Two more districts will be covered from August 21.A team from the Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRI), Patna, collected altogether 821 blood samples as part of the survey being conducted nationwide at the direction of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-Delhi.Altogether 70 districts across the country, including four in Bihar, have been selected for the sero survey by the National Institute Research in Tuberculosis (NIRT)-Chennai.On the first day, the exercise was carried out in Arwal, Begusarai, Buxar and Muzaffarpur by 14 teams of two persons each comprising a field investigator and a lab technician. The sero survey in other two districts- Madhubani and Purnia will begin from August 21.Dr Pradeep Das, the director of RMRI-Patna, told this newspaper that 207 blood samples were collected in Buxar, 206 in Begusarai, 205 in Arwal and 203 in Muzaffarpur on Wednesday. “The survey will be complete in these four districts by Thursday evening. The whole exercise will cover 2,400 people, including 400 in each district, and it will take around four days to complete the sero survey in all six districts,” he said.He added, “As Purnia and Madhubani are far from Patna, the team will reach there by Thursday and start the sero survey from August 21. Within two days, they will finish the exercise.”Dr Das said the testing of the blood serum of individuals would help to know the prevalence of antibodies against infection. “For the survey, blood samples were collected from randomly selected individuals after taking their written consent. Samples testing positive would reveal that the person was infected with Covid- 19 and recovered,” he said.The director said all 2,400 blood samples will be sent to the NIRT- Chennai for the testing and they would sent the report of the survey to the institute.Earlier in May, the first sero survey data showed that 0.7% people had an exposure to the novel coronavirus, out of 2,400 blood samples collected in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/serological-survey-to-test-covid-19-antibodies-begins-in-four-districts/articleshow/77640369.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 20, 2020||Patna||DM to private hospitals: submit fee chart||PATNA: All the private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients have been instructed to submit a chart with details of their fee structure to the district administration and put it up on their notice boards. A decision in this regard was taken a day after the administration registered an FIR against six people, including the director of a private hospital at Kankarbagh, for charging exorbitant prices for treatment of Covid-19 patients. Earlier, the family members of a patient had complained about it. A team, led by Patna Sadar SDO, investigated the allegations and found that the hospital administration had asked the patient and his family to pay Rs 6,34,200 after giving the bill on a plain paper. Patna district magistrate (DM) Kumar Ravi told this newspaper on Wednesday, “Private hospitals will submit their charts to the magistrates within two days after which a committee will analyse the increase in the fee structure. It is mandatory for them to display the charges on their notice boards and provide a legal bill to the patients.” He also laid emphasis on the fact that all the patients should be charged equally for beds, oxygen supply, ICU, ventilator, protective gears and drugs. “Action will be taken against the hospitals that give the bill on a plain paper, charge extra money and inflict mental torture on the patients and their family members,” the DM said, adding that the administration would fix a rate cap for private hospitals soon. At present, altogether 32 private hospitals in Patna district are treating corona-infected patients after fulfilling all the norms and facilities required for the purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dm-to-private-hospitals-submit-fee-chart/articleshow/77640343.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 20, 2020||Patna||SSR case: Bhagalpur residents hail SC judgment||BHAGALPUR: The residents of Bhagalpur have hailed the Supreme Court (SC) order on a CBI probe in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. The court upheld the transfer of the FIR, lodged in Patna against actress Rhea Chakraborty and others for allegedly abetting the suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, to the CBI. It said the Bihar government was competent to transfer the case to the CBI. Senior SC lawyer told this newspaper on Wednesday that the SC had exercised its extraordinary power under Article 142 of the Constitution to order a CBI probe. District Bar Association general secretary Sanjay Kumar Modi also welcomed the order. He alleged that the Mumbai police had been trying to sabotage the case. “We thank the apex court for its decision. We believe that a CBI investigation will bring the culprits to justice,” Modi said. Indian Medical Association member and ex-general secretary Dr Ajay Kumar Singh, social activist Syed Zeejah Hussain and several others, including members of the Eastern Bihar Industries Association, Eastern Bihar Chamber of Commerce and Industries Association and Forum for Justice to SSR have also welcomed the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ssr-case-bhagalpur-residents-hail-sc-judgment/articleshow/77640567.cms||Kumar Rajesh
August 20, 2020||Vadodara||Armed bootlegger carrying liquor held||Vadodara: The detection of crime branch (DCB) on Wednesday arrested a bootlegger and seized a pistol from him. Shankar Jadhav, a resident of Sayajigunj, was nabbed near the Pandya bridge after the cops received a tip-off about him carrying arms along with liquor. According to the police, Shankar was on his way to deliver liquor stock when they intercepted him. After seizing 28 bottles of Indian-Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) from him, cops frisked him further and found the pistol worth Rs 10,000. Acording to police, they will now ascertain how Jadhav got hold of the weapon and then track down the seller. An offence under the Prohibition Act and the Arms Act has been registered against him at the Sayajigunj police station. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/armed-bootlegger-carrying-liquor-held/articleshow/77640235.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Surat||Dead foxes on runway: Surat airport authority shares incident report||Surat: The Surat airport authorities have finally submitted its incident report on two fox carcasses found on the runway after the landing of the Udaipur-Surat flight on December 19 last year.TOI had published a story on June 6 this year highlighting that the airport authorities had declining to share the incident report into the recovery of the two fox carcasses under the Right to Information Act (RTI).In reply to an RTI application filed by social activist Rajesh Modi, the airport authorities had confirmed the recovery of two for carcasses from the runway, but had refused to provide the copy of the incident report stating it to be a ‘legal and operational’ matter. After a further appeal to the higher authorities of Airport Authority of India (AAI) under RTI, the Surat airport officials shared the incident report with the RTI activist. The report stated that the foreign object debris (FOD) was reported after the landing of Udaipur-Surat flight. The flight captain reported some remains of dead animals during the landing. However, after inspection by the airport authorities, the carcasses were found on the runway. The previous departures from the runway including Surat-Hyderabad and Surat-Jaipur flights were informed about the findings on the runway, but they reported that the operation was normal. According to deputy conservator of forest (DCF) Puneet Nayyar if any animal listed under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 is found dead, it has to be reported to the forest department. But in this case, the airport authorities failed to inform the forest department.RTI applicant Rajesh Modi told TOI, “The foxes may have been killed during the landing or take-off of the aircraft from the runway. The animals could have damaged the aircraft and put the lives of many passengers at risk. It is the responsibility of the airport authorities to report the issue to the forest department, which they failed to do.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dead-foxes-on-runway-surat-airport-authority-shares-incident-report/articleshow/77641687.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Surat||10% wage hike for sugarcane labourers||Surat: In what comes as sweet news for the Covid-hit migrant labourers working in sugarcane fields in various districts of South Gujarat, the Cooperative Sugar Factories will raise their wages by 10 percent as a result of their struggle for almost three years.Trade Union leaders say around 2.5 lakh harvesters will be impacted by the hike.“On Wednesday, Cooperative Sugar Factories of South Gujarat have hiked the wages of sugarcane harvesting workers by Rs 25 per tonne to Rs 280 per tonne. The commission paid to the labour contractors too has been hiked from Rs 5 per tonne to Rs 55 per tonne. This is a result of sugarcane harverstors’ struggle for the last few years demanding hike in wages,” said Sudhik Katiyar, an advisor to Majoor Adhikar Manch, a trade union. The wage hike was declared by the labour supervisors of the Cooperative Factories at their meetings with the labour contractors, known locally as mukaddams. “The wage hike will impact nearly 2.5 lakh tribal workers who migrate every year from districts of Dang and Tapi in Gujarat and Dhule and Nandurbar in Maharashtra to harvest sugarcane in farms of cooperative sugar factories of South Gujarat,” Katiyar said.Under the banner of Majur Adhikar Manch, a trade union of informal workers in Gujarat, harvesters started making demands for for higher wages and improved work conditions. Last year, the workers also imposed a moratorium on migration demanding wages to be hiked and also called for work stoppage during the harvesting season in the month of February in accordance with their demand. This year too, as the season began, the union stepped up its campaign and threatened to impose a moratorium again unless the sugar factories met their demands. The factories not only hiked wages but also promised to respond positively to another major demand including insurance against accidents, Katiyar informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/10-wage-hike-for-sugarcane-labourers/articleshow/77641946.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Surat||Ukai dam releases 1.5 lakh cusecs water in Tapi||Surat: Following heavy to heavy rains in the catchment areas in the last 24 hours, authorities at Ukai dam have started releasing water into the Tapi river. About 1.5 lakh cusecs have been released from Wednesday evening onwards, said officials, adding that heavy rains in the catchment areas of Ukai reservoir in Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra in the last 24 hours have brought huge influx of fresh water into the dam. The dam is getting about 1.42 lakh cusecs of water and authorities, therefore, decided to release the water. However, it takes about eight hours for the water released from Ukai dam to reach Surat and so, the water level in the river is likely to swell by midnight or early on Thursday morning. HR Mahakal, superintending engineer of Ukai reservoir told TOI, “We are releasing about 1.5 lakkh cusecs of water into the river due to heavy rains in the catchment areas of Ukai reservoir. The outflow into the river will be maintained at 1.5 lakh cusecs for the next 24 hours.”Mahakal further said that the water level at Ukai reservoir at present is 334.25ft, against the dam’s rule level of 335ft. “We are releasing all the fresh water coming into the reservoir to maintain the rule level,” he added.Meanwhile, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has advised residents in the low-lying areas near the river to move to safer places due to the swelling of the river caused by the dam water. “The release of 1.5 lakh cusecs of Ukai water is not going to impact the city, but we have advised residents living close to the river embankment to move to safer places,” an SMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ukai-dam-releases-1-5-lakh-cusecs-water-in-tapi/articleshow/77641587.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Dengue on prowl, vacant plots its home||LUCKNOW: While cases of dengue are on the rise, rainfall has turned vacant plots and open places in residential areas into breeding grounds for mosquitos. A TOI reality check found vacant plots with water puddles and garbage dumps in Indiranagar, Gomtinagar, Mahanagar, Aliganj, Raqabganj, Sadar, Aashiana, Manaknagar, Vikasnagar, Jankipiram and Nishatganj areas, among others. Times ViewAt a time when the city is already battling a pandemic, an outbreak of dengue or any other vector-borne disease would make things more difficult for the residents as well as the district administration. Lucknow Municipal Corporation should, without delay, start cleaning the places and take strict action against owners of the vacant plots in residential areas posing a threat to other people.Vacant plots turned into pools in Shivajipuram, Ashutosh Vihar, Shivalik Enclave and Takrohi localities of Indiranagar. Residents said they had been lodging complaints with the Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) but no action was taken. “Even a few dengue cases have been reported in our area, but forget about cleaning the plots or taking action against their owners as per rules, no anti-larvae and fogging drives have been conducted for a long time,” said Vijay Gupta, a local resident. The situation was no different in Aashiana and LDA Colony on Kanpur road. “At a time when Covid-19 is playing havoc, authorities should take extra care and take steps to check the spread of dengue,” said a resident, Rajive Shekhar. In Gomtinagar, one such open space was found at 1090 crossing. In Vipul Khand, residents said when their complaints fell on deaf ears, they had to hire private workers to clean vacant plots and open places in their vicinity. However, they rued that the situation was back to square one after fresh rainfall. Sarita Singh, a resident of Nishatganj, said: “Mosquito menace is rising drastically after fresh rain. You can see them on vacant plots filled with water.” Several vacant plots in Mahanagar Extension have become garbage dumping grounds. Residents said last year LMC had directed owners to get their plots cleaned and also penalised those who failed to do so. However, nothing has been done this year, they added. LMC officials said they have prepared a roster for cleaning of areas and for anti-larvae and fogging drive on regular basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dengue-on-prowl-vacant-plots-its-home/articleshow/77643819.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Woman killed in wall collapse in Baran||KOTA: A 22-year-old woman was killed while her husband sustained injuries after a concrete wall erected unfounded on the ground collapsed over their ‘kaccha’ house in Joshi Colony in Chabda town of Baran district early on Wednesday morning. The couple identified as Sameer, 25, a bangle vendor in Chabda town and his wife Reshma Bi, were buried under the debris. Baran witnessed constant rain throughout Tuesday night. The body was handed over to family members after post-mortem on Wednesday morning while the injured husband was reportedly discharged after primary medical treatment. A high concrete wall, erected unfounded on the ground, amid heavy rain throughout intervening nights of Tuesday and Wednesday, collapsed over a ‘kaccha’ house, a police personnel at Chabda police station Shivraj, who rushed to the spot, said. A rescue operation with the help of neighbours was put in place immediately after the mishap and the two were rushed to a local hospital, where the doctor declared Reshma Bi brought dead while her husband, Sameer was discharged after primary medical care, the policeman said. The couple got married a few months ago and did not have any children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-killed-in-wall-collapse-in-baran/articleshow/77643398.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Allahabad||Three arrested for smuggling arms; 15 crude bombs seized||Prayagraj: Three members of an inter-district gang involved in arms smuggling were arrested while planning to close a deal near Bhilore Canal Bridge Road on Thursday. Police also seized three country-made pistols of 0.315 bore, four live cartridges and 15 crude bombs from them. The accused Bhupendra Singh alias Munna Singh, Ram Sundar Nishad and Ram Milan Nishad are residents of Lalapur. Station officer (Lalapur) Amit Rai said that police were tipped off that the three accused were spotted around Bhilore Bridge Canal Road. “We cordoned off the road and nabbed the three. A case under Arms Act and Explosives Act was registered against the three.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/three-arrested-for-smuggling-arms-15-crude-bombs-seized/articleshow/77660770.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Lalu Prasad’s ‘samdhi’ among 3 RJD MLAs to join JD(U)||PATNA: Three more RJD MLAs, including party chief Lalu Prasad’s ‘samdhi’ Chandrika Rai, are likely to join the JD(U) on Thursday. Highly placed sources in the JD (U) said the joining formalities would be held at the party’s headquarters here at 2.30 pm on Thursday in the presence of the state’s energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav and a few other senior party leaders. Besides Chandrika Rai, who is the son of former Bihar CM Daroga Prasad Rai, two other RJD legislators who are all set to join Nitish Kumar’s party are Paliganj MLA Jaivardhan Yadav alias Baccha Yadav and Keoti MLA Faraz Fatmi. While Jaivardhan is the grandson of former Union minister and famous Yadava leader Ram Lakhan Singh Yadav, Faraz is the son of former Union minister MAA Fatmi, who represented Darbhanga Lok Sabha seat for four times. Chandrika, who is the father of Aishwarya Rai, the estranged wife of Lalu’s elder son and former health minister Tej Pratap Yadav, had not been attending any programme of the RJD for the past several months especially since her daughter’s marital relation with Lalu-Rabri family soured. Faraz, too, had not been attending RJD events after his father quit Lalu’s party and joined JD(U) months after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Fatmi was not happy with the RJD leadership after denial of party ticket for 2019 Lok Sabha polls either from Darbhanga or Madhubani. Though reports about Chandrika and Faraz joining the RJD were doing the rounds in the state’s political circles for the past several weeks, the case of Jaivardhan has come as a surprise for the RJD leadership. Earlier on Monday, other three RJD MLAs, along with their supporters, joined the ruling JD(U) in the presence of Bijendra Prasad Yadav during a simple programme held at the JD(U) state headquarters here. The MLAs who joined the ruling party are Maheshwar Prasad Yadav (Gaighat assembly constituency), Prema Choudhary (Patepur) and Ashok Kumar (Sasaram). Maheshwar, Prema and Faraz were the three RJD legislators who were expelled from the primary membership of the Lalu’s party for a period of six years, on Sunday, a day before Maheshwar and Prema joined the JD(U).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lalus-samdhi-among-3-rjd-mlas-to-join-jdu/articleshow/77640629.cms||Madan Kumar
August 20, 2020||Patna||Railways to use drone cameras to beef up security measures||PATNA: The railways is planning to make extensive use of drone surveillance technology to beef up security measures at different stations under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR). A decision in this regard has been taken in view of the growing insecurity among the passengers due to the Covid-19 pandemic. According to ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, the railways has procured nine drones and is planning to purchase 17 more for different zones. Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel will be imparted special training to operate them. “Drones are cost-effective tools that have helped the officials concerned to monitor the progress of different projects of the ECR on a weekly basis and keep tabs on railway yards and workshops. The Kiul-Lakhisarai new line project is one of them,” the CPRO told this newspaper and added that the drones hired by the railways had kept tabs on the movement of migrant workers reaching Bihar from different states during the lockdown. Drones, according to Kumar, will be used to ensure the safety of passengers on platforms or running trains, manage huge crowds smoothly and check criminal and anti-social activities. They will also keep an eye on encroachments and provide real-time status of passenger trains. The ECR has jurisdiction over four states, including Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. The footfall of passengers is quite high at the Patna Junction, Rajendra Nagar Terminal, Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Junction, Gaya, Dhanbad, Kiul and Barauni stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/railways-to-use-drone-cameras-to-beef-up-security-measures/articleshow/77640688.cms||Kumod Verma
August 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Vehicular traffic on eastern side of Mahatma Gandhi Setu setu banned||PATNA: The vehicular movement would be restricted on the eastern side of Mahatma Gandhi Setu with the replacement work of the superstructure on that side starting on Thursday. The operation of small and heavy vehicles on the newly constructed western side of the bridge will remain open 24X7 from both sides between Patna and Hajipur. The overloading of vehicles has been banned. The special secretary of road construction department has issued a letter directing a complete ban on the operation of vehicles on the eastern side of the bridge from August 20. Accordingly, Patna DM Kumar Ravi on Wednesday issued guidelines for the effective implementation of the directive. The DM said the downstream (east) side of the bridge, whose replacement work is to be done, will be closed for vehicle operations. The Patna district transport officer and the SDO of Patna City have been entrusted with the responsibility to ensure ban on vehicular traffic on the eastern side of the bridge. The rehabilitated western side of the bridge was inaugurated by Union minister Nitin Gadkari on July 31 through videoconferencing at a function organized under the chairmanship of chief minister Nitish Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vehicular-traffic-on-eastern-side-of-gandhi-setu-banned/articleshow/77640647.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 20, 2020||Mysuru||Former MLA Guruswamy dies of Covid||CHAMARAJNAGAR: Former MLA and senior BJP leader C Guruswamy succumbed to Covid at the JSS Hospital in Mysuru on Wednesday. He was 68. The veteran leader was admitted to the hospital after he contracted the virus and developed breathing problems 15 days back. He was on life support and breathed his last in the hospital, after not responding to treatment. He started his political journey with the Janata Dal and later joined the BJP following his mentor former minister and senior Lingayat leader M Rajashekaramurthy, who quit Congress and moved to the saffron fold. He was elected to the state legislature from Chamarajnagar assembly segment on a BJP ticket in 1999, denying Kannada activist Vatal Nagaraj a hat-trick from the segment. He later joined the Congress and became its district president for a brief stint. He returned to his parent party the BJP, and was active in party activities. The last rites of Guruswamy were performed at his farmhouse in Yanagalli village in Chamarajnagar taluk. Mysuru district minister S T Somashekhar condoled the death of the former MLA and remembered his contributions to strengthen the party in Chamarajnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/former-mla-guruswamy-dies-of-covid/articleshow/77642852.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Dehradun||‘Man-eater’ leopard trapped in Tehri village||DEHRADUN: After an operation lasting for almost 10 days, a male leopard was trapped by a forest team in Tehri’s Maletha village on Wednesday.  The operation to identify and trap the big cat commenced on August 10, a day after it dragged a woman from the courtyard of her home and killed her in the nearby fields. The trapped leopard has been sent to the Chidiyapur rescue centre to identify whether it is a man-eater or not. “The leopard has been sent to the centre to ascertain if it is the same leopard which had killed the woman. It is a necessary exercise as the area has several active leopards,” said DP Balooni, SDO, Narendera Nagar forest division.Earlier, the villagers, anguished with the canine attack, had demanded the leopard to be killed. Subsequently, state’s chief wildlife warden JS Suhag gave permission to only trap the big cat. However, the permission to either kill or trap the leopard was granted by the department eventually. Later, the same leopard attacked four more villagers, including a forest ranger who had gone there on patrolling duty on the occasion of Independence day. Meanwhile, the staff at Chidiyapur rescue centre is concerned as the facility is already housefull and the entry of the new leopard adds to the burden. The officials of the centre, which has 11 big cats at present, even had to release one leopard in the open due to space crunch. “It is a tricky situation for us as the leopard has been brought here to ascertain if it is a man-eater. We may have to request the concerned officials to take the animal to some other rescue centre as we are already out of space,” said Dr Amit Dhyani, veterinarian at Chidiyapur rescue centre. Till the time of filing this report, the staff of Chidiyapur rescue centre couldn’t ascertain if the trapped leopard is a man-eater or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-eater-leopard-trapped-in-tehri-village/articleshow/77640826.cms||Shivani Azad
August 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Work on Ganesha idols to continue on lockdown days||KOLKATA: While the rest of the city will be under lockdown for two days, the potters’ colony at Kumartuli will be open in a desperate attempt to survive. Most of the artisans specializing in Durga idols have shifted to crafting Ganesha idols this year due to the dwindling orders for the former. With Ganesha Puja scheduled on Saturday, they now plan to remain open for business on the back-to-back lockdown days too. “We don’t intend to violate the state order and will limit our movement within the studios. But with just two days left before the puja and thousands of idols still stacked here, we cannot take the chance of keeping the studios closed. We are asking buyers to choose their idols, make payments and take deliveries in the early hours of Saturday or carry the idols themselves if they live nearby,” said Babu Pal, secretary of Kumartuli Mritshilpi Sanskriti Samity. “The last two days before any puja are the most important when it comes to sale of accessories and idols. But these two days are now blocked because of the lockdown. We have made changes to survive the pandemic, but more obstacles keep coming up,” said an idol maker. Although most large-scale Ganesha Pujas have made a digital shift, major community puja organizers and complex associations started taking delivery of idols from Tuesday. Several potters have made smaller idols, uncharacteristic of Kumartuli, for house pujas and have been selling them from studios and the road outside. “We have had a pathetic season this year with orders from abroad at an all-time low and most organizers in the city scaling down their pujas. But Ganesha puja has helped us stay afloat. I have sold two idols and have four in the studio,” said Mintu Paul, who specializes in theme-based large idols, but has been focussing on traditional and smaller idols this year. Over the last few years, Kumartuli has supplied around 5,000-odd idols to clubs and complexes in Kolkata and the districts. But this year, the number has come down to 2,500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/work-on-ganesha-idols-to-continue-on-lockdown-days/articleshow/77642411.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 20, 2020||Kolkata||On World Photography Day, eyes behind lens rue season of masked expressions||KOLKATA: The pandemic has forced some of India’s leading photographers who have captured myriad emotions on Indian streets over decades to learn their art afresh. With facial expressions obliterated by masks, photographers are now dependent on eyes and body language to tell their tales. Raghu Rai, who has photographed extensively on the streets of Kolkata and has books on the cityscape and Mother Teresa, acknowledges that masks pose a major challenge to street photography. But he feels they also offer photographers opportunities to work differently. “Thankfully, the eyes aren’t hidden. They still emote. And then there is body language,” Rai told TOI on the eve of World Photography Day. He also felt that graffiti, posters, paintings and other street symbols may make up for the loss of expression in the subject by capturing a moment in the environment. “For a while, street photography will be chaotic. But the chaos will also give rise to powerful photography,” he said. To Prashant Godbole, whose images on Mumbai tug at heart strings, the mask has not just robbed photographers of the human element, it has also made public life poorer by obliterating emotions. “We don’t see anyone other than photojournalists shooting on the streets because without expressions, it isn’t that fun to shoot. The only emotion that masked faces convey is fear,” he said. But he, too, admitted that if masks become a way of life, street photography will respond to capture the new order. Pablo Bartholomew, who spent much of his childhood holidays at his grandfather’s house in Kolkata, and later frequented the city on assignments, including photographing Satyajit Ray and Mother Teresa, admitted masks are a limitation to taking candid shots. But he said they also provide an opportunity to capture a city in way it never has been. “Masked faces are a sign of our times and need to be captured. There is the cityscape during lockdown that gave photographers the opportunity to shoot in a very different light. India has forever been defined by the density of people. But now there is distancing, which shows the city in a different perspective,” he said. Jayanta Saha, who has spent his life capturing the lives of others on Kolkata’s streets, said masks have hidden emotions and key facial features, be it a bucktoothed smile or a salivating tongue, that lend character to photographs. “One of the casualties of the pandemic is candid shots,” he said. For Soumyendra Saha, a software engineer-turned-street photographer, the face is often the central subject and captures both the time and place to situate the person in the present context. “The 43 muscles of the face reveal a person’s life and state of mind. In this pandemic, masked faces tell only a part of the story,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/on-world-photography-day-eyes-behind-lens-rue-season-of-masked-expressions/articleshow/77642428.cms||Subhro Niyogi
August 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar: BJP, JD(U) poll-ready, opposition plays catch-up||PATNA: The assembly election is likely to be held on schedule in October-November and two of the ruling alliance partners —BJP and JD(U) — seem to have done their basic homework. They held a series of virtual rallies after Union home minister Amit Shah sounded the poll bugle on June 7, setting the NDA agenda of ‘Jungle Raj (RJD) versus Janata Raj (NDA’. LJP, the third NDA partner in Bihar, is trying to cover the lost ground fast. If the polls are announced in the first or second week of September, the opposition will have to race against time as 16 districts of north Bihar are still reeling from floods. The Mahagathbandhan, led by RJD with Congress as its major constituent, is banking on the anti-incumbency factor and the consolidation of Muslim-Yadav (M-Y) votes with an eye on a section of upper castes, extremely backward caste (EBC) and Mahadalit votes. But RJD is yet to come out with its blueprint of development to counter CM Nitish Kumar. RJD MP and spokesperson Manoj Jha outlined his party’s agenda. “Once voted to power, we shall begin working towards a state-of-the-art hospital in each district. Besides, we shall also bring transparency in employment in each sector. All backlogs shall be filled within 10 months of coming to power,” Jha told TOI on Wednesday. “The grand alliance under the leadership of Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, shall come up with transformatory changes in education, health, agriculture and public employment. With focus on agro-based medium industrial initiatives, the alliance shall work on the basis of the priorities at each Commissionerate. We are also committed to larger investments in public health and education,” Jha said. BJP, on the other hand, will showcase the Centre’s plans and schemes launched by PM Narendra Modi. “Our focus will be to generate employment by encouraging the youths to become job providers and not job seekers by taking advantage of the Rs20 lakh crore package announced by the Centre under ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ and Rs1 lakh crore for developing new agriculture infrastructure,” BJP state president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal told TOI. Senior JD(U) leader and state IPRD minister Neeraj Kumar told TOI that the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan will be no match to Nitish. “Tejashwi said his father Lalu is a school of thought. He should explain to the people what RJD did to Bihar by following his father’s school of thought for 15 years before 2005. While Lalu is convicted under Section 420 of IPC, Tejashwi also faces a similar charge,” he said. Neeraj also asked Tejashwi to compare the infrastructure and human development index during Lalu’s regime and Nitish’s rule in the state. JD(U) will harp on the work done for infrastructure development in several sectors and the incentives given to various sections of society like old-age pension and widow pension, financial support to SC/ST/ EBC and minority community students preparing for competitive examinations besides subsidy to SC/ST and EBC people to start businesses. The Nitish government also expects a good political return from the bonanza given to over 3.5 lakh schoolteachers on contract in the state on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-jdu-poll-ready-oppn-plays-catch-up/articleshow/77640242.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
August 20, 2020||Patna||Sushant Singh Rajput’s kin thank Bihar CM Nitish Kumar for ‘setting the wheels of justice in motion’||PATNA: The family members of Sushant Singh Rajput welcomed the Supreme Court’s order directing a CBI probe into his death and thanked Bihar CM Nitish Kumar for setting the “wheels of justice in motion”. “We are particularly thankful to CM Nitish Kumar for setting the wheels of justice in motion. Now that the country’s premier investigating agency has taken over, we believe that all those involved in the dastardly crime will be brought to justice,” said Sushant’s Mumbai-based sister Meetu Singh in a statement released on twitter on behalf of the family on Wednesday. “We, Sushant’s family, thank our friends, well-wishers, media and millions of fans worldwide for their love for Sushant and support for us,” the family statement further said, adding, “We believe that public trust in institutions is important. Today’s development has reaffirmed our faith in India as a robust democracy”. It was on the CM’s direction that the FIR was lodged with Rajiv Nagar police station in Patna on July 25, based on which the state government finally recommended a CBI probe into the case on August 3. Sushant’s US-based sister Shweta Singh Kirti also took to express her gratitude after the SC order. “But this is just the beginning… The first step towards truth. Full faith in CBI,” she wrote. Reacting to the SC order in Patna, the late actor’s cousin and BJP MLA Niraj Kumar Singh Bablu said it was according to the hopes of the family as well as crores of his well-wishers. “Everyone wanted a CBI investigation and the Supreme Court has granted the wish. The verdict has given a ray of hope to all of us,” he said. “We, his family, express our gratefulness to the apex court as well as to all those people, besides the media, who made this possible. Now we are assured that Sushant would get justice,” he further said. The MLA’s wife, Nutan Singh, who is an LJP MLC, said, “The Supreme Court is a temple of justice and the family members along with his crores of fans will now definitely get justice and the culprits will not be spared.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ssrs-kin-thank-nitish-for-setting-the-wheels-of-justice-in-motion/articleshow/77640518.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Woman shot, police suspect hubby’s role||PATNA: A grocery trader’s wife was allegedly shot dead in sleep inside her house on Mela road under Triveniganj police station in Supaul early Wednesday morning. Neelam Kumari (36) was killed around 4am. Her husband Suresh Chaudhary (40) said he had gone to the washroom outside his house to attend the nature’s call. Police suspect foul play. Triveniganj SHO Sandeep Kumar Singh said Suresh, in his FIR, alleged that criminals had barged into his house. “Suresh alleged that he heard gunshots after which he ran back to his bedroom and found his wife shot dead,” he said. Singh quoted Suresh as saying that he neither suspected nor had enmity with anyone. “His role is suspicious. There is a proper washroom in his house then why he went outside. More importantly, police found the outside washroom locked and dirty,” he said. The SHO said a medical board was formed to conduct postmortem. “Surprisingly, no bullet was found on the body. Two injury marks were on her head. It would be clear only from the postmortem report if she was shot or hit with some hard weapon,” he said. The SHO said the couple suspected each other of having extramarital affair. He said their 13-year-old daughter and an 8-year- old son were sleeping in another room when the incident took place. “The daughter told police that her father was searching something in the dark when she woke up. He told the girl that perhaps her mother had been shot,” he said. Singh said police is gathering strong evidence in the case before taking any action against Suresh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/woman-shot-police-suspect-hubbys-role/articleshow/77640300.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 20, 2020||Patna||Oppn yet to shape up, decide on sticky leadership issue||PATNA: The opposition in Bihar is still to shape up and stitch a strong alliance against the formidable ruling NDA partners JD(U), BJP and LJP, who have already oiled their organizational machinery for the assembly election likely to be announced next month. Unlike 2015, when RJD chief Lalu Prasad had declared Nitish Kumar as the CM face of the grand alliance (GA) at least six months before the polls, his party this time is not even sure about its partners . That gives an early advantage to the NDA, which has made it clear that it will contest the 2020 Bihar election under the leadership of CM Nitish Kumar. “There is no confusion about it,” Bihar BJP president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal told TOI on Wednesday. When asked about LJP chief Chirag Paswan’s criticism of the CM, he said, “The NDA is intact in Bihar.” However, RJD believes that poll preparations are on track and everything will be made clear soon. “The Mahagathbandhan will be the first to come out with its seat-sharing plan. Congress, RLSP, Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP), Jharkhand Mukti Morcha and CPI will be part of the alliance and some other parties may join. HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi has to decide whether he wants to remain in the Mahagathbandhan or chart a separate course,” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary told TOI. Manjhi, whose demand for a coordination committee fell on deaf ears, praised CM Nitish Kumar on Wednesday for his decision to recommend the Sushant Singh Rajput case for a CBI probe after the Supreme Court ordered the investigation agency to inquire into the actor’s death. But Congress is yet to declare RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as the CM face of the opposition alliance. “We are contesting the polls for changing the government. Tejashwi is the leader of RJD. Only Congress leadership (Rahul Gandhi) will decide who will be the CM face in Bihar. People are fed up with the 15 years of Nitish government,” AICC secretary and incharge of the party affairs in Bihar, Ajay Kapoor told TOI over phone on Wednesday. He said Congress will organize a virtual rally in each district from August 31. Tiwary categorically said there would be no compromise over Tejashwi’s name. “He is the leader of the opposition. RJD is leading the Mahagathbandhan in Bihar. Where is any confusion. Everyone will agree on his name very soon,” he said. But state IPRD minister Neeraj Kumar said the opposition was in disarray and the Mahagathbandhan partners were apprehensive about projecting a tainted leader (Tejashwi) as their CM face. Even VIP chief Mukesh Sahani was not ready to declare Tejashwi as the CM face of GA. “The Mahagathbandhan will decide,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/oppn-yet-to-shape-up-decide-on-sticky-leadership-issue/articleshow/77650051.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
August 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar floods: Sone, Ganga likely to swell as rivers in north stabilise||PATNA: As the swollen rivers of north Bihar begin to calm down after the intensity of monsoon showers weakened in the state in the past one week, the Ganga and Sone rivers in south and central Bihar are raising concerns for the authorities with an increase in rainfall in their catchment areas. The flood bulletin issued by the water resources department (WRD) on Wednesday stated that increased rainfall in the catchment areas of Sone in Madhya Pradesh, Chhatisgarh and Jharkhand, is likely to increase its water level as well as that of the Ganga. “The level of water at Bansagar dam on Sone in Madhya Pradesh was measured at 341.19m on Wednesday, whereas the corresponding full reservoir level is 341,64m. It means that water level at Bansagar dam is mere 45cm lower than the FRL. All 16 gates of the dam were opened for 1.5m leading to discharge of 1,55,460 cusec water. This is likely to lead to rise in water level of Sone and in turn Ganga in Bihar,” the WRD bulletin stated. Ganga is already flowing slightly above the danger level at Gandhi Ghat and Hathidah flood gauges in Patna district and at Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur on Wednesday. The holy river was flowing 11cm above the danger amrk at Gandhi Ghat, 27cm above the danger level at Hathidah and 18cm at Kahalgaon. Most rivers in north Bihar including, Bagmati, Burhi Gandak, Kamla Balan, Khiro and Adhwara group of rivers, showed either falling or static trend on Wednesday even as the population affected by floods in north Bihar stood at 81. 7lakh. Also, Bagmati, Burhi Gandak and Ghagra continued to flow above the danger level at a few places. Khiro, which wreaked havoc in Darbhanga, was also flowing above the danger level at one of the two flood gauges in Darbhanga district. The Shri Baba Kusheshwar Nath Mahadeo temple, located in Kusheshwar Asthan (east) block of remained flooded from last week of July. SDO Biraul subdivision, Nand Kishore Lal said water was being pumped out but it was returning to the temple premises owing to seepage. The temple is already closed as per Unlock 3,0 restrictions on religious places. According to the temple’s deputy secretary, Lalit Narayan Sah, the sanctum is 7-8 feet below the campus, which is seven feet below the state highway nearby. “Though the water is receding, it is still flowing five feet above the Shiva Linga,” he said. Officials at the Patna Meteorological Centre claimed that the monsoon activity has broadly been focused in the southern parts of the state and in lower intensity. “The monsoon activity was focused on north- east Madhya Pradesh and Odisha. Accordingly, monsoon was weak in most parts of Bihar. Weather conditions are likely to remain the same over the next two to three days. Based on radar and satellite pictures, north- eastern parts, south-central and south-eastern Bihar are likely to receive light to moderate showers at a few places over the next 24 hours,” said Shailendra Kumar Patel, an official at the met centre. (With inputs from Binay Kumar Jha, Darbhanga)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-floods-sone-ganga-likely-to-swell-as-rivers-in-north-stabilise/articleshow/77640660.cms||Piyush Tripathi
August 20, 2020||Hubballi||Lack of oxygen plants cripples district hospitals’ ability to treat critical cases||HUBBALLI: The lack of oxygen plants at several district hospitals in North Karnataka is hampering critical operations at these healthcare institutions. The inability to ensure supply of oxygen to patients is prompting these hospitals to refer many critical cases, including patients with Covid-19, to the nearest government healthcare institutions such as Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi or the Vijayanagara Institute of Medical Sciences in Ballari. The district hospitals in Dharwad, Haveri, Davanagere and Chitradurga do not have an oxygen plant, which essentially leaves them unable to accommodate more than 15 to 20 critical cases in their respective intensive care units (ICUs), who are supported with the aid of ventilators.  Gadag Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) is grappling with shortage of oxygen supply, and patients are being reffered to KIMS. In Yadgir, meanwhile, patients in critical condition are being referred to Kalaburagi. District surgeon in Dharwad Dr Shivakumar Manakar said that there were 10 beds at the district hospital’s ICU to treat Covid-19 patients in a critical condition, in addition to 40 beds in their general ward. “We use nearly 100 jumbo cylinders daily to supply oxygen to patients in the ICU. Owing to the limited capacity of our ICU, we are referring patients to KIMS. The state government has approved our request for a 6,000-litre oxygen plant, which will be set up in a matter of days now. Once the plant comes into being at the hospital, we will be able to treat 30 to 35 patients in the ICU,” Dr Manakar said. Haveri district surgeon Dr PR Havanur said that, they could treat only 16 patients at the ICU in the district hospital although there were 20 beds in the facility. “We shift patients to KIMS, SDM or even hospitals in Davanagere. We need at least 1,000 litres of liquid medical-grade oxygen, which we are sourcing from a private agency in Koppal for the time being. The hospital will soon house a 6,000-litre oxygen plant, probably next month, and once that happens, we can treat 60 to 70 patients in the ICU,” he said. Dr Nagaraj and Dr Basavaraj, respectively district surgeons in Davanagere and Chitradurga, said that the lack of an oxygen plant meant they could not treat more than 15 to 20 patients in the ICU, compelling doctors to refer patients who were critical to government hospitals in neighbouring districts. But both doctors are confident of an oxygen plant being set up at their respective district hospitals soon. Sources said that the state government had given its nod for the setting up of oxygen plants – 6,000-litre units – at all the government hospitals. “When the tenders were floated, the price quoted by the few companies that bid for the contract quoted prices that the government thought was too steep. This has delayed the process, and some of the hospitals are likely to call for fresh tenders,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/lack-of-oxygen-plants-cripples-district-hospitals-ability-to-treat-critical-cases/articleshow/77643389.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
August 20, 2020||Hubballi||Victims of 2019 flood protest delay in disbursal of compensation||BELAGAVI: Flood-victims of Birade village sat on a dharna demanding compensation for loss caused by floods in 2019. Ever after a year of tragedy, monetary assistance to many victims has remained elusive. Hence 30 members from 16 families protested in front of the office of the tahsildar at Raibag taluk from Tuesday night to Wednesday evening. They withdrew their protest after the tahsildar promised payment within 10 days. A flood victim Siddavva Hagale from Birade village told TOI that many families lost homes and livestock during the floods last year caused by heavy rain. The government had promised financial assistance to build houses. However, even after a year not a single penny has been released. “We are still living in tin sheds. About 16 houses in the village were completely washed away, even as standing crops were destroyed. We are fed up with the false promises made by the authorities,” she said. The protesters threatened to commit suicide in front of the office. Tahsildar NB Gejji convinced then to take back the protest. Gejji promised payment in 10 days and houses under the housing scheme said Ningappa, another protester. The protesters said if the payment was not credited in ten days then they would gherao taluk office. PC: Flood victims sitting on dharna in front of office of Tahsildar at Raibag taluk in Belagavi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/victims-of-2019-flood-protest-delay-in-disbursal-of-compensation/articleshow/77640865.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Business||Food delivery regains 80% of pre-Covid sales: Survey||BENGALURU: India’s online food delivery industry has recovered 75-80% of its pre-Covid sales. However, dining-in at restaurants is still at just 8-10%, according to a report by restaurant discovery and food delivery platform Zomato. Restaurants in Delhi NCR and Chennai are worst hit, with 88% and 91% respectively still closed for dining-in business, with the outlook for the industry looking bleaker. “Out of the 83% restaurants that are not open for business, 10% restaurants have already shut down permanently and we anticipate an additional 30% restaurants to not reopen at all. Remaining 43% are closed right now but likely to open, as the situation becomes better,” the report said. The results are from a survey of over 15,000 restaurants done in August. Zomato, which has 180,000 restaurants listed on the platform and nearly 27 million monthly active users, said that since the lockdown on March 25, it has delivered 70 million orders and estimated that the overall food delivery industry would have done 200 million orders. Restaurants in residential areas were found to be doing 50% better than those in commercial areas and consumers are moving their spends from eating out to home delivery. “The online order volume recovery is much below 50%. The Zomato report said 70-80% of pre-Covid-19 gross merchandise value (GMV). Now, If you look at the pre-Covid-19 scenario, five-star hotels, fine dining restaurants, home chefs, and new cloud kitchens weren’t on these platforms. Now, most of them are there. So, that could be one of the factors pushing the GMV,” said Amit Roy, national management committee member of NRAI — the association of restaurants. Interestingly, the report also said that 1 in 5 customers in metros have now opened the Zomato app in smaller towns, underlining migration as most companies are expected to continue work-from-home policies for the coming months. Zomato, which competes with Swiggy in India for the delivery business, said that it’s dining out transactions in markets like New Zealand, the UAE and Portugal are already back to pre-Covid levels. “Even for dine-in services, over 50% restaurants are still shut,” said Roy, indicating that the recovery to pre-Covid-19 levels would take longer than Zomato’s estimates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/food-delivery-regains-80-of-pre-covid-sales-survey/articleshow/77642594.cms||Digbijay Mishra
August 20, 2020||Patna||EC to draw up poll norms within 3 days, most parties apprehensive||PATNA: Majority of political parties in Bihar remain apprehensive about holding election in the state amid the Covid-19 pandemic even as the Election Commission has decided to form broad guidelines for holding the polls and bye-polls. According to the EC, the guidelines will be drawn within three days after considering the feedback from political parties as well as the chief electoral officers of states and taking into account the guidelines of the ministry of home affairs and the ministry of health and family welfare. The EC has directed chief electoral officers of poll-bound states to prepare a comprehensive plan for Covid-19 related measures, keeping in mind the local conditions during the elections. Though political parties conceded that they will go ahead with electioneering based on EC guidelines, majority of them remained concerned about safety amid the pandemic. NDA ally LJP too reiterated that elections should be deferred. “Our party president Chirag Paswan Ji has been consistently saying that it is not the right time for conducting elections due to Covid as well as floods. It is quite difficult to maintain social distancing even in normal party meetings as seen during his visit to Patna and Jamui last weekend,” LJP minority cell head Ashraf Ansari said. RJD, the principal opposition party, also raised the issue of voters’ safety. “In our feedback to the Election Commission, we described the situation in Bihar and urged the EC to satisfy itself as to whether they will be able to conduct the polls while ensuring that it doesn’t become a super-spreader event. We have also urged the EC for having health insurance for voters. Nevertheless, if they decide to go ahead with the elections, then RJD, as a political party, will have no option but to go ahead with it,” RJD’s Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Kumar Jha told TOI on Wednesday. Congress functionaries, too, claimed that the ruling JD(U) and BJP are putting peoples’ lives at risk. “The number of Covid-19 cases in Bihar has surged above 1 lakh and testing as well as health infrastructure is still poor. Despite knowing the ground reality, if the ruling parties want elections then it shows that they don’t want people to vote as very few voters will turn out owing to fear of the pandemic,” said Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee’s president Madan Mohan Jha. He added, “And by this, the ruling parties are thinking that they might win the elections. But our stand is the same, that peoples’ lives are more important than elections.” Ruling JD (U), on the other hand, welcome the EC’s decision to form guidelines for conducting elections. “We will follow the guidelines issued by EC with all seriousness and sincerity. We will prepare for the elections accordingly,” JD (U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Prasad said. BJP also maintained that it will go ahead with the electioneering in full swing if EC announces polls in Bihar. “It is the discretion of the EC to conduct polls. We also want safety of people and if EC is satisfied to conduct the elections by taking all required measures, then we will also carry out our preparations accordingly,” said Radhika Raman, convener, EC cell, Bihar BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ec-to-draw-up-poll-norms-within-3-days-most-parties-apprehensive/articleshow/77640221.cms||Piyush Tripathi
August 20, 2020||Patna||Contract teachers plea to amend service conditions||PATNA: ‘Niyojit’ teachers appointed by the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRI) and urban local bodies have urged the state government to make amendments in the new service conditions passed by the state cabinet on Tuesday. Several members of the Bihar Teachers’ Association disapproved the terms of new service conditions. They argued that it does not fulfil the expectations of the teachers and ignores their crucial demands including pay parity. Spokesperson of Bihar State Secondary Teachers’ Association and a teacher at Bapu Smarak Mahila Uchha Vidyalaya Abhishek Kumar alleged that the state government has adopted the divide and rule policy by giving the teachers and librarians with disability and female teachers and librarians the facility of inter-district transfer. Similarly male teachers and librarians will be also be given the benefit of mutual inter-district transfer once. The spokesperson said that the teachers had long expected that they would get rid of the Panchayati Raj system, but the state government’s decision has disappointed us. “We did not demand rise in salary. The teachers want equality in service conditions for both regular and on those on contract basis. For that the state government would not have to spend huge amount. The need is to implement the same rule for of all us,” he told this newspaper. Ashok Kranti, state convenor of Parivartankari Madhyamik Uchhtar Shikshak Sangh said, “Instead of giving an increase of 15% from the next financial year, the pay scale of level— 6, 7 and 8— should be given to the teachers of elementary, secondary and higher secondary respectively with immediate effect, under the seventh pay commission.” He also demanded that the state government should contribute 12% in the Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) of minimum wages of Rs 15,000. Ashok also asked for Government Provident Fund (GPF), gratuity and pension scheme in service condition. Amit Vikram, general secretary, TET Teachers’ Association told this newspaper that to appease the teachers, the state government in a haste has given a ‘Chinese electoral service conditions’. “There is nothing for the teachers except the increment, which we will get from April 2021,” he said. Vikram added, “The government wants to come back to power only by giving electoral benefits. This time it will have to bear the consequence for what it did to the teachers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/contract-teachers-plea-to-amend-service-conditions/articleshow/77640321.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 20, 2020||Aurangabad||2-month-old youngest to beat Covid at Aurangabad GMCH||Aurangabad: A two-month-old baby is the youngest among the 39 children under the age of 12 years who have defeated Covid-19 at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Aurangabad.The number includes 16 infants under the age of 1 year, and another 11 below 6 years of age. The remaining 12 are in the age-group of 6-12 years, the GMCH officials said.Prabha Khaire, head of the paediatrics department at the GMCH, on Wednesday said most of the children had contracted Covid-19 from their mother or close relatives.The two-month-old baby was discharged from the hospital in June. “The baby had caught the infection from his mother after birth. He developed symptoms such as loose motion, vomiting and fever. The baby responded well to treatment and recovered within 10 days,” Khaire said. “Care for children below 12 years of age, especially toddlers, is as challenging as that of senior citizens. Like the adults, the government has set up a distinct protocol for treating children infected with Covid-19,” she said.The GMCH currently has eight active cases among children and none of them is in critical condition. Khaire said some of the children with Covid-19 were “atypical” showing unusual symptoms such as rashes.The GMCH has reported two deaths due to Covid-19 of babies aged five months and four months. “The parents of these babies were asymptomatic. The delayed testing led to complications and the babies were brought to GMCH late. They died during treatment,” Khaire said.GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar said early detection of symptoms and immediate medical attention can help children beat Covid-19. “Parents have to take care. The use of masks and following social distancing are key,” she said.GMCH has 10 neonatal intensive care units and 10 dedicated beds for Covid-19 in the paediatrics department. Authorities said bed-availability can be increased if needed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-month-old-youngest-to-beat-covid-at-aurangabad-gmch/articleshow/77640839.cms||Prasad Joshi
August 20, 2020||Surat||Indonesia keen to start direct flight to Surat||Surat: There seems to be some good news for the Surtis as Indonesia has shown its interest for starting a direct flight to the city. Consul general of the Republic of Indonesia, Agus P Saptono, had visited the Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) along with the Indonesian delegation on Wednesday. Saptono stated that Indonesia is keen to start the flight service to Surat for the promotion of trade, commerce and tourism in the next couple of months. “The government of Indonesia has given a go ahead for starting direct flight connectivity to Mumbai and Delhi once the international flight restrictions are lifted in India. We have proposed to connect Indonesia with Surat for the business and tourism purpose,” said Saptono. “In the educational field, both the countries have developed scholarship programme to help students in Indonesia and India under the education exchange programme. There is a huge opportunity for the textile traders in Surat for getting business opportunities in Indonesia,” added Saptono.“This was first time post-lockdown that any foreign delegation has visited the SGCCI. The consul general of Indonesia visited Surat and he has proposed to start a direct flight between Indonesia and Surat. At present, Surat has a lone international flight to Sharjah. The consul general will be speaking with the Indonesian government for starting the flight services,” said Dinesh Navadiya, president of SGCCI.“Bali in Indonesia is not only the tourism destination for Surti travellers, but it is also the business destination for the entrepreneurs from the textile and diamond sectors. We have urged the Indonesian representatives for starting a direct flight connectivity between Surat and Bali to facilitate the business and leisure travellers from the city,” said Rohit Mehta, president of Indo-Thai chamber of MSME.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/indonesia-keen-to-start-direct-flight-to-surat/articleshow/77641510.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Surat||166 new cases, 38 each in Athwa, Rander zone||Surat: Athwa and Rander zones in the city continued to be hot spot of Covid, with each reporting the highest number of cases amid 166 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. Meanwhile, 280 patients were discharged from various hospitals in the city.According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), highest number of cases were reported in Rander and Athwa on Wednesday too with each reporting 38 cases, followed by 22 in Katargam, 18 each in Limbayat and Udhna zones, 14 in Varachha (A), 11 in Central and seven in Varachha (B) zone.Three Covid-19 patients also succumbed to Covid-19 taking the death toll to 583 in the city.Meanwhile, Surat rural reported 72 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday taking the total number of Covid-19 positive cases to 3,784 in the district. Four Covid-19 patients succumbed to the virus taking the death toll to 171 in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/166-new-cases-38-each-in-athwa-rander-zone/articleshow/77641799.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: June bill relief for CESC consumers||KOLKATA: Power utility CESC has decided to proportionately divide the quantum of units consumed during the lockdown months when meter readings could not be recorded for the June bill. The company will start dispatching the revised bill to its 28 lakh domestic consumers in the next couple of days and complete the process by mid-September. Delivery of the bill for July will be completed around mid-October. Around 4.5 lakh consumers who have paid the original bill for June will not have to pay the new bill. But since the revised bill amount will be lower than the original, which contained the unbilled amounts from the previous three months as well, CESC will adjust the excess in the bills for subsequent months. A section that received the actual bill for May will get similar benefits. Meter reading had been suspended between March 24 and June 8 owing to the lockdown. During the intervening period, provisional bills were issued. The March 2020 bill was the same as that of March last year. For May and June, the average of the past six months’ bills was taken into account to compute the provisional bills. Since the months under consideration were winter months, the billed amount was lower than actual consumption during these summer months. Consumption also increased in several households due to work from home. Consequently, when meters were read and original bills for June were prepared, they comprised the actual units consumed since the last meter reading minus the units already charged in the provisional bills. However, this led to an uproar from consumers as the June 2020 bill was much higher than a usual summer month bill. CESC first announced that the June bill could be paid in three instalments. It then decided to scrap it and come out with a fresh bill keeping the arrears of previous months in abeyance. No decision has been taken on when arrears for March, April and May will be billed. “Of the 28 lakh domestic consumers, the June bill had been dispatched to around 10 lakh before the decision was taken to suspend it and prepare a fresh one. All 28 lakh will receive a fresh June bill along with a letter explaining how it has been computed,” said CESC managing director (distribution) Debasish Banerjee. Officials said encoding of the billing software, followed by test runs and validation, had taken nearly a month. This disrupted the billing cycle, leading to a month’s delay that will take at least six months to rectify before consumers can start getting current bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/june-bill-relief-for-cesc-consumers/articleshow/77642383.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: New containment list has 20 zones, figure lowest in 2 months||KOLKATA: The city’s containment list saw a major change late on Tuesday night with the total number of zones dropping to 20 — the least in the past two months — from 29. As many as 14 zones dropped off the list and five got added to it. The biggest relief — as expected — came for Patuli, which got rid of five containment zones. It is now left with just one high-risk area. “We a didn’t find a single new case at Patuli I and D blocks once they were tagged as containment zones. The testing of auto drivers, fruit and vegetable vendors and the guest house workers along with those housing health workers in the hospital hub has helped us contain the virus,” said a police officer. However, authorities might include a zone — located closer to Garia — in the list. Two other Covid-prone areas — Ballygunge and Beliaghata — dropped three containment zones each. Alipore, too, dropped two zones and is now finally out of the list. Ballygunge though continues to top the list with as many as six containment zones. Both Behala and Chetla returned to the list with two zones each. Yet again, it is Purba Barisha bordering Sakherbazar-Silpara that was the worst-hit. Both containment zones of Behala are located here. Chetla’s entry was expected after cases spiralled in the Sabji Bagan area. However, it is the entry of a couple of addresses on Chetla Road that will keep the local administration worried. Among the new entrants is a lane in Amherst Street where multiple cases got reported in the past 72 hours. But the biggest worry for cops and KMC was to see three slums on the list — the highest in the past one month. Not even one had featured on the list that was released two weeks ago. Two of these are located in Beliaghata. The third one is in Chetla. Complexes continued to lead the total number of containment zones with as many as five high-rises now on the list, including two posh addresses, one each at Panditiya Road and Subhas Sarobar. “We are now putting equal stress on the slums as well as the apartments. “Specific targeted testing, along with awareness building, is being carried out in complexes with more than 30 families and slums. We have also requested KMC officials for regular sanitization of the area when brought under the containment zone,” said a senior police officer. Interestingly, these changes were not only restricted to different clusters within the same area but spread out geographically across the city. At Ballygunge, for example, even as three addresses managed to come out of the list, Rowland Road alone contributed three zones on the list. The same pattern was visible in Beliaghata, where several addresses shed the tag but a slum got included in it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-c-list-has-20-zones-figure-lowest-in-2-months/articleshow/77642107.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 20, 2020||Business||CCI: WhatsApp not using dominance for payments biz||Digbijay.Mishra@timesgroup.com Bengaluru: The Competition Commission of India (CCI) has rejected a case against Facebook-owned WhatsApp where the messaging platform was accused of abusing its dominant position to expand in the digital payments market in India. The case, filed in March, alleged WhatsApp was forcing its large user base to opt for its payments service, which is available within the app. WhatsApp, in its submissions to CCI, said this was only a value-added service on top of its messaging service. “The commission tends to agree with WhatsApp that this allegation is premature,” the CCI order said. “The commission is of the opinion that there exists no prima facie case of contravention and the information filed is directed to be closed under Section 26(2) of the Act,” it added. While CCI has dismissed the complaint against WhatsApp, it mentioned in its order that the commission does not agree with WhatsApp’s submission that there is no anti-competitive effect of offering WhatsApp Pay. The competition regulator did not elaborate further on the matter. WhatsApp has 400 million active users per month in India and has been stuck in beta-mode (1 million users) for two years. Last month, TOI reported that the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), which manages the Unified Payments Interface (UPI), has confirmed WhatsApp Pay’s data localisation compliance is in line with RBI guidelines. The banking regulator, however, has not still given a timeline or the final approval for WhatsApp to take its payments service beyond the restricted beta-stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cci-whatsapp-not-using-dominance-for-payments-biz/articleshow/77642296.cms||Digbijay Mishra
August 20, 2020||Business||Imports of auto components from China down 12% in FY19-20:ACMA||Chennai: As vehicle sales slumped, auto component imports from China fell 12% in FY19-20 at $4 billion, down from $4.6 billion in FY18-19 said auto parts apex body Automotive Component Manufacturers Association (ACMA). However China still remains the top import country for India with 26% share of all auto component imports. Deepak Jain, president of ACMA said that the 17% shrinkage of the domestic auto industry led to imports (including China) shrinking by 11% in FY19-20. Exports on the other hand were down by just over 3%. “Imports from China are driven by OEM sourcing strategies but the pandemic showed up the vulnerability that comes from over dependence on China so industry is re-evaluating the supply chain,” said Jain. “Indian component makers and vehicle companies are now working on multiple sourcing strategies and are looking at other markets as well as stepping up localisation,” he added.USA, Germany, Turkey, Thailand and UK are the top 5 export destinations for Indian auto parts whereas China, South Korea, Germany, Japan and US are the top markets from where parts are imported into India. The auto component industry saw its turnover shrink by 12% to just over $49 billion in FY20. “The auto component after market at nearly $10 billion remained stable while both imports and exports were down 11.4% and 3.2% respectively,” said Vinnie Mehta, director general, ACMA. Exports shrank from just over $15.4 billion to $14.5 billion. Europe, which accounts for 30% of Indian exports, was down 11% while North America and Asia — which contribute 30% and 27% respectively —remained stable,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/imports-of-auto-components-from-china-down-12-in-fy19-20acma/articleshow/77642050.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
August 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Line capacity on Sakleshpur-Subrahmanya Road Ghat section set to increase||Mangaluru: The line capacity on the Sakleshpur-Subrahmanya Road Ghat section, under Mysuru division of South Western Railway (SWR), is all set to increase. The division with funds made available by the Hassan-Mangaluru Rail Development Corporation (HMRDC), that technically owns this line, has taken up work on the state-of-the-art signalling in the Ghat section at a cost of Rs 5.3 crore, and this work is expected to be completed by September this year. On completion, the line capacity will go up to 20 trains from the existing 13, noted Aparna Garg, divisional railway manager, while addressing a virtual press meet from Mysuru on Wednesday. The work was sanctioned in the budget that chief minister B S Yediyurappa presented on March 5. It aims to enhance the line capacity in the ghat section between Sakleshpur and Subramanya Road stations, with crossings provided at Kadagaravalli and Yedakumari stations. The inter-locking and signalling works that have been taken up, will allow trains to be given precedence, Aparna said. Hitherto, prior to lockdown, the division operated on an average 9 express passenger trains – 4.5 each—on up and down lines, respectively, and an average of 4-5 goods trains. On completion of the work, assuming the number of passenger trains remains the same, the division will be able to operate around 11 goods trains, she said. Noting that HMRDC opened the ghat section primarily to facilitate the movement of goods to and from the hinterland, Aparna said movement of additional passenger trains as sought by the local train yatri sanghas is a call for the Railway Board to take. “As a division, we can forward proposals including one to restart trains between Bengaluru and Karwar via Mysuru, that has since been cancelled, to the board, and will act on their direction,” Aparna said. The Railway Board may consider the demand after resumption of normal train services, and after the introduction of the proposed zero timetable, Garg said. To a question on operation of a special train between Bengaluru and Mangaluru or Karwar during the current lockdown scenario, Aparna said the division will take up the matter with the Railway Board. Present operation of special trains is not encouraging as occupancy rate is just 30% due to the pandemic, she surmised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/line-capacity-on-sakleshpur-subrahmanya-road-ghat-section-set-to-increase/articleshow/77640819.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Surat||Protest staged against controversial audio, probe demanded||Surat: A group of former student leaders of the Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) staged a protest at the entry gate of the university against the alleged derogatory remarks made by Shivendra Gupta, vice-chancellor of VNSGU, against Indian saints in a viral audio.The group gathered at the entry gate and demanded action against Gupta. The protesters performed a mock brain surgery and also submitted a written complaint demanding an investigation. Gupta had earlier denied the claims that it was his voice in the audio. “We have never heard such insulting and derogatory comments about Indian saints in the country,” said Narendra Chaudhary, a former VNSGU student. “We held a mock brain surgery to show a symbolic protest and demand a thorough investigation. Not only Gupta but those heard laughing in the audio should also be identified,” added Chaudhary. Chaudhary submitted an application to Umra Police Station in which he demanded investigation of the audio. In the audio that went viral on Monday, the person is heard discussing an adult magazine and that there is nothing like ‘brahmacharya’ in the world. The person also compares serial killers of the US with Babas in India. Gupta is yet to approach any agency demanding investigation regarding the audio. Despite multiple attempts Gupta was not available for his comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/protest-staged-against-controversial-audio-probe-demanded/articleshow/77641861.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Surat||Surat citizens come together for urban forest||Surat: Prominent citizens have come together for a campaign to increase the green cover by creating urban and mini forests in different parts of the city They are to pursue the city and state authorities to develop a major urban forest project. An online meeting was held to discuss the need for the green cover which is claimed to be just 3% now. In the discussion, city mayor Jagdish Patel and Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials participated along with professionals and businessmen. The members expressed concern on the deteriorating health of citizens due to the reducing green cover. “Environment is one of the most important parts of the city’s development and SMC is executing various projects. It was proposed by citizens that the government should provide land to develop an urban forest on lines of land allotment in Rajkot and SMC will make representation in this direction,” said Patel. “The city’s green cover which should be over 25% is just 3% now. To make Surat a climate smart city we need to have a central park of trees and the land of Navsari Agricultural University can be used for it,” said Naimish Parekh, a retired management professional. It was also suggested that SMC should encourage citizens to develop gardens in their terrace. “Surat can have an urban forest. We should also get land where a forest can be developed and can develop micro forest in existing gardens and public places,” said Dr Paresh Shah, a consultant surgeon. All the participants supported the idea of planting native trees instead of decorative plants. “We need to develop micro forests with trees that can give food to birds and create an ecology,” added Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-citizens-come-together-for-urban-forest/articleshow/77641552.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Surat||Surat to get 50-bed ayurveda hospital||Surat: There is good news for those seeking ayurvedic treatment as the state government has decided to set up a ayurveda hospital in the city at the cost of Rs 6.50 crore. According to the details, the hospital will have 50-bed capacity and it will be set up at the Old Civil Hospital campus in Chowk Bazaar. It will be called Government Ayush Hospital.The state government's health and family welfare department has approved required human resources for the upcoming hospital. Patients will get OPD as well as indoor treatment. The hospital will also have an x-ray, sonography and other facilities.Currently, Surat city does not have an ayurveda hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-to-get-50-bed-ayurveda-hospital/articleshow/77641750.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Patna||Ambulance drivers, swab collectors fight stigma||PATNA: With the stigma attached to Covid-19 still prevailing in the city, unsung frontline health workers such as ambulance drivers and swab collectors continue to put up a brave front in the midst of gruelling work hours and persistent risk of infection. Private ambulance services in the city that mostly hire drivers on a contractual basis are faced with the dual challenge of providing adequate safety to the drivers while ferrying Covid-19 positive patients and delivering their services at a reasonable price amid the pandemic. Pankaj, the owner of a private ambulance service in PC Colony, said there is still fear and stigma associated in the minds of people regarding the disease. “Many a times people lie about not being Covid-19 positive while booking the ambulance. This puts our drivers at risk. It is completely unethical on the part of people but there is nothing we can do about it,” he said. “I have got mixed response from people. While some families affected by Covid-19 have shown great respect and appreciation for my service, others don’t even look at me once I drop them to the hospital,” said Mohar, an ambulance driver from Raja Bazar. While private service providers lack the resources to provide formal training to their frontline workforce, ambulance drivers employed at public hospitals are regularly briefed about the standard operating procedure (SOP) to be followed while ferrying a Covid-19 positive patient. AIIMS-Patna nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said, “Other than providing all necessary safety equipment to our ambulance drivers such as PPE kits, masks, face shields and gloves, we also train them to stick to the SOP for handling, managing and transporting identified and suspected cases of covid-19.” He added, “However, in case of untoward incidents like death of the patient in transit, our ambulance drivers sometimes have to face the wrath of the family.” Swab collectors in the city, who visit the houses of suspected patients to collect samples, have to hide their identity in order to avoid societal disapproval. “Many people have asked me to hide the PPE kit inside my bag while entering their locality. Oftentimes, I wear the PPE kit after entering the house and take it off before leaving,” said an executive from a private laboratory in Raja Bazar that collects samples for RT-PCR tests from households. “Collecting swab sample from a person doesn’t take more than 35 to 40 seconds but it is a high-risk job. Hence it is important to treat these professionals with respect rather than socially isolating them,” said Dr Abhilasha, a private practitioner at Punaichak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ambulance-drivers-swab-collectors-fight-stigma/articleshow/77640431.cms||Arunima Lal
August 20, 2020||Patna||Over 73,000 tests conducted in Gaya district in one month||GAYA: Nearly 73,048 Covid-19 tests have been conducted in Gaya district during the last one month, claim officials. With this, the total number of tests has gone up to 88,632. The first corona positive case was detected on March 30 in the Paharpur locality on the southern outskirts of Gaya town. Since then, only 15,584 tests were conducted till July 18. However, during the last one month, more than 2,400 tests have been done every day in the district. Dr N K Paswan, deputy superintendent-cum-nodal officer of the Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College and Hospital (ANMMCH), told this newspaper on Wednesday, “The RT-PCR test began in the hospital on July 4 before which the samples were sent to Patna. About 4,000 RT-PCR tests have been conducted in our microbiology department so far.” After testing was ramped up, almost 2,861 positive cases were detected in different parts of the district in a month. According to the official records, altogether 268 infected people were admitted to the ANMMCH, of whom 35 died during treatment. The remaining 27 are undergoing treatment and 206 people have been discharged from the hospital where the fatality rate is more than 13%. Welcoming the increase in the number of tests, Indian Medical Association-Gaya president Dr Ram Sewak Prasad Singh said, “The official figures do not tell the real story because more than 75% of the tests have been conducted through the rapid antigen and TrueNat methods, both of which are not very reliable.” He added, “Greater emphasis has to be laid on conducting RT-PCR tests.” Questioning the credibility of the official figures, Left activist S B Bhaskar alleged that the number of actual Covid deaths was much more because “several patients died outside hospitals”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-73000-tests-conducted-in-gaya-district-in-one-month/articleshow/77640406.cms||Abdul Qadir
August 20, 2020||Patna||JLNMCH to start plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients within a week||BHAGALPUR: With the installation of a plasmapheresis machine in the blood bank unit of Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) on Wednesday, the much-awaited plasma therapy for treating Covid patients is likely to start within a week. Steps have been initiated for inspection and procuring a ‘No Objection Certificate’ (NOC) from the drug controller of the state government followed by a clearance certificate from the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) to start plasma therapy at JLNMCH. JLNMCH principal Dr Hemant Kumar Sinha said that plasmapheresis is a process in which the liquid part of blood, which is known as plasma, is separated with the help of a machine. “It is used in the treatment of different ailments including autoimmune disorders and now in Covid-19 treatment,” Dr Sinha added. It may be mentioned here that plasma of patients after recovery develops antibodies. Such plasma on being transfused to other critically ill Covid-19 patients helps in developing antibodies in the suffering patients and fight against the deadly disease. Dr Sinha also said, “We hope to get NOC from the state drug controller soon after the inspecting team visits the JLNMCH blood bank. After the NOC, a report will be submitted to the ICMR and on getting ICMR nod we will start plasma therapy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jlnmch-to-start-plasma-therapy-for-covid-19-patients-within-a-week/articleshow/77640469.cms||Kumar Rajesh
August 20, 2020||Mysuru||After recovering from Covid-19, cops donate plasma, raise awareness||MYSURU: Three policemen, who had contracted Covid-19 in the line of duty and recovered, have donated plasma, making their department proud. Mohana PV and Ananda GN, head constables and Sunil S, a constable, have not just donated plasma but have been educating fellow villagers and employees by sharing their experience and telling them not to be anxious about the virus. “Many other cops too are in line to donate plasma. Nearly five dozen cops had caught the infection in the district and a majority of them have returned to work after recovery,” said R Shivakumar, additional superintendent of police, Mysuru. The trio have been given a cash reward, an appreciation certificate and Service Record entry for donating plasma. Mohana, 42, who was with Nanjangud rural police then, was roped in for an investigation and he is an expert in computers. During that time, had worked with a team of officers for nearly 10 days before falling sick with fever. He said he developed fever on June 17 and later tested positive. “I had read about plasma donation and its uses to patients. I agreed to become a donor without any hesitation,” said Mohana, who is now with Mysuru South Police. Ananda GN and Sunil S, both attached to HD Kote police, were primary contacts as one of their senior officers tested positive. Both returned to work after treatment and subsequent tests which has come negative. Initially, both suffered from the stigma of having caught the virus in their villages but today they’re educating the rural folks about the virus. After their return to work, the two cops are taking extra care in maintaining social distance and wearing masks. The proud donors, who have developed antibodies to covid, carry sanitizer and create awareness among the public not to develop fear. According to BS Manjunath, blood bank officer, KR Hospital, a maximum of two patients can receive plasma depending on their antibody titers from each donor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/after-recovering-from-covid-19-cops-donate-plasma-raise-awareness/articleshow/77642745.cms||Lawrence Milton
August 20, 2020||Business||In a first, Indian space tech company Pixxel gets $5 million||CHENNAI/BENGALURU: In a first, the 18-month-old startup Pixxel has raised what is perhaps the largest seed funding of $5 million to send satellites into space from India. This also marks the first investment in the sector by established institutional venture capital firms Lightspeed India and Blume Ventures. Started by 22-year-old Awais Ahmed and Kshitij Khandelwal, the startup plans to send its first earth-imaging satellite into space in November. GrowX Venture, Inventus Capital India, Stanford Angels and Ryan Johnson, who co-founded satellite imaging firm BlackBridge, have also participated in the fund-raise. Pixxel has signed memorandums of understanding (MoUs) and letters of intent with leading agriculture and oil & gas firms in India and the US, who would use the image data. The new capital would largely be allocated to get the satellites into space and also build its proprietary data platform. “Satellite has been manufactured and it’s being tested right now. We are working on a second satellite as well, which we plan to fly in the second half of next year,” said Ahmed. While its operations are across Bengaluru and Chennai, Pixxel is moving all its operations to the capital of Karnataka, he added. Ahmed said Pixxel has two Indian clients and eight more globally, across the US and Europe. Space tech, as a sector, has seen increased entrepreneurial action as demand for imaging-tech grows across sectors, and it gets cheaper to make and launch small satellites. There are now 15 to 20 startups in the space tech sector compared to just a handful a few years ago, industry executives said. “There are a handful of founders building path-breaking technologies across launch, communication and satellites — a validation of this is to see Lightspeed invest in Pixxel,” Speciale Invest managing partner Vishesh Rajaram said. Prior to this, Chennai-based Agnikul raised over $3 million in a pre-Series-A round in March from deep-tech investors Pi Ventures and Speciale Invest. Last year, Bengaluru-based Bellatrix raised around $3 million in a pre-Series-A funding led by IDFC-Parampara, StartupXseed and Bollywood star Deepika Padukone, among others. Watch In a first, Indian space tech company Pixxel gets $5 million||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/in-a-first-indian-space-tech-co-pixxel-gets-5m/articleshow/77642457.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
August 20, 2020||Business||NPCI arm to take RuPay, UPI global||MUMBAI: The National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) has set up a subsidiary with the primary objective of taking RuPay and Unified Payments Interface (UPI) to other countries and transform these services from a purely domestic network to a regional network. NPCI International Payments (NIPL) aims to do this by helping other countries develop their domestic networks and then collaborating with them to enable cross-border payments. According to NPCI, several nations have displayed an inclination towards establishing a ‘real-time payment system’ or ‘domestic card scheme’ inspired by the corporation’s innovations in the country. China already has its own domestic network UnionPay, which has now been expanded to a global network. Japan too has the JCB network, which is accepted in 190 countries. The need for alternatives to Visa and Mastercard was felt more by countries after the international sanctions against Russia had an impact on payments since the two systems had to follow the sanction rules. NPCI has appointed Ritesh Shukla as CEO of NIPL. In this new role, Shukla’s primary responsibilities would involve formulation of business strategy, leading business development and driving profitability by deploying NPCI’s existing technology and solutions in international markets. Prior to joining NPCI, he was a part of Mastercard’s business in Middle East and North Africa (MENA). “It is a matter of pride for NPCI that several countries, in regions such as Asia, Africa, and the Middle East, have displayed interest towards replicating our model in their own nations. To help retail NPCI’s focus on its international ambitions, we would like to welcome Ritesh Shukla as the new CEO along with Anubhav Sharma and Rina Penkar. We look forward to witness NIPL scaling new highs by offering NPCI’s innovations to several nations and showcase a true example of Atmanirbhar Bharat,” said NPCI MD & CEO Dilip Asbe. NPCI’s objective is to empower Indian travellers to avail of homegrown payment channels. This will be enabled through a collaborative effort where NPCI will help other countries with their digital payment networks and will also equip them with resources as well as technological wherewithal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/npci-arm-to-take-rupay-upi-global/articleshow/77642223.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Surat||Surat: Puppy stuck on fifth floor window parapet rescued after three days||SURAT: A puppy stuck for nearly three days on the narrow window parapet of a fifth-floor office in a commercial complex was rescued by volunteers of an NGO after over six-hour struggle on Puna Kumbhariya road on Wednesday. The puppy had accidentally fallen off the window of the closed office on to the parapet below. Volunteers of the city-based Animal Friend, an NGO working for the relief and rescue of animals and birds, rescued the puppy after they were contacted by the residents of the nearby apartment who had been hearing the whimpering of the puppy for the last three days. According to the volunteers, the puppy was unable to move on as it was a narrow parapet on the fifth floor of Aashirwad market. Chirag Vankar, a volunteer of Animal Friend told TOI, “The puppy would have gone to catch some bird and could have fallen from the window. The commercial complex is shut from the last couple of months due to lockdown. Nobody noticed the puppy on the window parapet. We received a call on Wednesday from a resident in Puna Kumbhariya about the dog barking constantly for the last three days.” Another volunteer, Mehul Patel said, “It was very difficult to rescue the puppy as the platform was very narrow and also because the animal was in tremendous trauma. It was trembling due to fear. We had to use a rope to pull him up and make sure that it did not fall off the window parapet.” Sudhir Shah, president of Animal Friend NGO told TOI, “The puppy would have died had the local people not informed us. It took us about six hours to rescue the puppy.” Shah added, “The puppy was exhausted as it was hungry and without water from the last three days.” Watch Watch: Puppy stuck on fifth floor window parapet rescued after three days in Surat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/puppy-stuck-on-fifth-floor-window-parapet-of-closed-complex-rescued/articleshow/77641478.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Monk booked for alleged rape, unnatural sex||PALANPUR: A 36-year-old woman on Tuesday night lodged a complaint against a swami (monk), accusing him of having raped her several times for more than one and a half years. The survivor alleged that Swami Ramratanpuri of Satyam Society in Palanpur not only had raped her but also had subjected her to unnatural sex. “We have booked Ramratanpuri under sections 376 ,377, 341,506(2) and 294 (b) of Indian Penal Code,” said an investigating official. “The survivor said she had come into contact with Ramratanpuri during the hearing of a case in a court in Deesa. Ramratanpuri befriended her and offered her his house to live with her husband and two sons. Later, when Ramratanpuri demanded sex from her and the survivor refused, Ramratanpuri allegedly raped her and had an unnatural sex with her on the next day of Diwali in 2018,” said the official. Ramratanpuri allegedly raped her several times, threatening her with dire consequences, if she complained to anyone. The survivor alleged that Ramratanpuri had also forced her to divorce her husband. “The accused also used to lock the survivor in his house, whenever he went out,” added the official. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/monk-booked-for-alleged-rape-unnatural-sex/articleshow/77640852.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan minister Ashok Chandana slams Bundi collector over delay in public works||KOTA: State minster for youth affairs and skill development Ashok Chandana expressed annoyance over delay in public works in his constituency and slammed Bundi collector on phone for not opening mutation. In a video clip that viral on Tuesday evening, the minister is heard asking the collector to send him the list of patwaris refusing offline mutation so that he can send them to Barmer and Jaisalmer. Chandana was in Nainwa town of his constituency on Tuesday afternoon and was on his way to attend a party workers’ meeting where the local farmers while greeting him narrated him their grievances of not opening offline mutation that left them deprived of benefits and KCC loan. Since online upgradation of revenue records is under way, opening of online mutation is currently suspended. Chandana had earlier directed the Bundi district collector to instruct the patwaris to open offline mutation, as an alternative to the problem, so that the farmers could avail benefits. On hearing the grievances, Chandana, called collector Ashish Gupta over phone and while expressing his ire at the delay in mutation slammed him for not opening offline mutation. “The public has encircled me here…what do I do… you gave the orders and even after that the work is not being done…what are we doing here…we should leave this job and go home,” Chandana slammed the collector. Chandana further said, “Give me a list of all those patwaris who have refused to do this (offline mutation)… tell them they would go to Barmer or Jaisalmer.” Bundi collector Gupta did not comment on the episode with minister Chandana on Tuesday. “Following the direction by the minister, we have started alternative procedure for offline mutation from Wednesday wherein a temporary note on mortgage would be written with pencil on the papers of jamabandi and similarly form 6-1 issued by banks, would also bear a temporary note on mortgage that would be signed by patwari that would enable farmers to avail KCC loan and other benefits,” Nainwa tehsildar Kailash Chand Meena said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/chandana-slams-bundi-collector-over-delay-in-public-works/articleshow/77643396.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Lack of clarity on starting high school sections irks edu institutions||Mangaluru: Close to two dozen private/aided educational institutions, that seek to commence high school sections this academic year, are left in the lurch as the government continues to dilly-dally on the approval. According to a government notification dated July 27, 2020, as many as 13 private schools had applied for permission to start high school classes from the 2020-21 academic year. An equal number of aided schools too had applied for the same, but there has been no official communication on behalf of the government on the matter. School managements told TOI that the permission is usually granted before May — a month before the start of new academic year. “As to the best of our knowledge, the files were cleared from the jurisdictional BEO months ago, and moved to the DDPI. However, there has been no progress and no official communication later,” said a school management head. “We have not been officially communicated by the government as to why there is a delay or whether they will approve it or not,” said an irked school management head. “The reason why we are asking the department of public instruction to clear the air on the issue is because the educational institutions are currently at crossroads. A lot of students who have completed their education till Class 8 are waiting for approval so that they can continue studies on the same campus. On the other hand, institutions also have to prepare for the admission process. We are also concerned if the department plans to defer the decision for next academic year by giving valid reasons,” stressed the head of another private school management. Dakshina Kannada DDPI Malleswamy said the process was on hold due to the pandemic. “The government is keen on resuming the process of granting permission to schools, and if all goes well, all eligible schools will be granted permission at the end of September,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/lack-of-clarity-on-starting-high-school-sections-irks-edu-institutions/articleshow/77640856.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
August 20, 2020||Bareilly||Father, daughter dragged out of their house & kidnapped in UP’s Sambhal||Bareilly: A group of unidentified armed men barged into a house and allegedly kidnapped a man and his daughter, 18, in UP’s Sambhal district. The family claimed that eight men on motorcycles, with their faces covered, arrived at their home on late Tuesday night and dragged a senior member of their family. While they were forcibly taking him away, his daughter rushed out in a bid to save him. But, she was also dragged and taken away by the accused in one of their motorcycles, the family claimed. The alleged incident took place in Sambhal’s Kudh Fatehgarh area. “All of us were sleeping when the eight men forcefully entered the house at 1am. They dragged away my father. And when my sister begged them to leave him, she too was taken away. While leaving, the assailants locked the door from outside,” the victim’s son said. The family denied having rivalry with anyone. “My husband has no enmity with anyone in the village,” the wife said. Superintendent of police of Sambhal, Yamuna Prasad, told TOI, “Prima facie it appears that the crime was committed due to some personal rivalry. We have formed four teams to crack the case. Combing operation was launched in the area soon after the incident and it is still underway.” SHO of Kudh Fatehgarh, Ratan Singh, said, “An FIR has been registered against unknown persons under section 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/father-daughter-dragged-out-of-their-house-kidnapped-in-ups-sambhal/articleshow/77639708.cms||Maria Khan
August 20, 2020||Kolkata||171 return from Dubai in 2nd charter flight to Kolkata||KOLKATA: After welcoming flyers from Kuwait City on Tuesday, Kolkata airport received its second international charter flight on Wednesday, this time carrying passengers from Dubai. Organized by St Xavier’s College Alumni Association, Purvanchal Pravasi Milan and Marwari Yuva Mancha, UAE, the packed IndiGo flight from Dubai touched down at 5.25pm on Wednesday with all 171 passengers carrying Covid negative test reports. Majority of the passengers on Wednesday’s flight comprised jobless professionals and some tourists who were stuck abroad for months. “I used to teach at an international school in Dubai since 2018. But in May, I was terminated. I was trying to come back home since then but couldn’t make a headway till recently. My husband who works in Canada is also trying to return home but haven’t been able to get a flight till now. My father back home had fallen sick worrying about us,” said Parna Chakraborty (28), a resident of Behala. Also among flyers was Salt Lake resident Rita Mukherjee (68) and Asansol resident Rajlakshmi Ghatak (78), both of whom had gone to their sons’ place in Dubai and had got stuck. “I had gone there on February 2 and had my return ticket for March 24. But the lockdown extended my stay,” said Ghatak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/171-return-from-dubai-in-2nd-charter-flight-to-city/articleshow/77642116.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 20, 2020||Lucknow||Corona cloud on 200-year-old tradition, no Shahi Muharram procession this year||LUCKNOW: The iconic sights of towering wax taziyas moving in processions on solemn beats of martial drums on the 1st of Muharram from Bara Imambara to Chhota Imambara – a 200-year-old ritual of Lucknow which holds cultural and religious significance – will not be visible this year due to ongoing coronavirus pandemic. The Islamic month of Muharram is expected to begin on Friday or Saturday, depending on the sighting of the moon. The Husainabad and Allied Trust (HAT), headed by the district administration, has cancelled all processions, ‘tabarruk’ (food distributed to the poor after sermons and also sent to members of the royal family), ‘majlis’ (sermons) at mosques and imambaras under HAT. Devotees will not be allowed inside the Imambaras either as protected monuments continue to be shut. “Three taziyas, one each for the Bada and Chhota Imambara and Shahnajaf, are being readied and they will be kept at the respective ‘Shahnasheens’ (sanctums). There will be no procession, gathering, majlis and any other ritual under HAT in keeping with the August 10 guidelines by the home ministry,” said additional city magistrate Ajay Kumar Rai. He said distribution of food after ‘majlis’ would not be allowed. “There cannot be any symbolic procession with limited attendees either as it involves risk,” Rai added. These rituals were started by third King of Awadh, Mohammad Ali Shah, when he formed the Husainabad Endowment Deed and Husainabd and Allied Trust in 1836, providing money for programmes in Muharram and Ramzan and maintenance of monuments built by him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/corona-cloud-on-200-year-old-tradition-no-shahi-muharram-procession-this-year/articleshow/77643838.cms||Yusra Husain
August 20, 2020||Bareilly||As forest dept claims inability to trace Amaria leopard, its video taken by farmer goes viral||Pilibhit: Farmers of the five villages in Amaria tehsil are frequently capturing videos and photographs of the adult male leopard that has strayed into their area and appear to have settled down there, exposing the claims of forest department officials of carrying out unstinted efforts to locate the big cat without any success. A recent video of the leopard made by farmer Kale Singh while it was chasing small prey in village Jagat went viral on social media on Tuesday night, proving that locating the stray leopard is not tedious, but simply a matter of honest commitment to performing departmental duty with sincerity. Yet, divisional forest officer (DFO) of the forest and wildlife division, Sanjeev Kumar, reiterated on Wednesday while talking to TOI, that, “Field forest teams are incessantly striving to locate the leopard and cage it, but its frequent movement from one place to another due to the presence of around 10 tigers in the area has made our mission grueling.” “We’re attempting to cage the leopard in an area which does not have any tiger movement, to avert trapping the latter,” Kumar said. However, farmers are calling this claim as diversionary. As per local farmers, this leopard was spotted in the area of five villages — Surajpur, Jagat, Gajraula, Rasoola and Bishanpur — one-and-a-half years ago, and since then, it has been surviving on prey, both wild and domestic. “The leopard has killed dozens of cattle, as well as around 10 costly and exotic guard dogs of farmers. If farmers can easily spot the big cat, how can the forest authorities make flimsy claims?” said Kale Singh of village Jagat. Another farmer of village Surajpur, Paramveer Singh, asked why forest authorities can’t tranquilise the leopard and release him in the forest, to ensure safety of both the big cat and farmers. Forest authorities are completely apathetic to the situation, despite farmers repeatedly begging them for protection, he alleged. Reacting to the allegation, DFO Sanjiv Kumar said, “A big cat can only be tranquilised when either it becomes a real threat to human lives or gets trapped in a situation that needs a rescue operation. As neither condition is met on the ground, the Amaria leopard can’t be tranquilised.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/as-forest-dept-claims-inability-to-trace-amaria-leopard-its-video-taken-by-farmer-goes-viral/articleshow/77637366.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad district records 255 cases||AURANGABAD: The district reported 255 new Covid-19 patients on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 19,407. A total of six patients have succumbed to the contagion on Wednesday, taking the death toll to 608 in the district. As many as 237 patients have been discharged from the district on Wednesday, including 120 from the limits of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation and 117 from other parts. Authorities said out of these cases, 28 had tested positive at the entry point and 39 tested Covid positive by mobile swab collection squad. The district has 4,110 active cases.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-dist-records-255-cases/articleshow/77640857.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Lucknow||Disappointed clerics seek admin directive||Lucknow: Shia clerics on Wednesday approached the state government again following disappointment over a blanket ban on any form of procession or gathering in the upcoming mourning month of Muharram. In fact, Lucknow police commissionerate has extended prohibitory orders under CrPc Section 144 in the city putting even movement on Ashura on hold. All India Shia Personal Law Board general secretary Maulana Yasoob Abbas said that he had contacted additional chief secretary home Awanish Awasthi, requesting that a guideline for Ashura be brought out. “How can taziyas not be allowed to be buried in the Karbala. Muharram is a tragic month, not a festival, and should be dealt with differently by the government,” said Abbas. “Even in the 22 years when Muharram juloos was stopped following communal riots, taziyas kept by devotees in their homes were taken out on Ashura. Besides, several communities are involved in azadari in Muharram. In the absence of a specific directive for taziya burial, there is going to be chaos which the government will regret later,” he added. The cleric said that while the community had accepted that a bigger juloos will not be taken out, some iconic public majlis gatherings with limited audience should be allowed. “Thousands are walking on roads then why can’t we be allowed to perform our rituals with adequate social distancing. We are following not just WHO norms but also the state and central government guidelines and additonally the Muharram guidelines by our religious leaders in Iran and Iraq,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/disappointed-clerics-seek-admin-directive/articleshow/77643863.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: 90% leaks plugged, Temghar dam to store water at full capacity||PUNE: The Temghar dam currently holds around 74% of its stock and will be allowed to store water to its full capacity of 3.7 TMC this year. An irrigation department official on Wednesday said the committee of experts monitoring the repair work of the Temghar’s wall has given the go ahead to store water at 100% in the reservoir. The full storage in the dam would boost water availability in the city after the rainy season. The Temghar dam releases water into Khadakwasla. The water then flows to the city. The irrigation department has been carrying out repairs of the Temghar dam wall for four years after massive leaks were spotted. The official said about 90% leaks in the wall have so far been plugged. The dam was not being able to store water to its full capacity due to the repair work for quite a few years. However, the water stock in the dam could be maintained at 100% last year because of good rainfall. “We had made a detailed presentation before the experts’ committee on the Temghar repair work status and also on our plans to carry out the remaining status of the project. The committee has given the go-ahead to store water in the dam at its full capacity. There is a plan to maintain water level at 3 TMC. But in case of heavy rainfall and huge inflow of water, the dam will store stock at full capacity,” the irrigation department official said. The irrigation department has planned to complete the rest of the repair work once the level in the dam drops in December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/90-leaks-plugged-temghar-to-store-water-at-full-capacity/articleshow/77643482.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 20, 2020||Noida||Power outrage||NOIDA: Residents of the city pay more for electricity than their neighbours in Delhi, but the state of power infrastructure hasn’t improved from what it was decades ago. Outages are frequent, and so are voltage fluctuations, even after a mild rain. Wednesday morning was no different. Power cuts ranged between three and six hours in various parts of the city as early morning rain and thunderstorms led to tree branches falling on overhead cables and snapping supplies. With people working from home, kids attending online classes and the DU exams on, this triggered widespread disruptions. And an equal amount of anger at being shortchanged by the government for years. “Why hasn’t the power department laid underground cables and upgraded its infrastructure when the city is paying so much for power?” asked one RWA representative. Every time they raised the issue of erratic power supply with the authorities, said another, officials made promises but nothing was done on the ground. “Noida is not a ‘no power cut zone’, it is merely a ‘no power come zone’. Even with the slightest drizzle or wind, power supply is either switched off or it trips. The department has done no infrastructural work in all these years. Until they lay underground cables, the problems related to supply will continue. The electricity department is only interested in collecting bills. Any delay there and they cut the supply,” said NP Singh, president of the District Development Residents Welfare Association. The reason for the outages on Wednesday was mostly snapping of overhead wires. “In Sector 34, the cables snapped because branches of trees fell on them. There was no power from 10am to 2.30pm. In fact, Noida faces such outages often. That’s because a long time is taken to fix a local fault, which is mostly the result of poor infrastructure. Despite tall claims about infrastructure upgrade and after several meetings with the officials, the power situation is still dismal in the city,” said KK Jain, secretary general of the Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Associations. Jain pointed out that lack of continuous power supply had affected working professionals and students the most. A majority of the residents have been working from home because of the pandemic while students have been attending online classes. In both cases, the basic reuirement is an internet connection with disruptions. “Not only are the dangling cables defective, but panel boxes and circuit breakers are old and rusty too. We have been requesting the officials for underground cables, but there has been no progress in this regard,” Jain said He added that uninterrupted power supply was the basic expectation when residents were paying more than what people in other NCR cities were. “In Delhi, 200 units of electricity cost Rs 200 — at the rate of Re 1 per unit. For 400 units, the rate is Rs 2.50 per unit. In Noida, however, the rate is Rs 6.20 a unit. Also, the first 100 units in Delhi are free, which is not the case in Noida. Moreover, Noida gives much more revenue to UPPCL,” Jain said. In Sector 51, residents said the frequent voltage fluctuations and outages were causing damage to electrical appliances. “There are complaints that ACs, refrigerators, TV and other appliances are getting damaged because of the voltage fluctuations. We are paying Rs 8.30 per unit (domestic), which includes fixed and regulatory charges. RWAs of the city keep reaching out to UPPCL officials, but these meetings hardly yield any result,” said Sanjeev Kumar, the RWA general secretary of Sector 51. Rajiva Singh, president of the Noida Federation of Apartments Owners’ Association, said around 200 diesel generators operate at a time whenever there is a power outage in the city. He pointed out that the gensets add to the city’s already polluted air. Sources in the power department maintained that work on upgrading infrastructure was underway, but added they were waiting for funds. Their reply was usual. “Local faults take time, especially during rain and thunderstorms,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/power-outrage/articleshow/77644399.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
August 20, 2020||Aurangabad||HC: Form task force in dists for effective tackling of Covid||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court on Tuesday directed the district collectors to establish a task force, if not already established, that will be functional 24x7 with adequate staff to respond to the calls made by people on the helplines.While issuing a set of instructions in the suo-motu PIL, justices Ravindra Ghuge and Shrikant D also ordered: “Private hospitals, in addition to those already reined in for treating Covid-19 patients, be requisitioned, by the task force or the divisional commissioner or as may be provided under the policy of the state or any enactment, if the need arises.”Amid complaints of overcharging by private hospitals and eambulances, the bench expected the task force “to create parity in the slabs of rates/charges of private hospitals who are requisitioned for extending the treatment to Covid-19 patients. Private hospitals shall ensure that one principal officer is appointed for dealing with Covid-19 wards and the beds earmarked for treatment”.While appreciating the private hospitals that are doing a good job at tackling the pandemic, the bench observed: “At the same time, we expect the state and the administration to deal with wilful and intentional acts of negligence, callousness and work shirking, strictly and initiate appropriate action against such errant employees/officers.” The bench appreciated divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar for taking efforts to tackle the pandemic in the region. He has been spending sleepless nights and is travelling extensively in several districts for coordinating the containment measures. “Such dedication is required to be complimented,” the bench said, adding that the the administrator of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) Astik Kumar Pandey too has been working hard..The bench appreciated the efforts made by the all the district collectors, including Uday Chaudhari of Aurangabad (now transferred), Aurangabad commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad, all the superintendent of police and civil Surgeons of all districts amenable to the jurisdiction of the Aurangabad bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-form-task-force-in-dists-for-effective-tackling-of-covid/articleshow/77640890.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
August 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cybercrime complaints go past 2019 tally in 8 months||PUNE: The cybercrime complaints till August 18 this year surged to 8,546 in Pune, surpassing the last calendar year’s case count of 7,700. The statistics of the cybercrime cell of the Pune police revealed that the highest number of complaints (5,175) so far this year were under the subhead “cheating frauds”, including money transfer, one-time password (OTP) share, online dating, job, lottery and loan frauds. The subhead “online business frauds” recorded the second highest number of complaints at 1,549. Cybercrime experts claimed that the Covid-19 pandemic triggered a surge in cybercrime in the city, especially digital money transfer frauds, because of the increased reliance of public on online money transfer platforms due to social distancing norms. Deputy commissioner of police (cybercrime and economic offences) Sambhaji Kadam told TOI that cybercrime complaints were higher this year than 2019 because many routine activities had shifted online this year, leaving a wider scope for online frauds. Senior inspector Jayram Paigude of the Pune police cybercrime cell said, “Those using the digital payment route should be aware of the precautions that need to be taken with it. Often, victims tend to share their OTP with fraudsters, showing lack of know-how about safety precautions.” Shweta Chawla, a digital forensic investigator and the head at the Pune-based SC Cyber Solutions Pvt Ltd said, “During the initial few months of the lockdown, many people, who were not dependent on online technology, started using it. They had little idea about the security measures needed to be taken to make online payments, and thus ended up as victims of digital payment-related frauds.” Chawla said romance frauds and extortion cases had also gone up during the pandemic. “Psychologists have reported more people feeling lonely during the pandemic. Finding romance online could have seemed easier to them, and it made them vulnerable to such frauds,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cybercrime-complaints-go-past-2019-tally-in-8-months/articleshow/77643486.cms||Neha Madaan
August 20, 2020||Lucknow||No Ganesh idol immersion or burial of tazias||LUCKNOW: No processions, public events and gathering will be allowed for Ganesh Chaturthi and Muharram this year. Joint commissioner of police, law and order, Naveen Arora issued an order on Wednesday extending prohibitory orders under CrPC section 144 till September 15, as per government orders. The ban is on pandals for Ganesh Puja and immersion of idols during Ganesh Utsav. Similarly, holding majlis and other events for Muharram, processions, burial of taziya are also not permitted. Approval of police would be essential for any event of any nature with gathering of more than five people. JCP Arora said, “Anti-social elements may try to vitiate the atmosphere during Ganesh Chaturthi and Muharram. Section 144 orders has been passed to maintain peace and harmony.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-ganesh-idol-immersion-or-burial-of-tazias/articleshow/77643961.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Vadodara||Seven court staffers test nCov positive||Vadodara: Since August 17, seven staff members of civil court in the Nyay Mandir building at Diwalipura tested positive for coronavirus. Officials of Vadodara Municipal Corporation said that on August 17 one staff member had tested positive following which mass testing was done in the court building from which six other staffers too were found to have tested positive on Wednesday. VMC officials said that the six infected persons are, however, asymptomatic. Meanwhile, the Baroda Bar Association got the advocates house in the court campus sanitized as a precautionary measure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/seven-court-staffers-test-ncov-positive/articleshow/77640253.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: KGMU employee, eight others lose Covid battle, toll reaches 237||LUCKNOW: A KGMU employee was among the nine Covid-19 patients who died in 24 hours till Wednesday noon, taking the city toll to 237. A P Pandey (65), a resident of Kanpur Road, working as assistant in the office of KGMU medical superintendent, died of respiratory failure on Wednesday. He was admitted on August 14 with complaint of breathlessness. “He died due to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). He was asthmatic and did not respond to treatment. Eventually his lungs failed,” said KGMU spokesman Dr Sudhir Singh. Pandey’s son Kushal said, “My father kept work above eveything. He had retired and was given extension. I suspect he contracted the infection on duty.” A 67-year-old patient from Mahanagar also died at KGMU on Wedneday. “The patient had high blood pressure and hypothyroidism,” said Dr Singh. A Wazirganj resident (55) died at Integral Institute of Medical Sciences on Wednesday morning due to lung failure. Two patients suffering from ARDS caused by Covid-19 died at Era’s Lucknow Medical College and Hospital. A man (66) from Rajajipuram died on Tuesday night, and a 54-year-old from Laxmipur died on Wednesday morning, said principal Dr MM Fardi. A 65-year-old patient died at SGPGIMS on Tuesday night. While SGPGIMS authorities refused to share details, health officers said the patient died of double pneumonia. In Lokbandhu hospital, a patient (56) from Jankipuram brought in an advance stage died due to double pneumonia on Tuesday evening, said CMS Dr Amita Yadav. A Rajajipuram resident (52) died due to Covid-19 induced double pneumonia at TSM Hospital on Tuesday night. “Infection had critically damaged his lungs,” said nodal officer Dr S C Rai. One patient (67) died of respiratory failure at a private hospital in Mohanlalganj. Both cases and deaths have surged in this month, with nearly 60% of total casualties having taken place in August so far, at an average rate of seven daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kgmu-employee-eight-others-lose-covid-battle-toll-reaches-237/articleshow/77643907.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 20, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh cops help lovebirds tie nuptial knot, sub-inspector performs kanyadan||LUCKNOW: Displaying their humane side, Sant Kabir Nagar cops on Tuesday helped a couple tie the nuptial knot by convincing their families who were opposed to their relationship. Not only this, a sub-inspector also performed ‘kanyadaan’ as the bride’s father had died. It all began when the relatives of a girl, Sadhna Kewat (19), lodged a complaint at Pauli police outpost against Sarvesh Kanaujiya (20) after they found the couple together at a lonely place during the wee hours on Sunday. Cops summoned Sarvesh who poured his heart out and told the police he was in love with Sadhna and wanted to marry her. Police also recorded the statement of Sadhna who also said that she wanted to marry Sarvesh. Later, cops convinced the two families and the marriage was solemnized at Kankandeshwarnath Shiva temple on Tuesday evening. Sub-inspector Vivekanand Tiwari performed ‘kanyadan’. Sadhna’s mother is blind and Sadhna has six younger sisters. Both Sadhna and Sarvesh are natives of Pauli village. They studied together and fell in love but their families were opposed to their marriage. “When we summoned Sarvesh, he told us that he would commit suicide if he was not allowed to marry Sadhna,” sub-inspector Vivekanand Tiwari said. He said Sadhna’s family agreed for the marriage but Sarvesh’s father, Rajeshwar, was rigid on his stand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cops-help-lovebirds-tie-nuptial-knot-s-i-performs-kanyadan/articleshow/77644015.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||33% of cancers in Ahmedabad men are of mouth, tongue: Study||AHMEDABAD: The latest report of the National Cancer Registry Programme (NCRP) has pointed out that one in every three patients in Ahmedabad has cancer of mouth or tongue. The percentage of these cancers, 33, was the highest in India among 28 centres considered for the study. For Gujarat, the study covered the period between 2012 and 2016 during which the registry — maintained at Gujarat Cancer & Research Institute (GCRI) — had recorded 25,604 cases. Of them, 14,579 were males and 11,025 were females. Dr Shashank Pandya, the director of GCRI, said that Gujarat, and in particular Ahmedabad, is known for its tobacco consumption. “It is directly linked with the head and neck cancer,” he said. “Even among females, one in every ten cases was of mouth or tongue cancers.”  Commenting on the finding that the median age of diagnosis in Ahmedabad is 54, Dr Kaustubh Patel, a head & neck onco-surgeon in the city, said that it has been coming down over the years. “Earlier, senior citizens used to approach us with tumours, but now due to the rise in awareness, we see even young patients getting admitted with various cancers,” he said. The report highlighted that about 25% of the patients — 6,418 — died due to cancer. Dr Somesh Chandra, the director of surgical oncology at a city hospital, said that the recovery rate has improved drastically in several cancers especially due to the multi-disciplinary approach. “We see the emergence of new technology to treat and manage cancers,” he said. “On the other hand, the emergence of a few new cancers has also been seen in the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/33-of-cancers-in-city-men-are-of-mouth-tongue-study/articleshow/77643517.cms||Parth Shastri
August 20, 2020||Pune||MSEDCL’s online connect with consumers||Pune: The Pune regional office of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) will set up 7,350 WhatsApp groups to directly communicate with over 18 lakh customers. In Pune district, the electricity distribution company will form 2,800 WhatsApp groups to communicate with nearly 7 lakh consumers. Regional director for Pune zone Ankush Nale issued a circular directing officials to form WhatsApp groups of 250 members each to facilitate communication between consumers and MSEDCL authorities to enable quick resolution of problems. “From superintendent engineer to branch engineer, all representatives in the urban and rural circles will be a part of these WhatsApp groups. Further, each area representative will create a group comprising citizens from areas under their jurisdiction,” an official stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msedcls-online-connect-with-consumers/articleshow/77643494.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Rajkot||Trio vandalizes temple, arrested||Rajkot: Three persons allegedly vandalized a temple and placed empty liquor bottles inside in a failed bid to defame the administrator of the religious premises located in Ambedkarnagar on 150 feet Ring Road. However, all three were caught as their crime was caught in the CCTV located near-by. The accused identified as Sanket Rathod (24), Kamlesh Muchhadia (30) and Ajay Rathod (28) wanted to remove the incumbent trustee Nitin Sorathiya so that someone from their ‘own Ambedkarnagar area’ could take over the administration. Sorathiya lives in Mavdi village, which is now a part of Rajkot city, and the temple is located on a prime location. “They wanted to defame Sorathiya as they thought he intended to usurp the temple land. The trio also said that the temple trust did not exist of paper. After vandalizing, they placed empty liquor bottles at the spot to show that Sorathiya had organized a booze party in the premises,” said K N Bhukan, inspector with Malaviyanagar police station. The accused were also booked for hurting the religious sentiments of a community, as one of them had urinated in the temple premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/trio-vandalizes-temple-arrested/articleshow/77640920.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Storage in Jayakwadi dam at 70%||Aurangabad: Rainfall in catchment areas and sustained inflow from upstream areas filled the Jayakwadi major irrigation project in Aurangabad district to 70% of live storage by Wednesday evening. As both left and right bank canal systems of the dam are closed currently due to lack of irrigation requirement during the rainy season, Jayakwadi project is expected to show further rise in water level if rainfall activity continues. Sandeep Rathod, in-charge of Jayakwadi dam, on Wednesday said Nathsagar dam reservoir has started getting inflow from Ahmednagar district as well. “While Jayakwadi dam was receiving inflow from upstream dams located in Nashik district, it has now started witnessing the same release from Ahmednagar district. The rapid rise in water level is imminent in near future, including possibility of operation of floodgates,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/storage-in-jayakwadi-dam-at-70/articleshow/77640893.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Lucknow||UP gets requests to lift lockdown on shooting of films||LUCKNOW: With the coronavirus pandemic bringing the Indian film industry to a standstill, several A-list directors, producers and actors have sought permission from the Uttar Pradesh government to resume shooting in the state. UP Film Development Council chairperson and noted comedian Raju Srivastava has written to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, seeking commencement of shootings 'in the interest of the film industry'. Additional chief secretary (home & information), Awanish Awasthi, who is also the chairman of Udyog Bandhu, confirmed that he had received UPFDC's request and said that it was under consideration. "I can't give you an assurance when the government will issue guidelines in this regard. The UP Film Development Council has given us a proposal and we will consider it," he told TOI. UP of late has emerged as the new Bollywood destination, with filmmakers exploring the virgin locations. Several movies have been shot in the state like Amitabh Bachchan-starrer ‘Gulabo Sitabo’ and Ranbir Kapoor’s ‘Brahmastra’. “Several film producers, directors and artists have approached me to request for resumption of shootings of movies, TV serials and web series in Uttar Pradesh while following Covid-19 protocols,” Srivastava said. On behalf of the film industry, Srivastava has requested the chief minister to immediately come up with guidelines for restarting shooting in the state, which would only help in revenue generation but also provide a source of livelihood to workers. Talking to TOI over phone, he said: “Offices have resumed, shops have reopened, then why can't films resume shooting? Film units can be asked to bring Covid-19 test reports to sets and everybody can be screened daily... Plus, the crew can be thinner. Restarting shooting would provide many workers a source of livelihood as the pandemic-induced lockdown rendered them jobless.” States like Maharashtra and Telangana have already relaxed Covid norms and permitted film and TV shootings with a condition that the units would strictly follow guidelines laid down by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-gets-requests-to-lift-lockdown-on-shooting-of-films/articleshow/77643877.cms||Ankur Tewari
August 20, 2020||Trichy||Death rate gallops in August in central districts||TRICHY: August has turned out to be the worst month for the central region of the state with regard to Covid-19 deaths as the eight districts recorded 200 casualties in just 19 days making it a 135% spike. The central region comprising Trichy, Karur, Pudukottai, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagappattinam districts recorded 148 deaths till July 31 since the beginning of the outbreak in March. While the regional death rate was not alarming with 1.11% till last month, the gradual increase in deaths from the beginning of August pushed the rate to 1.42% on Wednesday. Trichy district continued to be on top with 34 deaths taking the total toll to 94. Of late, Thanjavur and Pudukottai districts also joined the race with the former registering 54 more deaths in the 19 days taking the toll to 82 while Pudukottai recorded 43 deaths pushing the toll to 68. According to the state medical bulletin, most of the casualties were patients above 50 years of age with comorbid conditions. There were also victims in the age group of 30-40. A negligible number of children also fell sick and died of Covid-19. Thanjavur district collector M Govinda Rao said there was no specific reason for the spike in cases and that on an average, two deaths occurred per day after the spread increased. It may be pointed out that Pudukottai was at the bottom of the list with regard to the number of positive cases and deaths, which changed later. After a complete evaluation of deaths conducted by health staff, Pudukottai collector P Uma Maheswari cited the age factor for the increase of deaths. She said that when vital signs suddenly drop, it was challenging for resuscitating such patients. She said late admission of patients was another reason. Trichy collector pointed out the delayed admission of patients with comorbid conditions as the reason. “Several comorbid patients report to the hospital on the fifth day or seventh day after developing symptoms. The strains develop in the period leading to complications and they die in 24 hours or three days of admission,” he said. (with inputs from K Sambath Kumar and D Vincent Arockiaraj)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/death-rate-gallops-in-aug-in-central-dists/articleshow/77644410.cms||Gokul Rajendran
August 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Kaun hai? Mehmaan, said cops knocking at shooters’ door||AHMEDABAD: Top Gujarat ATS officials said that the plot of two shooters allegedly sent by gangster Chhota Shakeel to kill political leaders was foiled following an intelligence input received on August 15. “We received an input that two shooters of a terror module handled by Chhota Shakeel have entered Gujarat and plan to eliminate a political leader in Ahmedabad," said a senior officer. “As we were working on the input, our officers got a tip-off that the suspected shooter was lodged in room number 105 of Hotel Vinus, at about 10pm on Tuesday. We got a team ready and after confirming the intelligence reached Hotel Vinus at 1.30am. We then knocked at the door of the room,” the ATS official added. An ATS source said, “As they knocked, a voice from inside asked ‘Kaun hai (Who is it)’ and DSP Bhavesh Roziya replied ‘mehman (guest)’. As he opened the door, Roziya pounced on the man but he moved back and pulled out a pistol from the back of his belt. Roziya struggled with him and as they fell on the desk in the room, the man, later identified as Irfan Shaikh, fired twice. The bullets missed Rozia and got lodged in the ceiling.” “At this time DIG, Gujarat ATS Himanshu Shukla, senior superindent of police Deepan Bhadran and DSP KK Patel were looking for the second man near the bathroom, and on hearing the gunshots, they quickly overpowered Shaikh. The other man could not be found,” an ATS official said. Residents of the area said they had heard two gunshots from the hotel and had seen armed plainclothes officers surrounding the hotel. ATS sources said they recovered two firearms and a mobile phone. “Photos of Zadafia, the BJP headquarters in Gandhinagar, Kamalam, and few other political leaders were sent to his mobile from a number based in the Netherlands. As some messages and photos seem to have been deleted, we have sent the phone for forensic examination,” added an ATS source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kaun-hai-mehmaan-said-cops-knocking-at-shooters-door/articleshow/77642210.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Chandigarh||4 booked for hoisting ‘Khalistan’ flag in Sirsa||Chandigarh: Haryana Police has arrested four miscreants on charges of trying to disrupt peace, brotherhood and communal harmony by hoisting a flag with ‘Khalistan Zindabad’ written on it at a village chaupal under Kalanwali police station in Sirsa district. A Haryana Police spokesperson said on Wednesday the accused have been identified as Rupinder Singh alias Rim, Yudhvir Singh alias Jony, Gurjeet (all residents of Singhpura village) and Aman Sharma (of Talwandi Sabo). While two accused hoisted the flag, the other two shot a video and it posted on social media. During preliminary interrogation, Rupinder said he did it after watching a video on social media on August 14. A case under relevant sections of IPC had been registered at Kalawali police station and a probe is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-booked-for-hoisting-khalistan-flag-in-sirsa/articleshow/77643485.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC mops up Rs 492 crore in property tax||Ahmedabad: The extra 10% rebate for advance tax payers has yielded a good response and the fund starved Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has been able to collect Rs 492 crore as property tax from residential as well as commercial properties. The AMC officials said that the corporation was the only corporation in the state to announce 10% rebate for advance tax payers for both commercial and residential properties. The state government has announced 20% rebate for property tax under the Atma Nirbhar package which is applicable for 4.75 lakh commercial properties in the city. The officials said that the relaxation which was extended till August 31 and more and more commercial property owners were paying their taxes. The officials said that against the property tax of Rs 1,122 crore, for which bills have been raised by the AMC, a total of 44% tax has been collected by the AMC. The officials said that the eight municipal corporations had collected Rs 1,076 crore of which the lion share was the collection by the AMC, followed by Surat Municipal Corporation. The officials said that the AMC was the only corporation which had announced this rebate, and hence the collection was very high. “Even in terms of percentage, Ahmedabad collection was on the higher side,” said an AMC official. The official said that against the property collection bills of R 946 crore for commercial properties, the collection was Rs 426 crore, while for the residential properties, against the bill of Rs 176 crore the collection was only Rs 66 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-mops-up-rs-492-crore-in-property-tax/articleshow/77643544.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Bareilly||Fake forest guard who duped people arrested||Bareilly: Police have arrested a fake forest guard who, along with his father and a retired forest guard, used to dupe people on the pretext of getting them a job in Khuttar area of Shahjahanpur. Police have recovered fake joining letters, uniform and name plate from the accused. Police said Satnam Singh got a fake joining letter as a forest guard. He, along with his father Sarjeet Singh and a retired forest guard from Mailani Israr Ali, duped people in the area by claiming that they will get them a job in the forest department. On the complaint of one Ramdas, police lodged an FIR against the accused for duping the complainant’s son of Rs 3 lakh by promising him a job. Station house officer (SHO) Jai Shankar Singh said, “We have arrested Satnam Singh while two others are still absconding. Though one man gave a written complaint on it, we learnt about two more people who have been duped. We are investigating the matter and checking if more people were duped by them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/fake-forest-guard-who-duped-people-arrested/articleshow/77638632.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 358 Indira Rasoi kitchens to serve food from today||JAIPUR: The state government will start its ambitious Indira Rasoi scheme on August 20 to provide meals at subsidised rates to poor. Under the scheme, which is named after former prime minister Indira Gandhi, meals will be provided at Rs 8 in 213 urban local bodies across the state. The Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has identified 20 locations in Jaipur Heritage and Jaipur Greater (10-10) each to set up these kitchens. Similarly, one kitchen will be set up in 12 local bodies of Jaipur district. Across the state, 358 locations for the kitchen have been set up after spending Rs 100 crore. “The food will be available between 8am to 1pm and 5pm to 8pm in the evening,” said an official. District administration and local self-government (LSG) department will regularly monitor the quality of food. The customers, who are not happy with the food, can report on toll-free number 18001806127. A menu of 100 gram of pulses, 100 gram of vegetables, 250 gram of chapati and pickles has been fixed by the government. An official said, “To develop the infrastructure, the state government has provided Rs 4.87 lakh to each operator. Every year, Rs 2 lakh grant will also be provided. The cost per plate will be Rs 20, however, it will be provided on subsidised rates. The consumer has to pay only Rs 8 per plate. The operators will also maintain social distancing and sanitise the kitchen regularly,” he said. After the change in regime, the Congress government is all set to overhaul the Annapurna Rasoi scheme launched by former chief minister Vasundhara Raje to serve food at subsidised rates across the state. The reason for the move is that the existing Congress government wants to provide food to the poor after spending money in a transparent manner. “Monitoring of the scheme will be done using technology. Those beneficiaries who have mobile phones will receive a coupon via SMS. CCTV cameras will be installed for monitoring,” said another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/358-indira-rasoi-kitchens-to-serve-food-from-today/articleshow/77643487.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Post-lockdown, goods export & domestic cargo begin to soar again at Amausi airport||LUCKNOW: In a sign of revival for the economy, export of goods and domestic cargo movement via air was found steadily increasing to reach that in the pre-Covid lockdown period. Exclusive data accessed by TOI from Airports Authority of India at Chaudhary Charan Singh (CCS) Airport revealed that in July, a total of 1.1akh kg of goods were exported against just 15,199kg in April. Similarly, in the domestic sector, Lucknow airport dispatched cargo of 4.4lakh kg to various cities in July against just 6,515kg in April. The goods in cargo included garments, fabric, mangoes, vegetables and products of e-commerce giants such as Amazon and Flipkart. Speaking to TOI, Nitin Kumar Kadiyan, assistant general manager (operations) at CCS Airport said, “In the past four months, 289 metric tonne (MT) of goods were exported via air service from Amausi airport. In April, only 15MT of goods were exported, but by July it grew to 101MT. This is an indication of the economy’s steady revival. However, most of the goods dispatched in cargo were those accumulated over the months, which the airlines are now carrying.” “Of the total goods, nearly 25% are those from e-commerce giants such as Amazon and Flipkart and others, as people are now opting more for online shopping,” he said. Kadiyan claimed that in the coming days, there would be increase in cargo transportation via air, as more flights will resume. Before March 23, over 2,700 flights were operating every month, but now, only 16 are operating per day from this airport. Since passenger flow is yet to pick up pace, airlines are opting to ferry goods to various destinations. In January, February and March, CCS airport recorded 594MT of goods being exported via airlines and 10MT of imports. On domestic flights, 1,073MT of goods were sent to various cities and 1,601MT goods were off-loaded at Lucknow airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-in-air-goods-export-domestic-cargo-begin-to-soar-again-from-amausi-airport/articleshow/77643889.cms||Arvind Chauhan
August 20, 2020||Lucknow||LPG pilferage racket busted in Lucknow; agencies’ staff among 31 arrested||LUCKNOW: You may be among consumers who often wonder why their LPG cylinders get empty early. Chances are you could be a victim of a LPG pilferage gang which was active across the city. The gang was finally busted on Wednesday. Acting on the government’s instruction and civil supplies department, the Lucknow police busted the 31-member gang which used to pilfer LPG from cylinders and then sold it in the market illegally. Joint Commissioner of police, Law and Order, Naveen Arora said police team collected information about refilling of small gas cylinders in Vibhuti Khand, Chinhat, Rajajipuram, Madiaon, Gudamba and other police station areas. “The teams also collected information about managers and hawkers of various gas agencies who were involved in the theft,” he said. Arora said the accused used four types of modus-operandi. One, they used to take out at least 1kg gas from LPG cylinders which were to be delivered to the customers and later used to fill small cylinders with this gas. Later, they would sell the small cylinders to students and labourers at Rs 80 per kg gas and cylinder at Rs 250 each. Two, the hawkers in connivance with station managers used to submit fake details of customers and took bookings in their names to sell it to others at exorbitant rates. Third, accused targeted customers who had two gas connections but the requirement was made of one cylinder only. The cylinders issued in their names were sold in black by charging Rs 100-Rs 50 extra, the officer said. Arora said 31 persons were arrested and three cases were registered at Vibhuti Khand, Madiaon, and Mohanlalganj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lpg-pilferage-racket-busted-in-city-agencies-staff-among-31-arrested/articleshow/77643923.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Firecracker shops yet to be shifted from residential areas||JAIPUR: The blaze at a firecracker godown in Chandi ki Taksaal on Tuesday which claimed one life has raised question mark on the district administration which is yet to take any decision on shifting such shops situated in the residential area of the city. It is said that due to short-circuit, the fire broke out in the godown and a man was burnt to death. Later, it was revealed that the godown owner did not have any licence. Jagdish Phulwari, Jaipur chief fire officer, said, “Since the mishap at Indira Market this year, I have stopped renewing the licence of any firecracker shop in the city. The department is trying to find a solution to it and soon a committee will be set up.” At Hawamahal Market where the Chandi ki Taksaal is situated, around 15 firecracker shops are situated. It has been a matter of debate in the market for a long time to get these shops shifted out of the market. One shopkeeper said, “We have demanded in the past to shift these shops out of Walled City, but the firecracker shopkeepers oppose it. These shops in the market are more than a century old, so, they blame us for spoiling their business. The decision should be taken by the government regarding it.” In February 2020, a massive fire broke out at Indira Market in Walled City in which 10 shops were burnt. The fire started due to one firecracker shops which became out of control and in which many people lost their livelihood. Since then, Indira market Association has already written to the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) to remove the shops from the market but decision hasn’t been taken. “Around 10 shops were completely gutted. We have written it to JMC to shift these shops from the market, but no decision has been taken,” said Jagdish Keswani, president of Indira Market Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/firecracker-shops-yet-to-be-shifted-from-residential-areas/articleshow/77643483.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Noida||Substation shut after fire, third snag in BHEL transformer||NOIDA: A 500 MVA transformer at the Sector 148 UPPTCL (UP Power Transmission Corporation Limited) substation caught fire early on Wednesday. It is the third such transformer provided by BHEL (Bharat Heavy Electrical Limited) that caught fire with a similar internal technical fault, the other two being in Lucknow (about a week ago) and in Sarnath (last year). While initially around seven-eight fire tenders were sent to douse the flames, the substation, which provided part supply to Noida metro line at sector 148, the 220 KV substation in sector 129 and 440 MVA RC Green substation in Greater Noida, will now be shut for more than a month as the transformer is completely burnt and will have to be replaced. Even as no disruption in power supply was reported from Noida expressway sectors, the supply to all the areas fed by the substation will be given from Pali, which is an additional supply line at sector 129 substation. Arun Kumar, chief fire officer of GB Nagar, said, “It took more than two hours and around 12 fire tenders to control the fire completely. Prima facie, it originated from one of the two transformers that were kept next to each other in the power substation. By the time we reached, the hot oil and flames had already reached the second transformer.” “We heard about the fire around 8am and the thick smoke was visible from far as well. However, there was no supply outage in our sector,” said Vivek Nigam, a resident of Gulshan Ikebana sector 143. Built at a cost of around Rs 12-15crore, the transformer will be replaced by BHEL as it’s within the guarantee period, said Puneet Gupta superintending engineer UPPTCL. Gupta added that it will take over a month to get the transformer started but assured that power supply will not be disrupted. “The substation was part of the planned infrastructure upgrade of Noida and was made operational in 2019. While the sector 129 substation and RC Green substation is getting supply from the alternate line from Pali, the sector 148 metro line is getting supply from 132 KV substation at Bhangel. So there will be no power supply issues,” he said. While the Noida-Greater Noida metro line is supplied power from this power house, metro operations have remained shut since the last four months due to Covid-19 outbreak. Only maintenance shunting is carried out at night. Hence, there are no issues of supply there. With inputs from Abhishek Awasthi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/substation-shut-after-fire-3rd-snag-in-bhel-transformer/articleshow/77644415.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
August 20, 2020||Noida||Monsoon mess: Another year gone by, but choked drains remain a problem||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: Heavy rains left Noida and Ghaziabad flooded on Wednesday, once again exposing the ineffective drainage network of the neighbouring cities. Despite similar problems being encountered every monsoon, residents claimed, no lessons seemed to have been learnt by the authorities yet. Both the twin cities of Noida and Greater Noida saw inundated basements and roads during the morning rush hour, with several residents suggesting on social media that it’s time for buying boats as flooded circumstances have made driving a task next to impossible. Residential localities like 10, 12, 22, 46, 77 and 82 were among the worst hit in Noida, where the basements of several housing societies were waterlogged. According to Nisha Rai, a resident of Prateek Wisteria in Sector 77, societies in the 7x sectors witness waterlogging whenever it rains. “The drainage system of the main roads gets choked during rains and due to absence of sensor valves, the water flows back inside the societies. On the sector 115-116-117 main road, the drain if fully clogged results in the overflow of sewage water,” she said. “We regularly share photographs of the flooded areas on the WhatsApp number of the Noida Authority but our complaints have so far only fallen on the deaf ears of the officials concerned,” she said. In C Block of Sector 22, residents took to Twitter to complain that sewage water entered the shops. In Sector 82 too, the entire road encircling the Kendriya Vihar society got inundated. Dev Ashish, one of the residents of the society, told TOI that the water started accumulating since 10 am. “No concrete action has been taken by the authorities yet. This is the plight of the biggest Kendriya Vihar in the country.” The Sector 51 road towards metro station was waterlogged and vehicles had to battle snarls to pass through. Inside Sector 51 too, clogged drains resulted in waterlogged roads. Basements of the societies like Homes 121 and Grand Omaxe were flooded with water. Dinesh Singh, AOA president of Homes 121, said the situation has seen no change despite multiple complaints to the Authority officials against the builder. “The chief secretary of UP too issued a letter to the Noida Authority about the seepage and other issues but to no avail,” he said. Industrial sectors like Sector 63 in Noida was also badly hit by rains. The road joining the Transport Nagar with Sector 63 was entirely waterlogged. TC Gaur, legal secretary, FONRWA, said he had a tough time reaching his office in G Block, Sector 63. “The drains are blocked. The Authority collects water and sewer charges for industrial units in advance but is not doing basic work.” However, when contacted, additional CEO of Noida Authority, Pravin Mishra, claimed that desilting and cleaning of drainage were carried out in advance. “But in some parts of sectors 10, 12, 44 and 61, residents sounded out complaints about waterlogging. Teams have been asked to attend to the complaints.” General manager of the 10 work circles in Noida, Rajiv Tyagi, gave a spin to the problem. “The situation is worse in localities where people have encroached upon drains and created ramps over the same as well as in sectors where garbage is dumped directly into the drainage system. But compared to other cities in NCR, the situation in Noida is not as bad,” he said. Similarly officials of the Greater Noida Authority said that some sectors of the city witnessed waterlogging due to heavy rains. “But within sometime, the water level receded and roads were accessible again,” said a general manager of the Authority. In neighbouring Ghaziabad too, waterlogging was reported from many parts of the city. In Gaushala, for instance, many people were seen wading through chest-deep water. In Shastri Nagar, rain water entered several homes and the residents had to take shelter on the terrace. “The drains were choked and water started spilling onto roads before gradually entering our house,” said Sivangi Mishra, a resident. “Our furniture and belongings all went under water,” she added. Waterlogging was also reported from Patel Nagar, Lal Kuan, GT Road areas, which disrupted traffic. “The arterial roads in major parts of the city were flooded with rain water, which led to traffic jams at many places,” said an official of Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/monsoon-mess-another-year-gone-by-but-choked-drains-remain-a-problem/articleshow/77644434.cms||Shikha Salaria
August 20, 2020||Trichy||BDU staff urge CM to release Rs 115 crore pending funds||TRICHY: Bharathidasan University staffers have write to the chief minister seeking early release of pending funds from state government owing to poor financial status. Bharathidasan University Employees Welfare Association secretary S Muruganandam stated that the university has pending funds amounting to Rs 115 crore from the state government. The pending funds include four instalments of block grant, SC/ST students fee reimbursement, reimbursement of pay and allowances for teaching and non-teaching staff and reimbursement of expenses towards constituent colleges. He has mentioned in the letter dated August 13 that the university’s income has significantly dipped in the ongoing pandemic and pending funds are required to carry out unavoidable expenses. They had said that the available funds may last only till the year end and there may be issues in even disbursing salary to the staffs. “The university administration has however said that they are in comfortable zone in terms of its finances. But certainly, it is not as good as it was a few years back,” the letter states. “The university has exhausted its general fund as the corpus fund was used to disburse salary. The corpus fund has come down to less than Rs 100 crore from over Rs 200 crore two years back. It may last only till end of the year,” it adds. Speaking to TOI, Muruganandam said they had approached the finance officer seeking status of corpus fund. “Based on the details received on pending funds from the state government, we have written to the CM to take necessary steps,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-staff-urge-cm-to-release-rs-115-cr-pending-funds/articleshow/77644442.cms||Sampath Kumar
August 20, 2020||Goa||Covid-19: Average of four fatalities reported in August every day||PANAJI: The state has reported an average of four Covid deaths each day this month. The first 19 days of August alone have witnessed 79 Covid mortalities. Staggered reporting of deaths by the directorate of health services has brought to light as many as nine Covid mortalities on a single day- independence day- August 15. The 79 deaths in August have already surpassed the total Covid mortalities reported over the last two months - four in June and 41 in July. A doctor treating Covid patients attributed the high deaths to comorbidities and late reporting. “People are presenting with severe disease and several are coming in late. Most of the mortalities are among the old, those with comorbidities and the immune compromised. There are also young patients with comorbidities. Patients even in their late 20’s have come in with diabetes,” the doctor said. “One of the treatment methods is steroids, but these cause the diabetes to rise. Steroids are lifesaving. If the patient is very critical you wouldn’t hesitate to give steroids, but this in turn can cause rise in sugar,” the doctor explained. Another doctor said it becomes complicated to treat those with high diabetes and hypertension as they have to manage sugar besides treating the patient for Covid. “Doctors have to manage the comorbidities and ensure that one drug doesn’t interact with the other. There are many minute things that need to be observed and taken care of. The patients’ doses have to be adjusted. A cascade is sort of triggered in the body where one thing leads to another. There are multiple things happening at the cellular level and at the level of the lungs. A person with no comorbidities is simpler to treat for Covid,” the doctor said. “The directorate of health services reporting Covid patients as brought dead in the daily Covid health bulletin is a worrying sign. It either means they’re not receiving treatment on time, that contact tracing isn’t being carried out effectively or that home isolation is not working,” a government official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/average-of-four-fatalities-reported-in-aug-every-day/articleshow/77643532.cms||Lisa Monteiro
August 20, 2020||Trichy||Artists light lamps, pray for speedy recovery of SPB||TIRUVARUR: Scores of fans including musicians and stage artistes gathered on the banks of Haridra Nathi temple tank at Mannargudi in Tiruvarur district and performed prayers for the speedy recovery of veteran playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam on Wednesday evening. The playback singer has been admitted to a private hospital in Chennai after he tested positive for Covid-19 last week. When messages and wishes poured in for the 74-year-old singer on Twitter with the celebrities and fans praying for his speedy recovery, a group of people from the field of music and art joined hands to pray for the legend. Fans headed by Dr C Ashok Kumar, chairman of Mannargudi Kalaivani Sabha, music and stage artists Rajagopal, M S D Karunanithi, M Rajendran, Anu Anand, Jeyanthi, and Narayanan participated. They gathered on the banks of the Haridhra Nadhi, which is the tank of the Rajagopalaswamy temple in Mannargudi and lit earthen lamps and prayed for the legend. Ashok Kumar said that SPB will be back with full strength. The 23-acre tank is considered as the place where sages performed penance for the darshan of Lord and this theertha is also considered as River Yamuna and is praised as Haridra Nadhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/artists-light-lamps-pray-for-speedy-recovery-of-spb/articleshow/77644439.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Ghaziabad||403 with SARI, ILI symptoms to be tested for tuberculosis||GHAZIABAD: The health department has decided to carry out tuberculosis (TB) tests on people who showed symptoms associated with Covid-19 but tested negative for it. There are apprehensions that these people may have TB as its symptoms sometimes match with that of the novel coronavirus. According to data from the health department, since the outbreak of the pandemic and till July 16, 403 people were identified with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and Influenza Like Illness (ILI) symptoms in Ghaziabad but they tested negative for Covid-19. The health department has now started drives to track these patients who will have to undergo CB-NAAT tests prescribed for detection of TB. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said, “In the midst of the pandemic when the state’s health resources are focusing to tackle the spread of Covid-19, there are other diseases such as TB the detection of which has taken a hit. The move comes after the state’s TB Control programme recently flagged the issue saying that this year the detection has been far less in the state compared to last year.” According to data from officials from TB Control programme, 38,324 people were found with SARI symptoms and 65,595 had ILI symptoms but all tested negative for Covid-19 in the state. CMO NK Gupta said that in Ghaziabad, till July 16, 460 people had reported SARI and ILI symptoms and 57 of them tested positive for Covid-19. “Now, there are apprehensions that the remaining 403 people who tested negative might have TB. So the state government has flagged the issue saying that in its fight against Covid-19, other communicable diseases such as TB, which if neglected might emerge as a major health threat, is going unchecked,” he said. Gupta added that according to official records, there are over 12,000 TB patients in Ghaziabad. “These days, very few OPDs are open and most health personnel are occupied with Covid-19 detection. Hence, tracking of TB patients has been affected. The district TB officer has now been instructed to trace patients with SARI and ILI symptoms, who tested negative for Covid-19, to get their TB tests done,” added Gupta. Meanwhile, Ghaziabad has recorded 6,842 Covid-19 cases and 67 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/403-with-sari-ili-symptoms-to-be-tested-for-tb/articleshow/77644443.cms||Abhijay Jha
August 20, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur roads give residents bumpy ride||JAIPUR: Friday’s heavy showers have exposed the pathetic condition of roads across the city. The city has not faced such massive rainfall and flood-like situation since 1981. Walled City resident Manoj Saini said, “If you travel to any part of the city you will find massive potholes on the roads. The Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has filled them with sand in many places, but that will be destroyed in just one rainfall.” Similar situation was reported from Vidyadhar Nagar and people have been contacting authorities to at least find a temporary solution to the issue. Dinesh Kanwat, former councillor of Vidyadhar Nagar said, he has been receiving phone calls since Friday related to the state of the roads. “Residents are scared to ride as roads have become slippery. I am getting calls everyday. In some areas, residents have filled up the potholes by themselves to avoid mishaps,” said Kanwat. Jaipur’s low-lying areas were almost in a flood-like situation on Friday. All the roads of the city including those in Walled City were submerged under water. Hundreds of vehicles were stuck in 6-feet water and many lost their lives. More than 150 complaints have been registered at the JMC complaint desk regarding the civic situation in the city. According to the data provided by the JMC officials, till now 50,000 sand bags have been used in the monsoon. Even Albert Hall Museum was affected adversely due to the rainfall and due to waterlogging in its basement, more than 18,000 antiquities were harmed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-roads-give-residents-bumpy-ride/articleshow/77643491.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Bareilly||2nd round of sero survey in Bareilly on August 22||Bareilly: The second round of sero survey to assess the Covid-19 spread across the district will be conducted in Bareilly on August 22 and 23. The first round of the survey was held in May when Bareilly had reported a few hundred cases of Covid-19. However, the total cases have increased to 5,208 since. Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, “A team of ICMR will reach Bareilly on August 21 to conduct a two-day survey. They will collect blood samples to test the status of antibodies among locals. Presence of antibodies reveals that a person has had the Covid infection.” Officials said they are awaiting details whether the second survey will be conducted in the same areas as the first one or not. The first round of sero surveillance was done at Bareilly’s 10 clusters on May 17 and 18. A total of 408 blood samples were collected from Bareilly district. Following the survey, the report in June stated that only 0.7% of the population in Bareilly has shown evidence of past exposure to coronavirus infection. The survey was done in the city's municipal ward numbers 18 and 52 while one village each was selected from Baheri, Meerganj, Aonla, Nawabganj, Bareilly Sadar and Faridpur. One ward each of Fatehganj West and Sheeshgarh was also surveyed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/2nd-round-of-sero-survey-in-bareilly-on-august-22/articleshow/77638679.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 20, 2020||Goa||Pernem’s ‘cooperative’ citizens help keep virus under control||Panaji: Where municipal councils are struggling to meet the challenge of increasing Covid cases, the Pernem municipality with a population of about 5,000 has been successful in keeping the infection under control. Chief officer of the Pernem Municipal Council (PMC) Mandar Naik said that the people are being cooperative. “They follow social distancing norms and step out of their houses only if required and wear masks,” Naik said. Even the Pernem market is mostly deserted, he said. “Pernem municipal population is small compared to other municipal bodies, but, overall, people here follow the protocol for protecting against the virus,” Naik said. People are poor here and most do farming. A few do go to the town for work, but unlike other towns it doesn’t see a daily influx of people like bigger municipalities, which reduces the chances of infection. These are some of the factors that could have gone in favour of the PMC having a low rate of infection, he said. On Wednesday, there were 15 active cases, of which 13 were in home isolation. Two were admitted to hospital. Naik said that the municipality will not need to do much to monitor Ganesh Chatuthi celebrations as the locals normally immerse the idol in their wells. “There is no crowding that happens at the time of immersion. In Mapusa, the normal crowd for immersion could be 5,000 and more,” he said. As far as Sarvajanik Ganesh Chaturthi celebration is concerned, he said that the local mandal has applied for permission. The municipal officer said that the protocol issued by the government for the festival will be followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pernems-cooperative-citizens-help-keep-virus-under-control/articleshow/77643556.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Faced threats earlier, trust govt security: Zadafia||Gandhinagar: After a plot to kill him was foiled by the police on Wednesday, Gujarat BJP vice president Gordhan Zadafia said that he has faced such threats earlier as well, but he has full faith in security provided by the state government and that he will continue to function normally.  Talking to TOI, Zadafia said, “In 2012, and even earlier, I faced such threats to my life. However, I feel safe due to the security being provided to me. I thank the government for timely action and fully trust the government. I will continue to do my party activities normally and will tour the state with the BJP state president.”  He added, “After the Godhra train carnage, I was facing death threats regularly as I was home minister then. Earlier I used to get Z category security, but at present I have Y category security. I do not fear anybody as I have full trust in the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/faced-threats-earlier-trust-govt-security-zadafia/articleshow/77642278.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Noida||104 cases in Noida, 85 in Ghaziabad||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: Noida saw 104 new cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of active cases to 6,700 in the district. According to report, there are 785 active cases and 43 deaths. Meanwhile, 93 patients were discharged in the past 24 hours taking the total of recovered patients to 5,872. Ghaziabad reported 85 new cases and 56 people have been discharged from hospitals in the past 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/104-cases-in-noida-85-in-gzb/articleshow/77644460.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Trichy||Door-to-door fever checks in Pudukottai||PUDUKOTTAI: The Pudukottai district administration has formed special health teams for door-to-door fever checks and access the health condition of the vulnerable age groups. The total number of Covid-19 cases has crossed 4,500. With death toll too increasing, the district administration has started preventive steps on a war-footing. Apart from district heath department staff and manpower from local bodies, trainee nurses have also been engaged to identify fever cases besides Covid-19 symptoms. “We have engaged about more than 30 trainee nurses from the government nursing college in the district and a few more will join at a later stage,” said district collector P Uma Maheswari. While a 70-member team has been deployed in the Pudukottai municipality, more than 600-member teams will take up the work in the remaining district, which includes 13 panchayat unions. A total 1.8 lakh population in Pudukottai municipality will be covered in 35,000 houses. Similarly, the rest of the district will also be covered. The teams will check for symptoms among people over 60 years, below five years and pregnant ladies, and sensitise the people, the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/door-to-door-fever-checks-in-pudukottai/articleshow/77644465.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Ghaziabad||104 cases in Noida, 85 in Ghaziabad||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: Noida saw 104 new cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of active cases to 6,700 in the district. According to report, there are 785 active cases and 43 deaths. Meanwhile, 93 patients were discharged in the past 24 hours taking the total of recovered patients to 5,872. Ghaziabad reported 85 new cases and 56 people have been discharged from hospitals in the past 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/104-cases-in-noida-85-in-gzb/articleshow/77650708.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Head constable demands Rs 4,000 in bribe, suspended after video surfaces||PILIBHIT: A head constable posted at Amaria police station was on Wednesday suspended for allegedly demanding a bribe of Rs 4,000 for releasing two accused who were arrested on August 15 for alleged involvement in the distillation of illicit liquor on bail, after a video of him offering the deal to the accused’s kin surfaced. Superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav suspended Jagpal Singh after Amaria station house officer Udai Veer Singh indicted him for the offence in his report submitted to the SP, who also marked a departmental inquiry into the matter to by Pilibhit Sadar circle officer Pramod Yadav. The SP said the accused were lodged in the lock-up at the police station after constable Pankaj Tewatia arrested them with 20 litres of illicit liquor. When the accused’s family members visited them at the police station, the head constable made them an offer to release the accused on bail for Rs 4,000, said police, adding one of the accused’ kin, in the meantime, shot a video of the head constable’s offering the deal and produced it before the SP. Taking serious cognisance of the matter, the SP directed the SHO to immediately file a report in this connection. Based on the SHO’s report, the head constable was suspended, while the CO would go ahead with his inquiry after he recovered from the novel coronavirus infection, added the SP. The CO tested positive for Covid-19 on August 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/head-constable-demands-rs-4000-inbribe-suspended-after-video-surfaces/articleshow/77638701.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Kochi||230 Covid positives, highest single-day spike in Kochi||KOCHI: Ernakulam reported highest single-day spike on Wednesday with the daily Covid count crossing 200 for the first time since the outbreak. As many as 230 new cases, including 222 contact ones, were reported in the district. The rest of the eight cases were reported among those who had come from abroad and other states. The highest single-day spike in Ernakulam was previously reported on Tuesday with 192 cases. With the increase in number of testes, number of cases too are on the rise. Raising concern on the emergence of new clusters in the district, more cases were reported from Kothamangalam (15), south Vazhakulam (13), Kumbalangi (11) and Varapetty (13). Safety of tribals too have become a cause for concern as Kuttampuzha area continued to report more Covid-19 positive cases on Wednesday. The tribal population in Ernakulam are residing in Kuttampuzha panchayat. Meanwhile, existing clusters too continued to report multiple cases. West Kochi recorded 47 new cases on Wednesday. Chellanam, which was the largest cluster before cases were reported from West Kochi area, recorded nine new cases. Udayamperoor, Thrikkakara, Edavanakkad, Kizhakkambalam, Vadavucode and other areas also witnessed multiple cases. Six naval personnel were also tested positive. As many as 142 people were discharged from various hospitals and Covid first line treatment centres, while 101 recovered from the disease on Wednesday. A total of 15,893 people is under quarantine in Ernakulam. As many as 2,809 samples were sent for testing on Wednesday. Results of 2,807 samples were received and results of 1,406 are awaited. Ernakulam has 1,701 active cases. Adlux convention centre, which has been upgraded into second line treatment, has 37 patients. The control room received 318 calls including 221 from the public. Meanwhile, collector S Suhas said decentralized Covid containment measures would be extended to all panchayats in two weeks. Currently, the decentralized measures have been implemented only in 22 panchayats. Call centre, antigen testing and transportation facilities have been arranged at the Covid management centres in these panchayats. Kudumbashree workers are now engaged in disinfection of houses and vehicles of people infected with Covid-19. The inauguration of the first team of Kudumbashree workers in Ernakulam held in Eloor on Wednesday. Trained workers are carrying out the disinfection. As per the analysis report on Covid, of the total 3,643 cases reported, 2244 were males and the rest were females. Of the total infected so far, 750 people belonged to the age group 21 to 30 years. They were followed by patients in the 31-40 years age group. More than 250 children below 10 years were infected in Ernakulam till August 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/230-ves-highest-single-day-spike/articleshow/77641017.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Nashik||Recoveries surpass new cases in Nashik city||Nashik: An encouraging reversal of Covid-19 trend in the Nashik city has been observed in recent four days with a higher number of patients recovering every day when compared to new confirmed cases. While 1,650 Covid-19 positive patients were identified between August 15-18, as many as 2,648 patients had also recovered during the same period. “We have increased antigen testing and contact tracing for Covid-19 patients. That has helped in the early detection and treatment of patients, eventually leading to a rise in the number of patients recovering every day,” said the NMC officials. On August 15, as many as 334 people had tested Covid-19 positive and 601 had recovered, while 277 tested positive and 544 patients recovered on August 16. The trend continued, thereafter, as 587 individuals tested positive and 797 recovered on August 17, while 452 tested Covid-19 positive and 706 patients recovered on August 18. Till August 15, the trend was completely opposite. The number of positive patients per day was more than the number of patients recovering. The rise in the number of recovered patients has also increased the recovery rate in the city. Of the total 17,420 positive patients, 14,666 patients have recovered and have been discharged so far. The city has recorded a total of 405 deaths. The Covid-19 fatality rate has also reduced to 2.3%. It has considerably higher at 4.8% on June 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/recoveries-surpass-new-cases-in-nashik-city/articleshow/77642260.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Encroachment drive only for huts; high-rises flourish||Hyderabad: In order to control flooding in the city, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has identified and demolished structures encroaching the nalas (storm water drains). However, 90% of the razed structures belonged to the poor, while the big players continue to occupy the Full Tank Level (FTL) of lakes. A GHMC engineer and irrigation department official told TOI that most of the structures near nalas were small houses and temporary tenements. On the other hand, the construction in FTL of lakes are high rises and commercial establishments, which include banquet halls, golf course and recreational centres. According to experts and researchers, the holding capacity of the lakes here has been reduced due to the FTL area being encroached. The water that should settle into water bodies is now flowing out into the storm water drains and endangering the lives of people living near them. Construction companies with pan India presence have also raised their establishments in FTL of lakes located in prime locations of the city. TOI also found that some builders, who had allegedly encroached the lakes, were able to get clearances and no objection certificates from line departments. As per GHMC records, there are 846 structures which are major bottle necks built on the nalas covering 16.55 kilometres. Works pertaining to 8.6 kilometres are under progress. While Rs 230 crore was sanctioned in 2017 to raze structures along nalas, action pertaining to high rises and commercial establishments has not been initiated yet. “Action is not taken based on the built up area or market value of the building. Structures resisting free flow of water have not been regularised even after some people approached the court. After demolishing the structure, GHMC even paid money (structure cost) to people who were staying on nalas illegally for years ,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/encroachment-drive-only-for-huts-high-rises-flourish/articleshow/77642270.cms||Nabinder Bommala
August 20, 2020||Lucknow||Min, envoy to France discuss investment avenues in UP||Lucknow: In yet another step to boost foreign investment in the state, the UP MSME department and Indian Ambassador to France, Jawed Ashraf, have agreed to set up a working group to explore the possibility of joining hands in sectors like defence/aerospace, textile, footwear industry and skill development. MSME minister Sidharth Nath Singh interacted with Ashraf via video conference on Wednesday and highlighted the initiatives taken by the state government in easing regulations to promote investments. Singh said the pandemic had provided the state an opportunity to relocate disrupted supply chains. “There is a huge opportunity to increase percentage potential of exports from India and UP to France. A large land parcel has been earmarked for maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) near the Jewar Airport in Greater Noida which can provide investment opportunities to French companies,” he said. Additional chief secretary (MSME and export promotion) Navneet Sehgal explained the state government’s policies for promotion of investments. “UP has excellent policies and incentives, and this is a great opportunity to promote investments in the state and exports out of the state to various countries,” he said. He added that the state’s connectivity, investment policies and upcoming infrastructure would make UP an attractive investment hub. Ashraf said UP was the first state to approach France for promotion of investments and exports and said the state was successful in changing its image over recent years. He indicated that in the aftermath of Covid-19 pandemic, French companies located abroad were either looking to return to France or finding an alternative to China. “France is the gateway to the European Union market and can be an attractive opportunity for Uttar Pradesh,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/min-envoy-to-france-discuss-investment-avenues-in-up/articleshow/77643989.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Assessing situation, no bypoll dates yet’||Ahmedabad: The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Wednesday informed the Gujarat high court that it is still assessing the situation related to Covid-19 in order to hold the assembly bypolls in Gujarat. The commission said it has not yet taken any decision about the schedule. The commission opposed a PIL seeking the postponement of bypolls given the Covid-19 pandemic. The commission asserted that since it has not taken a call, its “decision cannot be pre-empted” and therefore the PIL deserves to be dismissed. The PIL was filed by a social worker, Farsubhai Gokalani, arguing that holding elections during the pandemic would be disastrous. The elections are to be held for eight vacant assembly seats. As the HC sought the ECI’s reply, the commission cited various orders passed by the Supreme Court to state that holding elections is the exclusive domain of the ECI. The commission said it should strive to conduct elections in time even during natural calamities by the best utilization of resources. In an affidavit, the commission stated, “The Election Commission of India always considers the prevailing situation before the announcement of elections. At present also, it is assessing the situation including the pandemic and so far has not announced dates for the byelections in Gujarat as well as in other states.” It went on to say: “The ECI will take appropriate decision as to whether to announce elections at an appropriate time or if required to defer holding of elections after following due procedure as prescribed in law.” The commission has also submitted a press note issued on Tuesday stating that electoral officers of poll-bound states have been directed to prepare a comprehensive plan for their states for Covid-19 measures. The ECI hinted at the preparation of a plan within three days by taking into consideration Covid-19 guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/assessing-situation-no-bypoll-dates-yet/articleshow/77643569.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Goa||Condition of Sudin, Alemao stable, say health dept officials||Panaji/Margao: Former PWD minister Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar and the Nationalist Congress Party’s lone MLA in Goa, Churchill Alemao have been admitted to a private hospital for treatment of Covid-19. The condition of both the legislators is stable, authorities said. Dhavalikar, who tested positive on Tuesday, was admitted to the hospital the same evening. His condition is “stable”, a government official said. Alemao and his wife tested positive earlier in the day. He was immediately shifted to the hospital. “His condition is satisfactory, but some reports are awaited,” the officer said. Alemao told TOI that he got himself tested after he developed cough and cold for the last few days. “The tests came positive. Except for cold, I have no other symptoms,” he said. Sources in the health department said that as the Alemao couple has been found symptomatic, they were advised hospitalisation. A domestic help working in the Alemao house has also detected positive and has been hospitalised, sources said. Alemao feels he probably got infected while meeting people of his constituency. “I have been meeting people advising them to take precautions against Covid-19 as I always wish they enjoy good health. Probably, I caught the infection while doing so,” he said Tivim MLA Nilkant Halarnkar, who also tested positive on Tuesday, is in home isolation and his condition is being monitored by doctors from urban health centre, Mapusa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/condition-of-sudin-alemao-stable-say-health-dept-officials/articleshow/77643575.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Jaipur||Heavy rainfall at many places, Jaipur gets 88mm||JAIPUR: Heavy to very heavy rainfall was witnessed at many places in the state on Wednesday evening. Jaipur Met office said that the incessant rainfall was witnessed in many districts including Jaipur, Alwar, Dausa and Ajmer. Railmagra (Rajsamand) received a rainfall of 90mm, which was highest in the state. In Jaipur, urban and rural areas witnessed widespread rain. As the south west monsoon progressed towards its sixth spell, many places in the state witnessed heavy to very heavy rainfall, including Alwar, Bharatpur, Dausa and Jaipur. In Jaipur, it started with a drizzle at 6.45pm. Gradually, it converted into heavy rain. After Friday’s rainfall, city roads, which were already in a bad shape, again witnessed traffic chaos. Till 10pm, a rainfall of almost 88mm was recorded in the city. Heavy waterlogging was again seen in many areas including Bhatta Basti, Jawahar Nagar Kachi Basti, Goner Road situated residential colonies and in many parts of the Walled City. In its forecast for Jaipur, the Met office said that heavy rainfall is likely in Jaipur in the next 24 hours. The outskirts of Jaipur also saw heavy rainfall, especially areas such as Jobner, Shahpura, Kothputli and Dudu. Till late in the evening, incessant rainfall continued at these places. Many areas in Jobner, a town on the outskirts of Jaipur, were inundated during to heavy rainfall in the evening. Similarly, widespread rainfall was witnessed in some other parts of the state on Wednesday evening. Rainfall varying from 90mm to 10mm was witnessed at many places in the state. In its forecast for the state, Jaipur Met office said that heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely to occur on Friday and Saturday in many districts across the state, including Ajmer, Baran, Bhilwara, Banswara, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Jhalawar, Udaipur and Sirohi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/heavy-rainfall-at-many-places-jaipur-gets-88mm/articleshow/77643541.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC unblocks link to US grandkid||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday helped an elderly couple of the city talk to their only grandchild who lives in the US. The couple made a video call. The court acted in response to the couple’s petition requesting help to re-establish contact with the 9-year-old. The couple had approached the high court by filing a habeas corpus petition through advocate Bhargav Hasurkar. The couple submitted that they had not been permitted to talk to their granddaughter for the past three years. After their daughter’s demise, their son-in-law re-married and went to the US with his daughter in January 2017. The couple said all contact was cut since then with their granddaughter. The bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria had asked the petitioners’ son-in-law to remain present before the court through video-conference earlier this month. They had fixed 6pm on Wednesday for the video call. When the child joined the video-conference, the judges first asked her whether she would like to talk to her grandparents. When she said yes, the court connected her with the couple. “This was the second hearing in this case and the judges played a vital role in making this possible,” the lawyer said. “They tried to mediate between the parties so that the elderly couple here can remain in touch with the child in the US. It was a good gesture on part of the court to eliminate boundaries with technology during this pandemic.” The HC has posted another hearing on the matter next month and the lawyer hopes that the judges might once again help the couple connect with the child.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-unblocks-link-to-us-grandkid/articleshow/77643584.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Lucknow||UP procures device fornon-invasive ventilation||LUCKNOW: In a bid to save more lives at secondary and tertiary care level, the Uttar Pradesh government has ordered procurement of 1,250 High Flow Nasal Cannula, a medical device needed to support normal breathing in a Covid-19 positive patient in the intensive care unit. Use of HFNC, also recommended by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, can save a patient’s transition from severe to very severe category without the need of invasive procedures. “If given on time, the patient may not need a ventilator to recover which is a big favour to our doctors, nurses, staff and medical centres in general. Also, the chances of saving a patient’s life are much higher in the ‘severe’ category than ‘very severe’ one,” explained additional chief secretary, medical education, Dr Rajneesh Dube. Secretary to CM engaged in Covid care Alok Kumar said: “The equipment is being procured through the CM Covid care fund. In fact the first batch of 125 units was received by the state government on Wednesday, while the others will follow in a phased manner.” Experts have pointed out that the novel coronavirus is known to attack lungs. Different medical literature suggests that upon entering the body, the virus attacks the air passages on the outer side of the lungs - responsible for entry into and exit from the lungs. This causes inflammation making a person cough. Each time a person coughs, nerves in the lining are irritated. If Covid-19 remains unchecked at this stage, the virus targets the alveoli (or the air sacs located at the end of the air passages) and infects it. Responsible for exchange of gas in the lung, the infected alveoli – in its bid to fight with the virus - releases inflammatory fluids, which fill the air sacs. This causes pneumonia which appears as breathing difficulty and triggers massive danger to life. “It is at this juncture, medically known Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS), that the HFNC can save life. In fact, our assessment of the situation in some districts of UP indicates that damage in more than 50% of ARDS patients can be revered. In a good number of the remaining, the progression of disease may be slowed,” said Dr Ved Prakash, head of pulmonary and critical care medicine department, KGMU. He added if timely intervention is not made, pneumonia in a Covid-19 patient hampers his/her body’s ability to process the oxygen transfer. As a result, carbon dioxide starts accumulating which affects functioning of different organs which may push the body into septic shock and even organ failure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-procures-device-fornon-invasive-ventilation/articleshow/77644022.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 20, 2020||Trichy||Hotel serves stale food to RDO, gets notice||TRICHY: Food safety department officials have served showcause notice to a non-vegetarian hotel in Thanjavur on charges of serving stale food to customers. The matter came to light on Tuesday when the Thanjavur revenue divisional officer (RDO) alerted the department after she was served food unfit for consumption at the hotel. According to food safety officials, RDO Velumani had gone to the hotel located in Arulananthar Nagar and ordered paneer butter masala. When the food was served, she noticed that it was stale. However, when she complained about it to the hotel employees, they denied it. The revenue officer called up district food safety officer Pushparajan, who in turn sent his staff to the hotel. When they examined the dish, they confirmed that the complaint was genuine. However, they found the other dishes kept for serving alright.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/hotel-serves-stale-food-to-rdo-gets-notice/articleshow/77644480.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Noida||Labourer slips on staircase, dies||NOIDA: A 26-year-old labourer died after slipping on the staircase of a five-storey building on Tuesday afternoon. Although it is unclear how he slipped, prima facie, police think it was an accident. The deceased Sanjay Das is from Bhangel in Bihar and shared a room in the building with four other labourers, including two of his nephews. The accident happened around 4:30 pm, when he was climbing the stairs alone to reach their room on the fifth floor. “We were having lunch. A neighbour told us that Sanjay had fallen off the staircase. When we rushed to the staircase, we saw him lying on the second floor, bleeding from his head, nose and eye. We took him to Yatharth hospital in Sector 110 but he was referred to another hospital,” he said. They rushed him to the district hospital in Sector 30 where he was declared brought dead. ACP Arun Kumar Singh told TOI that prima facie, the incident seems to be an accident. “The family did not want to get a post mortem done but the post mortem was conducted. The report will be checked soon,” he said. He is survived by his wife, four daughters, and a son who stay in Saharsa, Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/labourer-slips-on-staircase-dies/articleshow/77644486.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Noida||Rainy spell to continue for next few days||NOIDA: Residents woke up to a drenched morning as heavy rains battered NCR on Wednesday. Met officials, however, said the rainy spell, accompanied by thunder showers, is likely to continue for the next few days. Saturday is likely to be a sunny day though, the weather office has predicted. The rains have had a significant impact on the air quality of the region as well, with Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad recording a satisfactory AQI. The AQI of Noida was recorded at 66, Greater Noida at 66, and Ghaziabad at 80 on Wednesday. On the CPCB’s index, an AQI between 51 and 100 is considered “satisfactory” and from 101 to 200 “moderate”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/rainy-spell-to-continue-for-next-few-days/articleshow/77644469.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana high court to hear pleas against AP’s lift project on Aug 24||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Wednesday said it would take up on August 24 the pleas questioning neighbouring AP’s decision to construct Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project (RLIP) and plans to go ahead with the process of allotting the tender to a contractor for commencing the work. A division bench of Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and Justice T Amarnath Goud, designated to hear cases that will have impact on both AP and Telangana, said this when advocate Sravan Kumar made a mention before it and urged it to take up the case on a priority basis. The pleas were filed by former MLA from Nagarkurnool Challa Vamshichand Reddy and a few others from Narayanpet. The bench sought to know from the counsel whether the matter should be decided at Supreme Court as it is an inter-state dispute. Sravan replied that since the case falls under the issues raised in the course of implementation of AP Reorganisation Act, the court can take up such matters. “AP is violating section 84 of the Act,” he said. However, AP counsel brought to the notice of the court that Telangana had already filed a special leave petition before the Supreme Court and the apex court may take up hearing in the matter in a day or two. He also urged the court to take up the hearing in the current case on August 24. The bench agreed to do so and accordingly posted it to that date. The petitioners earlier said AP was going ahead with the process without first obtaining the requisite permissions from the MoEF and Central Water Commission. “AP’s actions are in contravention of the orders of the Krishna River Management Board,” they said. “If this project is allowed to be completed, interests of farmers in Narayanpet, Mahbubnagar, Nagarkurnool, Vikarabad, Rangareddy, Nalgonda and Khammam districts will be adversely affected,” they contended. Under RLIP, AP would extract huge quantities of water from Srisailam project, which would affect water flow to several upcoming and existing irrigation projects in Telangana, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-to-hear-pleas-against-aps-lift-project-on-aug-24/articleshow/77642219.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
August 20, 2020||Bareilly||Hit by unidentified vehicle on August 15, amin dies during treatment at hospital in Bareilly||Pilibhit: An amin (a revenue department official) at Amaria tehsil who was hit by an unidentified vehicle on August 15 died at a private hospital in Bareilly late on Tuesday Jahanbad police station SHO Harish Vardhan Singh said Anand Pandey, a resident of Awas Vikas Colony in Pilibhit city, was on his way home from Amaria astride a bike when an unidentified vehicle hit his motorcycle near Richha Crossing on the Bareilly-Haridwar national highway 74 late in the evening on August 15. Pandey was shifted to the district government hospital, but later he was referred to a higher medical facility in Bareilly given his critical condition. An FIR was already registered against the driver of the unidentified vehicle under sections 279 (driving a vehicle in a negligent manner that endangers human life), 337 (causing hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life) and 427 (committing mischief and thereby causing loss or damage to the amount of fifty rupees or upwards) of the Indian Penal Code, but after his death, IPC section 304 A (causing the death of any person by doing any rash or negligent act not amounting to culpable homicide) was added to the existing FIR, added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/hit-by-unidentified-vehicle-on-august-15-amin-dies-during-treatment-at-hospital-in-bareilly/articleshow/77638718.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Goa||Various govt depts join hands for smooth visarjan in Panaji||Panaji: Desperate times call for proactive measures, especially in the times of the pandemic. The personnel of various departments of the state government and other bodies will come together to monitor the Ganesh idol immersion festivity. Teams of the departments of river navigation (RND), fire services, electricity, Panaji police, Drishti, traffic cell, and the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) will be deployed at various immersion points in Panaji on visarjan days — for the one-and-a-half day immersion on August 23 and on the fifth day on August 27. “We will distribute the teams and depute them at the various visarjan points depending upon the density. Wherever additional staff needs to be deputed, will be added accordingly,” Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. For the seventh day and ninth day immersion, the teams can come together again to make the same arrangements, he said. At each immersion point, there will be a team of 10 to 15 officials. These will include two lifeguards from Drishti, a team of police personnel from Panaji police and the traffic cell, ferry boats by RND, two fire service officers on two-wheelers, a team from the electricity department and about four to five people from CCP comprising officers and workers. “The roads near the immersion points at Four Pillars and the Panaji community hall will have to be blocked to ensure that there is smooth flow of movement for the visarjan. However, no procession will be permitted,” Madkaikar said. On Wednesday evening, the vendors for the matoli bazaar were accommodated at the Mandovi promenade. The market is expected to be operational from Thursday onwards to festival celebrators to purchase items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/various-govt-depts-join-hands-for-smooth-visarjan-in-panaji/articleshow/77643585.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Nashik||864 new cases, 15 deaths in Nashik dist||Nashik: As many as 864 Covid-19 positive cases, including 610 from Nashik city, have been reported in the district in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of positive cases to 26,774. The district also registered 15 Covid-related deaths, of which, seven were reported from the limits of Nashik Municipal Corporation. The death toll of the district stands at 412 in the city and 728 in the district. As many as 1,197 patients were discharged from across the district on Wednesday, of which 996 patients were from Nashik city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/864-new-cases-15-deaths-in-nashik-dist/articleshow/77642280.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Lucknow||UPSEE slated for Sept 20, more no. of exam centres||LUCKNOW: Dr APJ Kalam Technical University will conduct the Uttar Pradesh State Entrance Examination (UPSEE) 2020 on September 20. The entrance test, a gateway for admission to 756 engineering and management colleges affiliated to AKTU, will be held at 150 examination centres across the state. The examination will be held in three shifts for bachelors in engineering, management, pharmacy, architecture, and other professional courses. The test was scheduled on August 2 but was postponed due to rise in coronavirus cases. The examination for admission to around 1 lakh seats in all courses is held on a single day. UPSEE coordinator Prof. Vineet Kansal said, “The Covid-19 guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs will be followed. The examination centres haed ve been increased from around 100 to 150 or so this year.” As per guidelines, one classroom should have only 24 candidates while earlier around 60 were seated in a class, he added. “We will hold meetings and adopt the best practices adopted during entrance tests held recently like UP BEd 2020-22 examination,” Kansal added. No candidate will be allowed to enter without mask and thermal scanning will be done. The centre will be sanitized before and after each shift.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/upsee-slated-for-sept-20-more-no-of-exam-centres/articleshow/77643976.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Entire Popular Builders family on the run||Ahmedabad: The entire family of the promoters of of one of the leading developers of the city, Popular Builders, are on run after builder Raman Patel’s daughter-in-law accused him of domestic violence and molestation. Vastrapur police have formed four teams with a total of some 20 personnel to trace Raman Patel, his wife Mayurika, their son Monang Patel and Mukesh Patel, the father of the complainant, Liza Patel. “After Liza Patel filed a complaint against Raman Patel and three others alleging assault on August 16, a team of Vastrapur police first went to Raman’s bungalow in Ghanshyam Park Society in Satellite but they had fled,” said an officer of Vastrapur police. Apart from Liza’s in-laws, her father Mukesh Patel is also on run after the incident. Police suspect Mukesh is also hiding out with Liza’s in-laws. “Our teams have been searching for Raman Patel and the others at various places in Ahmedabad city and in various districts of Gujarat. We suspect they may have left Gujarat and their call records are being examined to trace them,” said the officer. Liza had on August 16 filed a complaint of domestic violence against her husband Monang and the others, alleging that he had punched her in the face on August 2 over a domestic feud. She said Mayurika had made objectionable remarks against her and her mother, after which Mukesh provoked her in-laws to beat her and her mother. Liza said her father separated from her mother 25 years ago and held a grudge against her and her mother due to which he provoked her husband and in-laws. Her nose was broken in the assault. The promoters of Popular Builders first came into the news when a shooting took place outside their Navrangpura office in 2004. City police officers had then said that Sohrabuddin Shaikh and Tulsiram Prajapati were behind the shooting. Both Shaikh and Prajapati were killed in encounters in later years. Not first assault: Police officers probing the domestic violence case said Raman Patel’s son Monang was a habitual offender and often assaulted his wife over frivolous issues. “Liza and Monang married in 2011 and a year later Monang and his family began harassing Liza over petty reasons. She was beaten by her husband, father-in-law and mother-in-law often but kept mum to save her marriage,” said a police officer. Raman molested daughter-in-law: The owner of Popular Builders, Raman Patel, allegedly molested his daughter-in-law ever since she got married and moved to their house ‘Popular Bungalow’ in Satellite. A police officer said, “The complainant stated in the FIR that Raman Patel used to make her sit with him when he was drinking and he would hold her hand and make obscene gestures.” “Many times, he molested her while drunk,” the police officer said. Victim’s father’s shady involvement : A police officer probing into the case said that the victim’s father’s involvement is a very shady affair. “The victim’s father, who was into various businesses from realty to finance, was always financially assisted by Raman Patel. Later, Monang found the victim on social media and expressed his desire to marry her. Raman told Mukesh that his son wanted to marry his daughter and he must permit it. Mukesh did not ask Liza what she wanted and made her marry Monang,” said an officer. After that, Mukesh often instigated Liza’s in-laws and husband, telling them false things about her and her mother. (Complainant’s name changed)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/entire-popular-builders-family-on-the-run/articleshow/77642370.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Now, Ireland new stop for many Indian students||HYDERABAD: Referred to as ‘Silicon Valley of Europe’, Ireland is now turning into an education hub for Indian students. With several tech companies based out of that country, several Indians are heading there to study and work. “Initially, I wanted to study in the US, but heard it is a struggle to get a work visa there. I chose Ireland because it offers many opportunities and it is comparatively easier to get a work visa,” said Rakesh Reddy Badam, who is studying in Dublin Business School. He says the process to get a permanent residency is a lot easier and much shorter as well. For Akhil Pullineni, who is pursuing MBA in marketing, studying in an English-speaking country is a priority. “Besides the UK, Ireland is the only European country where you do not have to pick up an additional language. This makes getting part-time work easier,” he said. A one-year PG course costs between 12,500-22,000 euros (Rs 11.16 lakh and Rs 19.6 lakh) depending on the programme, says Barry O’Driscoll, senior adviser, Education in Ireland. He said students are advised to keep living costs of at least 10,000 euros (Rs 8.9 lakh) per year. While the number of Indians coming to Ireland is still comparatively less compared to other countries, O’Driscoll says the numbers are increasing. “Students are realising that Ireland is a good study destination when compared to traditional alternatives,” he said. The country offers a two-year stay back visa as well. Among the most popular courses sought are those related to business, science and engineering. “Big data and cyber security are also hugely popular,” said O’Driscoll.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-ireland-new-stop-for-many-indian-students/articleshow/77642255.cms||Uttara Varma
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Poor civic infra left Warangal inundated||Hyderabad: Big plans to expand storm water drains (nalas), improve sewer network, ensure planned growth and beautification of Warangal were drawn up over the years, but have remained mostly on paper. Last week’s rain exposed the poor civic infrastructure in Warangal, the second largest city in the state. Urban planners claim Warangal is facing problems Greater Hyderabad has been facing due to lack of proper storm water drains, encroachment of nalas and lakes. Several colonies got inundated in Warangal, a city of nearly nine lakh population, because of inadequate storm water drains, rampant encroachments and lack of underground sewer system. Municipal, revenue and irrigation officials have turned a blind eye on unauthorised layouts and buildings in lakebeds and within full tank level (FTL) of Bhadrakali Cheruvu and Gopalpur Cheruvu. Locals say even function halls were constructed on lakebeds and nalas in the past 10 years. Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation (GWMC) officials said 415 structures were earlier identified abutting the nalas. “Of the 415, 233 structures were found to be constructed with valid permission and no objection certificate from irrigation in the past 30 years, while the rest were bulldozed by January, 2020. A fresh enumeration of unauthorized constructions will be taken up by the task force committee,” GWMC commissioner Pamela Satpathy told TOI on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/poor-civic-infra-left-warangal-inundated/articleshow/77642298.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Call centre to answer queries on OTS scheme||Hyderabad: A call centre was inaugurated by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) at Khairatabad on Wednesday to clear doubts on one-time settlement (OTS) scheme regarding payment of dues and redressal of complaints. HMWS&SB managing director M Dana Kishore inaugurated the call centre. The water board had recently launched the OTS scheme to help consumers clear pending dues. “The defaulters can dial 155313 and get their doubts cleared on the interest waived and payment mode to be used,” said Kishore. Around 45 people have been employed at the call centre to take the calls. Consumers can also use the WhatsApp number 9154170968 for more details on the scheme. “The water board has already sent alerts regarding dues to be paid through SMS to the registered mobile number of consumers,” he added. Further, 10 special teams with 50 senior water board officials have been formed to contact repeat defaulters. “The water board said it will soon be sending letters to all government departments urging them to pay the dues and avail OTS facility,” said Kishore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/call-centre-to-answer-queries-on-ots-scheme/articleshow/77642230.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Nagpur||HC rejects Saibaba’s plea for parole to attend mother’s post death rituals||Nagpur: In yet another setback to Naxal leader GN Saibaba, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Tuesday rejected his application for emergency parole to attend his mother’s post-death rituals. Earlier, the HC had rejected the former Delhi University professor’s pleas for bail and regular parole to attend his ailing mother Gokarakonda Suryavathi, who was suffering from cancer and breathed her last on August 1 at his brother’s home in Hyderabad. A division bench comprising justices Zaka Haq and Avinash Gharote made it clear that since Saibaba’s 78-year-old mother expired on August 1, almost all necessary rituals must have been completed now and therefore his demand for 15 day parole to be with family in grief couldn’t be fulfilled. The bench pointed out that considering his age and other ailments, any travel for him in Covid-19 pandemic would clearly be unadvisable and he was getting all the medical help inside his Anda cell at Central Jail here. “It would be in his interest not to undertake any travel at all. Any solace which he may be in need of, which according to him can be ameliorated by the company of his family members, can be addressed by arranging a meeting by video conferencing,” the judges held. They directed respondents, including DIG (Prisons), to permit the wheelchair-bound petitioner to contact his family members through video conferencing on any specified date as suggested by him between 10am and 4pm, but after taking necessary precautions. Earlier, senior counsel Mihir Desai, pleading for Saibaba, displayed willingness to deposit necessary charges for the latter’s travel to Hyderabad along with security personnel. It was, however, strongly opposed by special public prosecutor Prashant Sathianathan contending that the police machinery is already under stress and overworked because of the pandemic situation and the luxury claimed by the petitioner can’t be considered. The SPP pointed out that Saibaba was convicted under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and Indian Penal Code for his links with Maoists and anti-national activities along with his accomplices, which are serious crimes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-rejects-saibabas-plea-for-parole-to-attend-mothers-post-death-rituals/articleshow/77655871.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 20, 2020||Vadodara||Burglars flee with valuables worth Rs 17L||Vadodara: Burglars targeted a farmer’s house in Karjan on Tuesday and decamped with cash and ornaments worth Rs 17.4 lakh. According to the complainant Vashram Rabari, thieves broke into his house at Bamangam in Karjan taluka in the wee hours on Tuesday. The theft came to light when Rabari’s elder son Harshad noticed that the backdoor of the house was open. He woke up other family members and checked the safe of the house. Police said that the safe were opened using keys and the valuables including cash and jewellery were missing. Rabari had kept the keys of the safe in another cupboard in the same room. Thieves took Rs 70,000 cash, gold ornaments including necklaces, bangles, earrings and pendants. The family then informed their neighbours and other villagers. One of their neighbours Surendrasinh Chauhan, told Rabari that his bike parked outside his house was missing. “We have registered an offence of burglary and vehicle theft and are investigating in the village and surrounding regions,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/burglars-flee-with-valuables-worth-rs-17l/articleshow/77640639.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Nagpur||Three bodies had ‘injection marks’ on their hands||Nagpur: Injection marks were found on the hands of Asst Prof Dhiraj Rane, 42, his son Dhruv (11) and their daughter Vannya (6), during the post-mortem at Mayo hospital on Wednesday. The three, along with Dr Sushma, were found dead at their residence in Om Nagar a day ago. Police are yet to zero in on the motive behind the crime and the exact reason which triggered the suicide-murder real life drama. Cops are also not ruling out the incident to be a case of a ‘suicide pact’ as the suicide note, probably penned by Sushma and found on a table in the room where she was found hanging, had the names of all the deceased written in the end as if it was penned by them. Also, cops have found a Marathi expression ‘nirnay apan ghetla’ (the decision which we jointly took) in the suicide note which would be matched with the hand writing specimen of both Sushma and Dhiraj who was a faculty of computer science at a leading educational institution. A fact has come to the fore that Sushma had left home on her scooter at about 5am on Sunday along with her daughter. The footage of mother-daughter duo was captured by the CCTV camera of the private hospital where they were spotted at around 5.30am. Sushma, who changed her nightdress before stepping out of the house, had left the hospital after taking a bottle of anaesthesia from a nurse. Sources stated that Vannya was in her nightdress when she left the house with her mother which meant that she may have woken up when Sushma was leaving and may have insisted on joining her. Also, the bodies of Dhiraj, Dhruv and Vannya had flowers on them which the cops feel may have been kept by Sushma after their deaths. Police have found two plants with the same flowers in the vicinity. It’s reliably learnt through police sources that the forensic experts did not find any food material in the stomachs of Sushma, Dhiraj and Vannya leading to speculation that the distressed family may not have had their dinner the previous night. Police had earlier stated that the family had cooked only ‘dal chawal’ on Sunday evening which, too, was left unfinished. An empty tea cup was also found in the room. Though senior police officials said that the possible timing of the deaths of the four could be between 7am and 11am going by the circumstances which have emerged so far. Forensic experts conducting the post-mortem struggled to give their opinion on time. The process was delayed by more than 24 hours due to Covid testing. The post-mortem started only after the four were found negative. The viscera and blood samples of the three were sent for chemical analysis to the Regional forensic science laboratory (RFSL) after the post-mortem. Sushma, working at private hospital at Dhantoli, was the last to die, confirming her role in the alleged murder of husband and their two children with a lethal dose of anaesthesia but the police are still waiting to convert the accidental death case due to want of more accurate scientific evidence. Sushma had earlier administered doses of tranquillizing medicines to the rest so that their deaths remained a ‘painless’ affair. Police have found a strip of tranquillizers in the house. According to a police source, Dhiraj was likely to undergo treatment to tackle his alcohol addiction. A strip of such a medicine to curb alcohol addiction, too, was found in the house. Though police are yet to rule out any foul play, they are also probing any ‘blackmailing’ angle behind the incident. Teams were sent to the workplaces of Sushma and Dhiraj by Zonal DCP Neelotpal who said investigations were under way. “We are in the process of recording statements of the family members,” he said. The last rites of the four were performed at Mankapur ghat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/three-bodies-had-injection-marks-on-their-hands/articleshow/77643599.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 20, 2020||Goa||Shripad Naik’s condition improving: Doctors||PANAJI: The health condition of Ayush minister Shripad Naik, who is being treated for Covid-19 at Manipal Hospital, has improved significantly after he was given plasma therapy. He will continue to be in hospital for about two weeks for rehabilitatory treatment, said a senior government official. Naik, who was admitted last week, is being monitored by experts from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi. Also, a team of doctors from GMC are assisting Manipal doctors in his treatment, the official said. Two experts from AIIMS, Delhi were in Goa on Tuesday to examine Naik’s condition, and were satisfied with the treatment protocol, he said. A BJP functionary said that PMO was monitoring the condition of Naik who is also a minister of state for defence. Naik's wife, Vijaya, is also shifted to the private hospital. Her condition is better, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/docs-naiks-conditionimproving/articleshow/77643594.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Jaipur||Covid deaths spike in Jaipur,guv Mishra intervenes again||Jaipur: As Covid-19 cases rise once again in the city, the number of virus-related deaths in August, so far, has become a cause of worry for health authorities. More than 22% of deaths reported from Jaipur, till date, happened this month. Out of the 242 deaths in the city overall, 54 patients have died in August till Wednesday. Currently, Jaipur also has the highest number of active cases in the state, with 2,424 patients followed by Kota (1,987) and Jodhpur (1,976). Expressing concern over the deteriorating situation, Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra has intervened again and spoken to CM Ashok Gehlot, health minister Raghu Sharma and Jaipur district collector Antar Singh. He has asked them to take necessary measures to contain the spread of the virus. Mishra also told the health minister that there was need for a fresh strategy to deal with the pandemic effectively. Speaking to the district collector, Mishra asked him to review the efforts taken to contain the spread of the virus. He has taken up the issue with the chief minister frequently in the past too. On Independence Day, Mishra told Gehlot to take steps to prevent the spread of Covid as active cases have been constantly increasing in the state. The virus now has spread to various parts of the city and over 50 different areas have been reporting new cases daily. With the number of people dying of Covid in Jaipur in August becoming a major concern, authorities have enhanced the healthcare facility for Covid patients at RUHS hospital, which is a dedicated covid care hospital in the city. The health department has also appealed to the people to follow social distancing, wear face masks and to take all other required precautions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-deaths-spike-in-jaipurguv-mishra-intervenes-again/articleshow/77643610.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Bhopal||Relentless growth: Active Corona cases doubled in state since July||BHOPAL: The number of active cases has more than doubled since July 1—even though a whopping 22,567 people have recovered between July 1 and August 19. There were five districts which had less than 10 cases—district like Panna had no active case and Dindori only had one active case, while Anuppur had three active cases, Mandla had four active cases and Seoni had only seven active cases.  Now, on August 19, the number has increased by 35 times and now there are 35 active cases in Panna district, in Dindori — from one case, it has increased to 47 active cases, in Anuppur, it has increased to 45 active cases, similarly in Mandla, it has increased to 49 from four cases and in Seoni district, it has increased to 69 active cases from the earlier seven cases. Overall, in 10 districts of the state — Panna, Dindori, Anuppur, Mandla, Seoni, Narsinghpur, Raisen, Niwari, Guna and Burhanpur — there are less than 15 cases in each and, cumulatively, there were only 76 active cases on July 1. Nearly one and a half months down the line, there is an increase of 600% and now there are a whopping 519 active cases in all these districts. If seen statewide, on July 1, there were a total 5,053 active cases in the entire state and now there are 10,717 active cases in Madhya Pradesh. Sources said that the first and foremost factor that has led to this increase is the spread of Covid-19 virus in the state following the Unlock. If seen statistically, the increase in number of tests is directly proportional to the increase in number of patients in the state. Thus, as less tests were being conducted initially, there were less cases. Now the number of tests is being increased by the government, hence, there is increase in the number of cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/relentless-growth-active-corona-cases-doubled-in-state-since-july/articleshow/77642349.cms||Amarjeet Singh
August 20, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Active cases decline, tally hits 1.6 lakh mark||LUCKNOW: A marginal decline in the number of active cases of Covid-19 has been recorded in Uttar Pradesh. Against an average of 51,000 active cases last week, UP recorded 49,645 active cases on Wednesday. “The decline has led to an improvement in the state's overall recovery rate which now stands at 68%,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. To note, active infections are a reflection of the current status of pandemic spread in a place. Prasad stated that UP also became the first state to conduct the maximum number of coronavirus tests in the country. “We are the first one in the country to have undertaken over 40 lakh coronavirus tests,” he said. Meanwhile, UP recorded 5,156 new cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,68,193, while the Covid-19 casualties increased to 2,638 with 53 new entries. Earlier, reviewing the Covid-19 situation with team-11, CM Yogi Adityanath reiterated the state's commitment to provide proper treatment to Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/active-cases-decline-tally-hits-1-6l-mark/articleshow/77644033.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 20, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Green shoots of revival visible as occupancy up 40% at hotels, resorts||JAIPUR: If people from Delhi and Gurugram, who are wary of flying for holidaying and comfortable to get into their cars and drive down, are leading the early revival of tourism in Jaipur, Pushkar and to an extent in Ranthambore, the Gujaratis are doing so in Mt Abu, Kumbhalgarh and Ranakpur where resorts have witnessed 40% occupancy on weekends. Even though the department takes a month or two to collate tourist footfall data, visitors arrival figures secured from Mt Abu tourist office show that the recovery is underway, thanks to the movement from Gujarat, the main source market for the region. The emergence of green shoots is also confirmed by hospitality industry, especially the resorts owners who are currently the first beneficiaries of the revival. “In the first 16 days of August, Mt Abu has received over 60,000 tourists. We expect the destination to cross 1-lakh mark in August which would be one third of the three lakh tourists that Mt Abu used to receive before the outbreak. There is a long way to catch up, but certainly the green shoots are visible now,” said Alok Gupta, principal secretary, department of tourism. Gupta said the government was readying a plan for promotional activities in the key source markets like Delhi, Gurgaon and Gujarat to attract domestic tourists as uncertainty over movement of international tourists is likely to continue for some time. Resorts operators said the trend that shape started from August with festivals like Janmasthami, Rakhi and Independence Day has taken a definite shape and is expected to curve up in coming weeks and months unless the pandemic takes ugly turn. Surendra Singh Shahpura, who owns a resort in Kumbhalgarh said, “The occupancy has reached 40% on weekends. The good sign is that people are now a little fearless and willing to travel. The fact that tariffs are on the lower side is also encouraging them to come out. Rates are not a factor now, we want the properties to be functional.” But Udaipur, which is also a favourite destination for Gujaratis, is still to witness the same interest as the destinations around it. Jaisalmer, another sought-after tourist destination which has been spared from the severity of the pandemic, is yet to see a meaningful revival. Manvendra Singh, owner of a popular resort in Jaisalmer said, “It’s the distance that has been the handicap. As a destination, the occupancies vary between 15-20%. Given the fact that the corona cases are very low, the destination should have been one of the first beneficiary of the revival. But people are still reluctant to travel far.” Comparatively, Singh said, Bikaner is doing much better because once can drive down from Delhi in 7-8 hours. The hotel industry in Jaipur, Pushkar, Ranthambore, Sariska, Bhangargh and Jawai said the number of visitors from Delhi and Gurgaon have been increasing. Sunil Mehta, a resort owner said “We have seen occupancy of 70-80% on weekends and on week days also, there are visitors, who are mostly from Delhi and Gurgaon.” While resorts on the outskirts are getting more leisure bookings, the city hotels have an occupancy of 15-20%, half of which is coming from corporates travel segment, said other hoteliers in Jaipur city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/green-shoots-of-revival-visible-as-occupancy-up-40-at-hotels-resorts/articleshow/77643586.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Slight dip in Covid cases at Cantt, over 700 test positive||Secunderabad: The Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) officials are a happy lot as the number of Covid-19 positive cases and deaths related to the virus in the Cantonment area has seen a slight dip. More than 700 cases were recorded in the area but for the last few days, the numbers have been coming down steadily. Even more heartening is the fact that the number of deaths have reduced. So far, around 50 deaths have been reported from the area. “After the pandemic broke out, we undertook several preventive measures and started educating the people about adopting safety norms. The people too realised the dangers of having a callous attitude and also the amount of money to be spent for treatment in private hospitals. All these factors have helped in the fall of positive cases and deaths,” a medical & health department official of the SCB said. The Telangana medical and health department had set up five Covid-19 testing centres at Rasoolpura, Bowenpally, Tirumalagiri, Picket and Bolarum in the second week of July. So far, the medical staff has conducted rapid antigen tests on nearly 4,500 people and of them. “We used to conduct antigen tests for nearly 70 people every day at these testing centres but now the number has come down to about 40. We are urging people to visit the centres and avail the free rapid antigen tests especially in view of heavy rains. This will prevent the spread of the virus,” a medical officer said. Meanwhile, the SCB health and sanitation wing has completed 10 rounds of sanitization in all civilian wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/slight-dip-in-covid-cases-at-cantt-over-700-test-positive/articleshow/77642274.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Solipeta’s son likely to be TRSnominee for Dubbaka byelection||Hyderabad: After a prolonged lull in political activity due to Covid-19 pandemic in the state, the ruling TRS and opposition BJP and Congress are gearing up for the Dubbaka byelection. The election is set to be held in November along with the assembly polls in Bihar. The bypoll was necessitated by the recent death of TRS legislator Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy. Speculation is that a family member of Ramalinga Reddy will be the TRS nominee. Souces said it could be either the MLA’s wife Sujatha or son Satish Reddy. The latter has been active in TRS during the local body elections. “Whoever is selected as candidate by TRS chief K Chandrasekhar Rao, finance minister T Harish Rao will play a big role in the run-up to the bypoll and during electioneering,” party sources said. Congress has many contenders, including Nageshwar and Bhavani Reddy who has joined the party recently. Mutyam Reddy’s son Srinivas Reddy is also a contender for the Congress ticket. Raghunandan, it appears, is most likely to try his luck for the third time. The BJP is hopeful of making its presence felt, especially after its good show in the 2019 parliamentary polls where it bagged four seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/solipetas-son-likely-to-be-trsnominee-for-dubbaka-byelection/articleshow/77642283.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 20, 2020||Nashik||Avg wholesale onion price shoots up by 48% at Lasalgaon APMC||Nashik: The average wholesale price of onion at Lasalgaon APMC went up by around 48% — from Rs 1,150 per quintal on Monday to Rs 1,700 quintal on Wednesday. The wholesale market was closed on Tuesday for the Pola festival. The average wholesale onion prices have increased by 126% in the past nine days. According to APMC officials, there has been rain in South India and crop has been damaged at large there due to rains. “Arrival of onions in the market has also reduced at large due to incessant rain. As a result, demand from South India for Nashik onions has increased due to drop in supply,” an official from Lasalgaon APMC. “Farmers are also busy with various kharif crop-related activities and farmers who need money are only bringing their produce for the sale,” he added. While the average wholesale onion price at Lasalgaon was recorded at Rs 1,700 per quintal on Wednesday, the minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices were recorded at Rs 1,000 and Rs 1,951 per quintal, respectively. Around 7,000 quintals of onions were auctioned at Lasalgaon APMC. “Three weeks ago, the daily arrival of onions at Lasalgaon APMC was around 20,000 per quintal per day on an average, but the arrivals have reduced below 10,000 quintal for the past one week. The drop in supply has shot up the average wholesale onion price,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/avg-wholesale-onion-price-shoots-up-by-48-at-lasalgaon-apmc/articleshow/77642327.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 20, 2020||Kanpur||Govt implements scheme to seek help of specialist docs||Kanpur: To counter the Covid-19 pandemic with stronger force, state government has implemented a unique strategy to seek help of specialist doctors in each district. The registration of doctors who wish to be part of the scheme commenced from August 18. The state will provide the list of doctors very soon so that their help could be sought when required. Amit Mohan Prasad, additional principal secretary of health department said that the state would pay Rs 75,000 honrarium for 15 days to those doctors who would join the project. Moreover, they will get an insurance cover under Prime Minster Poor Welfare Package. During their duty, PPE kits and other necessary equipment will also be provided to the doctors. Meals will be given to the doctors during active quarantine and they will be honoured by a commendation letter. “Anaesthetist, cardiologist, nephrologist, chest physician, gynaecologist and paediatric are under specialist doctors. Those interested may send their application to the email id of the chief medical officer of their respective districts,” said Prasad. “They may also seek more information from National Health Mission website,” he added. The additional principal secretary further said that this unique scheme was enforced as a preventive measure to check the spread of the novel coronavirus. The scheme will ensure that the specialist doctors could immediately be roped in if any emergency situation arises during treatment of Covid patients. Thus, the districts facing shortage of specialist doctors would benefit from the scheme, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/govt-implements-scheme-to-seek-help-of-specialist-docs/articleshow/77642313.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Goa||Zarme locals want ease on movement||Valpoi: Villagers of Zarme in Sattari taluka, whose movements have been restricted due to the neighbouring Dabe village being declared as a micro-containment zone, on Wednesday submitted a memorandum to Sattari mamlatdar Dasharath Gawas urging that curbs on them be relaxed. The main road from Valpoi to Zarme passes through Dabe, due to which restrictions on movement have been imposed on the locals of Zarme, too. Although Zarme can be reached by an alternative route through the village of Saleli, it is much longer and not feasible for most residents. “Police personnel deployed at the entry and exit points in Dabe do not allow us to cross the village,” Zarme resident Datta Gawas said. Kalpesh Gawas, another villager, claimed that even water tankers have not been allowed to enter Zarme. “We are deprived of basic necessities like LPG cylinders, too, as even these supply trucks have been debarred from coming to Zarme,” he said. With Ganesh Chaturthi just a couple of days away, residents of Zarme have demanded that they be granted movement passes to visit Valpoi town for festival shopping. The mamlatdar assured that he would try to address their problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/zarme-locals-want-ease-on-movement/articleshow/77643607.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Pune||Vibgyor halts online classes for some over fees discord||Pune: Nearly 400 parents of Vibgyor Group of Schools in the city have protested against the school for blocking a few students from online education for non-payment of fees.The parents demanded that the school rollback the 11% hike in fees and also to give some concessions for the facilities that are not being used as many of them have also faced financial problems, including job loss, during the lockdown. The school’s spokesperson said that in order to maintain fairness and equity for optimising limited resources, they are compelled to halt online classes in a few cases where parents have not paid a single rupee towards the fees for the academic year 2020-21.The parents have raised the issue with the local education office, the Child Welfare Helpline, deputy director of education, Pune, National, Commission for Protection of Child Rights and also the state education department. A reply from them is awaited. The parents said it was discriminatory to de-enrol their children from school over payment issues. A parent said, “School branches have been issuing circulars openly threatening to de-enrol our kids if the demanded payment is not made at the earliest.”Some said a few children have already been blocked from the online classes even though part fees were paid to the school.Another aggrieved parent of the school said, “We fear that if some children or parents take any untoward action due to the mental agony which may be created due to stopping of online classes then will the school take the accountability of such a situation in these testing times. It may not be wrong to say that any coercive action against children will impact and scar them for life with a negative impression about society affecting their overall development.”Parents have raised the matters of appropriation of fees via individual communication and through PTA modes, but they said, the school management has not responded. Parents said the school has been adamant about the fees with a hike which is levied at 10-15% on an average year after year. When contacted by school management, a spokesperson in an e-mail said, “We are mindful of the situation that some parents have been going through, and have been supporting them in many ways. Accordingly, we have provided them with options for monthly instalments as well as online payments. We also revised the payment last date several times to allow them greater flexibility. Additionally, we have adjusted several components of the fees already paid earlier, against future dues. We are ensuring that all transportation charges for this period etc. are also being adjusted.”The school’s statement said that a scholarship programme for fee waiver to help parents impacted by the pandemic has been extended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vibgyor-halts-online-classes-for-some-over-fees-discord/articleshow/77642368.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Nashik||Slums again report Covid-19 cases||Nashik: Just a week after the civic authorities said that not a single slum in Nashik city is a containment zone, new Covid-19 cases have been reported from different slums over the past few days. Last week, the city had 1,255 active containment zones, and all were in residential buildings, apartments and bungalows. According to Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials, 17 of the current 1,791 active containment zones in the city are from slum areas. The city had added 536 new active containment zones over the past six days. The 17 containment zones are reported from Swarbaba Nagar, Kamgar Nagar and Shramik Nagar in Satpur division, Chinchole in Cidco division, Bajrang Nagar near Anandvalli in Nashik East division, Navnath Nagar, Valmiki Nagar, Phule Nagar and Datta Nagar in Panchavati division and Malharkhamb in Nashik West division of NMC. “Covid-19 cases from slums areas had stopped around a week back. However, now, new cases are being reported again. The slum residents go to different places for work. Hence, there are chances of them contracting the infection,” said a senior health official of the NMC. Officials said some people were not following safety protocols like wearing face masks and washing hands frequently. People should also maintain physical distance. “We have increased the contact tracing from 22 to 35-40 for each confirmed patient. We have also increased surveillance and the number of tests to 2,000,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/slums-again-report-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77642352.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19 snatches 8 lives and leaves 462 infected||TNNLudhiana: Twelve persons, including eight from Ludhiana, died of Covid-19 on Wednesday. The day also saw 462 patients from the district and 18 from outside testing positive for the virus, as per the state media bulletin.Of the 12 casualties, two were from Jalandhar and one each from Barnala and Mansa, besides the eight from Ludhiana.The district fatalities at city hospitals included a 60-year-old man of Shastri Nagar in Jagraon, who had sepsis; a 51-year-old diabetic man of Basant Avenue; a 75-year-old woman of Tajpur Road, who had diabetes and blood pressure; a 50-year-old man of Sherpur; a woman, 59, of Haibowal Kalan, who had diabetes and BP; a 76-year-old man of Sector 32-A; and a 53-year-old man of Jodhewal Basti, who had diabetes and BP.A man of 63 from Dashmesh Nagar died at Rajindra Hospital in PatialaCivil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district death count now stood at 270 and that of outsiders at 63.Dr Bagga said to date, 92,166 suspects have been tested for Covid-19.He added that the positive cases from Ludhiana included 54 from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 61 positive cases’ contacts; 36 from OPD, two cops, two healthcare workers, three domestic / international travelers, one pregnant woman, 37 through tracing process and three preoperative cases.The health department officials said the Ludhiana case count has climbed to 7,288 and that of outsiders to 784.On the day, 2,346 samples were sent for testing. To date, 4,976 patients (68.27%) have recovered in Ludhiana.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said there were 2,039 active patients in the district. So far, 29,276 persons have been kept under home quarantine. At present, the number stood at 5,180.“On Wednesday, 396 persons were sent for home quarantine,” the DC added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-snatches-8-lives-and-leaves-462-infected/articleshow/77641092.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Trichy||Trichy has all qualities to be Tamil Nadu’s second capital, says minister||TRICHY: Trichy with an international airport, rail connectivity, industries and surplus water from the Cauvery river, has all the qualities to become the second capital of Tamil Nadu, said state tourism minister Vellamandi N Natarajan on Wednesday. Speaking to reporters, the minister said it was the dream of AIADMK founder and former chief minister M G Ramachandran to make Trichy the second capital of Tamil Nadu. He said MGR could not fulfil his wish because of his ill health. Natarajan recalled how then DMK leader M Karunanidhi had opposed the move. The minister said if the demand for the second capital is raised, he would urge chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Paneerselvam to announce Trichy as the second capital. The issue was raised a few days ago by revenue and disaster management minister R B Udayakumar who wanted to make Madurai the second capital of the state. Cooperation minister Sellur K Raju supported the demand. But AIADMK members in Trichy reacted immediately by demanding that this city be made the second capital. Trichy MP Thirunavukkarasar too had requested the chief minister to make Trichy as the second capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-has-all-qualities-to-be-tns-second-capital-says-min/articleshow/77644529.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Goa||Enhancing face value: Masks with messages the new trend as people seek to make statement||COLVA: The Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in face masks becoming a wardrobe essential and there is no dearth of colours, fabrics and styles that they are available in. Sporting anything from football team logos and political party emblems to music motifs and even cartoons, they double up as a fashion statement or to promote a cause or entity. In fact, a few local mask-makers have now decided to take customisation of the accessory up a notch by painting social messages on them. Among the latest such creations making their way into the market are quirky one-liners like, ‘If you are reading this, you’re too close’, and ‘Aata bhivpaachi garaz aasa’ (Now, there is need to be scared), a counter to chief minister Pramod Sawant’s contentious phrase, ‘Bhivpachi garaz na’, while Covid-19 began spreading across the state. With several people seeking exclusivity, mask-makers say business is thriving. Some also use the opportunity to showcase their talent. “Embroidering a social message on a mask will last longer but is more expensive and takes a considerable amount of time to complete. Hence, several people are opting for hand-painted messages on their masks. I have received at least a dozen orders already,” a young entrepreneur said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/enhancing-face-value-masks-with-messages-the-new-trend-as-people-seek-to-make-statement/articleshow/77643620.cms||Nisser Dias
August 20, 2020||Lucknow||BJP firefights to pacify rebel Brahmin MLA||LUCKNOW: Twenty-four hours before of the monsoon session of assembly, senior members of the government led a damage-control operation to pacify BJP MLA Dev Mani Dwivedi, who threatened to raise the question of alleged atrocities on Brahmins in the state. The swift firefighting followed the party’s determination to avert a repeat of the 2019 rebellion by Loni’s BJP MLA on the floor of the House. Dwivedi, a first-time MLA from Lambua assembly constitutency (Sultanpur), purportedly sent a starred question to the Vidhan Sabha secretariat, which went viral on social media, seeking answers on number of Brahmins killed in the state. The MLA has neither denied or disowned the letter doing the rounds. Top leaders, including deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, influential Brahmin officials and aides of Speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit were deployed to convince Dwivedi to blink and withdraw his caste-loaded query. The sulking legislator has so far refused to retreat, revealed his aides. Talking to TOI, he said, “I will attend the monsoon session and I have my concerns about my community.” Dwivedi was an officer with Indian Railway Services and served as director of the vigilance wing. He was active in the railway employees’ union, before he took the political plunge in 2016. He won on a BJP ticket from Lambua in 2017 assembly poll. His rival in the Samajwadi Party, Santosh Pandey, who was trounced by Dwivedi in 2017, is working overtime to wean away Brahmins with an eye on 2022 assembly elections. Amidst sweeping discontent, Dwivedi has embarked on his mission to win back his community and retain the seat in 2022 poll, said sources. Top sources in BJP revealed to TOI that even if Dwivedi backs off, the party is unlikely to field him in 2022 elections, so he’s gearing up to play the martyr card before voters. BJP, however, is determined to avoid another embarrassment in the House when BJP MLA from Loni, Nand Kishore Gujjar, rebelled against the state government and led over 75 MLAs to stage a dharna on the floor of the House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-firefights-to-pacify-rebel-brahmin-mla/articleshow/77644042.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Man, wife, son end life, 5-year-old girl in critical condition||JAIPUR: Days after 11 members of a family were found dead in Jodhpur, four persons attempted suicide in Churu’s Bhaleri police station area on Tuesday, the same day when a family of four committed suicide in Karauli. Sheeshram (32), Suman Devi (30) and their son Nikku Ram (10) died in Churu’s Ribiya village under Bhaleri police station area while their daughter Khushi Kumari (5) is fighting for her life in Jaipur. Bhaleri SHO Vijendra Sharma said, “We have not found any reason to indicate the possible reason behind the suicide. There was no note left and even the relatives are surprised. The four apparently consumed a poisonous substance due to which the parents died but both the children were referred to Jaipur. Unfortunately, the boy did not survive.” According to officials, they have not been able to find any relevant reason for the family to commit suicide. “The family came back home after returning from fields following which they had a meal together and even played loud music so the deaths were quite sudden,” the officer said. The cops confirmed that they have not found anything suspicious as the house was locked from inside when the bodies were found. “The family did not seem to be suffering from any financial constraint and had enough property to indicate otherwise. It is a mystery for us as to why would they take their own lives. They were like a usual family and till Tuesday afternoon, there was nothing to indicate that they were having any problems. We are still investigating the case”, said the SHO. The cops said there was no evidence that an outsider administered the poisonous substance as the family was within their house premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-wife-son-end-life-5-yr-old-girl-in-critical-condition/articleshow/77643592.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Nashik||Night curfew in Malegaon after rise in Covid-19 cases||Nashik: The Nashik district administration has reimposed night curfew in Malegaon following a rise in new Covid-19 cases in the textile town. The number of active patients in Malegaon has gone up from 93 on July 31 to 630 on Wednesday (August 19). Sub-divisional officer Vijayanand Sharma has announced the imposition of the curfew between 7pm and 7am till further orders. The police have put up checkpoints at 10 places. Additional superintendent of police Sandeep Ghuge said: “There has been a huge jump in the number of cases in the textile town. Therefore, the night-time restrictions on the movement of people have been announced. We will be enforcing it strictly.” Ghuge said the town used to have a rush on the roads till late evening or even midnight. “In a couple of days, we will ensure that after 7.15pm, there is no movement on the roads at all,” he said. Barring hospitals, medical stores, electricity services and petrol pumps, no other establishments will be allowed to remain open after 7pm. The police officer said there is no additional deployment of forces and staff from the police stations will enforce the curfew. A police vehicle will do the rounds to warn people against violating the orders. Malegaon municipal commissioner Deepak Kasar on Wednesday announced that seven more private hospitals would be offering Covid-19 treatment to patients under the MJPJAY scheme. The hospitals include General Hospital, Prayas Hospital, Six Sigma Hospital, Samarth Hospital, Nagraj Hospital, Dhanwantari Hospital, and Heart and Soul Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/night-curfew-in-malegaon-after-rise-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77642371.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 20, 2020||Nagpur||PI Asha Khapre is Sakkardara traffic in charge||Nagpur: Police commissioner B K Upadhyay on Wednesday appointed senior PI Asha Khapre as Sakkardara traffic zone in-charge. Khapre replaces Mahesh Chavan, who has been shifted to Bajaj Nagar police station as in-charge police inspector. Until recently, Khapre was heading the accident cell and played an important role in identifying accident prone spots in the city. Khapre’s active role helped the traffic police to reduce the number of fatal accidents, said DCP (traffic) Vikram Sali, adding, she will help in reducing cases of traffic violations in the Sakkardara traffic zone too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pi-asha-khapre-is-sakkardara-traffic-in-charge/articleshow/77643619.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Dehradun||Over 2.5k trees including British-era Sal forest to be cut for proposed expressway that will reduce travel time between Delhi & Doon||Dehradun: The Delhi-Dehradun expressway, which promises to cut travel time between the national capital and Dehradun to barely 2.5 hours, will come at a cost of felling over 2,500 trees in Uttarakhand, most of which are Sal trees, over a century old. This proposed deforestation which is to take place in a roughly 4-km stretch, comprising the tail end of the highway that will fall under the Dehradun forest division, will cause irreparable damage to the Shivalik range, causing its slopes to become unstable, warn experts. Sources said that many as 33 tree species are to be chopped down in this stretch. Of the 2,572 trees that are slated for felling, 1,622 (60% of the lot) are the ‘Doon Sal’ trees, according to details exclusively accessed by TOI. Experts say the British-era trees, some of them 100 to 120 years old, would be nearly impossible to regrow and regenerate as they have “reached their climax”. “It is not recommended to fell trees that are part of climax species. Sal forests play a vital role in holding slippery hills of the Shivalik range and are a perfect habitat for wildlife species like leopards, tigers and elephants. These trees date back to the British era and need to be preserved,” said VK Dhawan, former senior scientist of the Doon-based Forest Research Institute (FRI). The other tree species that will be axed for the highway include cheer, saagon, gulmohar as well as fruit-bearing trees like blackberry, peepal and mango. Apart from the 2,572 trees that are listed, several smaller trees are also going to be chopped. Sources said that these trees aren’t even counted as their diameters are less than 10 cm and girth not more than 31.4. Such trees are tagged “pole crop” and “not counted when marking of a tree is done for felling”, said a source. The elevated expressway, which will cut the distance between Delhi and Dehradun from 272 km to 180 km, will cost around Rs 10,000 crore. The expressway will start from Akshardham in Delhi and culminate at Asharodi check post in Dehradun, connecting Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Environmentalist Ravi Chopra, who is spearheading a Supreme Court-appointed Committee on the All-Weather Char Dham road project, said, “The slopes of the Shivalik ranges are extremely prone to erosion and therefore need a green cover to remain stable. Cutting the trees here and planting them “elsewhere” will not save these slopes. The instability of the slopes will become a critical issue.” The divisional forest officer (DFO) of Dehradun, Rajiv Dhiman, when queried about the matter, said, “A team has explored all the different options to ensure minimum loss to the trees and wildlife. The project is being implemented in tandem with the guidelines set by our ministry and only after all due clearances will the next move be taken.” For the Char Dham road project alone, Uttarakhand has lost over 28,000 trees and is set to lose more. Experts say that the small Himalayan state has witnessed extensive fragmentation of wildlife due to deforestation of late. Scientists warn of devastating repercussions if the rampant tree felling continues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-2-5k-trees-including-british-era-sal-forest-to-be-cut-for-proposed-expressway-that-will-reduce-travel-time-between-delhi-doon/articleshow/77639969.cms||Shivani Azad
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Roads battered, 125 villages cut off as rains wreak havoc||Hyderabad: Over 2,000 kilometres of roads in Telangana villages, mandals, districts and highways have suffered heavy damage due to incessant rains lashing several parts of the state for the last one week. It is estimated that nearly Rs 200 crore will be required to repair and restore the roads. Mahbubnagar, Warangal, Mulugu, Jayashankar-Bhupalapally, Jangoan and Rangareddy districts have been worst hit by the rains that triggered flood-like situations. Connectivity to 125 villages was lost for several hours before the officials took up works on a war footing to restore the roads.At several places the road surface was washed away with the soil beneath it getting eroded. Roads and buildings minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy directed officials to complete the road repairs on a war footing. “Inconvenience should not be caused to motorists. Ensure free flow of vehicular movement especially from the villages to the district headquarters,” he told officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/roads-battered-125-villages-cut-off-as-rains-wreak-havoc/articleshow/77642374.cms||Roushan Ali
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||EIA ’20 anti-public, says Jairam Ramesh||Hyderabad: The Congress has termed the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification as one of the many moves that the Centre has come out with to weaken the environmental laws. “The draft EIA notification is anti- democratic and anti-public as it restricts individuals from complaining against any environmental violations,” said former Union environment minister and Congress MP Jairam Ramesh while delivering his address at a webinar on Draft EIA Notification 2020 organised by Dr Marri Channa Reddy Memorial Trust, Hyderabad on Wednesday. “We have to wait and watch what the TRS’ stand would be on this important subject matter,” he said. “Local people, NGOs, city organisations and concerned citizens cannot bring environmental violations to the notice of the government. The government agencies will highlight environmental violations,” he said. Stating that the draft EIA notification has been strongly criticised by environmental and climate change experts in the country, he charged Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar of acting as an accelerator for project clearances and not as a protector of natural resources of the country. He said the draft EIA notification 2020 is only the tip of the iceberg of a problem, adding that the powers that be are projecting it as if the environmental rules and regulations are hurdles to development and ease of doing business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eia-20-anti-public-says-jairam-ramesh/articleshow/77642295.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Bhopal||199 fresh cases take city count to 9,208||Bhopal: Govindpura reported a surge in Covid-19 cases on Wednesday when 29 people of the area were diagnosed with coronavirus. A factory in the industrial zone is said to be the epicentre of the infection spread. Nearby, Sabri Nagar in Bhanpur, has also been deemed a hotspot. A total 199 people were found positive in Bhopal on Wednesday. Since the pandemic began, 9,208 infections have been diagnosed in Bhopal, leading to 248 deaths. Of the 29 positive cases in Govindpura, 11 people linked to a private factory in the area were diagnosed with the infection. It comes on the heels of three Covid-19 infections being detected in the factory earlier. Fourteen more corona positive cases have been detected in the Madhya Pradesh Electricity Board (MPEB) call centre, Govindpura. The discom call centre earlier reported 15 cases of the infection. As things stand, 28 people linked to the call centre are suffering from Covid-19. Meanwhile, eight positive cases were reported from the CRPF campus in Bangrasia. Eight more tested positive in the MANIT hostel, which has been converted into institutional quarantine centre. Another staffer in a news outlet office in Arera Colony tested positive. Two cases have been linked to the office. AIIMS-Bhopal reported two positive cases, whereas BHEL’s Kasturba hospital confirmed that one doctor has been diagnosed with the infection. A Jawarharlal Nehru Cancer Hospital doctor has been diagnosed with the infection, as per the health department report. Five members of the same family tested positive for Covid-19 in Fortune Enclave (Sarvadharma Colony, Kolar). ITBP campus (Kanha Saiya) reported five cases of the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/199-fresh-cases-take-city-count-to-9208/articleshow/77642380.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Undertrial attempts suicide in Ludhiana jail||Times News Network Ludhiana: An undertrial has been booked for attempting suicide in Borstal Jail on Tuesday. The man had been lodged in this jail — a special prison set up to quarantine newly-arrested accused to check the spread of Covid-19 in regular jails — on August 10.The accused has been identified as Charanjit Singh, 30, of Dehlon village of the district. He has been arrested on charges of abetting the suicide of his wife, who ended her life on August 8.Superintendent of Borstal Jail Kulwant Singh said Charanjit on Tuesday morning went to the bathroom to take a bath. There he tried to commit suicide by hanging himself from the door frame. However, the security personnel noticed it and rescued Charanjit. The jail superintendent said Charanjit had been keeping quiet ever since he had come to the jail, so the security personnel had been asked to keep an eye on him.The jail authorities had submitted a complaint to the police in this regard, based on which a case under Section of 309 (attempt to commit suicide) of the IPC has been registered against Charanjit at the Division Number 7 police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/undertrial-attempts-suicide-in-ludhiana-jail/articleshow/77641098.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: All five accused in Dausa gangrape case arrested||JAIPUR: Dausa police have arrested the fifth accused in the gangrape of a hearing and speech impaired girl which was reported on August 8 though the girl was sexually assaulted four days prior to that. Dausa ASP Anil Chauhan said, “We have all the accused in our custody. This was a heinous crime and we are investigating it swiftly so that no accused gets away. There are chances that more than five persons were involved who probably did not rape the girl but molested her in some way. We will catch them as well. The accused had taken the girl near a temple and called others to participate. We cannot ignore the role of others in this crime.” According to information, the accused kidnapped the girl around 11 am and dumped her back in the village around 5 pm during which time they kept calling others to rape her. Through sources cops found that two accused raped her near a temple and then called others to take advantage of the situation. The girl’s mother had gone out of the village and returned on August 6 after which she realised that something was amiss. Getting any information from the child was difficult for cops due to the challenges which the minor was facing but she still gave names of the accused who all were from the same village as her. A case of gangrape, abduction as well as under POCSO Act has been registered. The minor’s medical examination was done and doctors claimed that fortunately she did not suffer any major injuries, claimed officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/all-5-accused-in-dausa-gangrape-case-arrested/articleshow/77643603.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Remote learning eludes most civic school students||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: For Namdev Pol, a 70-year-old security guard in Chikhli MIDC area, this lockdown has been particularly hard. He lost his daughter-in-law in June and his only grandson, Vinayak (9), who is studying in the corporation school in Chikhali, has to rely on textbooks to study. Living in a company’s shed with a leaking roof, he has no means of buying a smartphone for his grandson, neither does he own a TV. “He wears his school uniform every day with the hope that someday his teacher would inform us that school is going to start. Vinayak had already lost his father a few years ago and now his mother is gone too, and with no study and friends, it has been particularly hard on him,” he said, adding that they had migrated from a village near Parbhani to Pune a few years ago for work. A family that migrated from Uttar Pradesh, said that their three children have nothing to do. While some of the nearby families have phones for their wards to study, they do not allow these children to come because of the fear of contracting coronavirus infection. “With six mouths to feed, cellphone and a TV is a luxury that we cannot afford. We are just happy that some of us are at least earning some money,” said the mother of three, who did not wish to be named. Dayanand Yadav, teacher at Sonawane Vasti school number 93, a corporation school, said that 70% of students’ parents here at Chikhlai area were migrants and did not have smartphones needed for online classes. “In such cases, we have prepared offline study materials and have provided them to the students. If they face any difficulty, they give us a missed call on our number and we would call them and resolve their queries,” Yadav said. When contacted, additional municipal commissioner Santosh Patil, told the TOI that they were aware of the situation. He, however, added that providing gadgets to thousands of students was an humongous task. “We have managed to get corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds for 18 of our high schools. But there are 100 primary schools. We are exploring if we can get any CSR assistance for primary schools as well. If corporates wish to come forward and help the education department, they are welcome,” he said. Thousands of students in the PCMC-run schools do not have access to online classes. Most are highly dependent on the textbooks, as there is no option of offline tuition for them. As per the education department’s survey in May, around 24,000 students out of the 40,000, had no cellphone devices for online studies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/remote-learning-eludes-most-civic-school-pupils/articleshow/77642399.cms||Piyush Bhusari
August 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Man gets life in jail for raping 9-year-old daughter in Barmer district||JAISALMER: A Pocso court in Balotara sentenced a man to life imprisonment for raping his 9-year-old daughter at Binjrad in Barmer district. Balotara Pocso court judge Anil Arya sentenced Shravan Ram to life imprisonment until death. A penalty of Rs 1,01,000 was also imposed under two other sections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-gets-life-in-jail-for-raping-9-yr-old-daughter/articleshow/77643608.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Jail authorities happy with e-purse facility for inmates||Ludhiana: The authorities of Ludhiana Central Jail and Borstal prison are happy with the launch of e-purse facility for inmates, as it has helped arrest the availability of prohibited stuff on the jail premises.The Punjab prisons department had launched the facility in July in which families of jail inmates can send them money online.Under this scheme, every inmate is given a Prisoner Identification Number (PIN). Using that PIN, the kin of an inmate can transfer money to his account. The inmates have also been given smart cards that they can use to spend on telephonic calls and in canteen. The cashless system, which came in the wake of the pandemic, is also helping the authorities keep a tab on the money received and spent by inmates. Ludhiana Central Jail superintendent Rajiv Kumar Arora said, “Every inmate gives a list of 10 people who can meet him or whom he can call through the telephone facility available in the jail. These 10 people can transfer money, maximum Rs 2,500 per week, to the inmate’s account through the website of Punjab prisons department — Punjabprisons.org.” “Inmates can spend that money to make telephonic calls or purchases from the jail canteen. Thus, the entire system has become cashless. This not only helps the department monitor the inmates’ money flow, but has also stopped the entry of prohibited stuff like cellphones and tobacco, among others, on the premises. When an inmate gets bail, the authorities issue a cheque to deposit the remaining amount in his account,” he added. Ludhiana Borstal jail superintendent Kulwant Singh said, “Now, inmates only have virtual money, like we have debit cards. They swipe the card at the canteen. With this, they are unable to buy prohibited stuff. It is an effective system and will yield better results in the long run.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jail-authorities-happy-with-e-purse-facility-for-inmates/articleshow/77641115.cms||Payal Dhawan
August 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man learns of brother’s accident on WhatsApp||Ahmedabad: A tour operator from Navrangpura, who used to watch videos of accidents and similar incidents on a WhatsApp group made by a friend, on Monday evening was shocked to see that the person lying critically injured in some pictures was his own brother. Jitendra Patel, 37, a resident of Gota, on Tuesday filed a complaint with Dabhoda police seeking to find out who hit his brother Shailesh Patel, 40, a resident of Vehalal village, in an accident near Raipur Patia in Dehgam. He said he had been viewing pictures and messages on a WhatsApp group and saw images of an accident in Dehgam. “When I opened the images, I found that the victim was my brother, who was lying unconscious at Raipur Patia with his mangled motorcycle nearby and a pick-up van close to it,” he said. Jitendra then called his brother and a medico at the trauma centre in Asarwa Civil Hospital answered the call and told him that Shailesh was critically injured. On enquiring about the accident, Jitendra learned that his brother was hit by a pick-up van when he was riding his motorcycle. He later filed a complaint against the unknown driver with Dabhoda police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-learns-of-brothers-accident-on-whatsapp/articleshow/77642402.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Dr Reddy’s launches antiviral drug Avigan to fight coronavirus||Hyderabad: Pharma major Dr Reddy’s Laboratories on Wednesday announced the launch of Avigan, the innovator brand of antiviral drug Favipiravir that has been approved by DCGI for treating those suffering from mild to moderate symptoms of Covid-19, at Rs 99 per 200mg tablet. The Hyderabad-based company is also working on rolling out Avigan in 400mg strength, even as it gears up to launch Remdesivir injections, for which it has a non-exclusive licensing deal with Gilead Sciences of US, in the first week of September. The launch of Avigan 200mg in the Indian market comes over a month after Dr Reddy’s entered into a tie-up with Fujilm Toyama Chemical Co of Japan and Global Response Aid (GRA) for the development, manufacture and sale of Avigan across the world except Japan, China and Russia. While agreeing that Avigan was a bit late in hitting the market, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories co-chairman and managing director GV Prasad said it has an advantage as it is an innovator drug backed by observational studies on over 2,100 patients with a shelf life of two years as compared to the three-month shelf life of other Favipiravir products available in the market. The company is also planning to take Avigan, which has six years of safety data for use in Ebola and Influenza, to markets across the globe, he said. It is currently taking up clinical studies with GRA in Kuwait and is in parleys with drug regulators of various countries, including USFDA, to seek fast-track approvals for the launch of Avigan. While currently Dr Reddy’s is importing the drug from Japan, it will soon be manufacturing it in India, the company top brass said during the virtual launch of the Covid-19 drug. The company is repurposing its existing manufacturing facilities in India for manufacturing the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) and finished dosage forms of Favipiravir and has enough capacities to cater to the growing requirements in emerging and developed markets, said M V Ramana, CEO, branded markets (India and emerging markets), Dr Reddy’s Laboratories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dr-reddys-launches-antiviral-drug-avigan-to-fight-coronavirus/articleshow/77642316.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Nashik||MSEDCL asks consumers to submit metre readings||Nashik: The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has asked its consumers to provide readings of their energy meters by uploading a picture of the same on Mahavitaran application. For all the consumers whose mobile numbers have been registered against their consumer numbers, the MSEDCL has started sending an SMS in which the people are asked to provide the meter readings before a specific date. In case of people whose mobile numbers have not been registered, the company has asked them to refer to the last bill delivered and the meter reading date in the same. The consumers have to provide the photo meter reading by the date. At present, there are a number of buildings and individual houses in the city which have been converted into containment zones, thereby restricting the movement of people in and out of those premises. To add to the issue, meter readers are not given access to such and other buildings due to the fear of spread of Covid-19. The MSEDCL has, therefore, appealed to people to provide meter readings so that actual bills can be delivered to the consumers in time. An MSEDCL officer said that people can download Mahavitaran application from Google Play Store and register their mobile number along with the 12-digit consumer number after which they can submit reading. The meter reading can also be sent without registration by using the ‘Guest’ facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msedcl-asks-consumers-to-submit-metre-readings/articleshow/77642393.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 20, 2020||Lucknow||Transgenders receive rights to inherit family agri land in UP||Lucknow: Transgender people, recognised as the 'third gender' by the Supreme Court, will now get the right to inherit agriculture land in Uttar Pradesh. The cabinet cleared an amendment to the UP Revenue Code of 2006 under which persons of the third gender will be recognised as members of a land owners family and have an equal right to inherit agricultural property. A draft proposal for the law was submitted by the State Law Commission to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath in March 2019. Commission chairperson Justice AN Mittal had pointed out that all inheritance laws mention ‘sons’, ‘daughters’, ‘married’, ‘unmarried’ and ‘widow’ which kept third gender children out of the purview of the law, who as it face massive social boycott despite laws to protect their interests. In the new UP Revenue Code (Amendment) Act, 2020, changes have been made to section 4(10), 108 (2), 109 and 110 to include people of third gender as members of the land owner’s family to give them succession and physical rights over property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/transgenders-receive-rights-to-inherit-family-agri-land-in-up/articleshow/77644050.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Pune||Architecture college starts 5 courses in digital mode||Pune: Maharshi Karve Stree Shikshan Sanstha’s Dr. Bhanuben Nanavati College of Architecture for Women (BNCA) has launched five new online courses.These include various structures in bamboo, perennial methods in the field of landscape (geology), traditional materials and construction methods as well as concepts related to various art forms. All these courses are starting on September 5, on the occasion of Teacher's Day. The online courses have been started to benefit the students taking into consideration the current pandemic. Shubhada Kamalapurkar, professor heading online courses of BNCA, said, ‘With the current Covid situation, we have realized that ecology and environment are important and we cannot afford to disturb the balance. BNCA is launching the five online courses, two of which relate to sustainability, ecology and environment; the courses being ‘Design in Bamboo’ and ‘Sustainable Landscape Practices’ and two of them relate to creativity and performing arts; the courses being ‘Traditional Materials and Techniques’, ‘Performing Arts and Architecture’ and ‘from Ideation to Creation’ where people who are creative can enhance their creative abilities and design using sustainable materials."From ideation to creation the hands-on e-learning course will change the perception of how design is to be looked at, studied and practiced, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/architecture-college-starts-5-courses-in-digital-mode/articleshow/77642377.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Nagpur||3 farm labourers drown in well||Nagpur: Three farm labourers drowned near Ramtek, 50km from here on Wednesday afternoon. Rural police have identified the deceased as Akash Panchbhudhe (27), Vinod Burve (37) and Ganesh Kalbande (28), all residents of Wakeshwar. The trio worked as farm labourers. On Wednesday, they were spraying pesticide in the field of one Badrinarayan Sapate in Aaroli village, Ramtek tehsil. The trio had their lunch together and later they went to the well to wash their hands. One of them lost balance and fell into the well. The other two, too, jumped inside the well and drowned, the police said. PI Vivek Sonwane and PSI Krishikesh C reached the spot. With the help of locals, the police fished out the bodies. Preliminary inquiry revealed that the trio died due to suffocation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-farm-labourers-drown-in-well/articleshow/77643625.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP defends guv for her remarks||Hyderabad: BJP on Wednesday came to the defence of governor Tamilisai Soundararajan for her remarks on Covid-19 handling by the state government and slammed TRS leaders for criticising the governor. Speaking to reporters, BJP MLC N Ramchander Rao said if the governor was raising concern over under-testing of Covid-19 cases in Telangana, the ruling party MLAs should accept that. “Instead, they are criticising her,” he said. Defending her, he said being a doctor herself, the governor was more than capable of understanding the severity of the situation. Her suggestions should be taken seriously by TRS, he said. Former BJP state chief K Laxman also defended the governor and demanded that CM K Chandrasekhar Rao sack the MLAs for comments against her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-defends-guv-for-her-remarks/articleshow/77642337.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Gurgaon||Waterlocked: Why Gurugram is in a rainwater trap||GURUGRAM: Wednesday’s heavy downpour bared everything that is wrong with the city’s drainage network. Not just drainage, but faulty planning of buildings and topographical factors are being seen as the primary reasons why it took just a few hours of rain to leave almost all of Gurugram flooded. Civic experts have underlined that the government should not only revamp the city’s drainage network to create an outlet for water accumulated from rain, they should also build dams to check the flow of water from the Aravalis. Surrounded by the Aravalis on all sides but one, the topography of Gurugram is undulating. So, while Gwal Pahari (east) along the Delhi border is situated at a height of 290 metres, Najafgarh (west) at the lowest point at 200 metres. This difference of 90 metres leads to water from the Aravalis gushing down to the city’s low-lying areas. To put into perspective, the difference between the two points of Gurugram is around 20 metres more than the height of Qutub Minar. To check this flow of water, the authorities urgently need to repair some 100-odd small dams that had been built during the British regime. Over the years, these dams have run into neglect. Another topographical factory that needs mention is the rapid urbanisation of the city at the cost of water bodies, which are crucial to holding the flow of water during rains. Over the years, the authorities have looked the other way as builders have filled waterbodies to create highrises. And as condominiums replaced lakes and ponds, the developers unwittingly built roads that fall on the very path of the water flow. “As societies have come up on waterbodies, a part of the Aravali ecosystem has been destroyed. The city has been built to cater to the needs of a few private developers, who haven’t given any thought to the topographic characteristics of the region,” said Mukta Naik, a fellow at the Centre for Policy Research. VS Kundu, the CEO of GMDA, said the civic authorities had taken measures, but they needed to do more. “Accidentally or otherwise, many water channels have been destroyed because of development. That’s what is happening on Sohna Road with the construction of the highway. We had tried connecting it with a drain temporarily, but it wasn’t enough,” he added. On Wednesday, Gurugram received 95mm of rain. This is about a fifth of the total rain that the city receives on an average through the year. “If it rains like Wednesday, there is only so much we can do. Both the leg one and leg two of Badshahpur drain were overflowing on Wednesday,” Kundu said. It would be unfair to say that the authorities in Gurugram haven’t taken measures to improve the drainage system. The Haryana government has spent around Rs 300 crore on widening the Badshapur drain, the main outlet of the city. Additionally, GMDA has spent Rs 80 crore on the maintenance of master drains in the city in the past three years. Another Rs 280 crore has been approved for the comprehensive drainage project, which is yet to begin. The funds for the comprehensive drainage project had been approved by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar during a GMDA meeting in March this year. Phase one of the project was to be completed at a cost of Rs 158 crore in 2019-20, but the work hasn’t yet started on the ground. The focus of this drainage system was to arrest the flow of water from high-level areas by channelising it through creeks. As part of this plan, the authorities want to develop 20 check dams in the Aravalis and 200 recharge wells. Naik also stressed on the need for restoring natural water channels. “We need to revive and maintain whatever natural water channels we can, including dams and waterbodies. In this regard, the government needs to evaluate its technical capabilities and acquire resources,” the urban planner said. To check the flow of water, a separate drain has been proposed from Vatika Chowk till culvert number 61 near the railway crossing. In phase two, the authority plans to build drains along the Golf Course Road from Wazirabad to Kosht Nala. This will help contain waterlogging along Golf Course Road and in areas such as AIT Chowk and Sun City. The total cost of this phase is estimated to be Rs 132 crore. It is likely to be completed between the fiscal year 2020-21. Kundu said they had started floating tenders for the projects, but now feels that the plan needs to be upgraded. “The person who had drafted the plan said it had not been considered in totality. So, we might have to revisit the plan,” the GMDA chief said. The development authority will soon be carrying out a techno-feasibility study for areas like Narsinghpur. “We have thought of constructing a drain and then channeling the water to a master drain towards Manesar. This way, we can address the issue of flooding at Narsinghpur,” Kundu said. Sewa Ram, a town planner at the School of Planning and Architecture, pointed out that the Gurugram administration must find the critical points and then work out solutions. “The same thing had happened in Delhi earlier. The Delhi government identified the critical spots and appointed one officer each to ensure that the water was pumped out as soon as it started raining,” he said. Ram, however, added that Gurugram’s case was much worse than Delhi’s, given that the Haryana city’s drainage system was faulty. “The national highway doesn’t even have drains at multiple points,” he added. Ram also stressed on the need for having a standing committee for managing traffic during heavy rain..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/waterlocked-why-gurgaon-is-in-a-rainwater-trap/articleshow/77644539.cms||Shubhra Pant
August 20, 2020||Trichy||Government school takes traditional route to attract admissions in Pudukottai||TRICHY: Taking a traditional route to attract admissions, teachers from a government elementary school in Pudukottai district approached parents with a ‘thambulam plate’ to send their wards to their school. The school at Kothamangalam panchayat union had over 250 students but the strength came down to 160 last year. Private schools that came up in the recent years had attracted parents over English being the medium of instruction, said S Selvarani, headmistress of the school. We decided to sensitize the parents in the vicinity non the availability of English medium classes, computer education, infrastructure and quality of education in our school offered free of cost. Instead of approaching parents with bare hands, we chose to go with a ‘thambulam plate’. While thambulam plate filled with bananas, betel leaves and areca nuts being a symbol of commitment, through our gesture we assured to give the best possible education that they expect from private schools, said Selvarani. Parent of one among the 16 students who have joined the elementary school this year, P Annakili, 30 said that she has admitted her child to class II this year while pulling out from a private school. “The school has good infrastructure with smart classrooms besides English medium classes. These are the things for which we had sent our children to private schools. When it is available in government schools, why would we spend money in private schools,” she said. V Tamil Selvan, 42, president of the parent-teacher association of the school said, a computer teacher has been appointed on consolidated pay recently to ensure that students get computer education. We are making efforts for all round development of students and believe that more parents would send their children seeing our efforts, headmistress added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/govt-school-takes-traditional-route-to-attract-admissions-in-pudukottai/articleshow/77644534.cms||Sampath Kumar
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||AAI to study flooding in mini airport locations in rain-hit T||Hyderabad: As part of the plans to develop six mini airports in Telangana, the authorities have sought high flood level (HFL) particulars at the proposed locations. In a communication to the superintending engineers, senior R&B officials have asked for the particulars as sought by the Airports Authority of India (AAI). Director of Telangana State Aviation Corporation VN Bharat Reddy said the AAI had sought the details after they had asked the AAI to prepare a techno-feasibility report. “We expect the report to be ready by next month,” he told TOI. In the recent flood situation in Telangana, many districts were battered, including places which were hitherto considered safe. That is why the authorities have asked for the HFL details, source said. “There are no lakes near the area which has been proposed for a mini airport. The question of flooding does not arise, but we will be sending the report to the authorities,” an official of the R&B department in Nizamabad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aai-to-study-flooding-in-mini-airport-locations-in-rain-hit-t/articleshow/77642413.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 20, 2020||Bhopal||Discom call centre shut after 27 staff test Covid positive||Bhopal: Covid-19 has hit operations of MP Madhya Kshetra Vidyut Vitran Company (central power discom) forcing closure of its call centre operations after 27 employees tested positive.Now no consumer would be able to register their complaints over phone at the company’s call centre till further orders, an official said. The discom has issued number of a chat-bot and urged people to register complaints through Upay app.Official sources from the discom said all 27 employees who tested Covid-19 positive worked at the call centre situated at the company headquarters in Govindpura area. The call center was closed till further orders.People can now make complaints on the WhatsApp chatbot at 0755255122 or they can make complaints using Upay app. Sources said the call centre would be shut for next 48 hours and the situation would be assessed and a call would be taken thereafter.The central discom supplies power to 16 districts of the state and on an average around 8,000-10,000 calls are received at the call center daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/discom-call-centre-shut-after-27-staff-test-covid-positive/articleshow/77642423.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Kothrud traders urge mandals to not seek donations amid losses||PUNE: The traders in Kothrud have put up a board near Bhelkenagar, urging Ganesh mandals not to seek donation for the upcoming Ganapati festival in view of the losses suffered by them owing to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Members of the Sadashiv-Sakhai Traders Association in Kothrud said that contrary to expectations that normal business would resume after lockdown, their earnings have been insignificant. Sunil Gehlot, association president, said, “Our members collect money and give donations for Dahi Handi, Ganesh festival, Navratri and other occasions on behalf of our organisation. There are over 25 Ganesh mandals in our area. Every year, we give donations to each mandal. But this year we are going through a difficult phase. Many of our members are facing financial crisis. Yet, traders have to pay rent, power bills and salaries to employees. So, we have decided not to give donations this year.” Sachin Nivangune, president, Pune District Retail Traders Association, told TOI that there are 128 branches of the association all over the district. “All traders have decided not to give donation for any festival at least till Diwali this year,” he said, adding that similar boards have been put up in Wagholi and Pimpri Chinchwad. Senior inspector Pratibha Joshi of Kothrud police told TOI, “We will register an offence of extortion if we receive any complaint regarding forcible collection of donation by any mandal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kothrud-traders-urge-mandals-to-not-seek-donations-amid-losses/articleshow/77642421.cms||Mihir Tanksale
August 20, 2020||Pune||Special song release for Ganeshotsav||Pune: Viraj Joshi, grandson of kirana gharana doyen Pandit Bhimsen Joshi, will release a special song — ‘Varad Vinayak He’ — on the occasion of Ganeshotsav. The song is written and composed by his father vocalist Shrinivas Joshi. Featuring both classical and contemporary music, the song will be released on YouTube and Facebook on August 20. Speaking about the song, Viraj Joshi said, “I always wanted to have a song of my own. I started working on the song ‘Varad Vinayak He’ during the lockdown. The song has been composed in such a way that today’s younger generation will love it.” Shrinivas Joshi said, “Composing Viraj’s song has given me a chance once again to work in the field of music direction.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/special-song-release-for-ganeshotsav/articleshow/77642415.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Night curfew: Cops fail to tune in as city hums with activity||Ludhiana: Even as the district administration claims to have strict night curfew from 9pm to 5am, the ground reality presents a different picture. During a reality check on Tuesday night, a TOI team visited several areas and found some of them teeming with people. Save Shivpuri main chowk on National Highway, there were hardly any cops on roads to ensure night curfew enforcement. While policemen were issuing challans to commuters near main Shivpuri Chowk on National Highway-44 at 9.35pm, a vegetable market was bustling with activity a kilometer away. The huge rush of residents as well as vegetable vendors ignored physical distancing. Some liquor vends, too, were open in the area. While traffic flow was witnessed in Field Gunj at 10pm, it was milder in areas like Chaura Bazaar, Clock Tower, Bharat Nagar Chowk, Model Town, Division 3 Chowk, Dugri Chowk, Gill Canal, Dandi Swami Road and Old Session Court Chowk. In Jawahar Nagar, people were strolling on roads at 10.30pm.At CMC Chowk and Field Gunj, ‘dhabas’ were open past 9.30pm. Ice-creams were being sold at Gill Canal at 10.18pm. A department store had its shutters up near Old Session Court Chowk at 9.56pm and liquor vends were open near Subhani Building Chowk and Local Adda post-9.40pm. And at all these places, there were no cops to keep a tab.Joint commissioner of police (headquarters) J Elanchezhian said, “We will ensure strict enforcement of night curfew in the city. Cops are deployed everywhere, including micro-containment zones and hospitals. So, we have to plan everything to put force into night patrolling. For implementation of night curfew, we are identifying hotspots in all four zones to deploy force accordingly.”9pm-5am curb on movementThe orders released by deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma state that movement of individuals for non-essential activities will remain prohibited between 9pm and 5am within municipal limits of Ludhiana district. Restrictions on timingsRestaurants, hotels (even in shopping malls) and other hospitality units can open till 8.30pm All shops and shopping malls can remain open till 8pm from Monday to Friday. On Saturday and Sunday, all non-essential commodities’ shops and shopping malls will remain closed Only essential commodities’ shops (even in shopping malls) will remain open all days till 8pmLiquor vends can open till 8.30pm||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/night-curfew-cops-fail-to-tune-in-as-city-hums-with-activity/articleshow/77641130.cms||Payal Dhawan
August 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Depressed over biz losses, transporter shoots himself||TNNLudhiana: A transporter allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself with his licensed rifle at his house in GK Estate, Tibba Road, in the wee hours of Wednesday.Kin said Gian Singh, 60, was depressed due to losses in business.ASI Bhupinder Singh said, “Earlier, Gian Singh’s business was on a roll and he owned seven trucks. Due to losses in the trade, he had to sell six of his trucks. Two days ago, his sole truck caught fire in Rajasthan and its driver and helper received burns. The incident left Gian Singh depressed. Early on Wednesday, he shot himself with his rifle.” Police have initiated proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/depressed-over-biz-losses-transporter-shoots-himself/articleshow/77641136.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mastermind found in counter-hacking operation||Ahmedabad: Cyber cell sleuths of Ahmedabad Police on Wednesday held Aron Varghese, 22, of Vadodara in connection with the GTU (Gujarat Technological University) hacking case. Varghese is an eighth-semester student of the GTU-affiliated Information Technology and Management (ITM) College in Waghodia near Vadodara. He had leaked the personal data of 1,275 GTU students because he wanted the exams to be cancelled. Most colleges have postponed their exams due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The accused was pursuing the master’s degree in electrical engineering. According to cyber cell sources, at one point the probe was stalled because the accused had used intricate means to hide his IP address. The sources revealed that they were helped by a former student of GTU who has a master’s degree in cyber security, Naresh Kumar; and Professor Deepak Upadhyay of GTU. Deputy commissioner of police, cyber cell, Amit Vasava said that the accused was traced soon after the IP address was retrieved. “Earlier, we had arrested Mohit Chotani of Junagadh for uploading the leaked data on social media and now we have got the mastermind,” Vasava said. Assistant commissioner of police, cyber cell, Jeetendra Yadav said that GTU had lodged a complaint after personal data of 1,275 students who had registered for exams were stolen in the last week of July. The data included photos and details of PAN and Aadhaar. “In the first week of August, we picked up Chotani,” Yadav said. “During interrogation it came to light that he had got the data from a Twitter handle called GTU_leaks.” Yadav said Professor Upadhyay and Kumar then stepped in to remove the technical obstacles which Varghese had put to hide his IP address.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mastermind-found-in-counter-hacking-operation/articleshow/77642414.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Citizens don creative hats to shape their own green Ganapati idols||PUNE: Several residents of the city have utilized their time at home to mould their own Ganapati out of clay this Ganeshotsav instead of buying an idol from the market. Equipped with clay, paint and an assortment of tools available at home, Punekars have put on their creative hats to make an idol unlike any found in the market. BT Kawade Road resident Revvati Patil has made a larger replica of a small Ganesh idol she had at home as an experiment. “The pandemic has made me reluctant to go out and purchase an idol since I have a small child at home. My husband and I decided to experiment with the idol and if it did not turn out fine, we had planned to buy one. However, it has turned out very well and we will consecrate the idol on Chaturthi,” she explained. Patil said that she used the clay from the immersion of last year’s idol to mould the new one. Sharayu Bobade whitewashes the Ganapati idol that she scuplted before painting itAnother Punekar based in Adelaide, Australia, Smita Ugale also used clay saved from last year’s idol to create one at home. “We always bought clay Ganesh idols from Indian stores here and the immersion was done at home. Last year, I retained the clay after immersion. I have used it to create an idol. The entire process of bringing the idol to life was fulfilling. I feel there is an appeal that adds an allure to your mind when you make the pagdi, dhoti, pearl garland and other accessories. It has been an overwhelming experience to create the idol,” Ugale stated. City-based software engineer Sharayu Bobade has been crafting idols at home for several years. “In 2010-11, I would buy the idols and paint them at home. Thereafter, I started sculpting idols myself too. I had old clay at home and I used it to create the idol. I used an assortment of tools from spoons and forks to visiting cards and pens to carve the idol. It takes about five to six hours to mould an idol correctly and it has to be done in one seating. The painting and finishing can be done once the clay dries sufficiently. I use acrylic paints on the idol as it peels off during immersion. Apart from creating my idols, I have also been making eco-friendly decor at home for the last two years,” Bobade shared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citizens-don-creative-hats-to-shape-their-own-green-ganapati-idols/articleshow/77642409.cms||Rujuta Parekh
August 20, 2020||Vadodara||111 test positive for Covid-19||Vadodara: A fresh peak in Covid-19 cases was made with 111 persons testing positive for Covid-19 in the city and district since Tuesday evening. The high numbers have not led to a major panic as they were identified from 1,926 tests, the highest so far, and the positivity ratio remained low. With the 111 new cases, the total number of persons found infected in the city and district since the pandemic began went up to 6,647. With the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) confirming one more death due to Covid-19 as the primary cause of death, the total number of such deaths went up to 124. Sources said that the tests included several persons who were being tested randomly using rapid antigen tests. The largest number of new cases were reported from the west zone of the VMC where 299 persons were found positive. Twenty cases were detected in the north zone, 18 in the south zone and 13 in the east zone of the civic body. The areas from where cases were reported include Warasiya, Karelibaug, Gori, Sama, Vasna Road, Nagarwada, Danteshwar, Navayard, Manjalpur, Mandvi, Gorwa, New VIP Road, Akota, Subhanpura, Wadi, Ajwa Road, Chhani, Atladara, Fatehpura, Waghodiya Road, Raopura, Ellora Park, Akshar Chowk, Tarsali, Panigate and Alkapuri. Thirty cases were reported from areas outside the VMC limits in Vadodara district. These included people from Dabhoi, Dabhasa, Pipli, Padra, Desar, Karjan, Shinor, Segwa, Sevasi, Koyali, Ranoli, Karodiya and Savli. One person from Ahmedabad also tested positive in Vadodara. With 48 more being discharged, the total number of discharged patients in the city went up to 5,322 leaving 1,201 under treatment. These include 56 on ventilators or BiPAP machines whose condition is serious.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/111-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/77640538.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Heavy rain in Ahmedabad district likely over the weekend||AHMEDABAD: India Meteorological Department (IMD) in a forecast on Wednesday said that Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar districts may receive heavy rainfall on August 22 and 23. From Thursday, parts of south Gujarat and Saurashtra are expected to receive heavy rainfall, mentioned the forecast. Khergam in Navsari district received 83 mm rainfall from 6 am to 10 pm on Wednesday, followed by Borsad (81 mm) and Petlad (71 mm) in Anand district, Chikhli (69 mm) in Navsari district, and Wadhwan (65 mm) in Surendranagar district, mentioned State Emergency Operations Centre (SEOC) data. The SEOC officials mentioned that the state had received 85% of the seasonal rainfall till Wednesday afternoon. Kutch received maximum 149% of seasonal rain, followed by 117% in Saurashtra, 85% in south Gujarat, 66% in central Gujarat and 62% in north Gujarat. Due to the rainfall, 205 reservoirs in state received significant water inflow, mentioned officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/heavy-rain-in-abad-district-likely-over-the-weekend/articleshow/77642425.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Nagpur||Pola festivities end on a very dull note||Nagpur: The hustle-bustle on the streets and merriment during the marbat procession and Tanha Pola was missing on Wednesday. Thanks to the coronavirus virus scare, coupled with the strike by traders, people were forced to confine indoors. As reported, the traditional celebrations of Kali and Pivli marbat in its 140th year and 137th year respectively, went off peacefully with limited number of people completing formalities of ‘visarjan’ followed by dahan (burning) with slogan shouting - ‘Corona gheun ja ge marbat (take away corona with you).” Prakash Gaurkar, president, of Marbat Nagoba Devasthan, Tarhane Teli Samaj, Maskasath, said, “The Pivli marbat was set afire at 12 noon amid tight vigil by cops on a vacant plot 200 metres away from the temple. We followed social distancing and volunteers used face masks. ” The festivity ended on a dull note as none was allowed near the spot. All roads reaching the Pivli temple were cordoned off by police as the basic idea was to get rid of corona by avoiding crowds. Yet, there were many who had gathered on rooftops and terraces of nearby places to catch a glimpse of Pivli marbat, revered as a deity. Similarly, the Kali marbat was also set on fire at Nehru Stadium ground close to the temple in Itwari. “The routine crowd was missing due to closure of shops due to the bandh. Some people tried to have a look at the marbat but all roads leading to the temple were sealed. We allowed only nearby women residents to offer prayers and at 11am did visrajan,” said Gaurav Harde, president, Kali Marbat Devasthan Committee. Meanwhile, children on Tanha Pola, celebrated wooden bulls, were completely missing. Parents restricted their kids at home due to Covid-19 fear. “This year, kids did not visit our homes. We usually offer them a token amount or chocolates after applying tilak on their foreheads,” said many residents. The buzz at Raje Mudhoji Bhosle’s palace in Mahal was also missing. “The 8-feet wooden bull, the biggest in Vidarbha, is the star attraction every year but there was no procession due to Covid-19 restrictions. We maintained our tradition of 214 years by performing the rituals with 5 bulls. Children were not invited,” said Mudhoji Bhosle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pola-festivities-end-on-a-very-dull-note/articleshow/77643654.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Bhopal||Amid pandemic, kite craze flies high in Bhopal||Bhopal: Kites can be seen flying in Bhopal skies right in August. Thanks to the lockdown, citizens have switched to kite flying in this months. In fact, it is turning out to be a new past-time of Bhopalis. Even the kite makers are all smiles as sales are as good as they are usually in the month of January. In order to kill time, the citizens have opted for various hobbies. Kite flying has attracted many in large numbers. “After Sankranti festival, people seldom fly kites in Bhopal. Lockdown was imposed two months after the Sankranti festival. As several citizens still had their kites with them, they did not miss the opportunity after the unlock was declared,” said Anand Jain, a resident of Arera Colony. The new hobby is catching up with girls and women too. They too can be seen in good numbers trying their hands in flying kites. “Despite unlocking, we found it better to be at home as much as possible. As my elder brother and father fly kites in the evening I also join them. Later they teach and I learned it quickly,” said Anshu Agarwal, a class 12 student. Even working professionals can be seen flying kites at homes. “After watching TV and web series for over three months, flying kites attracted me. I used to fly kites in my childhood but later it discontinued after getting into professional work. Few of my office colleagues are my neighbours and we made a group to fly kites. Now, it has become a routine every evening,” said Vineet Sharma, a senior employee in a private firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/amid-pandemic-kite-craze-flies-high-in-bhopal/articleshow/77642442.cms||Ramendra Singh
August 20, 2020||Pune||PMC to partly outsource tax collection job||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to partially outsource the work of recovering property tax from the defaulters. Altogether 400 people will be roped in on a temporary basis for recovery of tax dues and other administrative work. The civic body will spend around Rs2crore for employing temporary staff, said officials. The PMC officials said that notices have been issued to defaulters for recovery of tax dues. Property owners are expected to pay their dues once they receive the notices. But many of them have not cleared their dues and the temporary staff will be employed for the purpose of recovering the taxes from them. The PMC had collected Rs763.90 crore from April 1 to June 30 in 2019-20, which reduced to Rs673.60 crore this year. “After the abolition of octroi and local body tax (LBT), property tax is the most important revenue source for the civic body,” said a senior official of the PMC’s accounts department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-partly-outsource-tax-collection-job/articleshow/77642426.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Lawyers protest contempt proceedings against Bhushan||Hyderabad: Scores of advocates from Telangana staged a silent demonstration in front of high court (HC) gate holding placards in support of Supreme Court (SC) senior advocate Prashant Bhushan who was convicted by the apex court in a contempt case, on Wednesday. They demanded the immediate withdrawal of the case. Telangana Bar Council member B Konda Reddy urged the apex court to review its suomotu decision. Konda also warned that the Bar would meet again to intensify the agitation soon if the action against the lawyer is not dropped immediately. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lawyers-protest-contempt-proceedings-against-bhushan/articleshow/77642401.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Farmer, 2 drown in separate mishaps||Hyderabad: Two persons drowned in a lake at Medak district on Tuesday while trying to catch fish, while a 40-year-old farmer drowned in a swollen stream in Nizamabad district. In the first incident, G Muthyalu (35) of Medak district and his relative Arun (32) from Hyderabad went into the deeper side of a lake while trying to catch fish in Ibrahimpur village and drowned. In another incident, S Ganapathi drowned while crossing the stream in Dharmasagar village on Tuesday evening. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farmer-2-drown-in-separate-mishaps/articleshow/77642430.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Pune||E-survey on cycle tracks||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has appealed to citizens to participate in the online survey for identifying locations for cycle tracks on popular routes. The survey link is available on Smart Sarathi phone application. Executive engineer Shrikant Savane said the survey was part of the Union government’s “cycles4change” challenge. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/e-survey-on-cycle-tracks/articleshow/77642433.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Hubballi||Floods, Covid pose dual challenge to NK dists||BELAGAVI: The administrations in flood-hit districts of North Karnataka have a uphill task of containing the spread of the novel coronavirus in the relief camps where thousands of villagers have been shifted in view of their safety. Several villages located along the Krishna, Malaprabha and Ghataprabha rivers in Belagavi, Gadag, Bagalkot and Raichur districts are inundated following heavy rain. Water entered villages, forcing the authorities to move residents to safety. In Belagavi, four camps have been set up, while Gadag and Bagalkot have two camps each. In all, there are over 3,500 flood victims taking shelter in these camps. However, in Raichur, although 30 camps were identified to shelter flood victims, so far no one has been shifted, as villages have not been flooded. The people from the island villages of Raichur which are inundated, have moved to the homes of their friends and relatives. There is fear that there could be an outbreak of Covid-19 in these camps. It is not possible to follow social distancing norms in these camps, and the food provided is not of a good quality. About 500 flood victims are cramped in a camp at Lakamapur in Gadag district. Prabhugouda Patil, a flood victim, said after learning about poor facilities at the camp, he and his family decided to live on a tractor in a safe isolated place. He opined that the risk of Covid spreading in the camps in the district was high, although the district administration has provided masks and hand sanitisers. An inability to maintain social distancing in the camps is worrisome, and several families opted out of relief camps due to this. There are about 1,000 people in the camps, currently. Belagavi deputy commissioner M G Hiremath said that about 2,000 people were shifted to four relief camps at Gokak, Mudalagi, Raibag and Surebana. “Camps have been identified by keeping in mind the challenge posed by Covid. We have allotted more rooms in government schools to maintain physical distancing, and are providing masks and hand sanitisers. A thermal scanner and pulse oximeter have been given for each camp, and Asha workers who are deployed at the camps will screen flood victims and check oxygen levels of senior citizens,” he said. He added that the district administration has taken adequate measures to ensure that Covid does not spread in the camps. Raichur DC R Venkatesh Kumar said Covid-related measures are in place, and in case the situation so demands, to shift people to camps, it will be done. Mudhol in Bagalkot district is seeing nearly 30 Covid cases every day. Social distancing has gone for a toss in the camp here. A source privy to the condition of the camp said that from Mudhol people would carry the virus to their villages and spread it there, as measures taken to contain Covid are insufficient. PC: Food being served to flood victims at a relief camp in Belagavi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/floods-covid-pose-dual-challenge-to-nk-dists/articleshow/77643288.cms||Shreyas HS
August 20, 2020||Nagpur||Fake firms at govt premises claimed GST credit worth crores||Nagpur: A fake input tax credit (ITC) racket involving dummy firms, some of which were registered at addresses in government premises at Nagpur, has been unearthed by the Directorate General of Goods and Services Tax Intelligence (DGGSTI). ITC to the tune of Rs78 crore has been availed by these firms by recording fictitious transactions worth over Rs430 crore. Each of the 23 firms allegedly involved in the racket kept the amount of fake ITC within Rs5 crore, to avoid arrest. DGGSTI takes strict action, including arrest, if the amount involved exceeds Rs5 crore. Sources said the firms got GST registration by mentioning addresses of government premises and submitting fake documents. This went unnoticed till a probe was conducted on the basis of specific intelligence received by sleuths. The action was conducted by DGGSTI’s Nagpur unit. The investigations have revealed that the firms spread from Delhi to Chennai were recording fake sales and purchases transactions, and availed ITC without any actual supply of goods. The transactions recorded were of commodities ranging from iron and steel, plastic articles, copper, aluminium waste etc. The modus operandi of these firms was to obtain GST registration on the basis of forged documents of unrelated individuals and carry out bogus transactions. The transactions were only on paper, without any physical movement of goods. The transactions were deliberately routed through an intricate network of firms to make them untraceable. Each time the amount involved touched the Rs5 crore threshold limit, the earlier GSTIN was cancelled and a new one was obtained. New firms with a new PAN were formed, and the activities continued, said a press release. The registration numbers of vehicles mentioned in the e-way bills were those of two-wheelers or three-wheelers. The sleuths found 23 firms involved in the case, out of which six were registered at addresses in Nagpur. Searches were conducted at Nagpur, Jalandhar, Sonepat and Delhi. ITC is a reduction in tax liability available in an indirect tax system like GST. This is a proportionate reduction in tax liability on the sale of goods, for the duty that was paid while purchasing the inputs for making the product. Surplus ITC can be used for setting off tax liability without paying any tax.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fake-firms-at-govt-premises-claimed-gst-credit-worth-crores/articleshow/77643684.cms||Shishir Arya
August 20, 2020||Pune||2 farmers held with sand boa||Pune: The crime branch of the city police on Wednesday rescued a rare sand boa snake from the possession of two farmers in Yerawada and sent it to the Katraj zoo. A police team cuffed the duo based on a tip-off. The farmers were looking for possible buyers to sell the snake for Rs 22 lakh. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-farmers-held-with-sand-boa/articleshow/77642445.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Kochi||Ernakulam heading towards peak of Covid infection: Official||KOCHI: Source of infection of 238 positive cases in the district is still unknown. The data, based on an analysis report on Covid-19, shows the extent of community transmission in Ernakulam. Conditions are not favourable for healthcare workers (HCWs) either as the report further says that 250 more HCWs could contract the disease in a month. The report released by the district administration on Wednesday revealed that till August 17, 110 HCWs were tested positive for coronavirus. With this and the projection, the number of HCWs infected with Covid-19 could touch 394 in a month. On an average, 16 HCWs are being tested positive per week. Going by this trend, a maximum of 63 HCWs could contract the disease per week after a month, posing a threat on the healthcare system in the district. Meanwhile, the unknown source of infection will increase from existing 101 cases per week into up to 217 per week in a month. Total positive cases reported per week too could touch 1,725 after a month. "More HCWs getting infected will affect the health system. Kothamangalam will be the new cluster in the district considering the number of cases being reported from there every day. We cannot always restrict the movement of people as it will affect their livelihood. People have started to raise objection against implementing containment measures covering large areas. We cannot push people to poverty in the name of protecting them from Covid. We will start lifting restrictions in West Kochi from next week. If we do not allow people to make a living in Onam season, things will become disastrous. The administration cannot extend financial support indefinitely as the resources are running out," said a district health official. Restrictions will be confined to micro containment areas alone. Ernakulam reported 27 deaths till August 17. The infection was mostly reported among males due to their frequent movement in the society. Of the total 3,643 cases reported, 2,244 were males.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ekm-heading-towards-peak-of-infection-official/articleshow/77641182.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Traffic cop held for Viramgam gang rape||AHMEDABAD: A member of the TRB (traffic regulation brigade) with Viramgam town police station of Ahmedabad district has been identified as one of the five men who had on the night of August 15 gang-raped a woman with learning difficulties near Munsar lake in Viramgam. A team of Ahmedabad rural police detained the accused TRB jawan, Mahesh Bhopa, who worked with Viramgam town police station, where the rape complaint was filed. Police said that other accused were identified as Rahul Bharwad, Mafa Bharwad, Dashrath Bharwad and Lakha Bharwad. All the accused are residents of Viramgam town and were put under detention. They will be formally arrested once they undergo Covid-19 tests. According to the complaint filed at Viramgam town police station, the incident took place late on August 15 evening when the victim was walking towards a hospital to meet her mother who works as midwife. At that time, Rahul, an autorickshaw driver, came to her and told her to sit inside his autorickshaw. As she refused, he forcibly pushed her inside his rickshaw and took her to a secluded place near Munsar lake. Rahul had then called up other accused — his friends, who reached there on two different motorcycles. All five persons took turn to rape her and then Rahul dumped her near her house in a semi-conscious condition. “The accused were seen by the survivor when the beams of a truck lights fell on their faces. She knew the accused by their names, which she mentioned in her FIR,” said an official from Viramgam town police station. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/traffic-cop-held-for-viramgam-gang-rape/articleshow/77642446.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: 55 more flights in July, but passenger flow dips by 6%||PUNE: The city airport witnessed an increase in domestic air traffic with 1,437 flights in July as against 1,382 in June, but curiously, the passenger flow dipped by over 6%. The airport handled 1.17 lakh passengers in June. The number reduced to 1.09 lakh in July. The increase in air traffic by almost 4%, with 55 additional flights, was likely to indicate a subsequent improvement in passenger count but certain factors — the most prominent being the rise in Covid-19 cases in Pune — altered the script. “The figures have been very impressive considering the present situation and the fact that the airport was completely shut down for two months,” an airport official said. Aviation analyst and expert Dhairyashil Vandekar was not too optimistic about the flyer movement picking up till the infection was contained. “The initial spike in passenger movement mostly consisted of migrant employees, students and parents, among others, who were looking for flights to return home. Many IT employees in Pune returned to their native place. It will be a while before people decide to travel, subject to economic activity picking up and mitigation of the infection,” he told TOI. S K Jain, former president of the Marhatta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), and former chairman of MCCIA’s civil aviation committee, said the runway recarpeting — set to commence soon — was likely to trigger a further drop in the number of flyers. “The Indian Air Force will not allow civil flights at all times, even during or after the recarpeting. They are most likely to prioritize their practice sessions,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/55-more-flights-in-july-but-passenger-flow-dips-by-6/articleshow/77642453.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||T should roll out Rs 1,000cr dole: Cong||Hyderabad: The Congress in Telangana has demanded the state government to immediately assess crop damages due to rains and announce compensation package for farmers. “At least Rs 1,000 crore should be released by the state to compensate farmers and also to assist them in case of total crop loss,”said state Congress working president A Revanth Reddy in a letter to CM K Chandrasekhar Rao. Stating that heavy rains have inundated crops in over 5 lakh acres, he said CM KCR has left the farmers to the mercy officials. “At least the Agriculture Minister should immediately take up a field visit and ensure that officials conduct assessment of crop damage due to incessant rains,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-should-roll-out-rs-1000cr-dole-cong/articleshow/77642459.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Life Mission got foreign fund without Centre’s sanction||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The details of the MoU, signed between Life Mission and UAE Red Crescent Authority for a housing project in Wadakkancherry, raises larger questions on whether the government had taken mandatory clearance from the Centre while accepting aid from a foreign agency. The agreement signed between Mohamed Ateeq Al Falahi as the first party and UV Jose, CEO of Life Mission as the second party on Jul 11, 2019, says the first party will provide AED 1crore (approx Rs 20.4 cr) of which AED 70L (Rs 14.3 cr) is to be spent on constructing homes for flood survivors. The remaining AED 30L (Rs 6.1 cr) would be used to build a health centre to be operated by Life Mission. As per Article 293 (3) of the Constitution, “a state may not without the consent of the government of India raise any loan if there is still outstanding any part of a loan which has been made to the state by the government of India or its predecessor government”. Also as per Section 3(1) (b) of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010, no foreign contribution shall be accepted by any judge, government servant, employee of any corporation or any other body controlled or owned by the government. However, such acceptance can be made only with the prior permission of the Centre. “UAE Red Crescent is an NGO registered in Abu Dhabi and recipient of the funds is Life Mission which is a government organization. Therefore, it is self-evident that the transfer of funds need a prior approval from MEA and also the ministry of home affairs,” said sources in the home affairs ministry. According to sources, all lapses could have been avoided if the document was properly vetted by departments concerned. It is learnt that the MoU was rushed through by LSGD secretary who ignored the suggestion of the law secretary to discuss the document with the cabinet. Another clause in the MoU also contradicts the claim that Life Mission had no role in finding contractor for the project. According to article 6 of the MoU, “except in the context of executing the joint project, each party of this memorandum of understanding shall keep the independency”. This would mean that the independence and freedom for both parties is possible only in projects which are not executed jointly, whereas the housing project at Wadakkancherry is a joint project as it is being built on government land. For the same reason, the selection of a contractor is not the responsibility of UAE Red Crescent Authority alone. State-level empowered committee chaired by the chief secretary had on June 26, 2019 issued an administrative sanction for the housing project in Wadakkancherry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/life-mission-got-foreign-fund-without-centres-sanction/articleshow/77641292.cms||KP Saikiran
August 20, 2020||Pune||Youth in net for robbing pvt firm staffers||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Tuesday arrested a 20-year-old youth from Talegaon Dabhade, who was on the run after assaulting and robbing two housekeeping staffers of a private company on August 14 on Dehu Road. Police have identified the suspect as Sidram Koli of Khalwadi at Talegaon Dabhade. A police team, led by assistant inspector Prasad Gajjewar, arrested him. Police have launched a search for his three accomplices. Sunil Tak (42) of Dehu Road lodged an FIR with the police. Gajjewar said that in the early hours of August 14, Tak and his colleague Ramesh Chandaliya were returning home from work. After crossing the octroi post of Dehu Road cantonment, their motorcycle ran out of fuel. “ A car stopped near them and four youths asked the duo to come along with them. When they refused, the suspects assaulted them and snatched their phones and cash,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-in-net-for-robbing-pvt-firm-staffers/articleshow/77642455.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fifth day of Paryushan marked with Janma Vanchan||Ahmedabad: The Jain community in the city marked the fifth day of holy Paryushan Parva by performing the Janma Vanchan (reading of the birth) of Lord Mahavir. At Shantinagar Jain Sangh near Usmanpura, devotees performed the reading along with darshan of 14 dreams seen by Trishala Mata, the mother of Lord Mahavir. The organizers said that the event took place with social distancing and only a few members were allowed to take part in the rituals. “This year due to the epidemic, the majority of Jain sanghas in the city have requested members to witness the events online or on social media for which special arrangements have been made. Several derasars and upashrays are functional and devotees are visiting it, but stringent rules are followed,” said Mukul Sanghvi, a Paldi resident. Paryushan, one of the holiest periods for the Jain community, is celebrated this year from August 15 to 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fifth-day-of-paryushan-marked-with-janma-vanchan/articleshow/77642492.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||AP: CBI yet to issue FIR in two key cases||Hyderabad: More than a month after the AP government ordered a CBI probe into the Amaravati land scam and AP Fibernet project, the investigating agency is yet to file an FIR in two key allegations of irregularities involving TDP leaders. Sources said CBI is waiting for a nod from the department of personnel and training in both the cases before proceeding further. The AP government had issued an order on July 13 asking CBI to look into the allegations. The government believes the Amaravati land scam involves several top politicians and functionaries of the previous TDP regime. The allegations in the Rs 350 crore Fibernet project were that contracts were awarded in executing various infrastructural works and funds siphoned off in the name of procurements. These lapses were pointed out by a cabinet sub-committee after an enquiry. It was alleged that the irregularities could be to the tune of over Rs 2,000 crore. Major allegations include awarding BBNL phase II work at an excess rate of 11.26% over the estimates in violation of tender procurement guidelines. In the Amaravati land scam case, the Enforcement Directorate is waiting for an FIR to be filed by the CBI. AP CID has been probing several cases of Amaravati where 797 white ration card holders (below poverty line families) purchased around 761 acres worth Rs 220 crore in Amaravati. The investigation had revealed that many of the land buyers did not even have PAN cards and did not pay income tax.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-cbi-yet-to-issue-fir-in-two-key-cases/articleshow/77642484.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops find gold, cash during raid||Tirupati: Huge amount of unaccounted assets allegedly belonging to a government servant was found at Anantapur on Tuesday. The raid at a house in Gandhi Nagar area was conducted following a tip-off about illegal arms and ammunition being hidden there. The cops found three 9mm pistols, 18 rounds of ammunition and one air gun. However, they also found inside eight locked tin trunks with about 2.5 kg of gold ornaments, 84 kg of silver articles, Rs 15.55 lakh in cash, 49 lakh in fixed deposits, and promissory notes worth Rs 27 lakh. Police also seized two four-wheelers, four tractors and seven two-wheelers, including an expensive imported bike. - Sandeep Raghavan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-find-gold-cash-during-raid/articleshow/77642507.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
August 20, 2020||Mumbai||Calicut crash evidence tampered with: Expert||Mumbai: The Air India Express Calicut accident site was not secured and evidence may have been displaced, tampered with and destroyed, said Capt Amit Singh, an air safety expert, in a letter sent to the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) this week. He based his observation on photographs and videos shot by the media at the crash site, about three hours after the accident.On August 7, an AIX aircraft from Dubai overshot the Calicut runway on landing and dropped off the table-top runway, killing 18 people, including both the pilots.The video showed a person dressed in military fatigues positioned outside the aircraft cockpit. He points to something inside the cockpit, while another person, who is inside the cockpit, hands over what appears to be a document, to the person outside, who in turn, hands over the document to a third person, said the letter, sent to the MoCA secretary, seeking a probe into the matter. “It might be key evidence in the accident investigation. A judicial probe must be initiated to carry out an unbiased investigation,’’ said Capt Singh.Speaking to TOI, Capt Singh said that he spoke to the media channels concerned and found out that the said clip was shot at 10.37pm, about three hours after the crash. The Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) team reached Calicut only at 5am the next day.The photographs “undoubtedly capture a scene of alleged tampering and destruction of evidence from the aircraft cockpit”, he said . If indeed that is what has happened, then the act, considered criminal in nature, is punishable under the Indian Penal Code, he said.The Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) procedures manual 2012 details the procedure for securing evidence on site (4.1.4). It says that the officer in-charge of the aerodrome closest to the site of accident shall assist in coordination with local police authorities and shall take immediately all reasonable measures to protect the evidence until the arrival of the officer of AAIB or any other authorized person. It adds that the assistance of civil authorities, particularly that of local police, is also necessary to ensure that vital evidence is not lost.The International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) Doc. 9756 Part II states that “securing the occurrence site, aircraft, wreckage, and other equipment involved to ensure their preservation, including protection against further damage, and the deterioration or disappearance of essential evidence due to theft, displacement or improper handling of the wreckage” should be accomplished without delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/calicut-crash-evidence-tampered-with-expert/articleshow/77644581.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Allahabad||Police Mitra launches website to offer voluntary blood donation||Prayagraj: Police Mitra, a voluntary blood donor group of policemen and civilians, has launched its website www.policemitraa.org on Wednesday to help people seeking blood for the treatment of their loved ones. On the website, a person seeking blood for a patient will be able to access the donor’s details city-wise. While those who wish to donate their blood, can view seeker’s details on the website and reach the hospital or blood bank concerned for the purpose. Police Mitra aims to connect at least 50,000 voluntary blood donors across the country. IG (Prayagraj range) K P Singh said “ Police Mitra” is a platform where cops and public work together to save as many lives as possible. With the launch of the website, more people could access donors and thus more live could be sDaved.” “Any person can register on the website. If any person registers for donating blood or for seeking blood from donor, a team of Police Mitra will carry out their verification. People will also be encouraged to donate blood through the website,” he added. The website has a “Request” column where anyone can request for donating their blood or seek blood for the patient in crisis,” said Singh. “However, Police Mitra volunteers will verify all details of the request before donating their blood or inviting someone for blood donation,” he added. IG said that around 5,000 active members of Police Mitra group are accessible for voluntary blood donation in 18 states of the country including UP.” Earlier, these donors connected with the public through social media platforms. During the lockdown period, Police Mitra has managed to save at least 25 lives in Prayagraj by donating blood. Constable Ashish Mishra had founded the group in February, 2017 with the aim to donate blood to patients in the time of crisis. Since its inception in February, 2017, the group has saved more than 1,500 lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/police-mitra-launches-website-to-offer-voluntary-blood-donation/articleshow/77638924.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat’s 5 months with corona: Battling on||Ahmedabad: Gujarat in the 24 hours ending 5pm on Wednesday recorded 1,145 positive cases, taking the total to 82,087. The state also recorded 17 deaths; the toll now is 2,839.The deaths included seven in Surat, four in Ahmedabad, three in Rajkot, and one each in Bhavnagar, Gandhinagar, and Patan. The new cases include 238 from Surat, 163 from Ahmedabad, 115 from Vadodara, and 96 from Rajkot.With the update, the total cases in Ahmedabad and Surat are 29,575 and 17,562 respectively. The two districts account for 57.4% of the total cases of the state. The districts have recorded 1,670 and 568 deaths respectively, or 78.8% of the total deaths in Gujarat.On Wednesday, the state completed five months since the first case of Covid-19 was registered on March 19. In 153 days, the state recorded, on average, 536 daily positive cases, about 18 deaths, and 424 discharges.An analysis of the cases reveals that the share of eight municipal corporation areas has remained 50% whereas the cities’ share in deaths is 58.8%.In all, 1,120 patients were discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 64,830. The discharges include 324 from Surat, 180 from Ahmedabad, 79 from Gir-Somnath, and 67 from Rajkot.Of the 82,087 total Covid-19 positive patients in Gujarat, 14,418 (17.6%) are active, 64,830 (79%) are discharged, and 2,839 (3.4%) are dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarats-5-months-with-corona-battling-on/articleshow/77642663.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana to raise river water sharing issue||HYDERABAD: Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has decided to raise in the Apex Council meeting on August 25 the issue of Andhra Pradesh government taking up irrigation projects on Krishna and Godavari rivers without allocation of water and nod from Centre. The CM directed officials to prepare relevant documents and evidences to prove Telangana’s arguments and also clear all the doubts and issues raised by the Union ministry.The CM said Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation project, enhancing the capacity of Pothireddypadu head regulator and other projects that were taken up without any allocation will be highlighted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-to-raise-river-water-sharing-issue/articleshow/77642560.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 20, 2020||Kozhikode||Kudumbashree to ‘deep clean’ Wayanad||KOZHIKODE: The Kudumbashree mission will conduct a ‘deep cleaning’ in Wayanad district as part of Covid-19- preventive measure by enlisting 1.5 lakh members of neighbourhood groups (Ayalkootams) for cleaning up houses and surroundings with disinfectants. The one-day ‘Deep Clean Wayanad’ programme will be held on Sunday (August 23). “The deep-cleaning programme is more than a routine cleaning drive as it would involve disinfecting the houses and premises, including furniture, table surfaces, and high touch surfaces such as switches and TV remote controls. The surfaces will be wiped with disinfectants like bleaching powder” said P Sajitha, district mission coordinator of Kudumbashree in Wayanad. She said the deep-cleaning drive was being implemented to reduce the risk of infections given the rise in the number of cases. Also, public spaces such as bus stops and milk-collection centres will be disinfected by Kudumbashree members belonging to the around 10,000 Ayalkootams. The houses with elderly within the limits of each neighborhood group and those suffering from various diseases and under palliative care will also be cleaned up by the Kudumbashree volunteers, she added. The cleaning and disinfecting activities at the tribal colonies will be undertaken by the respective community development society (CDS) of Kudumbashree along with tribal animators. During the drive, the Kudumbashree volunteers would also distribute immunity-boosting tablets and Ayurvedic medicines along with doxycycline (antibiotic) tablets to prevent rat fever. Sajitha said that the Kudumbashree mission was already implementing the Grand Care programme for the elderly in association with the health department. As part of the campaign, the Kudumbashree mission has come up with a selfie contest with the title My House, Clean House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kudumbashree-to-deep-clean-wayanad/articleshow/77641228.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Bhopal||BJP leadership assures to talk to ‘disgruntled’ leaders||BHOPAL: More than two dozen BJP dissidents including former MLAs and district heads, who claimed to be ignored by the party and are out of race for ticket for the assembly by-polls to 27 seats, met with former Rajya Sabha member, Raghunandan Sharma here on Wednesday. Later, denying any differences, the leaders said that party leadership has given a positive response to their demands and assured to hold talks with them. "On the eve of the meeting, few leaders including Anoop Mishra and I had discussions with the state BJP president VD Sharma over the issues raised by the party leaders. It was stated that several former MLAs and district heads were feeling ignored over the communication gap with the state leadership. State party chief assured that the state organisation will take up the issue and talk to the leaders," Raghunandan Sahrma told TOI after the meeting. Raghunandan further said that it was decided to entrust the matter to the state organisation after one on one talks with Mishra, however, the decision could not be conveyed to several members and thus a meeting was called. "Most of the leaders believed that they were upset over being neglected in the party, especially after outsiders joined the BJP and were given prominence. They were also apprehensive of their role in the party. But, now the party will decide the fate of these leaders," said Sharma. About 25 leaders from Gwalior, Shivpuri, Guna, Singrauli, Satna, Rewa, Indore, Dewas, Jabalpur and Bhopal joined the meeting in person and through virtual media. Former MLA Shailendra Pradhan was present during the meeting from Bhopal while former minister Deepak Joshi joined through video conference. Other leaders including former minister Anoop Mishra from Gwalior, Baby Raja from Tikamgarh, ex-MLA Dharmu Rai, Vidyasagar Pandey, Abhay Sethia from Bhalaghat, Rajendra Tiwari from Rewa, Kiran Soni from Birsinghpur, Bindeshwari Pandey from Damoh and former district office-bearers joined the meeting. Sources said ahead of by-polls on 27 seats in the state, the BJP is unwilling to let discontentment grow within the party and cautioned that it was the organisation whose prestige is at stake during the by-poll. Former MLA Shailendra Pradhan said that why BJP was restricted to 107 seats in the 2018 assembly polls from 150, is a matter of concern. "The party should take along all the workers—old and new through active communication," he said. "We are thankful to the BJP leadership and state chief VD Sharma who lent his ears and assured to take up the issue at the state level," said Raghunandan Sharma. Sources in BJP disclosed that the meeting ended with a strong message that loyalists who have nurtured the party with their sweat and blood are ready to fight for their right and honour. “Every member is free to talk to the leadership in the state. The decision on `outsiders; are taken by the party high command and we have to respect the same. Every party worker needs to follow the disciplinary norms in the party. So, there was no confusion at all," said BJP state spokesperson, Rajneesh Agrawal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-leadership-assures-to-talk-to-disgruntled-leaders/articleshow/77642522.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Vadodara||PU ranked among top 50 in ARIIA 2020||Vadodara: City-based Parul University (PU) has been ranked among top 50 private universities in the country under Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) 2020. ARIIA is an initiative of union ministry of education to systematically rank all major higher educational institutions and universities in the country on indicators related to “innovation and entrepreneurship development” amongst students and faculties. PU has been engaging in a series of innovative projects. “The ranking has been done based on assessment of our university in various categories including funding and support, revenue generated, entrepreneurship awareness, practical exposure, intellectual property, among others,” said PU president Dr Devanshu Patel. “Our entrepreneurship development cell has been playing a pivotal role in incubation of over 70 start-ups. The start-ups have proven to be of great utility and essential to the extent of generating over Rs 20 crore in total annual revenue,” he said. “Similarly, the cell has a series of events including Boot Camps for start-up grooming, Vadodara Hackathon and Demo Day. Events such as Vadodara Start-up Festival have created a buzz among students across Gujarat while we have been organising over 100 entrepreneurship talks annually,” he said. In terms of intellectual property (IP) generation, a total of 63 intellectual property rights have been filed in the fields of applied sciences, engineering, medical sciences, pharmacy among others, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/pu-ranked-among-top-50-in-ariia-2020/articleshow/77640649.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Nashik||Home delivery of Ganesh idols is the new trend in Nashik city||Nashik: Idol sellers in the city have started doing business with a unique way by giving home delivery of Ganesh idols to their customers. With the district administration levying restrictions on people gathering together, idol makers have come up with this innovative idea to woo their regular as well as new customers. Conventionally, people book their choice of Ganesh idol and bring it home on the day of Ganesh Chaturti which marks the beginning of the 10-day festival. However, this time, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic situation, idol sellers fear that many people might not visit shops for purchasing the idol or for taking delivery of the same. Many sellers contacted their previous customers and sought new bookings this year. They also asked for references of more potential customers from the old ones. In addition, the sellers shared pictures and specifications of Ganesh idols with their potential customers on social media. “The idea of sending pictures of idols to people helps a lot as the entire family sits together, chooses the idol of their choice while discussing colour combination among other things,” said an idol seller from the city. “They (customers) tell us their preferences and we deliver customer-made idols to them at their given time slot,” said Kaivalya Sontakke, another seller from Cidco. Meanwhile, buyers have welcomed the idea. “This is a nice concept initiated by sellers. We loved it. Given the current times, early closing of shops and the social distancing issues, we really liked the concept offered to us and chose to get the idol home delivered,” Vishakha Panse, a home-maker from Gangpaur Road said. On the other hand, there are quite a few people who chose not to bring the Ganesh idol home before the auspicious occasion. Therefore, idol sellers are even offering home delivery according to customers’ time and day preferences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/home-delivery-of-ganesh-idols-is-the-new-trend-in-nashik-city/articleshow/77642510.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Diploma registration process extended||Ahmedabad: The Admission Committee for Professional Diploma Courses (ACPDC) has decided to continue with the online registration process till August 31. A number of reasons are being cited by the committee including the lack of awareness among students in rural areas about the deadline. Sources, however, said that with more than 20,000 seats likely to be vacant this year, the committee members were left with hardly any other option than extending the deadline. The online registration was held from July 13 to August 8. The provisional merit list for admission to diploma engineering courses in the state saw 34,396 candidates being selected across various colleges in Gujarat. A total of 35,500 students had been registered. In all, there are 55,950 diploma engineering seats, spread across 31 government colleges, 106 self-financed and five grant-in aid colleges. The mock admission round was to be held from August 14 to August 18. The final merit list was scheduled to be declared on August 21 as per earlier plans, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/diploma-registration-process-extended/articleshow/77642544.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||3 labourers test positive, flee site||Ahmedabad: A medical officer of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) filed a complaint with Vastrapur police on Tuesday alleging that three construction labourers, who were found to be infected with novel coronavirus on August 15, fled when they were asked to be admitted. Dr Falgun Vaid, medical officer at Bodakdev urban health centre of AMC, states that he was given responsibility to supervise Covid control in the locality in North West Zone. Vaid, along with other medicos went to a construction site, Shaporji Palonji construction site behind Keshavbaug in the Vastrapur area to check the health status of construction labourers working there. The medical team conducted tests on 64 construction labourers out of whom three were found Covid-19 positive. The medical team made them sit separately from others and called a vehicle to shift them to Samras Hostel Covid care centre. But the three slipped away from the AMC team and fled. The medical team then approached Vastrapur police and filed a complaint for spreading the infection of a deadly disease along with relevant charges under the Disaster Management Act. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3-labourers-test-positive-flee-site/articleshow/77642648.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||1,700 Covid-spreaders stopped at city gates||Ahmedabad: Once a top Covid hotspot in India, Ahmedabad has come a long way in battling the pandemic. And having brought the positivity rate down to 2.5%, the city is in no mood to compromise its `Covid under control' status. The city machinery has blocked entry of more than 1,700 Covid-19 positive persons from Gujarat cities and other states including Odisha, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. City administrators are terming no-entry for Covid-19 positive people in Ahmedabad as ‘reverse quarantine’ of the city. Interestingly, reverse quarantine is a term globally used to isolate high-risk people like elderly and people with high co-morbidities in the house to spare them exposure to people carrying the virus. In Ahmedabad's case, the term has been applied to the city by blocking its exposure to the virus by preventing entry of Covid-positive people into the city. City-based experts said that the impact of such measures can be seen in the longer run. “A study carried out by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in the early phase of the epidemic had pointed at the potential of one positive patient infecting as many as 406 persons in 30 days without any checks and balances such as lockdown and social distancing,” said the official. “But this number can be brought down to 2.5 with use of masks, social distancing and regular washing of hands, mentioned the study. With five months into the epidemic, such care is even more necessary.” Rajiv Kumar Gupta, ACS (forest & environment) and in-charge of Covid-19 control in Ahmedabad, said that the initiative was to ensure that the hard work that went into containing the first wave doesn’t go in vain. “At the moment, Ahmedabad’s positivity rate is about 2.5%. We should not have another wave of epidemic and along with other measures such as Dhanvantari Aarogya Rath, intensive testing and tech-based surveillance, stringent checks at the entry points is a crucial part of the ‘Ahmedabad Model’ of containing the epidemic,” Gupta said. Gupta pointed at a recent instance where a bus coming from Odisha with labourers was found to have eight positive persons. “If possible, the persons are either sent back or are kept at quarantine in the city, preventing further spread of the infection, especially when the labourers are returning,” he said. Senior AMC officials said that out of 1,708 persons found positive, 65% were from Vadodara, Surat, Anand, Navsari and Valsad. In the past one month, over 1.5 lakh persons have been tested with rapid antigen (Ag) kits. All vehicles at all entry points of the city such as Ahmedabad-Vadodara Expressway, Aslali, Zundal Circle, Sanathal Circle, Nana Chiloda etc. are screened. In all, 1,647 teams are deployed for the purpose across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1700-covid-spreaders-stopped-at-city-gates/articleshow/77642657.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Nashik||Adopt ‘one village one Ganapati’ concept: ZP CEO||Nashik: Several gram panchayats in rural areas of Nashik district have decided to appeal to the villagers to adopt ‘one village one Ganapati’ concept to control the spread of Covid-19 during the upcoming Ganeshotsav. Instructions in this regard were given to gram panchayat officials by chief executive officer Leena Bansod of Nashik zilla parishad at a review meeting on Covid-19 held at the Nashik Panchayat Samiti office. Officials of the district administration said that gathering of people at any public place needs to be avoided especially during festivals to contain the spread of infection. Since it would be difficult for the administration to keep an eye across the district, gram panchayats of villages will be given the responsibility of ensuring law and order among citizens. As part of the same, people are urged to adopt to the ‘one village one Ganpati’ concept.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/adopt-one-village-one-ganapati-concept-zp-ceo/articleshow/77642514.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Nashik||Team of 20 doctors conduct door-to-door surveys in Cantt area||Nashik: A team of 20 doctors and paramedical staff is carrying out door-to-door survey to conduct contact tracing of people with Covid-19 symptoms in Cantoment Board Deolali (CBD) area. “The aim is to conduct maximum tests so that those with symptoms can be checked and brought under treatment,” a senior official said. “So far, over 2,200 tests have been done in which 450 people have tested positive and brought under treatment. To control the spread we have identified 40 active containment zones,” he added. Talking about the people admitted to the hospital, the official said that not all patients admitted to the hospital are from the cantonment area. “There are at least 30 villages around Deolali Camp and people from these villages are also getting admitted to the cantonment hospital. As on Wednesday, 70 Covid-19 patients are admitted to the hospital. Many other patients are in home quarantine. Those kept in home quarantine are those who have separate bathroom and toilet facilities at their residences,” he said. Over a week ago, three nurses and a ward-boy from the cantonment board hospital had also tested positive. Bhagwan Kataria, vice-president of CBD, said that the nurses and the ward boy concerned had minor symptoms following which they have been kept under quarantine. “The work of spraying disinfectants was underway in all the eight wards of the cantonment board. Further, people are also being instructed to ensure that they maintain physical distancing in public area and also wear masks all the time when they step out of the house,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/team-of-20-doctors-conduct-door-to-door-surveys-in-cantt-area/articleshow/77642557.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Order reserved on corona duty||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday concluded its hearing and reserved its order on a petition filed by third-year MBBS students from colleges run by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) challenging the mandatory Covid-19 duty as ‘corona sahayaks’. During the proceedings, the government said that the students’ Covid duty would not continue once academic activities at the colleges begin. However, on part of the students it was argued that when colleges will resume teaching has not yet been decided. Moreover, they will not get enough time to prepare for their exams, though a decision to postpone the exams for three months has been taken. The students continued to question the AMC decision mandating that students of NHL Medical College and LG Medical College join Covid-19 duty. They submitted that students in 20 other medical colleges across the state were asked to join voluntarily. For the students, advocate Anand Yagnik also requested the court for a certificate regarding permission to move the Supreme Court, arguing that ordering compulsory Covid duty for students is an unreasonable restriction. In reply to the petition, the AMC said that the students’ services are required to perform antigen tests, as the government plans to go in for mass testing. It asserted that the country and society expect more responsibility and wisdom from medical students and it is their moral, ethical, social and pious duty to stand by society in these difficult times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/order-reserved-on-corona-duty/articleshow/77642660.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Rajkot||History-sheeter, 10-member gang booked under GujCTOC||RAJKOT: History-sheeter Lala alias Imtiyaz Rauma and 10 members of his gang were booked under Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime (GujCTOC) in Rajkot on Wednesday on charges of running organized crime syndicate. The gangsters were recently involved in indiscriminate firing at the housing board quarters on Dudhsagar Road and later resorting to rampant vandalizing of different vehicles parked in the vicinity. While Rauma and Aizaz Baloch are already lodged in Rajkot Central Jail, police arrested six others including Rauma’s younger brother Irfan Rauma, besides Shehzad Julani, Imran Kandia, Faruq Menu, Javed Davdani and Shabir Abbasi. Three more accused booked under the same offence — Saddam Bhuvar, Mohmmed Makrani and Sohil Parekh — are still at large. The CCTV footage of the June 18 incident had created a sensation on WhatsApp and social media. “Taking a serious note of the mayhem they have caused that night, I ordered an inquiry into Rauma’s criminal record and found him to be involved in as many as 15 cases of crime ranging from murder, attempt to murder, physical assault to bootlegging and violation of Arms Act. Following this, we decided to apply provisions of GujCTOC on Rauma and his gang members,” said Rajkot police commissioner Manoj Agrawal while addressing a press conference here on Wednesday. “With the action against these gangsters, Rajkot police are adding ‘Safe Rajkot’, to the ‘Smart Rajkot, Clean Rajkot’ slogans,” added Agrawal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/history-sheeter-10-member-gang-booked-under-gujctoc/articleshow/77640118.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Patna||Supreme Court justified Bihar government’s action: Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar welcomed the Supreme Court order on Wednesday allowing a CBI probe into Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. “The Supreme Court has justified and legalized the action taken by Bihar Police on the FIR lodged by Sushant’s father in Patna and the Bihar government’s decision to recommend the case for a CBI probe,” Nitish said. “Some people wanted to give it a political colour. But Bihar government strongly believed that it was related to seeking justice. After the SC order, I am confident that the CBI will investigate the case as soon as possible and Sushant’s family will get justice,” Nitish said in a statement issued here. Talking to media persons, Nitish also said, “Not just Sushant’s family or people of Bihar, the entire country is concerned over the matter. With a CBI probe, people can trust justice will be done.” Reacting over some Maharashtra politicians’ allegations that the FIR lodged in Patna and the state government consequently recommending for a CBI probe was a political move, Nitish said, “These things are not about politics, but seeking justice. Our decision has been proved correct by the SC.” Nearly two months after Sushant’s death at his Mumbai apartment on June 14, the Nitish government on August 4 recommended for a CBI inquiry based on an FIR lodged by Sushant’s father K K Singh at Rajiv Nagar police station in Patna on July 25 accusing the actor’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty of financial fraud. Rhea moved the SC seeking transfer of the FIR to Mumbai and, later, Maharashtra government challenged the Bihar Police probe and CBI inquiry ordered by the Centre in this case. Leaders across party lines in Bihar hailed the SC order and also vied to take credit for the CBI probe into the case. RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav hailed the SC order and also tried to take credit by claiming that his party was the first to demand the CBI probe in the case. “It was only after we raised the demand for a CBI probe into the Sushant’s death case that the Bihar government woke up from its slumber after 40 days. We hope justice will be delivered within a fixed time frame,” Tejashwi tweeted. However, senior JD(U) leader and minister Ashok Choudhary said the case went to the CBI only because of the efforts of CM Nitish Kumar. “Had Bihar Police not registered a case in Patna on the basis of Sushant’s father’s written complaint, the case would not have gone to the CBI,” he said. BJP leaders, too, were not far behind in claiming credit. Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad tweeted: “Justice triumphs! The soul of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput will surely now rest in peace with the assurance of a fair investigation by CBI on the FIR filed in Patna by Bihar Police whose request for transfer of case to CBI has been validated by the Supreme Court.” LJP chief Chirag Paswan said the SC honoured the sentiments of crores of people across the country. “I hope the truth will come out and CBI investigation will expose those who tried to divert the investigation,” Chirag said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-sc-justified-state-govts-action/articleshow/77642511.cms||Madan Kumar
August 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||NW Zone reports most active cases||Ahmedabad: The North West Zone, comprising Bodakdev, Gota, Thaltej, Ghatlodia areas, has consistently been registering over 500 active cases. Earlier, West Zone was the worst in number of active cases reported. The figures of active Covid cases declared by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation on Wednesday morning showed the North West Zone had 523 of the total 2,926 active cases in the city. West Zone, which comprises Naranpura, Navrangpura, Ranip, Paldi and Sardar Patel Stadium areas among others, followed with 484 cases. AMC officials said the eastern part of the city, which includes the East Zone and the North Zone of the civic body, had their worst bout of Covid directly after lockdown was imposed, but for the past two weeks, they have been reporting lower numbers of cases. As on Wednesday, the East Zone reported 421 cases, the North Zone had 324 active cases and the Central Zone, which reported the lowest, had 314. There has also been a decline in the number of active cases reported from South West Zone, which earlier this month had active cases close to 500, but reported 427 on Wednesday. The South West Zone includes areas of Jodhpur, Bopal-Ghuma, Sarkhej, Vejalpur and Maktampura. A senior officer from the health department said, “The western part of the city had been constantly reporting over 50% of the cases since the lockdown eased.” He said the presence of several malls, offices and other establishments in the area leads to cross-infection, and in these areas people were generally averse to wearing masks. An official said analysis of the Arogya Setu app data shows maximum movement of Covid-positive people in western parts of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nw-zone-reports-most-active-cases/articleshow/77642656.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Nashik||2 booked for trying to abduct government contractor||Nashik: City police has lodged an offence of abduction against two unidentified people for trying to kidnap a government contractor from Jai Bhavani Nagar area in Upnagar on Tuesday morning. “The complainant, Shilsingh Nehra (52), registered an FIR on Tuesday stating that two people tried to kidnap him while he was going to his office at 11.10 am,” a police officer said. Nehra, in his complaint, said that he was near his house at Jai Bhavani Road, when the suspects intercepted him on a bike. The duo claimed to be cops and said they wanted the complainant to come with them to the police station as a woman had registered an offence against him. “The suspects forcefuly entered Nehra’s car and asked him to drive towards the police station. However, Nehra got suspicious and started driving slowly. When he saw his two friends standing on the road, he his vehicle near them. This forced the kidnappers to flee, but before leaving they threatened Nehra of dire consequences,” the officer said, adding that they are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-booked-for-trying-to-abduct-government-contractor/articleshow/77642565.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Nashik||11 fresh dengue cases in Nashik||NASHIK: The city has witnessed a surge in dengue patients in the second week of August with 11 fresh cases. Earlier, the city had recorded only two cases in the first week of August and 14 cases in July. Officials of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) said that as of now, dengue cases are under control considering July and August registered 48 and 117 cases respectively last year. In the last few days, the city has witnessed moderate but incessant rainfall. Officials concerned believ that this may have spiked the dengue cases in the recent days. “We have already increased spraying and fogging in the city owing to the onset of monsoon to curb dengue cases. Moreover, we had also destroyed most of the mosquito breeding spots in the city,” said NMC officials. The city has recorded 35 dengue positive cases between June 1 and August 14 this year as against 110 cases during the corresponding period last year. Meanwhile, the health department of NMC has issued an advisory to city residents through a public notice. The advisory lists precautions to be undertaken to stay safe from dengue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/11-fresh-dengue-cases-in-city/articleshow/77642603.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: CNCI new complex starts operations with 50 OPD patients||KOLKATA: The new campus of Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute (CNCI) at Rajarhat became operational with 50 OPD patients on Wednesday. All the patients, who had turned up at the CNCI’s old complex in Hazra for follow-up, were taken to the new complex in two buses provided by the state transport department. However, the opening of the new campus was a low-key event due to the pandemic. “We started with OPD services on surgical and medical oncology. We will gradually upgrade the facilities in the new complex first to basic diagnostic services and later to day care chemotherapy services,” said an official of CNCI. The new complex, spread over 10 acre land, will soon have facilities for rapid Covid test for patients, who undergo chemotherapy or surgery. When it becomes fully functional, the 460-bed cancer treatment facility will have latest gadgets, advanced technology and high quality services at affordable cost. Part of the seven-storey building is used as a quarantine and Covid treatment centre by the state government. But officials have ensured separate entry/exit and all barriers required to prevent any kind of cross infection. Sources said the old campus at Hazara is cramped and it was difficult for OPD patients to maintain physical distancing while visiting the hospital. Set up in 1950, an autonomous institute under the central government with stake from the state government, this is the only government-run cancer institute in Bengal. Construction of the new campus was jointly funded by the Centre and state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cnci-new-complex-starts-ops-with-50-opd-patients/articleshow/77642602.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||TDP leader among 337 +ve cases in Kadapa jail||Tirupati: One in two prisoners lodged at the Kadapa central jail have tested positive for Covid-19, triggering tension among authorities and jail inmates. Jails in AP have been reporting high number of Covid-19 cases, most of them said to be undertrials. The state has perhaps one of the largest number of Covid-19 cases in jails in the country. About 900 cases have been detected so far across various prisons in AP since the pandemic broke out in March. The Kadapa jail has about 700 inmates and out of them, 337 have so far tested positive. Senior TDP leader and former legislator JC Prabhakar Reddy, who is lodged at Kadapa jail, has also reportedly tested positive. The TDP leadership has criticised the jail authorities for lodging the senior party leader in a prison with a high number of cases. Authorities said he has been moved to a separate cell. At a special meet held on the jail premises on Wednesday, authorities decided to provide nutritional food and medicines on a war-footing basis to the inmates. “As the home isolation kits do not contain vitamin C and D tablets, we have asked the superintendent to procure and supply them to all prisoners,” M Varaprasad, deputy inspector-general of prisons, said. Visakhapatnam: AP achieved the three million Covid-19 tests milestone on Wednesday, even as the state reported 9,742 new cases, taking the cumulative tally to 3,16,003. The toll increased to 2,906 with 86 more Covid-related deaths. As many as 8,061 Covid-19 patients were declared cured on Wednesday. TNNThere are currently 86,725 active cases in the state with 2,26,372 recoveries and 2,906 deaths, reflecting a recovery rate of 71.6%.However, AP continued to maintain its lead by testing about 56,541 people per every million population, the highest in India. tNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tdp-leader-among-337-ve-cases-in-kadapa-jail/articleshow/77642621.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Parents protest school fees hike||Hyderabad: Alleging that the school is collecting unreasonable fees for the academic year 2020-21, parents on Wednesday staged a protest at the Delhi School of Excellence in Banjara Hills. Parents said that the school had provided breakup of fee until the 2018-19 academic year but from last year they clubbed everything into the tuition fee and are refusing to give the breakup. The school principal, however, claimed that they are following all the norms. “Last year, I paid about Rs 1.5 lakh towards fee. Despite the state government directing schools to charge only tuition fees for the 2020-21 academic year, the school is asking me to pay the entire fee,” said a parent, whose child is studying in class 9. The parent added that they are planning to submit a representation to Hyderabad district collector Sweta Mohanty on Thursday asking her to intervene and solve the issue. A parent added that the school is removing fee defaulters from online classes. Principal T Veena Murthy said that the school is collecting only tuition fees and gave an option for parents to clear fees on a monthly basis. She said that parents are asking for the reduction of fees but the school can’t do it as they are paying full salaries to all their staff. “After the state government issued it orders, we refunded transport and mess fee to the parents who have already paid it. If a parent is facing a financial crisis, we are also giving them an option to defer the payment and pay it at their convenience,” said the principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parents-protest-school-fees-hike/articleshow/77642608.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Mumbai||New cases in state cross 13k for first time||Mumbai: Maharashtra added 13,165 cases on Wednesday, its highest spike so far, taking the tally to 6,28,642. This is the first time the daily cases has crossed 13,000. Also, in MMR, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation became the worst hit after Mumbai, hitting 25,000 cases, report Bhavika Jain & Sumitra DebRoy. In 19 days of August, the state has added over 2 lakh cases, of which 19,331 (9.3%), were from Mumbai. In July, it took the state 26 days to add 2 lakh cases.The highest daily cases recorded in the state earlier were 12,822, on August 8. Of the 13,165 cases reported on Wednesday, 3,450 were from MMR, 3,440 from the Pune division and 2,110 from the Nashik circle that includes Nashik, Malegaon, Ahmednagar, Dhule and Jalgaon municipal corporations. Almost all these corporations have been witnessing a surge in cases. Within Nashik circle, Jalgaon district has the highest number of active cases (712). Mumbai added 1,132 cases, taking its tally to 1,31,542 on Wednesday. With the addition of cases, the active caseload in the state went up to 1.6 lakh after hovering under the 1.5 lakh range for the last 30 days; Mumbai has 17,914 active cases. The state added 6,039 deaths in the 19 days of August, of which 915 were in Mumbai. A day after reporting 422 cases, its highest so far, the state reported 346 deaths on Wednesday, taking the total toll to 21,033. Of the deaths, 249 were from the last 48 hours, 59 from last week and 38 were from the period before that, officials said. The recovery rate of the state crossed 71% with the discharge of 9,011 patients; the total recoveries in the state are now 4.46 lakh. Mumbai reported 46 deaths, taking its total fatalities to 7,268.Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the city has been testing around 9,000 samples daily. “The positivity rate is around 18% for us and daily deaths are less than 50,” he said. He added uniformity in treatment protocol has helped public sector hospitals to reduce mortality. “We are waiting for guidelines on Tocilizumab that the state or task force is likely to release in a day or two,” he said.Kalyan-Dombivli became the second worst area in MMR after Mumbai by crossed 25,000 cases. The twin city reported 361 fresh patients and 9 deaths, taking its total numbers to 25,231, with 520 deaths. However, as per state figures, KDMC’s caseload is 28,494, and the 25,000 mark was breached days ago. A discrepancy between the corporation and state figures is being reported from several other corporations too. The health department officials said KDMC has 3,192 active patients. KDMC on 31 July had reached 20,000 patients, and it took 20 days to have another 5,000 cases, which is an average of 250 patients in a day while earlier the twin city in July had taken only 9 and 14 days to get to a 5,000 addition. There were 325 cases from within NMMC areas on Wednesday, taking its total Covid-19 count to 21,768. NMMC officials said 5 deaths were reported, taking the total toll to 520. The PCMC reported 175 positives and two deaths, taking the tally there to 9,569, with 247 deaths. Panvel rural recorded 63 positives and no death, its tally for positives going up to 2,896 and the toll remaining at 60. Uran taluka reported 15 positives and one death; its positives score stands at 1,195 while deaths are 55.(Inputs by Pradeep Gupta and Vijay Singh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/new-cases-in-state-cross-13k-for-first-time/articleshow/77644616.cms||Bhavika Jain
August 20, 2020||Allahabad||Uttar Pradesh: Ganga, Yamuna continue to rise; admin hits vigil mode||PRAYAGRAJ: The water level of Ganga and Yamuna continued to rise putting National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams and the district administration on alert Wednesday. According to district officials, the water level of Ganga and Yamuna at Phaphamau and Naini rose up to 12cm and 18cm respectively. On Wednesday, the water level of Ganga at Phaphamau was recorded as 78.83 meter, while the level of Yamuna at Naini was 76.47 meter. The danger mark of both rivers is 84.73 meter. Flood control division officials said, “The water level of Ganga is rising due to the flood water being released from barrages in Narora, Haridwar and Kanpur. The water level of Yamuna has also been rising as other small rivers joining it are also flooded.” On Wednesday, a team of NDRF officials visited Sangam, Triveni Sangam, Ramghat, Dashashwamedh Ghat and Daraganj to review the situation through motor boats. The administration has also prepared a list of areas which are affected every year when the water level of Ganga and Yamuna rises. The list includes areas like Rajapur, Ganga Nagar, Sangam, Nagvasuki, Daraganj, Baghara, Chandpur Salori, Sadiyabad and Rasoolabad. “The recent heavy rain in Madhya Pradesh has flooded river Chambal and its tributaries, which in turn have led to an increase in water level of rivers in UP. We are monitoring the water level of the rivers. The district flood control unit is collecting hourly updates,” said a district official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/ganga-yamuna-continue-to-rise-admin-hits-vigil-mode/articleshow/77638967.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Allahabad||HC to dispose of plea seeking release ofDr Kafeel on Aug 24||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court on Wednesday adjourned till August 24 the hearing of the petition challenging the detention of Dr Kafeel Khan under NSA and also allowed his counsel to file a reply in response to the state government’s affidavit. The high court added that the petition would be disposed of on August 24. Hearing a habeas corpus writ petition filed by Dr Kafeel’s mother Nuzhat Parween seeking his release, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Samit Gopal fixed August 24 as the next date in the matter. Dr Kafeel was booked under NSA by the Aligarh district magistrate on February 13, 2020, for allegedly making an inflammatory speech on the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) campus during the protests there over the Citizenship Amendment Act (NSA). Subsequently, Dr Kafeel’s detention under NSA was extended on May 13 by DM Aligarh for a further period of three months, i.e., till August 12. The detention under NSA was extended as according to the district administration, there was apprehension his release may lead to law and order problems. On August 4, NSA was again extended up to November 13. NSA allows preventive detention for up to a year. On the last date, the court had directed the Centre as well as the state government to file a reply in the present case seeking release of Dr Kafeel. According to the habeas corpus petition, earlier at one stage Dr Kafeel was granted bail by a competent court and was supposed to be released on bail. However, he was not released for four days and later the NSA was imposed on him. Hence, his detention was illegal as it was passed to nullify the effect of the bail granted by a competent court. The plea also challenged detention of Dr Kafeel for 4 days before imposing NSA, even after he had secured bail in all cases registered against him. According to case file, Dr Kafeel has been behind bars since January 29, 2020 after speech which he had allegedly delivered at AMU on December 10 during the anti-CAA protests. The speech was deemed ‘provocative’ by the state government, which booked him under NSA. Dr Kafeel came to limelight after 2017 oxygen tragedy at BRD Medical College in which several kids had died for lack of oxygen cylinders. While initially he was hailed as a saviour of children for arranging emergency oxygen cylinders, he later faced action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-to-dispose-of-plea-seeking-release-ofdr-kafeel-on-aug-24/articleshow/77638997.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
August 20, 2020||Kochi||A resort converts swimming pool into fish farm||Kottayam: A resort in Kumarakom has converted its swimming pool into a fish farm to stay afloat till the crisis caused by Covid-19 pandemic gets over. Aveda Resorts deposited 16,000 fingerlings of Karimeen (pearl spot) in the pool in the first week of June after the arrival of tourists stopped due to the lockdown and the resort was forced to close down. They are planning to harvest the state fish of Kerala by November and export it to the Middle East. Through the fish farming, the resort is also aiming to engage its staff and make use of the pool which is billed as the largest in Kumarakom. The pool, which is 150m long and 15m wide, is spread over half-an-acre. “We had to maintain the pool periodically though there were no tourists. After lots of discussion, we decided to start fish farming as an income source,” said resort general manager Jyotish Surendran. The resort took the advice of the experts from National Centre For Aquatic Animal Health, Kochi, before starting the fish farming. They spent more than Rs 2 lakh to source fingerlings from hatcheries in Pampa, Alappuzha, Vaikom, among others. “Now, the fish are 2.5 months old and we expect them to be weighing 200-250g by November when we will harvest,” Surendran said. K G Padmakumar, director, International Research and Training Centre For Below Sea Level Farming, Kuttanad, said the Karimeen farming in a swimming pool was a novel idea. “Initiatives like these will be helpful in meeting the expenses of establishment during Covid times. Once the tourists start arriving, they can return to their business,” he said. Also, swimming pools are suited for Karimeen farming as crystal clear and transparent water will foster the fish growth, Padmakumar said. “The quality of water is maintained throughout. Feed is artificial and not like farming in ponds where cow dung and other natural materials are used as feed,” he said. The Karimeen grown in such favourable conditions will fetch good price in the market too, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/a-resort-converts-swimming-pool-into-fish-farm/articleshow/77641278.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
August 20, 2020||Kolkata||Cov woman’s cremation waits for 8 days||Kolkata: The family of Margaret Ann Ray (78) has been waiting for eight days for her last rites. The body of Ray, who was declared dead at a hospital in Alipore at 4.30pm on August 11 after she tested positive for Covid-19, has been lying at the SSKM Hospital’s morgue. The hospital could not issue any death certificate to her kin and handed over her body to the police on August 12. Since then, her daughter and son-in-law had been moving from pillar to post to get the body cremated. An official of SSKM Hospital informed them on Wednesday evening that her last rites would be conducted on the same day. The son-in-law, Tapan Kumar Kar, said they had been pleading with cops to arrange for the last rites. They had also given the necessary no-objection to the police in this regard. Though Kar and his wife had tested negative, they are in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-womans-cremation-waits-for-8-days/articleshow/77642640.cms||Debasish Konar
August 20, 2020||Aurangabad||IGNOU admission date extended to Aug 31||Aurangabad: The Indira Gandhi National Open University ( IGNOU) has extended the last date of admissions to its different courses for July batch till August 31. Co-ordinator of local center of IGNOU, Nagnath Totawad on Wednesday said that the open university has started new post-graduate diploma in 'Modern Office Management' from July batch. "IGNOU offers undergraduate, post-graduate and diploma courses in different streams of knowledge. The choice-based credit system has been introduced by the university since last year on the line of traditional university," he said. According to authorities, IGNOU local center every year receives average around 500 applications for July batch and close to 300 applications for January batch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ignou-admission-date-extended-to-aug-31/articleshow/77642618.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Nashik||Police hold mock drill for riot control||Nashik: Police conducted a mock drill to check their preparedness to tackle riots and rein in anti-social elements on the Maldhakka Road and in the Bhadrakali area on Wednesday. A scene was created on the Maldhakka Road that a woman pedestrian is injured after being hit by a truck. The supporters of the woman and the truck driver come face to face, leading to a riot-like situation. A call was made to the Nashik Road police, following which a posse of police personnel and officers rushed to the spot and brought things under control. A meeting of peace committee members was also held. A riot-like scene was created in the Bhadrakali area and and police personnel succeeded in bringing the situation under control, said the officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-hold-mock-drill-for-riot-control/articleshow/77642641.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Allahabad||Enforce social distancing norm across Uttar Pradesh: HC||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has directed the district administration of all the districts of Uttar Pradesh to vigorously enforce social distancing and wearing of masks as per the state government circulars dated August 6 and August 17. Besides, the court also appointed two advocate commissioners and directed them to submit their joint report regarding the measures taken by the state authorities to check the spread of novel coronavirus. Hearing a PIL seeking better facilities at the quarantine centres, a division bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar fixed August 25 as the next date of hearing in the matter. Earlier, as per direction of the court, Prayagraj district magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami and senior superintendent of police Abhishek Dixit were present through video conferencing. Both the officials submitted before the court that Prayagraj being one of the seven districts where the state government was intensively keeping a watch, and because of which various steps were being taken, it would be possible to curb the Covid-19 infection to a great extent by the next date fixed. They further submitted that as per the government circulars dated August 6 and 17, they would definitely see that social distancing is maintained and that people in the city wear masks. In addition to it, the SSP assured that police pickets would be set up at various vantage points. He assured that the vigil in and around commercial complexes would be raised so that people do wear masks while coming to these places and also maintain social/physical distancing. Taking their submissions on record, the court observed, “We do hope and trust that their efforts to control the Covid-19 infection by the next date fixed, would bear results. When the officers, who were present, informed us of the efforts they were making, we did feel that we are today living because of their efforts. However, this much is certain that any lapse on their parts at this juncture might result in the greatest of catastrophes. They have to, in the present times, see that social distancing is maintained and that people compulsorily wear masks.” In view of the explanation given by the DM and SSP, the court said as of now, it is not initiating contempt proceedings against them. “However, it will remain pending,” the court added. The order was passed on August 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-enforce-distancing-wearing-of-mask-vigorously-across-state/articleshow/77639034.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
August 20, 2020||Noida||Over 20,000 buyers have flats in Noida projects listed for waivers||NOIDA: More than 22,000 buyers stuck in as many as 16 incomplete real estate projects in Gautam Budh Nagar have got a fresh ray of hope. The Noida Authority has forwarded to the UP government a list of the projects for zero period policy benefits. Most of the projects are located in the 7X sectors, a cluster of highrises off the Aqua Line from Noida to Greater Noida. Developers, however, say the policy is just an extension of completion timelines. The UP government on December 5 last year had notified the zero-period policy to give relaxations to builders. The government had agreed to offer waiver in the previously calculated penal amount imposed due to construction delays, if regulatory hurdles resulted in delayed construction. In Noida, 39 developers had applied for the scheme, out of which 16 projects have been found eligible for securing the benefits. “Earlier the exemption was to be offered for a period of up to six months. But now due to the Covid pandemic, an exemption of up to one year and a half could be offered to complete the projects on a case-to-case basis,” said an Authority official. The 16 stuck projects comprise 22,064 flats and the biggest among them is IVR Prime (Avadi) in Sector 118, where 4,065 units remain incomplete. The developer had applied for the plot in 2007 and paid the booking amount upfront. But the Authority gave the possession in 2012 due to acquisition issues. Post that, the two sides got embroiled in a legal battle and the project got delayed. Dues on the developer, meanwhile, kept mounting. Similarly, Supertech Capetown in Sector 74 has an incomplete inventory of 3,636 units. President of real estate body NAREDCO (Uttar Pradesh chapter) RK Arora said, “Though the government’s order asked the Authority to provide relief to builders who were unable to complete their projects due to NGT orders, bird sanctuary-related regulatory issues or land acquisition delays on the part of authorities, no such relief has been offered. Only time extension charges have been waived.” However, the CEO of Noida Authority, Ritu Maheshwari, said, “Taking a lenient view, we have already extended the cut-off date to complete the projects to December 31, 2021.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/over-20000-buyers-have-flats-in-noida-projects-listed-for-waivers/articleshow/77644617.cms||Shalabh
August 20, 2020||Rajkot||3rd case of GujCTOC||The case against Rauma and gang is the third GujCTOC case in Gujarat. Earlier on January 15 this year, Vishal Goswami and seven of his gang members were booked under GujCTOC in Ahmedabad. On March 12 this year in Amreli, Sonu Dangar and members of her gang were booked under GujCTOC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/3rd-case-of-gujctoc/articleshow/77640155.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Pawar bats for cooperative banks||Kolhapur: NCP chief Sharad Pawar has strongly opposed the Centre’s move to amend the Banking Regulation Act, which will enable the Reserve Bank of India to convert urban cooperative banks into private banks. In a three-page letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Pawar has said the Union government had promulgated an ordinance in last week of June even though the amendment bill to the Banking Regulation Act was tabled in Lok Sabha in March this year and could not be discussed because of Covid-19. Pawar argued that the ordinance was promulgated to prevent misappropriation of funds in the cooperative banks. He, however, feels that the conversion of urban cooperative banks into private banks would not completely or partially stop the misappropriation. Pawar has attached statistics, released by RBI for the last financial year. He said out of 6,826 financial frauds in the banking sector, only 181 cases involved cooperative banks. Also, the total amount involved in financial fraud in the banking sector was Rs 71,661 crore, out of which Rs 127.70 crore was related with cooperative banks, he said. Pawar argued that it would be incorrect to assume that frauds or misappropriation of funds take place only in cooperative banks. he said the government should take steps to generate financial awareness and discipline among the public through urban cooperative banks. He has described the government move as detrimental to the existence of the cooperative banks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/pawar-bats-for-cooperative-banks/articleshow/77642646.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Patna||Covid caseload crosses 1.10 lakh-mark in Bihar||PATNA: Covid-19 cases crossed the 1,10,000-mark on Wednesday with 2,884 people testing positive in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 1,12,759. It took just four days to add 10,000 new cases after Bihar became the eighth state with one lakh cases in the country. With 10 deaths reported by the state health department in its daily bulletin, the Covid fatalities in Bihar have reached 568. Among the deceased, seven are from Patna and one each from Darbhanga, Gaya and Khagaria. Of the 1,12,759 people, who have contracted the virus in the state so far, 84,578 have recovered. The number of active cases in the state now stand at 27,613. The recovery rate in Bihar marginally improved by 1.5% on Wednesday to take it to 75%. Around 10% improvement in the recovery rate has been witnessed in the past eight days from 65.4% on August 10 to 75% recorded on Wednesday. “Altogether 3,838 people have recovered in the state in the past 24 hours. With 1,08,179 testing of samples in Bihar in a day, the cumulative testing figures have reached 20,08,149,” health department secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said in the daily Covid briefing on Wednesday evening. Patna continued to remain the worst-affected district with 422 Covid cases, taking the tally to 17,721. With 14,120 recoveries in the district so far, the active cases stand at 3,487. With seven more fatalities, the death toll has risen to 114 in Patna. Other districts, which reported maximum number of Covid-19 cases, are East Champaran (181), Muzaffarpur (173), Rohtas (118), Madhubani (115), Sitamarhi (113), Saharsa (108), Purnia (104), Begusarai (103) and Saran (98). Two Covid patients died at AIIMS-Patna, confirmed Dr Sanjeev Kumar, the hospital’s nodal officer for Covid-19. A 59-year-old man from Patna’s Sheikhpura locality was among the deceased. Another deceased is a 55- year- old man from Dumraon in Buxar. No Covid death was reported at NMCH-Patna for the second consecutive day, said Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, epidemiologist- cum- nodal officer for Covid. “Total 12 patients were discharged on Wednesday after full recovery while one positive patient was admitted. Currently, 55 patients are undergoing treatment at NMCH and one patient is on a ventilator,” he said. Patna: Covid-19 positive cases in Bihar crossed 1,10,000- mark on Wednesday with 2,884 people were tested positive with the infection in the state in the last 24 hours. It takes only four days for the sate to cross 10,000- mark after Bihar becomes the eighth state to cross 1- lakh mark. With ten official deaths reported by the state health department in its daily bulletin, the Covid fatalities in Bihar have reached to 568. Among the deceased, seven were from Patna and one each from Darbhanga, Gaya and Khagaria. Of the 1,12,759 people who have contracted the virus in the state so far, 84,578 have recovered. The number of active cases in the state stood at 2,7613. The recovery rate in Bihar has marginally improved by 1.53% on Wednesday, which is 75.01 per cent when compared to the previous day. Around 10% improvement has been witnessed in recovery rate in just last eight days from 65.43% on August 10 to 75.01% recorded on Wednesday. “Altogether 3,838 people have recovered in the state in the past 24 hours. With 1,08,179 testings of samples in Bihar in a day, the cumulative testing figures has reached 20,08,149,” health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said in the daily Covid briefing on Wednesday evening. On Wednesday, Patna continues to remain as one of the worst- affected districts with 422 Covid cases, taking the corresponding tally to 17,721. With 14,120 recoveries in the district so far, the active cases stood at 3,487. With seven more fatalities, the death toll rises to 114 in Patna on Wednesday. Other districts, which reported maximum number of Covid- 19 cases, include East Champaran (181), Muzaffarpur (173), Rohtas (118), Madhubani (115), Sitamarhi (113), Saharsa (108), Purnia (104), Begusarai (103) and Saran (98). Two Covid patients died at AIIMS- Patna, confirmed Dr Sanjeev Kumar, who is the nodal officer for Covid. A 59- year- old man from Patna’s Sheikhpura locality was among the deceased. Another deceased, a 55- year- old man was from Dumraon in Buxar. No Covid death were reported at NMCH- Patna on second consecutive day, said Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, epidemiologist- cum- nodal officer for Covid. “Total 12 patients discharged on Wednesday after full recovery while one positive patient was admitted. Presently 55 patients are presently undergoing the treatment at NMCH and one patient is on ventilator,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-caseload-crosses-1-10l-mark-in-bihar/articleshow/77642606.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 20, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Don’t take Covid deposits from patients, commission tells hospital in interim order||KOLKATA: The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) on Wednesday prohibited Desun Hospital from taking any advance deposit from Covid patients till the disposal of a case they have started suo motu against the establishment or till further order. The regulatory panel also told the hospital—a Covid facility acquired by the state government—to deposit Rs 10 lakh for the period. This is the biggest penalty the commission has imposed on any healthcare facility in a Covid case. The hospital has been told to pay the amount in two equal instalments within three weeks of the interim order being passed on Wednesday. “This is an interim order. Rs 5 lakh has to be deposited by coming Tuesday, while the rest should be paid within two weeks after that,” said WBCER chairman Justice (retd) Ashim Kumar Banerjee on Wednesday after the first round of hearing of the case. The health regulatory body started a suo motu case against the hospital after the family of a patient from Tamluk had alleged that the person died while waiting in an ambulance at Desun after being shifted there from a Park Circus nursing home on testing positive for Covid last Monday. The family, which accused the hospital of demanding Rs 3 lakh as deposit, alleged doctors did not start treatment even though they had paid a portion of the advance money. WBCER took up the case suo motu last Wednesday, based on news reports. This incident had taken place within days of the health panel capping a deposit amount that hospitals could take from patients during admission. Before passing the interim order, the hospital was given a chance to defend itself against the allegations levelled by the Tamluk patient’s family. Rejecting the allegation that they had demanded any deposit amount, the hospital claimed its emergency beds were occupied when the patient had arrived and so the person had to wait in the ambulance for some time. The hospital also denied no medical care was given to the patient and said doctors tried to perform CPR on the patient in the ambulance. “We are not convinced by the defence the hospital authorities had put forward during the Wednesday’s hearing. But since it is a Covid hospital, serving 100s of patients, we cannot ask the hospital to shut services,” said Banerjee. Officials at Desun said they were yet to receive a copy of the interim order from WBCERC and that they would act on the order once it came to them. It was towards the end of April that the government acquired the hospital off EM Bypass to treat Covid patients. From 60 beds initially, the number of beds there was increased to 113 by mid-July. While 80 beds are reserved for patients seeking admission through government recommendation, the rest are meant for others. The hospital’s Siliguri unit with 160 beds has also been designated as a Covid hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dont-take-covid-deposits-from-patients-commission-tells-hosp-in-interim-order/articleshow/77642645.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Jamaat leader received donations from Hyderabad: ED||HYDERABAD: Investigations by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) have revealed that Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) leader Maulana Saad and a trust linked to TJ had received donations from Hyderabad. ED sleuths conducted searches at four locations in Hyderabad in connection with TJ money laundering cases. Joint teams of Hyderabad and Delhi seized documents and computer storage devices during the searches conducted on Wednesday. ED found that donations were given to Saad from Hyderabad. Based on Delhi police FIR, ED booked a Prevention of Money Laundering Act case in April and started probing into the funding and money transactions of Saad and the Jamaat trust. Sources said domestic sources are also under the scanner of the probe agency. Searches were also conducted in Mumbai, Delhi and other places after obtaining search warrants under the PMLA. Saad had organised a religious gathering in March at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi that later led to the spread of Covid-19 across the country, including Telangana and AP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ed-jamaat-leader-received-donations-from-hyderabad/articleshow/77642671.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||H1B visa woes: Deceased man’s family to be deported from US||HYDERABAD: The death of Lakshmi Narayanan, a former resident of the city, has left the Indian community in Illinois, US, shattered. Narayanan, who passed away after battling leukaemia on Monday, leaves behind his wife Sudha and 14-year-old son who now will be deported from the US. “The family gets 14 days to sell their assets and leave the US. This is because Narayanan was on a H1B work visa and his wife and child were dependants,” said Rajni Nalla, a friend who has been helping them. Added to the trauma of losing their loved ones, the family of H1B visa holders face an uncertain fate in case of an untimely death. In this case, Narayanan worked for a year after his diagnosis. He continued to work even from the hospital bed so that he could maintain his visa status and thereby ensure his family was not uprooted. He got a bone marrow transplant in July. Wednesday was the last day Sudha could work as per restrictions on the H4 EAD (dependent work visa with work permission). A gofundme page, started to help the family, states: “He (Narayanan) was a loving father, a caring husband, a warm, friendly colleague, and, an immigration activist helping backlogged families.”  Narayanan was advocating for the passage of the S386 bill in the senate which removes country caps for getting a green card or permanent residency. At present, work visa holders have to wait for decades because they get a GC, often losing their jobs and even lives first. The page, started by a colleague Vidhi Gandhi, reads: “Having lost him, his family now has an uphill battle and a race against time - with the surviving wife trying to figure out her next steps and a sophomore whose dreams are in jeopardy.” Narayanan moved to the US six years ago to provide his son better opportunities. The numerous anecdotes on the page show a person who went out of the way for others. One donor, Madhavi Latha wrote: “Whenever I think of Lucky (that’s how I called him always), I remember his smiling face that never faded even during tough times.” She writes that he was a pillar of strength when she was struggling to settle in a new work environment. Narayanan, who lived in the city for eight years before moving to the US, was originally from Tamil Nadu. His funeral service is scheduled for Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/h1b-visa-woes-deceased-mans-family-to-be-deported-from-us/articleshow/77642659.cms||Uttara Varma
August 20, 2020||Vadodara||UP man held for cheating people through online video scheme||Vadodara: In a very unique online scam, a native of Uttar Pradesh allegedly duped three persons from Chansad village of Padra of Rs 4 lakh. Vadodara rural police arrested the scamster on Tuesday. According to police, accused Vikas Dubey takes varying amounts in the name of subscription for his unique website in lieu of investment. Dubey floated a website that would provide his customers with advertisement videos after they subscribe to his site. One of the victims, Kiran Patel, said that they were also promised payment of Rs 4 for watching one advertisement video through the website, said cops. Accordingly, he took Rs 4.2 lakh from the three victims as subscription amount in September last year. The trio was initially paid Rs 14,400 for watching videos, but in January Dubey shut down the website but didn’t return the remaining amount of Rs 4 lakh to the trio. In February, Patel lodged a complaint of cheating and violation of Information Technology Act against an unidentified person. “We had the person’s mobile phone number as well as bank account numbers. We started probing based on PAN card, Aadhaar card and GST forms. Later, we got more details from Gmail and two web hosting companies and we zeroed our search in Lucknow and Banda district in Uttar Pradesh,” said a police official. Dubey was arrested from his home in Banda and brought to Vadodara on transit remand. Cops also recovered Rs 4 lakh cash from the accused. Dubey also broke down and admitted of cheated nine other persons to the tune of Rs 33 lakh from Vadodara, Ahmedabad and Navsari in a similar modus operandi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/up-man-held-for-cheating-people-through-online-video-scheme/articleshow/77640713.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Drop recorded in number of people caught without masks||Ahmedabad: Of the 458 offences registered for not wearing mask, 46% cases were registered in east and north west zone of the city. The two zones registered 209 cases. There was a visible drop in the number of cases. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) officials said the corporation team reported that there had been a decline in the number of people not wearing masks. Ever since the penalty was increased to Rs 1,000, the compliance had increased in the city. “The cases of people without masks have seen a drop from earlier 800 cases to 450 cases,” said an AMC official. The officials said that three commercial establishments including a restaurant and a shop in the eastern part were also sealed where no social distancing was followed.The officials said that there had been a visible difference in areas where there were low income group of people who strictly adhered to the compulsory mask rule. However, no such thing was witnessed in the posh localities of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/drop-recorded-in-number-of-people-caught-without-masks/articleshow/77642727.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Kochi||Assistant protocol officer appears before NIA||KOCHI: Assistant state protocol officer M S Harikrishnan appeared before the National Investigation Agency (NIA) at its Kochi office on Wednesday after it sought details of duty exemption certificates issued to UAE Consulate to bring cargo over the past two years. The official, who spent an hour at NIA office, is learnt to have handed over the protocol office’s response as a report. Sources said that the protocol department gave the same response to NIA and Customs (Preventive), that it was not approached for issuance of such a certificate in the past two years. Both, agencies are probing the gold smuggling case. Sources said that the protocol office reiterated that it was not approached seeking such a duty exemption certificate for goods to the UAE consulate in the past two financial years. Investigating agencies will also seek information from MEA to see if exemption certificates were granted, sources said. If MEA has not issued such certificates, then probe teams will have to look into possible lapses on the side of Customs that led to the clearance of bags without following guidelines or the possibility of forgery of documents by the accused to get clearance. According to a protocol handbook released by the protocol division of MEA in 2018, MEA exempts prior approval for import of goods worth up to Rs 20 lakh or $33,000 to all diplomatic missions in India. Customs duty exemption certificates for such consignment may be submitted along with a self-certification and the requisite documents directly to MEA or the protocol department of state government for attestation, the handbook says. Also, consignments that should be sent and received by a diplomatic mission with prior approval of MEA or protocol department of state government includes vehicle, security equipment, advanced communication system, exhibition/concert items, building materials for any new construction on the premises of the foreign representation and ‘unusual consignments’ delivered by diplomatic bag. Meanwhile, a team of enforcement directorate officials probing the money trail behind the gold smuggling visited NIA office. ED officials said that the visit was part of collecting information from NIA. ED filed the enforcement case information report in the gold smuggling based on the UAPA case registered by NIA. Both agencies cross-verified statements received by them from the accused as well as other persons like M Sivasankar, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/asst-protocol-officer-appears-before-nia/articleshow/77641325.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana BJP president Om Parkash Dhankhar appoints new district units chiefs||CHANDIGARH: Within a month of his appointment as Haryana BJP president on July 19, Om Parkash Dhankhar has restructured the party’s district units and appointed new presidents in 20 of the total 22 of them. Dhankhar told TOI on Tuesday he had preferred both young and experienced functionaries as district heads, and also taken caste equations into consideration. He has continued with the presidents in Rohtak and Faridabad, and has given a chance to three former district chief in Gurugram, Mahendergarh and Rewari districts. The former state minister also kept in mind the choices of local MLAs, MPs and senior party leaders while finalising names. Enquiries revealed that Dhankhar had finalised the names during a meeting with party national president J P Nadda and organisation secretary Suresh Bhatt in New Delhi on Tuesday. This would be the first time when somebody from the Chautala political family has been given responsibility in BJP. Aditya Devi Lal Chautala (44), a grandson of former deputy Prime Minister Tau Devi Lal and nephew of INLD supremo Om Parkash Chautala, has been appointed as president of Sirsa unit. Aditya had unsuccessfully contested from Dabwali assembly constituency as a BJP candidate. He had also defeated INLD MLA Abhay Singh Chautala’s wife, Kanta Chautala, in zila parishad elections. Former OSD of Haryana CM and Vir Chakra awardee Capt Bhupinder Singh is party’s choice for Hisar district. For the first time, BJP has relied on a Jat face in Hisar. Similarly, Mohan Lal Badoli, MLA from Rai constituency, has been made the Sonipat district unit president. Badoli comes from the Brahmin community. Only two women are among the new district unit chiefs — Archana Gupta in Panipat and Gargi Kakkar in Gurugram. “We have preferred young, energetic and experienced faces. This team will do wonders. Their appointments clearly show that only workers and hard work is recognised in the party. We are confident of further strengthening the organisation. Now, presidents will have their own teams,” Dhankhar said. “We have also tried to strike a balance between all castes. All the communities have been given adequate representation.” Rohtak unit chief Ajay Bansal has roots in RSS, while Gopal Sharma has been given the second chance in Faridabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-bjp-chief-dhankhar-appoints-new-district-units-chiefs/articleshow/77642650.cms||Manvir Saini
August 20, 2020||Patna||Rhea Chakraborty has no stature to comment on CM: Bihar DGP||PATNA: Within minutes of the Supreme Court allowing a CBI inquiry into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s alleged suicide case rejecting actress Rhea Chakraborty’s plea, Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey courted controversy on Wednesday saying the actress does not have the “stature” to comment on chief minister Nitish Kumar. “Rhea Chakraborty ki ye haisiyat nahi hai ki wo Bihar ke mukhya mantri per tippani kare (Rhea doesn’t have the stature to comment on Bihar CM), DGP Pandey told mediapersons in Patna, adding, “Agar isme kisi ko koi appati hai to mein iske liye kshama mangta hu lekin mein apne line per kayam hoon (I apologise if anyone has any objections, but I am firm on my stand).” Rhea, had reportedly submitted in her affidavit before the Supre Court that the Sushant death case was being “politically exploited” in Bihar due to the upcoming assembly election and accused the CM of having a direct role in it. “If the case has reached a stage where there is hope that Sushant will get justice, it is solely due to the support of the chief minister,” Pandey added. The DGP also lambasted the Mumbai Police terming their actions “totally illegal, unethical and unprofessional”. “The way Mumbai police behaved in the matter was completely illegal, unethical and unprofessional. One IPS officer goes to Mumbai with prior information and he is quarantined at midnight. This is not done. This is not professional behaviour. This very bad,” the DGP said. Pandey said the Supreme Court has endorsed the Bihar Police’s position and the stand taken by the state government of recommending a CBI probe. “We wanted the CBI to investigate as we were unable to investigate it in Mumbai due to lack of cooperation,” Pandey said. “The general sentiment in the country is also that justice might not be served if the Mumbai police investigated the case. The way they were hampering our investigation, it sent a message that something was definitely fishy in the case,” he further said. Pandey, however, denied to comment on allegations made by Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut. “It’s not proper for me to reply to any political person. I am happy that the Supreme Court proved that the stand taken by the state government was right,” the DGP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rhea-has-no-stature-to-comment-on-cm-dgp/articleshow/77642665.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Man who took kid’s obscene pictures booked in dowry case||HYDERABAD: A day after a man was arrested by Nacharam police for allegedly taking obscene pictures of his stepdaughter when she was a minor, he was booked for dowry harassment. His wife lodged a dowry harassment complaint against him. The now 20-year-old law student had found her pictures while using her stepfather’s laptop in July. According to the complainant, a beautician and mother of the law student, she had married the accused in 2013, a year after her divorce from her first husband. At the time of the marriage, her family gave Rs 5 lakh cash, a gold chain and a diamond ring as dowry. However, she alleged harassment for additional dowry started later. After the mother-daughter duo was mental and physical harassed, they sold their gold to pay Rs 5 lakh to clear her husband’s debts. However, the harassment did not stop. The girl was around 14 years old when her stepfather allegedly took her obscene pictures and she discovered the file in his laptop in July. According to police, the pictures were taken through a webcam. Nacharam police seized a laptop and an external hard disk used in the offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-who-took-kids-obscene-pics-booked-in-dowry-case/articleshow/77642705.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Rajkot||Man arrested for murder in Wankaner village||Rajkot: A resident of Jamsar village of Wankaner taluka in Moribi district was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly clubbing a man to death, suspecting him of having an extramarital affair with his wife. Police said the accused, Dashrath Koli (38), had clubbed Jayenti Bhuva (40) to death after the latter was caught climbing down the terrace of the former’s house. According to the police, Koli suspected that Bhuva either had an affair with his wife or had come to his house to commit a theft. Koli caught Bhuva and thrashed him with a bat, killing him on the spot. “In order to mislead the police, Koli told us that Bhuva had fallen to death from the terrace of his house where he had come to commit a theft. However, when his forensic post mortem revealed that Bhuva had received a severe beating, we called up Koli, and during his interrogation, Koli confessed to his crime,” said R P Jadeja, sub-inspector with Wankaner taluka police station. Bhuva, who originally hailed from Madhavpur Ghed, worked as a labourer in a stone quarry, while Koli was into singing folk songs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-arrested-for-murder-in-wankaner-village/articleshow/77640222.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Auda becomes first govt office to appoint Covid coordinator||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority (Auda) became the first government office to appoint a Covid coordinator, when it nominated deputy collector (administration) A R Thakkar.Auda has said that subordinate administrative staff will help Thakkar perform his duty as Covid coordinator. The Auda notification also states that no one will be allowed to enter the office without a mask.Auda authorities said the coordinator can also stop anyone from entering the office if they show symptoms and can take them to the nearest health facility. According to the AMC notification, the coordinator will also be responsible for tracing contacts of those found to be positive and informing the corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/auda-becomes-first-govt-office-to-appoint-covid-coordinator/articleshow/77642734.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Kochi||Police need tower details & nothing more, government tells Kerala HC||KOCHI: The state government on Wednesday submitted before the Kerala High Court that only tower details of Covid-19 patients and suspects are required by police. However, it did not undertake that call data is not being collected. The submission was made by additional advocate general KK Ravindranath before a division bench comprising chief justice S Manikumar and justice Shaji P Chaly. The additional AG was responding to a public interest litigation filed by opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala challenging a circular issued by state police chief on August 11 regarding the collection of call data records (CDR) of Covid patients and those under quarantine. An interim order issued by the court on Wednesday said: “Mr. KK Ravindranath, learned Additional Advocate General, submitted that to find out the location of Covid-19 patients, police requires only the tower details from where the calls are made and received and not more than that. To that extent, call detail records received are erased after 14 days of the quarantine period. Submission of the learned Additional Advocate General is placed on record.” During the hearing, the court asked the petitioner’s counsel T Asaf Ali whether the petitioner is aggrieved by the collection of CDR alone or the entire circular of the state police chief, which was issued because of Covid-19 unlocking. The counsel replied that the grievance is regarding CDR alone. The counsel also argued that the government may collect CDR of anybody in the state in the guise of prevention of Covid-19 as per the circular. Only the tower location of a Covid patient or suspect is required, and not CDR, the counsel submitted. As the additional advocate general submitted that only tower location is required, the court recorded the submission made on behalf of the government and directed for filing a statement and has scheduled a hearing on August 21. Regarding the petitioner’s contention that the state police chief’s circular does not refer to Covid patients or suspects but all persons, the court said, prima facie, it cannot accept such a contention as the circular has been issued in connection with Covid-19 unlocking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/police-need-tower-details-nothing-more-govt-tells-hc/articleshow/77641330.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Agra||Woman doctor of Agra medical college found brutally murdered, another medico suspect||AGRA: A woman doctor, 25, of the gynaecology department of SN Medical College, Agra was found murdered a few hours after she went missing on Wednesday. The body of Dr Yogita Gautam was found in Bamroli Ahir locality of Agra. A resident of Delhi’s Shivpuri area, she was the final year student of Master of Surgery and her result was declared on Tuesday. She had qualified as a surgeon. According to the family members, she was kidnapped and murdered. They had filed a complaint of kidnapping and threat of murder at Agra’s MM Gate police station on Wednesday morning. She was last seen at college on Tuesday at 3pm. In the police complaint, the family members have said that Yogita had completed her MBBS from a private college in Moradabad. “One of her seniors, Vivek Tiwari, a resident of Kanpur who is now serving as a medical officer in the district, was pressuring her for marriage,” the complaint said. “Tiwari had also called the family members and threatened them to convince Yogita or face consequences,” it said. Circle officer Vikas Jaiswal told TOI that an FIR has been registered against Dr Tewari under section 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of IPC on the complaint filed by woman’s family members. Yogita was living in a rented accommodation at Rajamandi locality in Agra. Scared by the threat calls, Yogita’s brother and parents had arrived in Agra on Wednesday to take her back home. According to police, Yogita was brutally murdered. Her dead body was found with several injuries on the head.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/woman-doctor-of-agra-medical-college-found-brutally-murdered-another-medico-suspect/articleshow/77641323.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 20, 2020||Varanasi||Ballia celebrates its I-Day at dist jail, recalls heroes||VARANASI: Ballia, on Wednesday, recalled its heroes- Chittu Pandey and Mahanand Mishra- at a traditional ceremony organised at district jail by opening its gates to mark the day when these two freedom fighters had declared Ballia as independent on August 19, 1942. After independence perhaps it was the first occasion when no public gathering was allowed in the traditional ceremony due to restrictions imposed in view of Covid-19 menace. But, district magistrate Ballia Hari Pratap Shahi, SP Devendra Nath along with freedom fighter Ramvichar Pandey, Chittu Pandey’s great grandson Vinay Pandey and few other dignitaries reached the district jail campus on Wednesday morning. After they garlanded the busts of martyr Rajkumar Bagh, Vir Kunwar Singh, Ramdahin Ojha, Chittua Pandey and other freedom fighters, main gate of the jail was opened. The special team of police gave the guard of honour. During Quit India Movement in Ballia Chittu Pandey and Mahanand Mishra declared Ballia as independent on 19 August, 1942, although Britishers suppressed them in a few days. Their parallel government succeeded in compelling the then collector to hand over power and release all the arrested Congress leaders by opening the gate of jail. To recall this achievement this ceremony is organised annually on August 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ballia-celebrates-its-i-day-at-dist-jail-recalls-heroes/articleshow/77640214.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Kolkata||Seize licence to shut hospital: Panel to West Bengal||KOLKATA: The WBCERC on Wednesday recommended that the state health department seizes the licence of a hospital in Salt Lake so that the establishment closes its operations. The recommendations came after the hospital failed to comply with the directives issued by the commission about a year ago. The hospital has at least two more units in the districts and the health panel has sought cancellation of licences of these units, too. This is the first time the panel asked a hospital to shut doors. According to the commission, a patient’s family had complained against Anandalok Hospital, Salt Lake, about medical negligence. During the hearing, the hospital was found guilty of deficiency in services and the commission directed the hospital to pay Rs 3 lakh as compensation to the patient’s family. The hospital reportedly paid them Rs 1 lakh and expressed its inability to pay Rs 2 lakh. Sources in the panel said the hospital cited funds crunch as a reason. TOI made several calls to D K Saraf, founder of the hospital group, but got no response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/seize-licence-to-shut-hosp-panel-to-state/articleshow/77642670.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Nagpur||OFB hits shelf life hurdle in grenade order; Solar proposes faster method||Nagpur: After a decade long process to replace Army’s World War II era M-36 grenades with the latest multimodal ones, Solar Group, a private company from Nagpur, has reached the contract negotiation stage with government. The Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) which has also cleared the trials of new grenades awaits a bulk production clearance (BPC) for it.The army will require at least 10 lakh grenades to replace the old ones about which there were complaints of malfunctioning. Being a government department, OFB will not need contract negotiation and a direct order will be placed with it. Solar Group will have to negotiate the price.Both the entities will make the new grenade based on the design by Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory (TTBRL), a unit of the DRDO and product of both have cleared the trials. The grenades will be made at Ordnance Factory Khamaria (OFK), in Jabalpur and Solar’s unit at Nagpur. Its subsidiary Economic Explosives carries out defence orders.However, OFB has now been asked by the army to prove its grenades have a shelf life of 15 years before the order cab be placed. Shelf life is part of the original qualitative requirements (QRs). However, it is for the first time that the Army has asked that shelf life of a DRDO product be proven beforehand, said sources involved in the process.“Proving the shelf life will take another two years, which means OFB will have to wait till then. OFB will be going by the intensive shelf life assessment (ISA) method, a procedure approved by the directorate general of quality assurance (DGQA) of the army. There is no alternative method that the OFB knows that is accepted by DGQA,” said a source.The factory has responded to the army saying the latter could start taking the initial batches and the shelf life assessment can go simultaneously. OFB is also ready to give a written guarantee that the order can be discontinued if shelf life is not achieved. There has been no breakthrough yet. The shelf life depends on chemicals that are already used in other ammunition for which the span has been proven. Even foreign suppliers only give a written assurance, the source said that the Army accepts.Solar Group, on the other hand, has come up with a new system method— Isothermal micro calorimetry— that takes four months to assess shelf life. A management representative said the method is used by NATO countries and is better than the conventional system. Solar is the first entity in Asia to have acquired the equipment. A presentation has been made before the ministry of defence highlighting the advantages of the system.Sources in OFB said the IMC method was not part of their process as they can only go by DGQA process. Had the process been mentioned in the QR, even OFB could have acquired the equipment.In a reply to TOI query, OFB has said it had the capacity and had cleared all tests. A management represeantive of Solar Group confirmed the case is at contract negotiation stage.(in a nutshell)* Army is replacing its WW-II vintage M36 grenades* New grenades are to be made by Solar Industries and Ordnance Factory Board* Army has asked OFB to prove shelf life of 15 years before giving order* The only method approved by the army will take two years* Solar has proposed new method that will take 4 months* OFB can only go by approved two-year method||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ofb-hits-shelf-life-hurdle-in-grenade-order-solar-proposes-faster-method/articleshow/77642728.cms||Shishir Arya
August 20, 2020||Nagpur||Vid hosting human trials of 2 out of 3 Covid vaccines in India||Nagpur: In the race to develop Covid-19 vaccine, Vidarbha is at the forefront as human trial sites of 2 out of the 3 vaccines being tried in the country are from the region. Nagpur is among the cities from Vidarbha having a trial site, second being Sevagram in Wardha district. Covid warriors from Nagpur and Sevagram will contribute significantly in the development of the vaccines.Earlier this week, 55 participants from Nagpur were administered second dose of Covaxin as part of the second leg of phase-I trials of this vaccine. Covaxin is India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).After this, more than 200 participants from the city and 200 from Sevagram are set to join human trials of Covishield — a vaccine developed by Oxford University and Astra-Zeneca which is being tried in India by Pune-Based Serum Institute of India (SERI). Two leading medical colleges in Vidarbha — Nagpur’s GMCH and Sevagram’s Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (MGIMS) have been shortlisted as trial sites for this vaccine. Dr Nitin Gangane, dean of MGIMS, confirmed his institute will host human trials for Covishield. Dr BS Garg from the department of community medicine will be the principal investigator for these trials. However, official details of the trials and enrolment process will be released only after the institute gets nod from the ethics committee. Officials from MGIMS said they will preferably enrol Covid-19 warriors — like doctors, nurses, ASHA workers and health officials — for the trials as they are well aware about the clinical process.According to Clinical Trials Registry – India (CTRI) information, there are 17 test site for human trials of Covishield and one of them is GMCH Nagpur. Here, Dr Sushant Meshram, head of department of respiratory medicine, will be the principal investigator. The institutional ethics committee of GMCH is still to approve the trial proposals. All other parameters including who will be given opportunity to enrol for the human trials will become clear in coming days.According to CTRI, this trial is a Phase 2/3, observer-blind, randomized, controlled study and will be conducted on healthy adults. The vaccine will be studied for safety and immunogenicity standards. Total 1,600 participants of more than or equal to 18 years of age will be enrolled in the study at 17 sites.Human Trials At A GlanceBharat Biotech/ICMR’s Covaxin, Zydus Cadila’s vaccine ZyCoV-D, and Serum Institute of India’s Covishield are in trial phase in India Out of these, Covaxin trial has entered Phase-II at 12 sites including at Nagpur’s Dr Gillurkar’s Research InstituteCovishield trials have received DGCI nod and two institutes in Vidarbha — GMCH Nagpur and MGIMS Sevagram will be conducting trialsEnrolment process for these trials will begin soon after receiving ethical committee clearance; at least 200 participants will be enrolled in city and 200 in Sevagram||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-hosting-human-trials-of-2-out-of-3-covid-vaccines-in-india/articleshow/77642736.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 20, 2020||Kolkata||KMC launches senior citizen directory||KOLKATA: A preliminary data has been prepared on city’s elderly population living in high-rises, based on which civic officials and cops will reach out to senior citizens in their hours of need during the pandemic. After chief minister Mamata Banerjee advised KMC authorities to connect with senior citizens living in high-rises in the city, the initiative was taken to bridge the gap between the KMC and cops and housing societies.State municipal affairs and urban development minister Firhad Hakim on Wednesday released a directory and booklet containing the locations of high-rises and the names of officer-bearers there. KMC workers and cops will now contact the housing society office-bearers to learn about the senior citizens’ latest health conditions and the kind of help they might need in future. A civic health official said KMC had started distributing a list of civic office, police station and state health department helplines, which the elderly citizens can contact in emergency. Similar directories and booklets were released for Bidhannagar, Howrah and New Town as well. Hakim said now that the state health department and KMC had a fleet of over 100 ambulances, they would be able to hospitalize elderly citizens staying at a high-rise by an hour. “We have been able to tide over the initial dearth of ambulances. We are ready to reach out to senior citizens living in high-rises during a medical emergency,” said state home secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay, also Kolkata’s nodal officer for Covid. The KMC Covid-response team plans to reach them essentials and medicines. “We will be in touch with housing society key persons. If senior citizens need any help, we will go there,” an official said. Housing complexes lauded the initiative. “We will support the administration wholeheartedly. After all, they have taken such a useful initiative,” said Debjani Mukherjee of Urbana off EM Bypass. Ashok Baid of Silver Spring on Bypass, too, assured of all cooperation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-launches-sr-citizen-directory/articleshow/77642706.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Kanpur||Video shows kids attending class in Uttar Pradesh's Jalaun, probe ordered||KANPUR: A video of a private school where kids were found to be attending classes amid the pandemic in Jalaun district has gone viral on various social media platforms on Wednesday. This incident happened at a private school situated in Madhavgarh area of the district. Due to the threat of coronavirus, the state government has directed all the educational institutions to declare holidays. A video went viral on social media on Wednesday in which 30 to 40 students were seen attending classes in Madhavgarh area of Jalaun district on Wednesday. Prem Chand, Basic Shiksha Adhikari, Jalaun, said: “No instructions to reopen schools have been issued bythe government. We will investigate the matter, if found guilty, the recognition of school, will be cancelled, besides the principal and owner of school will also face legal action.” He said it is appears that it is an old video as none among the students were found to be wearing Covid-19 mask. “Also it is not clear, whether it’s a school or some coaching institute. However, in both the cases, we will not spare its owner if found guilty,” said BSA further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/video-shows-kids-attending-class-in-jalaun-probe-ordered/articleshow/77642732.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Mumbai||Air India Express Calicut crash evidence tampered with?||Mumbai: The Air India Express Calicut accident site was not secured and evidence may have been displaced, tampered with and destroyed, said Capt Amit Singh, an air safety expert, in a letter sent to the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) this week. He based his observation on photographs and videos shot by the media at the crash site, about three hours after the accident. On August 7, an AIX aircraft from Dubai overshot the Calicut runway on landing and dropped off the table-top runway, killing 18 people, including both the pilots. The video showed a person dressed in military fatigues positioned outside the aircraft cockpit. He points to something inside the cockpit, while another person, who is inside the cockpit, hands over what appears to be a document, to the person outside, who in turn, hands over the document to a third person, said the letter, sent to the MoCA secretary, seeking a probe into the matter. “It might be key evidence. A judicial probe must be initiated to carry out an unbiased investigation,’’ said Capt Singh. Speaking to TOI, Capt Singh said that he spoke to the media channels concerned and found out that the said clip was shot at 10.37pm, about three hours after the crash. The Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) team reached Calicut only at 5am the next day. The photographs “undoubtedly capture a scene of alleged tampering and destruction of evidence from the aircraft cockpit”, he said . If indeed that is what has happened, then the act, considered criminal in nature, is punishable under the Indian Penal Code, he said. The Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) procedures manual 2012 details the procedure for securing evidence on site (4.1.4). It says that the officer in-charge of the aerodrome closest to the site of accident shall assist in coordination with local police authorities and shall take all reasonable measures to protect the evidence until the arrival of the officer of AAIB or any other authorized person. It adds that the assistance of civil authorities, particularly that of local police, is also necessary to ensure that vital evidence is not lost. The International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) Doc. 9756 Part II states that “securing the occurrence site, aircraft, wreckage, and other equipment involved to ensure their preservation, including protection against further damage, and the deterioration or disappearance of essential evidence due to theft, displacement or improper handling of the wreckage” should be accomplished without delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/air-india-express-calicut-crash-evidence-tampered-with/articleshow/77642743.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Dad sells kids’ phone for booze, held||KOCHI: In a bizarre incident, a 41-year-old man was arrested by Angamaly police for allegedly thrashing his wife and children and forcefully taking away the mobile phone used by the children to attend online classes so that he could sell it to purchase alcohol. The arrested person has been identified as Sabu Kachapilly of Mookkannoor. According to police, the man was a regular troublemaker and he took away the mobile phone when he ran out of money to buy liquor. The incident took place on Monday night when the accused created a fuss in his house and demanded the family to hand over the mobile phone. Villagers had pitched in money to buy the mobile phone for the kids to attend online classes after they realized that the children were good at studies and the family in poverty. On Monday night, the accused thrashed the children and his wife before taking away the mobile phone. The younger child who tried to escape the chaos took refuge at a neighbour’s house. The neighbours later reached the house to find the exhausted family and took them to hospital. In the meantime, Sabu sold the phone and went to a toddy shop in Angamaly on Tuesday. Police who were intimated about the incident on Monday night picked up the accused late on Tuesday from the toddy shop. According to police he was charged with Juvenile Justice Act under section 75 of the JJ Act. The section is invoked when a person having the actual charge of, or control over, a child, assaults, abandons, abuses, exposes or willfully neglects the child or causes or procures the child to be assaulted, abandoned, abused, exposed or neglected in a manner likely to cause such child unnecessary mental or physical suffering. If convicted, the accused can be imprisoned for upto three years or fined Rs 1 lakh or both. The accused was presented in court and was remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dad-sells-kids-phone-for-booze-held/articleshow/77641405.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||RRNC residents protest over encroachment of lung spaces||Hyderabad: Residents of Rajendra Reddy Nagar Colony (RRNC) Chandanagar carried out protests in front of the GHMC’s Serilingampally zonal office on Wednesday. The residents were agitating against the construction activities taking place in the colony’s open spaces by an unidentified group. Civic officials rushed out of their office to reason with the protesting locals. In July too, the residents had held protests over diminishing lung spaces.“After that protest, civic officials swung into action, barricaded the place and even built a boundary wall but almost overnight, the wall built was demolished and construction activities by private parties have started,” said RRNC resident, P Ramchandra. According to the locals, there are two parks and another open space in their colony spread over 19 acres. These areas — which had been marked out as lung spaces — are being encroached, they said. “Of the total 19 acres, three spots which were marked as open spaces, are being encroached,” said one of the protesters. “We are investigating the facts. Action will be taken as per due procedure,” said N Sudhamsh, who took charge as GHMC deputy commissioner for Serilingampally a few months back. Meanwhile, an officer from the town planning wing said that the approved layout regularisation scheme (LRS) applications and building permissions are being checked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rrnc-residents-protest-over-encroachment-of-lung-spaces/articleshow/77643294.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Prayers held for SP Balu’s fast recovery||Hyderabad: Special prayers were offered by priests at Chilkur Balaji temple on Wednesday for the speedy recovery of playback singer SP Balahsubramanyam. The day, being a shravan amavasya, was considered auspicious for prayers. The singer is in critical condition after contracting Covid-19 and has been on ventilator support since August 5 at private hospital in Chennai. “We sang the Aditya Hrudayam, a hymn to the sun god, and also chanted Narasimha Mantram at the sanctum sanctorum of Lord Balaji,” chief priest MV Soundararajan told TOI. Recalling memories of SP Balu, the priest said he had visited the temple many times, sang many songs, and also played an important role in a film on Chilkur Balaji. Sunil Mungara||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/prayers-held-for-sp-balus-fast-recovery/articleshow/77643275.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Two Covid-19 patients among three killed in road accidents||Hyderabad: Two Covid-19 patients, a father and a son, were among three persons killed in two separate road accidents in Nalgonda district on Wednesday. The third person was an accused in the custody of Andhra Pradesh police. In the first incident, Nalgonda police said that the ambulance carrying the two Covid-19 patients rammed into parked lorry on a flyover in Damaracherla in the early hours of Wednesday. The lorry was parked on the side owing to an engine breakdown and had its parking lights which the ambulance driver failed to notice. The driver was in critical condition. The police had rushed to the spot without knowing the victims were Covid-19 patients and as such officials have been advised to undergo tests and take precaution. The other incident took place in Miryalaguda when an accused in the case of a missing 17-year-old from AP’s Prakasam district was being transported by police. The accused, Venkat Rao, complained of nausea due to which cops stopped the vehicle and made him have water. However, Venkat slipped out and, in his attempt to escape, was run over by a lorry. He was taken to a hospital where he died during treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-covid-19-patients-among-three-killed-in-road-accidents/articleshow/77643249.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Summons to cop over laxity in due process||Hyderabad: Taking serious note of negligence by police for failing to produce an accused within 24 hours of FIR registration, the special executive magistrate has summoned the investigating officer of Chandrayangutta police station to appear before the court. On July 11, Chandrayangutta police had issued an FIR under section CrPC section 107 (security for keeping peace) against on Syed Mohiuddin Naveed. The case was being investigated by sub-inspector A Shivtej. After a gap of 33 days, on August 13, the accused was apprehended and produced before the special executive magistrate’s court. The defence raised objection against the police for not submitting FIR copy within 24 hours of issuance and producing the respondent. Taking note of the police laxity, who failed to produce the accused even a month after lodging FIR, the magistrate issued summons to inspector of the police station along with relevant documents in the case. “The police act is nothing but abuse of the process of law. I was unaware of the police lodging an FIR for binding over me before court,” said Syed Mohiuddin Naveed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/summons-to-cop-over-laxity-in-due-process/articleshow/77642991.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Adulteration clip goes viral, dairy owner booked||Hyderabad: After a video of a dairy farm worker’s milk adulteration act went viral on social media, Dabeerpura police registered a case and launched a manhunt to nab him. On Tuesday, police registered a case against Jahangeer Dairy Products owner and his employee Raju under Sections 269,272,273 r/w 34 of the IPC, Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act based on the complaint of Syed Azmat Hussain Jaffery from Darulshifa. Referring a viral video on social media, where a worker of the dairy at Gol Khabar in Darulshifa, was seen milking a buffalo at the farm, the complainant alleged that the worker, Raju, drank some milk from a mug and then dumped the remaining in a tumbler. In the video, Raju was also spotted mixing dirty water used for buffaloes with the milk, Dabeerpura inspector N Satyanarayana said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/adulteration-clip-goes-viral-dairy-owner-booked/articleshow/77643126.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telugu neta in UK to train Indians hoping to join Labour Party ranks||HYDERABAD: Uday Nagaraju, a Hyderabad-origin Labour party member, will train Indian hopefuls in the United Kingdom looking to join the party. The programme aims at increaing the Indian representation in the assembly and councils in the UK. Nagaraju, programme director of the Mahatma Gandhi Future Leaders Program, will oversee the mentorship programme, which was officially launched by Angela Rayner, deputy leader of the Labour party. Speaking at the event, Rayner said, “All across our society, positions of power do not reflect the diversity of our country and our communities.” She added that the programme would “encourage more people from Indian origin to get involved in politics and to stand for elected office.” The programme has been started by the Labour Friends of India, a representative group that is part of the UK’s Opposition Labour Party. Speaking to TOI, Nagaraju said that the programme would especially aim at creating more Indian-origin members of Parliament (MP). “The mentoring sessions will initially start online with people receiving training from senior MPs and official Labour party trainers. The modules will include sessions on how to become a Labour candidate, how do you navigate the party system, how to encapsulate the principles of public life,” he said. It would also teach virtual campaigning and will include field work so that trainees can engage with communities. The six-month programme will start in January and there have already been 20 to 25 enquiries, says Nagaraju. He said the scale of the programme was to ensure many more MP candidates who are of Indian origin, including from the Telugu community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telugu-neta-in-uk-to-train-indians-hoping-to-join-labour-party-ranks/articleshow/77643336.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Two held for duping people at ATM kiosks||Hyderabad: Two thieves who duped several people in the guise of helping them withdraw cash at ATM kiosks have been arrested and Rs 2.9 lakh cash and 41 debit cards were recovered from their possession at Dundigal. Local police along with Central Crime Station (CCS) Balanagar, arrested G Satwik Reddy (18), and Y Joseph (36) — both helpers in a private company at Church Gagillapur. On Tuesday evening, Dundigal crime team along with CCS Balanagar conducted vehicle checks at a bank near Gandimaisamma area. “The two tried to escape but we intercepted them and found multiple debit cards in their possession,” Dundigal inspector A Venkatesham said. On interrogation, the duo confessed to have duped many in the guise of helping them withdraw cash at ATMs. “The accused used to target people who did not know how to withdraw cash. In the guise of helping, they used to note down their PIN and swap the card with another card of the same bank in their possession. After the victim left, the accused would withdraw cash using the stolen card,” the inspector said. In the past two years, the accused had committed nine offences in Dundigal and two offences in Jeedimetla, defrauding victims to the tune of Rs 2.8 lakh. Cops suspect several victims might not have approached police. Police recovered Rs 2.97 lakh cash, a cell phone, a bike and 41 debit cards of various banks from their possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-held-for-duping-people-at-atm-kiosks/articleshow/77643217.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Auditor comes under police tow truck, dies||Secunderbad: In a tragic accident, a 33-year-old auditor working in the office of Controller General of Defence Accounts (CGDA) died after she came under the wheels of a traffic police tow truck near Oliphant bridge in Secunderbad on Wednesday. V Sai Lakshmi, a resident of Gandhi Nagar, was on her way to the office when the accident occurred. “She was riding pillion on a Kinetic Honda. The rider was trying to overtake the traffic towing truck from the wrong side and lost control,” said Gopalapuram inspector B Sai Eshwar Goud. While the rider fell on the left side of the road, Lakshmi fell on the right side. She was crushed under the left rear wheels of the towing vehicle and died on the spot. Both the victim and the rider were not wearing helmets. The accident occurred at 10.10 am. The rider, who is yet to be identified, fled from the spot. According to traffic cops, the Gopalapuram traffic crane went to Naivedyam Hotel at Bhoiguda to shift a car from another road accident spot to Gopalapuram traffic police station when the accident occurred. A case was registered under section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of IPC against the two-wheeler rider and traffic crane driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/auditor-comes-under-police-tow-truck-dies/articleshow/77642929.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Staff lights diya, rat burns down office in Musheerabad||HYDERABAD: In a freak incident, fire caused by the actions of a rat resulted in loss of property worth over Rs 1 crore at an automobile showroom in Musheerabad. Forensic experts, investigating the incident that occurred on February 8 this year, upon testing the burnt material and examining the wiring found out that there was neither any inflammable material nor a short circuit which could have started the fire.  The team went on to check the CCTV camera footage wherein they found out that it was the rat that had caused the fire. As a result, the entire first floor of the eastern section was charred while there were damages on the ground floor too due to the heat and soot. Three vehicles in the premises were also damaged in the incident.  “Our team inspected the site and collected relevant physical evidence...Analysis did not reveal presence of hydrocarbons thereby ruling out possibility of ignition and initiation of fire due to use of extraneously induced ignitable liquid residues...,” Dr KPC Gandhi, founder of Truth Labs who were investigating the incident, told TOI. While examining CCTV footage, it was seen that at around midnight, a rat had entered the customer service room. “...It brought some burning material in its mouth and dropped it on the chair. Within seconds, the chair started burning and soon gated to other furniture...It was found that every Friday, employees would hold a puja in the room and a picture of deity was present in the corner. There, a big diya would be lit...Due to no wind blowing in the room, the diya remained lit all night and the rat dragged the burning wick and dropped it on the chair,” Gandhi said. Earlier, district fire officer Srinivas Reddy had declared short circuit as the cause of fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/staff-lights-diya-rat-burns-down-office/articleshow/77642905.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: More smugglers take post office route to ship drugs from abroad||BENGALURU: A unit of Bangalore Customs recently seized a parcel containing psychotropic drugs like ecstasy, MMDA and brown sugar that reached Chamarajpet Foreign Post Office from the Netherlands. Investigation led to the arrest of a city youth who had allegedly ordered the drugs through the dark web. With various enforcement agencies like police, Customs and Narcotics Control Bureau tightening their grip on drug smuggling, many dealers are using the postal service to transport them from overseas. Customs sources revealed smugglers are increasingly bringing psychedelic drugs into Bengaluru through foreign post as there’s a spurt in the number of unregistered parcels without proper delivery address. “The parcel which reached Chamarajpet contained nearly 100 ecstasy pills and blocks of MDMA and brown sugar in a semi-powdered form. The suspect was to receive it as soon as it arrived from Europe,” explained an investigating officer. Following the seizure, the Customs team tracked down the man who had ordered the drugs. However, sleuths didn’t divulge his identity or the value of drugs seized. They are trying to ascertain his local links and the source of the drug cache.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/more-smugglers-take-post-office-route-to-ship-drugs-from-abroad/articleshow/77641452.cms||Petlee Peter
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad youth wins India its first MSO gold||HYDERABAD: As India marked it’s 74th year of Independence on August 15, Hyderabad-boy Neelakantha Bhanu Prakash gave the country another reason to celebrate. Representing the nation at the Mind Sports Olympics (MSO), London 2020, the 20-year-old maths wizard won India its first gold medal in the event — the most prestigious annual international competition for games of mental skill and mind sports being held in London since 1997. Apart from bringing laurels to the country, the victory once again sealed Bhanu’s place as the fastest human calculator in the world, a title once accorded to mathematical genius, Shakuntala Devi. At the MSO, Bhanu competed with 29 participants between 10 years and 57 years, from 13 countries, to finish at the top of the chart with a clear margin of 65 points. Surprised at Bhanu’s speed, the judges asked him to solve another cube root to confirm his accuracy. “I have won many competitions, but this one holds a special place in my heart as this is the first time that the MSO championship title was won by India,” said the prodigy who already has 54 records — 50 national and four international — to his name. “In 2016, I defeated Scott Flansburg and won the title of fastest human calculator in the world. I hold till date,” Bhanu told TOI. His journey began in 2005 after an accident left him bed-ridden for almost a year. “My parents were told that I may be cognitively impaired. During that year, they exposed me to puzzles and games and soon realised I was good at solving math problems. By 2006-07, I started participating in events held by Abacus institution,” recollected Bhanu. His professors too are “spellbound”. “He is good with analytical skills and has worked extremely hard to be where he is today. I feel very proud,” said Prof Jaspreet Kaur, assistant professor, department of mathematics at St Stephen’s College, Delhi where Bhanu is a student. There’s more on his list of achievements. A startup founded in 2018, “Exploring Infinities”, to boost children’s cognitive development and popularise mental arithmetic and a collaboration with Telangana government to launch math sessions through T-SAT Network for students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-youth-wins-india-its-first-mso-gold/articleshow/77643079.cms||Preeti Biswas
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Additional charges against Chinese national running betting ring||HYDERABAD: Central crime station (CCS) sleuths on Wednesday informed the Nampally court that it had invoked the Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act against Chinese national Yah Hao — head of south-east Asia for Beijing T Power Company, and other accused. This, in addition to charges of cheating, conspiracy and promoting gaming. Meanwhile, Paytm officials appeared before investigators as the company had been used as the payment gateway for the online gambling companies of the accused. According to officials, the use of different gambling companies by the accused — who paid commissions to users for referring new customers — amounts to money circulation. “Any scheme where earning is made through addition of new members upon referrals, will come under money circulation,” a Hyderabad police official told TOI. A few days back, Yah Hao had moved a bail application, which is yet to come for hearing before the court. Hao denied involvement in gambling and claimed that his company only deals in the e-commerce business. Payment gateways Paytm and Cashfree, have been called to provide more details of transactions which are under the scanner in order to shed a clear light on the source of the money, its outflow and the overseas accounts to which the monies were transferred. “The legal and sales team of Paytm appeared and gave partial information as sought by us. The remaining information, they are yet to provide. Similarly, authorities of Cashfree and a prominent international bank were also served notices to appear,’’ sources in Hyderabad police told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/additional-charges-against-chinese-natl-running-betting-ring/articleshow/77643187.cms||Srinath Vudali
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||TiE hopes to get Nadella, others for summit in Dec||Hyderabad: The Indus Entrepreneurs (TiE) Hyderabad on Wednesday announced that it will be hosting TiE’s largest ever and first virtual global summit during December 8-10, 2020, in which over 20,000 entrepreneurs, 200 investors and 50 speakers, including top biz honchoes, celebrities and sports persons, are expected to participate. The summit is likely to be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and global business leaders such as Satya Nadella, Ratan Tata, Elon Musk, Sundar Pichai, Anand Mahindra, Kiran Majumdar Shaw, Sheryl Sandberg and Indra Nooyi, among others, are likely to attend, TiE Hyderabad said, adding that they awaiting confirmations from the star speakers. The summit, with the theme of ‘Entrepreneurship 360’, will focus on challenges faced by entrepreneurs especially during the Covid times and provide them a platform to avail funding and seek insights into strategies to scale up business. Over 100 global entrepreneurs will be showcasing their products and services during the event. Speaking at the virtual curtain raiser, Telangana IT principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan said, “While it is true that businesses may have been disrupted, we are also seeing umpteen number of opportunities coming our way, and if one is agile, smart and mentored well, I am sure they can once again rise in their business.” Sridhar Pinnapureddy, president, TiE, Hyderabad said, “The TiE Global Summit 2020 aims at fostering ideas, providing a platform for investors to identify and fund curated startups... We plan to make the summit very enriching from a networking, learning, and funding perspective. We expect at least 200 entrepreneurs to be funded by investors during the three-day summit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tie-hopes-to-get-nadella-others-for-summit-in-dec/articleshow/77643040.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Vadodara||Some hope after fretting for 5 months||Vadodara: Is the Covid-19 situation easing out in Vadodara? If the data shared by the administration is any indication, this may be a distinct possibility. The low positivity rate despite higher testing in the city has given some hope to officials even as it has raised eyebrows too. Despite tests being nearly doubled over the last couple of days, there has been only a marginal change in the number of positive cases detected in the city. The positivity rate that was going down gradually till last week plummeted significantly since testing was accelerated since Monday. The number of positive cases being detected is not the only data that is being keenly watched. Another fact that has raised hopes is that the number of patients on ventilators or BIPAP machines has also gone down marginally indicating that fewer patients are reaching a critical state. The number of patients who need oxygen support to breathe has also gone down slightly. While the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) has kept the data of deaths of Covid-19 patients irrespective of them having comorbid conditions a closely guarded secret, sources said that the number of such deaths has remained almost steady since about a week. “It seems that a peak is being reached. The numbers may remain stable for the next few days and may then start going down gradually. We may see this happening sometime next month,” said officer of special duty (OSD) for Covid-19 for Vadodara district Vinod Rao. Rao added that hospitals in the city were having beds for patients despite the viral pandemic peaking in the city. He added that sufficient ventilators were also available in hospitals including government hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/some-hope-after-fretting-for-5-months/articleshow/77640739.cms||Sachin Sharma
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||3-yr-old falls from balcony, dies||Hyderabad: A three-year-old boy, who fell from the balcony of his house under Petbasheerabad limits, died while undergoing treatment on Tuesday. The minor, Manoj Kumar — a resident of Kompally, had fallen from the second floor of the building on the afternoon of August 17. “The boy accidentally slipped and fell. He sustained multiple injuries and was rushed to a private hospital,” said Petbasheerabad inspector, S Ramesh. A case has been registered under accidental death. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-yr-old-falls-from-balcony-dies/articleshow/77643270.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Two cops, auto driver booked for rape, assault under Pocso Act||MUMBAI: Police on Monday booked two constables and a auto-rickshaw driver on charges of rape, house-trespassing and robbery, and under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act after the victim brought her complaint to the notice of Bombay high court. Police sources claimed it was a frame-up. This is second case of personnel from that police station being booked on charges of rape within two months. In March, sub-inspector Yusuf Shaikh was booked for rape, unnatural sex and assault, on complaints of his second wife. Shaikh was suspended. The victim, through lawyers, told HC she had been running around since January but police were not addressing her complaint of rape and molestation of her 11-year-old daughter. HC had pulled up police, after which, late on Sunday night police registered her complaint. On Monday, police told a division bench of Justices Amjad Sayed and Abhay Ahuja they had registered an FIR and started investigations. Constables Shishupal Jagdhane and S Gavhane, and auto driver Ghure have been named. Police registered a case and transferred it to Navghar police for free and fair investigations. A special investigating team (SIT) headed by deputy commissioner of police (zone VII) Prashant Kadam, and two female officers and four other policemen was constituted. The complaint stated that on January 14, police and the driver barged into the victim’s house under the pretext of investigating a human-trafficking racket and assaulted the woman. The victim complained that the racket was being run by a woman in connivance with some cops. The victim claimed police hit her in her stomach, which resulted in a miscarriage. She said they also molested her daughter in front of her. Police claimed that at the time stated in the complaint, Jagdhane was in UP to arrest a criminal, while Gavhane was at the police station. “Prima facie, it is a frame-up but due to a technicality we had to register an FIR. SIT will unearth the truth,’’ said an official. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-mumbai-cops-auto-driver-booked-for-rape-assault/articleshow/77643175.cms||Ahmed Ali
August 20, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Covid-19 has made people environment conscious, it reflects Ludh’s pollution level’||Having earned the dubious distinction of being among the most polluted cities of the world, Ludhiana witnessed substantial improvement in the air and water quality in the last few months. The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) faces the challenge in ensuring that the air quality remains breathable in Ludhiana in future as well. PPCB’s senior environment engineer Sandeep Bahl talks to TOI’s Shariq Majeed on pollution and improvement during lockdown. During Covid-19 enforced lockdown, how did things change on pollution front for Ludhiana? After lockdown started, air pollution had gone down to a level that was unexpected — it has, in fact, touched lowest-ever level in the history of Ludhiana. According to our estimate both air and water pollution levels in Ludhiana dropped by about 30-40% during that time. Even the bio-medical waste fell down by around same percentage. As air quality improved, citizens saw the effects of lockdown and how nature was virtually singing, migratory birds came, visibility levels increased and mountain ranges were visible from here. Also water quality improved in Buddha Nullah. How have things changed now after lockdown was lifted? Now, with the opening of all the activities slowly, including industries, vehicular traffic and construction activities, pollution has started increasing. But things are much better than pre-lockdown phase and are under control. Air pollution is less and so is water pollution. Even now pollution in Buddha Nullah and bio-medical waste is around 25% less when compared with the pre-lockdown phase. Are you analysing the data on pollution during Covid-19 enforced lockdown and now? We have recorded what changed during lockdown as we did keep tab on various factors related to pollution like quantity of affluent in Buddha Nullah, drains and Sutlej, generation of bio-medical wastes, reduction in the general waste and increase in other waste. We have data prior to lockdown what kind of pollutants was being discharged in water bodies and in air and during lockdown as we collected the same. We are analysing the data and this will form the basis of policies of both the state and central governments to check pollution. Do you think, there would be more sense of responsibility among the people in post-corona phase, especially in view of the change? It has already come and more people now realise about the importance of environment. Because of Covid-19, there have been change among attitude of people and they have themselves seen the benefits of having a better environment. During lockdown even as OPDs of hospitals were shut, diagnostic centres were not running, medical shops were selling essential medicines, except for Covid-19 related issues, people were not complaining about other health issues. That is the impact of better environment and we are hopeful that people have understood the benefits of having pollution free surroundings. Also earlier people would think that pollution is because of industry, vehicles and construction activity only and they cannot do much, now they have come to know about how they can help in bringing it down. Due to restricted movement, social, religious gathering, celebrations have come to halt that has also brought the change. What about the industrial activity as of now? According to our ground assessment, about 50% average industrial production is being recorded as of now in Ludhiana. Do you see pollution issues related to Ludhiana being addressed by government in near future? We are hopeful that things will improve substantially in next two years. So far as the pollution in Buddha Nullah is concerned, we have five sewerage treatment plants in Ludhiana, of which one is at Jamalpur and two each are Balloke and Bhattiyan. The ones at Bhattiyan and Balloke are state of the art plants and we augmenting the technology of the remaining three. Also, to check industrial affluent resulting in pollution in Buddha Nullah and ultimately in Sutlej river, we have got one common effluent treatment plant (CETP) constructed at Bahadur Ke. Two more CETPs are being constructed at Focal Point and Tajpur road by around December. We have also taken care of dairy waste and affluent treatment plant will be set up as part of the plant. So far as the air pollution is concerned, we expect the development projects in Ludhiana to be completed by next two years. As the construction activity will be completed, air pollution will come down as traffic speed, uninterrupted flow of traffic will increase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-19-has-made-people-environment-conscious-it-reflects-ludhs-pollution-level/articleshow/77642769.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Chandigarh||This village in Ludhiana establishes a park as tribute to corona warriors||Ludhiana: Khera village in Ludhiana has built a park to honour corona warriors. The villagers have managed to convince an NRI as well and together have collected the necessary funding for establishing the park. Buoyed by the success, now the villagers are planning on a plantation drive as well in their village to increase the green cover and as another tribute to corona warriors. Advocate Dharmjit Singh Khera, district chairman of legal cell of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) and a native of the village, said, “Our corona warriors are working tirelessly and putting their lives at risk just to save others. So, it is our duty as responsible citizens to show utmost respect to them and express our gratitude to them for their services. I didn’t want to stop at showering flower petals on them. I wanted to do something different and meaningful and something by which they could be permanently remembered. So I suggested the idea of a park and dedicating it to corona warriors.” Khera also added, “With the support of our gram panchayat and help of the people of our village — as well as Pappu Khera of USA, who contributed Rs 1 lakh — it was possible to establish this park. Kamaljeet Jit Sharma, general secretary of PPCC legal cell, too, help us a lot. We are happy that our efforts have been noticed by prominent leaders who have not only expressed happiness over the development of park but have also promised to extend help for our future plans. Now that we have the support, soon we will start a plantation drive in and around the village and plant saplings to increase green cover.” The initiative has been lauded by former Union minister Manish Tiwari, Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu and MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/this-village-in-ludhiana-establishes-a-park-as-tribute-to-corona-warriors/articleshow/77642779.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Agra||Bus with 34 passengers ‘hijacked’ in Agra as ‘loan recovery’||Agra: For about 12 hours between Tuesday and Wednesday, 34 passengers on a private bus were “held captive” by recovery agents out to get back the money the owner of the bus still owed before he died of Covid-19 on Monday. The passengers were eventually found at Chhatarpur in Madhya Pradesh and the bus at Etawah in UP. The bus was on its way from Gurgaon to Panna in Madhya Pradesh. Around 10.30pm on Tuesday, a group of men stopped it at Agra’s Southern Bypass. “They dragged the driver, conductor and helper out,” said Agra SP (rural) Ravi Kumar. Another group of men sat in a car, among whom was Pramod Gupta, a broker at the regional transport office in Etawah. Gupta, as a facilitator for transport service providers, would also extend loans to many of them — like Gwalior-based Ashok Arora, who had died of Covid-19 on Monday. Gupta wanted to “recover” the money Arora owed him by selling the bus off, so he had hired “agents” to do the job for him. Caught in this dispute were the passengers. “I had taken the bus from Gurgaon around 3.20pm. When the bus reached Agra, it stopped suddenly. Someone was abusing the bus staff,” said Dharmendra Chaturvedi, a passenger. The recovery agents told the bus staff that the loan instalments for the bus had not been paid for eight months and the owner was not taking calls. So they were taking the bus to the financier, Sri Ram Finance Company, the FIR lodged on Wednesday said. After a while the recovery agents drove the bus off — with the passengers. The passengers were clueless what was happening. About 2km from Agra, they were made to board another bus, which took them to Jhansi and then Chhatarpur by the suspects. Around 4am, police in Gwalior got a call from a passenger. “The bus had been intercepted by men in two cars in Agra … The name of the travel firm was not clear. So we kept stopping buses along the highway,” said Chhatarpur SP Sachin Sharma. Around 11am, the passengers were finally found at Nowgaon in Chhatarpur and the bus in Etawah. “Of the 34 passengers, 15 had to get down at Chhatarpur and the rest were on their way to Panna,” ADG (Agra zone) Ajay Anand said. “The passengers were all safe” Police booked unidentified persons under Section 395 (dacoity), 342 (wrongful confinement), 364 (kidnapping or abduction for murder), 365 (kidnapping or abduction for wrongful confinement), 504 (insult to provoke breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. (With inputs from Bagish Jha and our bureau in Bhopal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bus-with-34-passengers-hijacked-in-agra-as-loan-recovery/articleshow/77640275.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
August 20, 2020||Nagpur||FIR against pvt hosp for not refunding fee to patients on NMC directions||Nagpur: In possibly the first such action in the state, Nandanvan police registered an offence against SevenStar Hospital, Jagnade Square, for not refunding excess amount to patients despite orders of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). The action has been taken on a complaint lodged by the civic body.NMC had also fined this hospital Rs5 lakh, recovery of which has been kept in abeyance by the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Thursday.Nandanvan police registered offences under sections of IPC, Disaster Management Act, and Epidemic Diseases Act against the management and others of SevenStar Hospital on Thursday. Zonal medical officer of NMC Nehru Nagar zone Dr Gajanan Pawane lodged the complaint.As per the FIR, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had on August 14 issued orders to the hospital to refund Rs6,86,527 to 17 non-Covid patients within three days. But the hospital did not refund the excess amount in the time period.In the same order, Mundhe had directed the hospital to pay a fine of Rs5 lakh for non-compliance with his earlier orders. The hospital has not yet deposited the fine with the civic body.The civic chief had also asked the hospital to give details about charges levied on 21 other non-Covid patients and submit bills of 687 others of the total 991 non-Covid patients, which were not given to NMC’s squad during inspection and also after show cause notice.TOI had reported on August 3 the hospital recovered much higher charges than the rates approved by state government and NMC from a Covid-19 positive patient. Taking cognisance, Mundhe had formed a five-member squad for surprise visit of private hospitals and initiate action for overcharging Covid and non-Covid patients. IAS officer Jalaj Sharma, additional municipal commissioner at NMC, was appointed head of the squad, which inspected the hospital on the same day.The squad found the hospital charged much more than approved rates from Covid as well as non-Covid patients. Mundhe had then issued show cause notice to the hospital on August 11. The hospital submitted a reply on August 13.The hospital has reportedly refunded excess amount of around Rs1 lakh to some Covid patients. But the hospital sought one month time to refund excess amount to non-Covid patients, and also submission of details related to 21 non-Covid patients and bills of 687 non-Covid patients.Citing non-compliance of orders, Mundhe had on August 14 issued order levying Rs5 lakh fine, and refund of excess amount of Rs6,86,527 to 17 non-Covid patients within three days.On August 8, Mundhe had issued orders directing Wockhardt Dedicated Covid Hospital to refund excess amount of Rs9 lakh to Covid positive patients. The hospital had reportedly refunded the amount for which patients reportedly expressed gratitude to NMC. No action was taken as the hospital complied with the orders.SevenStar had instead approached the high court, which on Thursday granted interim stay on recovery of Rs5 lakh fine for charging exorbitant fees from Covid patients. While issuing notices to respondents for final disposal, a division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor directed them to reply within two weeks.The petitioner hospital through counsel Shreerang Bhandarkar had challenged NMC’s notification of August 14 imposing a penalty of Rs5 lakh for not following notification issued by public health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fir-against-pvt-hosp-for-not-refunding-fee-to-patients-on-nmc-directions/articleshow/77683638.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 20, 2020||Rajkot||Covid-19 rules drown in fanfare din||Rajkot: BJP state president C R Paatil’s first visit to Saurashtra after his appointment to the coveted party post started from Somnath on Wednesday. Interestingly, the one-day visit to temple town turned out to be a massive disregard by party workers to government guidelines on Covid safety norms with rules on social distancing and face masks going for a toss flagrantly. Earlier, the leader reached Somnath in the morning, and a convoy of 200 cars joined his grand welcome. After heading straight to Somnath temple to offer prayers, Paatil met various community leaders in the temple’s tourist facility centre and thereafter addressed the party workers. Emphasizing on the need to make the party stronger, Paatil assured the party workers that the BJP will not bring people from Opposition Congress any longer. BJP workers gathered in huge numbers during Paatil’s walk in the town where all safety measures were breached. However, performers at the cultural programme organized in his welcome near Lilavati guest house were seen wearing face masks. Neither Gir-Somnath collector Ajay Prakash nor the superintendent of police, Rahul Tripathi could be reached for comments on flouting of Covid rules. However, BJP spoke person Raju Dhruv said, “People were so enthusiastic and emotional that everybody forgot about the rules. Our workers were, however, wearing masks and asking everybody to follow the government guidelines.” Paatil, who also met workers in Gadu, Keshod, Vanthli, Mendarda and Junagadh, will reach Rajkot on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-19-rules-drown-in-fanfare-din/articleshow/77640326.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Delhi||Shopkeeper kills 16-year-old for damaging eggs in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 16-year-old boy was stabbed to death by his neighbour for allegedly dropping a brick on a crate of eggs kept outside the latter’s shop in Sangam Vihar. Police said the 22-year-old accused first took up the matter with the teenager’s parents who agreed to compensate him for the loss. Despite this, the man returned with a knife and allegedly stabbed the teenager multiple times.  The incident took place around 9am on Wednesday when the teenager was stacking bricks beside the accused’s shop. A brick fell on the crate of eggs damaging some of them. The accused, Farooq, hurled abuses at the teenager and got into a fight. Farooq returned with a knife later at night, dragged the teenager out of his house and stabbed him multiple times. He then fled leaving the teenager bleeding on the road. The victim was rushed to Majidia hospital by neighbours where he was declared dead on arrival. Police were informed about the incident by the hospital authorities and a case of murder was registered. The accused was tracked down at a bus stop near MB Road late at night and arrested. The knife was also recovered from him. While being questioned, Farooq claimed that he was angry with the teenager who first caused damage to his wares and then started blaming him for leaving the egg crates outside his shop. The teenager used to stay in the colony along with his parents and sisters. The bricks were kept for a construction work, which was going on at his house. Watch Delhi: Shopkeeper kills minor boy for damaging eggs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/minor-loses-life-after-tiff-over-eggs/articleshow/77642817.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Online hearing facility for addition to voters’ list||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state election commission has introduced online and phone facility for the hearing process as part of addition of names to the voters’ list for local body elections. The online facility is being introduced in the wake of spread of Covid-19 and rapid change in containment zones. Those who have submitted online applications for addition of names to the voters’ list or to make changes in the list shall take a print out of online application, sign on it and send it along with form-14 with photo to electoral registration officers either via e-mail or by other means. The electoral registration officers will verify the details in the documents through online or via phone. Those who cannot attend hearing process in person can make use of online and mobile phone/video call facility. The draft list for second phase renewal of voters list was published on August 12. Applications for correction or addition can be submitted till August 26. Final voters list will be submitted on September 26. The election commission has already submitted proposal for revising election timings of local body elections and to introduce proxy vote for Covid-19 patients and those under quarantine. The proposal is under the consideration of state government and relevant sections of the law will have to be amended to bring the proposal into effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/online-hearing-facility-for-addition-to-voters-list/articleshow/77641429.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Covid breaks prison’s earnings||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With almost half the number of inmates of the Central Prison at Poojapura turning positive, the impact has reached outside the prison walls. The prison has shut down all its manufacturing units, including the very popular and budget-friendly ‘Freedom Food’, as the manufacturing units were mostly manned by the convicts. With the production of food stopped, the cafeteria that functioned outside the prison complex and nine mobile units catering to the public have also ceased to function. The other units that have stopped are carpentry, soap manufacturing, weaving, and tailoring, smithy, paper cover making, and even hand-sanitizer production that was started following the Covid-19 outbreak in the country. According to the prison authorities, this will affect the department’s annual contribution to the state’s exchequer, albeit at a minute level, and the welfare activities within the department. The food-making unit alone does a business of Rs 30 to 35 crore annually, out of which a portion goes to the treasury. For the past few years, the department has been making a profit of around Rs 3.5 crore from the food business alone. Besides these manufacturing units, another area that has been affected is vegetable farming. The prison here was selling vegetable produces three days a week. However, farming activities have also stopped following the outbreak. The activities of the Government Press, where around 50 inmates were involved in paper-cover making, have also been affected. The petrol pump that was inaugurated at the prison two weeks ago with great fanfare was also shut on Monday. ‘’The pump was closed not due to the outbreak within the prison. A motorist hailing from Mudavanmugal nearby, who visited the pump last week, was tested positive, forcing us to shut it down temporarily,” said Prison DIG (South Zone) S Santhosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/covid-breaks-prisons-earnings/articleshow/77641424.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
August 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Free Covid-19 testing ramped up by govt to identify asymptomatic patients||Ludhiana: Three teams of civil surgeon office, visited containment zones and private educational institutions to make people aware of free Covid-19 sampling done by the health department. Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga, civil surgeon of Ludhiana, said it is evident that false or negative news moves faster than the positive one, especially when it came to coronavirus testing. He said there are so many myths and queries in the minds of people about testing that they have decided to dedicate teams to interact with people and sort out their doubts. Meanwhile, the government has amended guidelines according to the need and comfort of the citizens. Now, people can get their sampling done free of cost at special sampling camps. Positive but asymptomatic patients can home isolate themselves, if they have a caregiver. Block extension educator Rajinder Singh said testing is important to identify positive patients with no symptoms. Teams from CS office are testing people in different areas of the city daily. He appealed all the people in city to cooperate with government authorities. He said camps and sampling are for the benefit of people and they should take advantage of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/free-covid-19-testing-ramped-up-by-govt-to-identify-asymptomatic-patients/articleshow/77642818.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Chennai||Regional benches of the apex court could bring justice closer to people||By Richardson Wilson The administration of justice is a sovereign function. In medieval England, the King’s Court or Curia Regis travelled with the king to dispense justice throughout the realm. Despite the establishment of the permanent King’s Court, judges were sent to different parts of the country to resolve matters for those who could not come to the capital. Closer home, the Vijayanagar empire had a decentralised system of administration of justice. Though the king was the final arbiter, he set up provincial courts headed by Mahamandalesvara at important cities of his empire. Access to justice is a fundamental right under our Constitution. The framers of our Constitution considered this right to be so sacrosanct that they enacted Article 32 – a direct access to the highest court of the land to enforce fundamental rights. With time, the Supreme Court of India has expanded its jurisdiction under Article 32 to actio popularis cases, more commonly known as public interest litigations (PILs). Apart from these cases, the court regularly hears civil and criminal appeals, special leave petitions (SLPs), disputes between governments and petitions pertaining to international commercial arbitration matters. This ever expanding docket of the court has transformed it from a body that hears constitutional matters to a final appellate court. Almost all litigation in the country ends up at the Supreme Court. This adds to the pendency of cases, given the judge to population ratio of the Supreme Court. At present, there are 34 seats on the Supreme Court, for a population of about 133 crore, a ratio of 1:3,91,17,647. As on July 1, there are more than 60,000 cases. Further, litigating at the Supreme Court is an expensive affair, the cost being directly proportional to the distance of the litigant from Delhi since the expense is not limited to payment of an advocate’s fee, but includes the cost of travel and accommodation to and from Delhi on the days of hearing. The average cost of filing a SLP before the Supreme Court is upwards of `50,000. Thus, access to the Supreme Court is rapidly diminishing for the have-nots. From a practitioner’s point of view, shifting to the apex court is a tedious thought for lawyers, more so from southern or eastern states due to the language barrier and the living expenses. Despite this, lawyers contribute to the burgeoning population of Delhi as almost all important tribunals and appellate tribunals are located in and around Delhi. The panacea to these problems and to improve access to the Supreme Court is the establishment of Permanent Regional Benches (PRB) of the Supreme Court for north, south, east and west zones at Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata and Mumbai. This idea is neither radical nor new. The framers of the Constitution had predicted the need to establish benches of the Supreme Court outside Delhi would be felt. That is why Article 130 of the Constitution provides that the Chief Justice of India may have the seat of the Supreme Court at Delhi or at other place or places with the approval of the President. Since the enactment of the Constitution, the population of the country has grown more than four times, and the docket of the Supreme Court has grown about 10,000 times but this power has not yet been exercised. It is not for want of trying though. For decades now, there has been a widespread demand from litigants and the bar for the establishment of PRBs. The people’s representatives in Parliament have also often raised this issue. The standing committees of Parliament recommended the setting up of PRBs in 2004, 2005 and 2006. The Law Commission in its 2009 report has also emphasised the need for the establishment of ‘cassation benches’ of the Supreme Court at New Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata. In 2010, the Union law minister Veerappa Moily attempted to persuade the Chief Justice of India to set up PRBs but the same was reportedly rejected by the full court of the Supreme Court stating it would affect the "country’s unitary character". However, all the parliamentary committees that have considered the matter are unanimously of the view that setting up benches outside Delhi "would neither impair unity and integrity nor undermine the importance of the Supreme Court." At present, cases are assigned by roster to the benches of the court. In case of PRBs, they will be assigned by region to the PRB. For example, cases from the five southern states would be handled by the PRB for the south zone. Such an arrangement will benefit litigants and will make the Supreme Court truly accessible to the common man. As for the judiciary, it would mean an increase in the bench strength of the court, leading to more disposal and reduction of pendency of cases. It would also mean an increase in the seats on the Supreme Court, paving the way for more High Court judges to be elevated as Judges of the Supreme Court. A simple way to resolve the deadlock between the judiciary and legislature is for the Parliament to amend Article 130 and provide for the mandatory establishment of PRB of the Supreme Court at the four places. A private member’s bill has already been introduced in the Rajya Sabha by DMK MP P Wilson for this purpose. We can only hope that Parliament plays a proactive role to establish PRBs so that access to justice does not become the preserve of the affluent. (The writer is an advocate at the Madras high court)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/regional-benches-of-the-apex-court-could-bring-justice-closer-to-people/articleshow/77642812.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Kochi||Kerala government starts measures to take over land for NH widening||KOCHI: Ending decades long wait, the government has started measures to widen the Edapally-Moothakunnam stretch of the national highway 66. The authorities have started marking boundaries where land is to be taken over for widening the road to 45m. As of now, Edapally-Moothakunnam stretch of the road has a width of 10m. The government had acquired the land required for widening the road to 30m more than three decades ago. But the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) couldn’t widen the road. Meanwhile, the Union government decided to increase the width of national highways to 45m. But land owners who had once forfeited their holdings started agitation against fresh acquisition and the project remained stalled. “A four-member NHAI team from Karnataka had reached Kochi and the stone laying for marking the boundaries prior to widening the road was held at Moothakunnam on Tuesday. According to the NHAI, it will take 15 more days to complete the laying of stone to mark the boundaries,” district collector S Suhas said. The stretch of NH 66 in Ernakulan district from Moothakunnam to Edapally is 24.3km long and it passes through Moothakunnam, Vadakkekara, North Paravur, Alangad and Varapuzha villages of Paravur taluk and Cheranelloor and Edapally North villages of Kanayannur taluk. An extent of 111 hectares has already been acquired for widening the road to 30m. An extent of 0.3842 hectares in Kottuvally village, which is in the possession of Thirumuppam Temple, has not been handed over till date. In addition to this, 41.05 hectares has to be acquired for widening the national highway to 45m. As per the survey conducted by NHAI, around 325 residential buildings and 150 commercial buildings will have to be razed down for the purpose. Besides the carriageways on either side, the NH will have pedestrian paths, service roads, side median and central median. Moreover, four major bridges, four flyovers, four minor bridges, 12 underpasses, a railway overbridge, a vehicular overpass and 32 box culverts will have to be built.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-starts-measures-to-take-over-land-for-nh-widening/articleshow/77641434.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
August 20, 2020||Agra||Minister of state tests Covid-19 +ve, 152 more cases in Bareilly||Agra/Bareilly: A day before the commencement of the three-day UP assembly session, minister of state Chaudhary Udaybhan Singh has been tested Covid-19 positive. He was admitted at SGPGI Lucknow on Wednesday evening. Earlier, the daughter-in-law of the 73-year-old Fatehpur Sikri MLA was also found positive. Moreover, at least 28 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra, till Wednesday evening, taking the district tally to 2,395. According to the health department officials, 49 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Wednesday. Of the 2,395 cases reported in the district, 83.4% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 293 active cases in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 1,998 people have recovered and discharged. Besides, people who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened.” In Bareilly, at least 152 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, according to additional chief medical officer Dr Ashok Kumar. A government doctor was among the infected individuals. One person succumbed to the deadly virus, taking the death toll to 99. District tally increased to 5,325 cases, including 1,759 active ones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/minister-of-state-tests-covid-19-ve-152-more-cases-in-bareilly/articleshow/77640297.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Nagpur||NMC rushes to up shortage of beds, ventilators||Nagpur: The state government has projected 35,363 new Covid-19 cases in 11 districts of Vidarbha in the remaining 12 days of August.In the last 161 days, there have been 35,045 cases. It means the number of patients is likely to double in next 12 days. Nagpur, Yavatmal and Washim districts are short of beds and ventilators to meet needs of projected numbers. Projections have been made so that administration should ensure sufficient number of beds and other infrastructure.However, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI that there will be no shortage of beds. “Apart from government and trust-run facilities, 16 private hospitals with over 100 beds have been ordered to start Covid-19 services. These hospitals are having 1,876 beds with 256 in ICU, 90 ventilators, 997 with oxygen supply and 623 normal beds.”For six districts of Nagpur division, projection has been made up to August 31 whereas for five districts of Amravati division, it is up to August 29. The total number of cases is likely to be 70,408 in this region. Nagpur division is likely to register more cases. As of Tuesday, six districts of Nagpur division were having 21,771 cases and projection is of 30,618 more cases making for a total of 52,389.Among all 11 districts, Nagpur is already having highest number of cases at 17,872 till Tuesday and is expected to add 26,579 more in next 12 days for a total of 44,451 at a daily growth rate of 2.48%. In Nagpur division, Gondia and Chandrapur will have high daily growth rate of 2.91% and 2.15%, respectively.TOI had on Wednesday reported projection is of 50,000 new cases in Nagpur district in next one month. It means cases will continue to increase steeply even after August 31.The cases in Amravati division will be relatively fewer. As of Tuesday, this division was having 13,274 cases and 4,745 more are likely in the next 12 days for a total of 18,019 at a daily growth rate of 1.35%.The government has projected 83% of total active cases will not require oxygen or ventilator support. All asymptomatic positive patients can be in home isolation but government directed to prepare beds in Covid Care Centres (CCCs) for 60% patients. 12% patients are likely to require oxygen support, while 3% may need ICU facility and 2% may need ventilators.Among all 11 districts, Nagpur district will be short of beds. The district will require 1,371 more beds with oxygen supply, 202 beds in ICU and 185 beds with ventilators.Mundhe said that hospitals should admit only moderate and positive patients with critical symptoms. “All asymptomatic must go for home isolation. CCCs are for those not having isolation facilities. All will be under NMC’s monitoring. NMC has also started one DCHC and remaining will be brought into use as per requirement,” he said.The municipal commissioner said private hospitals will have to charge 80% beds as per rates finalized by the government and remaining 20% as per their own rates. “We have to also keep some government and private-run hospitals for non-Covid patients so decision on private hospitals with less than 100 beds will be taken as per situation,” he said.Collector Ravindra Thakare has given permission to four private hospitals of which three are at Kamptee and one at Umred for Covid-19 services.Nagpur district is also providing Covid-19 and non-Covid services to patients from remaining districts of Vidarbha and Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh.Yavatmal district is projected to have deficit of 19 ventilators and 48 beds in ICU whereas Washim needs 21 more ICU beds. As per government’s data, remaining eight districts are having sufficient beds to cater to projected cases till August 31.In April, the government had projected 75,801 cases in Vidarbha till end of May 31 and directed the administration to equip the facilities. As per experts in epidemiology, the peak was delayed due to full lockdown.Though spread of disease might be as per government’s projection, the official number of cases depends upon testing.MLC Parinay Fuke had said projected numbers will not come on record if testing was not increased. “Need is to test more and more for early detection of cases and treatment in time for prevention of deaths. It will also help in containing further spread,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-rushes-to-up-shortage-of-beds-ventilators/articleshow/77642826.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Five months into it, people still stigmatise Covid-19 patients||Ludhiana: One would think with time, and the very fact that celebrities like Amitabh Bachchan and politicians like Amit Shah tested positive, the stigma around Covid-19 would have eased. Yet, families with Covid-19 patients have a different story to tell. For instance, a woman from Dugri area, whose husband tested positive, said after her husband was declared as Covid-19 positive, people started treating them like untouchables. She said even their regular vegetable vendor, whom they knew for some time, wouldn’t sell vegetables to them and similar was the attitude of the grocery sellers in their area. “Even our neighbours started treating us like untouchables, which was frustrating for us. I kept wondering how can people who knew us for decades behave like this just because our family member caught this disease,” she added. Another woman whose family member tested positive shared similar experience. “It is heartbreaking to see people treating you like that just because a family member has tested positive. We thought such patients need care and compassion but were really disappointed by the attitude of people around us especially those whom we knew for decades now,” she narrated. In some cases, even though people tested negative, the society at large still stigamatised them because they had a few corona symptoms. “I had mild fever and bodyache, and somebody spread it around that I have contracted the infection. I got myself tested and reports were negative and it came out that I just had seasonal flu. Still, people stopped coming to my shop and sales dropped drastically,” said a grocery store owner. “One time I had a customer come to my shop, who cryingly told me that they too faced similar situation after somebody posted on social media that there was a positive case in the family,” he added. Health department authorities confirmed that people still view the disease with a lot of unease. Civil surgeon of Ludhiana, Dr Rajesh Bagga, said there is need to make people understand that it is a disease like any other and those who contract it shouldn’t be stigmatised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/five-months-into-it-people-still-stigmatise-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77642795.cms||Shariq Majeed
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid recovery rate in Telangana rises to 77%, was 55% in June||HYDERABAD: The Covid-19 recovery rate in the state has improved from 71% on August 1 to 77.31% currently. Recovery rate is calculated as the number of persons recovering from the infection, for every 100 patients contracting the virus. An increase in the recovery rate is an indication of the fact that a chunk of the population is recovering faster as compared to earlier. At the beginning of June, the recovery rate was around 55%. But since then, it has been on the climb. “If you see over the last 15 days, up to 1,800 patients have been discharged each day, as against 200 to 300 per day two months ago. This is a clear indication that patients are spending lesser number of days in hospitals now. Previously, we have seen many patients requiring over one month of admission while critical ones were under treatment for 45 days. The average time period of stay at Gandhi Hospital has dropped now. It might even be an indication of weakening of the virus,” said a senior official from the state health department. Telangana’s recovery rate, meanwhile, is better than the national average of 73.18%, which is also on the climb now. Experts believe that more mild cases among younger population, better self lockdown in the state and less urbanisation might have contributed to the higher recovery rate. “If you see, over 80% of the cases are asymptomatic and mild cases. Also, more of the younger population is affected and have a better chance of survival and quick recovery. Moreover, we have less urbanisation which means that the spread of the virus is gradual and recovery is faster,” said Dr Kiran Madala, incharge HOD of critical care at Nizamabad Govt College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-recovery-rate-in-state-rises-to-77-was-55-in-june/articleshow/77642822.cms||Amrita Didyala
August 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Dyeing units still let untreated effluent into MC’s sewage system||Ludhiana: The directions issued by National Green Tribunal (NGT) to reduce pollutants in Buddha Nullah seem to be falling in deaf ears, as still polluted water from different areas is being drained into it through sewage system. Former BJP councillor Inder Aggarwal claimed that some dyeing units are still releasing water from their units into sewerage system of the civic body. He said he highlighted the situation near Shingaar Cinema disposal to the municipal corporation (MC) officials and yet no action is being taken against persons concerened. He said instead, the MC officials are shifting the onus to Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) for taking action against dyeing units. There are clear directions from NGT that industrial waste should not flow into drain. To this effect, three common effluent treatment plants (CETP) have been constructed. But still there are certain dyeing units that are not part of these CETPs and are throwing their industrial waste water in MC sewer system. Aggarwal said MC officials should not allow discharge of industrial waste into their sewerage system. When contacted, superintending engineer of operation and maintenance cell Rajinder Singh admitted that he had received the complaint and claimed that he will inform the PPCB officials about it. He said it is the duty of PPCB to act against erring dyeing units. Notably, the issue of effluents coming from dyeing units is one of major causes of pollution in drain and the dyeing unit owners at Focal Point, Bahadur K Road and Tajpur Road are being urged by the PPCB to treat the effluents before letting it in the sewage syste. The CETP for Bahadur K road is installed while work on other two locations is going on at Tajpur road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dyeing-units-still-let-untreated-effluent-into-mcs-sewage-system/articleshow/77642830.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Niloufer food supplier swindled money: Telangana government||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Wednesday gave three weeks’ time to the government to take action against contractor Koduri Suresh Babu, who was in the eye of the storm over supplying diet food to children and mothers in Niloufer Hospital. Soon after advocate general BS Prasad admitted that Suresh had indulged in tampering of bills and claimed double the amount in a fraudulent manner, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said: “First, the government must move in the matter. It goes without saying whenever the state is taking action against the contractor, notify him.” The bench was hearing a petition filed by P Bhagavanth Rao against the contractor. It later adjourned the case to September 16. The government said it had inquired into the allegations of fraud against Suresh. “We filed the inquiry report before the court. The probe authorities have found several irregularities committed by the contractor. He claimed excess funds by furnishing tampered bills,” the AG said. The judges asked him as to what action the government had taken on the errant contractor. “Why are you continuing the contractor as a diet contractor in Gandhi and Chest hospitals?” the judges asked the state counsel. Bommineni Vivekananda, counsel for the petitioner, told the judges that the government had entrusted new contracts to the same contractor despite his track record. At this, the judges said: “Are you (government) giving him a chance to commit another crime? Please ask the state government to take action against him immediately.” Senior counsel Dammalapati Srinivas, who appeared for Suresh, urged the court to direct the government to follow principles of natural justice before proceeding against him. “He should be notified and his version must be heard before taking any action,” he said. Bhagavanth Rao was questioning the inaction of the government in acting against the contractor. He contended that Suresh was swindling public money meant to be spent on children and women. He said previous probe committees had pointed at the guilt of the contractor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/niloufer-food-supplier-swindled-money-govt/articleshow/77642838.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
August 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Vendors start preparations to open shops in weekly markets||NEW DELHI: Delhi government’s decision to open weekly markets on a trial basis has been welcomed by vendors in the city. The associations of the vendors had been sending representations to the LG office and Delhi government for the past two months to permit them to open their shops. They have now requested the government to give clear standard operating procedures or guidelines so that they can start their operations soon. Rajesh Gupta from North Delhi Weekly Market Association said, “After coming to know of the decision, we called a joint meeting on Wednesday evening to decide the future course of action. We plan to open the weekly market at Kingsway Camp soon.” The association has decided to give masks and hand sanitisers to its members for their use as well as distribution to customers. Weekly markets have remained closed for the past five months after Delhi government issued an order to that effect in March. The association said at least 2.5 lakh vendors were left with no work and no source of income after the decision. Rajkumar Kataria, a member of South Delhi Weekly Bazaar Union, said, “Weekly markets were shut on March 16. Since then, no activity has been allowed anywhere. After other markets were granted permission to open, we wrote to LG Anil Baijal and Delhi government requesting them to make arrangements for us too. We thank them for understanding our pain.” “Police told us that the markets will be allowed to open once the government order comes. We are buying sanitiser machines and planning to deploy guards to ensure social distancing among customers,” said Kataria. The vendors had earlier suggested to the government to restrict entry to the markets and shrink the size of each shop so that the distance between two units increased automatically.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vendors-start-preparations-to-open-shops-in-weekly-markets/articleshow/77642840.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 20, 2020||Mumbai||Delhi businessman arrested for Rs 7 crore import of e-waste||MUMBAI: Customs department rummaging and intelligence (R&I) division on Wednesday arrested a businessman from Delhi for importing e-waste worth Rs 7.4 crore by misdeclaring it as new, and it was hazardous to the environment. Officials said importing computer hard disk drives required special permission from Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) and environment ministry. As per foreign trade policy, import of old and used computer parts falls under restricted category and importing e-waste is a violation of environment regulations. Cruiser Technologies proprietor Girish Vijay Dhingra was held under sections of Customs Act and was remanded to custody till August 26. Officials said he was produced before a Patiala magistrate court and brought to Mumbai. He was examined at Ram Manohar Lohia hospital in Delhi and his Covid test report was negative. Customs detained a container in January with import export code, which had imported hard disk drives and chips worth Rs 7.4 crore, involving duty of Rs 1.3 crore. Examination of the goods showed they were second-hand but declared as new. The department had confiscated the goods and sent samples for a test, the result of which came recently. Dhingra said he will produce the inventory and details of buyers but failed to do so. Advocate Ravi Hirani said his client had paid duty for previous consignments but the department was alleging goods were cleared without payment. It’s a false case, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/delhi-businessman-arrested-for-rs7cr-e-waste-import/articleshow/77643173.cms||Ahmed Ali
August 20, 2020||Kochi||Government trying to sell vehicle data to private players: BJP||THRISSUR: BJP state spokesman B Gopalakrishnan on Wednesday alleged that the state government is trying to sell data from motor vehicles department to Uralungal Society, and other private groups. Addressing a press conference here, Gopalakrishnan alleged that the government has assigned the work of launching “computer fast project” to Kerala Books and Publishing Society (KBPS). The project aims at production of polycarbonate cards for RC book and driving licences. KBPS, in turn, sub-contracted the project to UL Technology Solutions which is a new-generation face of Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society (ULCCS), the BJP leader alleged. According to Gopalakrishnan, KBPS, which had no expertise in the area, was assigned to execute the work, even though it had not participated in the tender. “Interestingly, Keltron and C-DIT were shortlisted in the tender called for this project earlier. C-DIT has been executing the project to issue licences and RC books since last 10 years. Now all the 300-odd people working at C-DIT will be rendered jobless. Another disturbing dimension of the deal is that the data of the individuals who have applied for licences as well as the vehicle data will now be in the possession of ULCCS, which is a private agency. ULCC is being used as a tool for many corrupt deals of the Pinarayi Vijayan government,” Gopalakrishnan alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-trying-to-sell-vehicle-data-to-pvt-players-bjp/articleshow/77641472.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Expect more rains, dip in temp||Ludhiana: It rained intermittently, cooling down city considerably on Wednesday. The met department predicts rainfall for the next two days as well. Although it was cloudy from morning, only in the afternoon did it rain, which lasted for a brief while and later it remained cloudy till evening with intermittent drizzle. According to the met department, rainfall in the city between 8.30am on Tuesday and 8.30am on Wednesday was recorded at 9.8millimeters (mm). The rainfall between 8.30am to 5.30pm on Wednesday was recorded at 6mm. The rainfall brought the maximum (day) temperature down in Ludhiana, which was recorded at 32.4 degrees Celsius, which is a degree more than normal. On Tuesday, Ludhiana had witnessed day temperature at 34.9 degrees Celsius, which was two degrees more than normal. Minimum (night) temperature on Wednesday was on the higher side at 26.8 degrees Celsius, about two degrees more than normal. A met department official at Chandigarh said whereas isolated moderate to heavy rain is expected in Ludhiana district on Thursday, on Friday, light rainfall might occur. The weekend is expected to dry again. He added that the day and night temperatures are expected to witness a fall in the next three to four days. The met department website meanwhile predicts fall in day temperature to 29 degrees Celsius till Friday whereas night temperature is expected to fall to 25 degrees Celsius till Saturday. “Though weather was hot and humid in the city till a few days ago, it has turned extremely pleasant after it rains since yesterday. It was wonderful to go on a stroll. Also, we saved money by not using air conditioner at home as we didn’t feel the need for the same,” said Jaspreet Singh, a businessman from Pakhowal road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/expect-more-rains-dip-in-temp/articleshow/77642827.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Nagpur||Bodies pile up as hearse vans fall short; pvt ambulances fleece kin||Nagpur: Beside mourning their loss, relatives of Covid-19 victims are now dealing with the pain of over 10 to 12 hour long wait outside mortuaries before they can finally bid adieu to their loved ones.The recent surge in deaths has strained the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) that has just six hearse vans to carry bodies of Covid victimes with 20-30 deaths taking place daily. Picking up a body from either GMCH, IGGMCH or private Dedicated Covid hospital (DCH) and taking it to designated crematorium or burial ground takes around two hours before the van is ready again.To cut delays and multiple trips, the civic officials are carrying two and even three bodies in case the victims have to be cremated or buried at the same place. That too has not fast-tracked the symbolic handing over process and last rites. As per protocol, the last rites are performed under supervision of civic officials. Immediate relatives are asked to identify the body before it is moved out and burnt or buried in their presence. On Wednesday, when TOI visited the GMCH mortuary, sobbing relatives of Covid victims who had passed away a day before as well as early in the morning had been waiting for more than five hours without any assurance of when the hearse van would come.Though many had already paid exorbitant private hospital bills, they were ready to shell out any amount the private ambulance stationed near the mortuary quoted.“My father died in non-Covid ward but his sample tested positive. He was at a private hospital that charged us Rs1.80lakh. When all savings and borrowed money were exhausted, we shifted him to GMCH a week ago. The ambulance charged Rs5,000 from Dhantoli to here. If NMC can’t provide a van instantly, we can shell out another couple of thousands so that the body is not kept lying in the mortuary,” said a 24-year-old truck driver. His 55-year-old father was an autodriver and was tagged as 18th death when he passed away at 6am. As the truck driver dialled civic officials, the first hearse van of the day arrived around 2pm. Impatient relatives rushed to the officials who called out different names. The officials didn’t seem to follow any serial order but were picking up bodies zone-wise. “This (van) is for Dhantoli zone victims. We don’t mind taking other area bodies if space is available but all will be taken to same ghat which the relatives don’t agree,” they said, while turning down requests of the truck driver and two other men.Dhantoli zone van takes all Covid victims to be cremated at Mokshadham only. In case of other faiths, bodies are sent to respective burials grounds.Though relative demanded nod for private ambulance, the option is available only to people from outside municipal limits where local bodies are assisted by social organizations.While city relatives kept waiting, a lone Omni owned by Safa Baitul Maal (SBM) arrived from Kamptee to pick up body of a vegetable vendor and left within 20 mins for cremation. During this time, the civic officials were still calling out names and other relatives waiting their turn. Jamiat Ulema Hind and Muslim Foundation’s beside SMB volunteers along with a Kamptee municipal council official said another body from their area had to be picked up in a paid ambulance from IGGMCH. “SBM van is free of cost. The other body was taken to qabristan from IGGMCH. It cost the relatives Rs7,000. Yesterday, others paid Rs15,000. Private ambulances are fleecing relatives,” said Muslim Foundation’s Islahuddin Ansari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bodies-pile-up-as-hearse-vans-fall-short-pvt-ambulances-fleece-kin/articleshow/77642834.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||University of Hyderabad gears up to conduct nationwide PG entrance exams from September 24||HYDERABAD: University of Hyderabad (UoH) will hold its nationwide entrance exams for all post-graduate and research programmes from September 24 to 26. Addressing an online press conference on Wednesday, Prof Appa Rao Podile declared that the decision was taken following the Supreme Court’s nod to the Centre to conduct the joint entrance examination and national eligibility cum entrance test. A record number of over 62,000 candidates, who are seeking admission this year, will appear for the entrance exam in 38 centres across the country. “We will take all precautionary measures for Covid-19. Instead of two sessions, the entrance exam will be held in sessions in a day. It will be a two-hour exam. The university has plans to complete the admission process and start classes for the new students latest by the first week of November,” said Podile. The university is resuming academic activities for existing students in a phased manner from Thursday. “Close to 2,000 post-graduate are set to resume online classes from Thursday. Apart from this, 500 PhD scholars are set to come back to the university to the science labs,” said Podile. The process of online instruction will be continuously monitored through an online forum set up to receive feedback from students and faculty. The task force constituted by the university to look into resumption of academic activities has given academic flexibility to all the deans and heads in terms of covering the syllabus. “We have allowed deans to prune the syllabus if required. However, they should not miss out on core components of the curriculum.  The syllabus will be organised in such a manner that all departments can complete it by December, 2020 and next semester can commence by January, 2021,” said Vinod Pavarala, chairman of the task force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-gears-up-to-conduct-nationwide-pg-entrance-exams-from-sept-24/articleshow/77642849.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Chennai||MSMEs face trouble as migrant workers play truant, miss flights||CHENNAI: A number of medium and small enterprises in and around Chennai are facing a piquant situation. While their attempts to bring back willing migrant workers have hit a quarantine hurdle, enterprising entrepreneurs who booked air tickets for some migrants – after confirming their willingness to return multiple times -- have ended up losing money as the workers failed to turn up at the airports. Industrial units in Ambattur region are facing pressure from OEMs (original equipment manufacturer) to increase their production. But lack of public transport and hurdles in bringing back migrant workers are stifling the efforts from fructifying, sources in Ambattur industrial estate said. Several migrant workers from Odisha and Bihar are willing to return. But the families are scared to send them. How to bring the migrant workers, who are willing to return to the city for work, is the biggest challenge for M Balachandran, the newly elected president of Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association (AIEMA). “Cost wise, travel by air or road is working out almost the same, as bus operators too are now charging Rs 4,500-Rs 6,000 per worker. Flight tickets too cost almost the same money, but workers can reach faster. But the problem is most of these workers are unable to reach the airports from their distant villages due to lack of public transport and other issues,” Balachandran told TOI. There is also confusion over the 14-day quarantine, mandated in the SOPs for bringing back migrant workers. “If the government asks us to quarantine those workers who test positive on arrival, we will do. But, should we quarantine even those who tests negative?” asks the MD of an auto component firm. “Some others are saying that if the worker gets a negative certificate from his place of origin, he can be permitted to get to worksite after two days in quarantine. There is no clarity,” he added. According to Balachandran, industrial units need to bring back migrant workers at the earliest as OEMs have scaled up their production and are asking MSMEs also to do so. “Without migrant workers, scaling up is going to be difficult for MSMEs. Trains from north and east are coming up to Nellore (AP). We have approached the state government to reach out to the district administration over there to enable migrant workers to continue their journey towards Chennai,” he said. Talks are still on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/msmes-face-trouble-as-migrant-workers-play-truant-miss-flights/articleshow/77642839.cms||D Govardan
August 20, 2020||Lucknow||Agriculture to drive post-Covideco revival: Nabard chief||LUCKNOW: Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, Uttar Pradesh’s credit capacity for the current financial year is still likely to be more than Rs 2.5 lakh crore, more than the Rs 2 lakh credit issued in 2019-20. The sectors which are expected to contribute significantly to this include agriculture and MSME. GR Chintala, chairman of the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard), who met chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday, said that agriculture is the only sector that has been resilient during the lockdown and economic revival will be driven by this sector. “A little more than Rs 2 lakh crore credit was given by banks to our priority sectors of agriculture, MSME etc last year. Nabard had estimated a credit potential of Rs 2.94 lakh crore for the current year. Against this, the state-level bankers committee has made a plan of Rs 2.46 lakh crore. This is higher than last year’s credit and if this can be achieved it will be very positive,” he said. However, the bank is hopeful that the actual credit disbursal will be higher than its own initial estimate. Chintala said that two gramin banks were ineligible for Nabard finance earlier but conditions have been relaxed this year and NABARD expects to be able to push out Rs 2,000-3,000 crore of extra refinance at subsidised rates. A central scheme may also add to the total credit in UP. In 2019, about 26 lakh farmers were given an in-principle clearance under Kisan Credit Card scheme. If on an average a farmer is given Rs 50,000-60,000, an additional Rs 15,000 crore credit will go just to farmers, Chintala said. Shankar A Pande, chief general manager, Nabard, Uttar Pradesh Regional Office, said that animal husbandry and fisheries are also expected to do well this year and could account for credit of Rs 5,000 crore. A target of Rs 1,283 crore has also been set under the agriculture infrastructure fund, he said. “Our estimate is that the MSME sector will account for another Rs 75,000 crore credit, which will be an increase of Rs 10,000 crore over last year. With this, it is very possible that the total credit will be close to Rs 3 lakh crore in this financial year,” Pande said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/agri-to-drive-post-covideco-revival-nabard-chief/articleshow/77644005.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Mamta tweets about poor condition of underpass||Ludhiana: Congress councillor Mamta Ashu, wife of food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, has again complained to education and PWD minister Vijay Inder Singla about the water stagnation at the underpass of Ferozepur Road flyover on social media. On Wednesday, she tweeted him the location and asked him to take action. She claimed that despite several reminders, the officials of PWD department did not resolve the issue permanently due to which residents in the city are suffering. On July 21 too, she had made a similar complaint to him through Twitter. Ashu in her tweet mentioned that water stagnation was happening in this underpass regularly and people faced a tough time because of that. She asked the minister to fix it on priority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mamta-tweets-about-poor-condition-of-underpass/articleshow/77642836.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Kochi||Pandemic takes away ‘onasadhya,’from Kochi hotels||KOCHI: Even after getting the deadline extended till 9pm in the evening, restaurants in the city are yet to find diners. Hotel owners said their business has taken a hit as the retail sector in the city remains dull during this Onam season. The commercial centres on the busy MG Road, Edapally and Broadway are yet to witness the Onam crowd. “This is the time when people start coming out for shopping. These people dine at hotels and restaurants while going for shopping. But there are very few customers in the retail shops and people are not keen about dining at restaurants even though it is allowed by practicing Covid-19 protocols,” said Shaji Cherian, a restaurant owner. The Kerala hotel and restaurant association (KHRA) too agree on poor customer turn out. According to the association, more than 50% of their sales are through take away. “Even when we tell customers that it is possible to dine at the restaurant, they refuse. Sales are mostly from employees working in banks and other commercial establishments. Families prefer placing orders for take away," said Aziz Moosa, president, Ernakulam district. During festival seasons when retail outlets witness heavy rush, they appoint additional staff. Many restaurants in the city get bulk orders to supply food for the staff employed at retail outlets, particularly textile shops. Citing the case of his hotel functioning on Banerji Road, Moosa said, "Every year I used to get orders for supplying food for staff working at wholesale textile showrooms. This year I did not receive a single order as shops are working with minimum staff. As a result, our business has taken a beating," added Moosa. At the same time, KHRA said the food safety commissioner and corporation officials should take action against illegal eateries functioning in the city. According to the association, such eateries provide poor quality food prepared under unhygienic conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pandemic-takesaway-onasadhyafrom-city-hotels/articleshow/77641497.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Mumbai||Actor Sanjay Dutt admitted to Ambani hosp||Mumbai: Actor Sanjay Dutt (61), who was recently detected with lung cancer, was admitted to Kokilaben Ambani Hospital in Andheri on Tuesday. His wife Maanayata said he will complete preliminary treatment here. “We will formulate further plans of travel depending on how and when the Covid situation eases. As of now, Sanju is in the best hands of our esteemed doctors at Kokilaben hospital,” she said in a statement. Maanayata said she was under home quarantine, which will end in few days. “Every battle has a torch-bearer and someone who holds the fort. Priya, who has worked extensively over two decades with our family-run cancer foundation, and who has also seen her mother battle this illness, has been our incredible torch-bearer, while I will hold the fort,” the statement read. She urged people to stop speculating on his illness. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/actor-sanjay-dutt-admitted-to-ambani-hosp/articleshow/77643172.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Delhi||Relieved, hospitality industry now hopes for a bounceback in Delhi||NEW DELHI: After lieutenant governor Anil Baijal finally allowed the reopening of hotels in Delhi on Wednesday, hospitality professionals heaved a sigh of relief. While hotels in neighbouring Noida and Gurugram had resumed operations, those in the capital remained shut as a precaution against the spread of Covid19. Ankur Bhatia of Roseate Hotels, also the chairman of the north India tourism chapter of Confederation of Indian Industry, said permitting hotels to function put them on a level playing field with competitors in NCR cities. Bhatia has got external auditors to check and certify his hotels for safety, and claimed he was well placed to install precautionary protocols for a full reopening in a week’s time. Jyotsna Suri, executive committee member, Hotel Association of India, and CMD, Bharat Hotels Limited, was confident the decision would enable the revival of the hospitality industry and help sustain the livelihood of many people affected by the lockdown. Hotels were under immense stress but can now work out revival strategies, said Shwetank Singh, vice-president, InterGlobe Hotels. With significant reduction in active Covid cases and relaxation of the night curfew, Singh felt hotels could expect improved occupancy levels over the coming two quarters. To survive the lockdown, some hotels had started food delivery, laundry services and operated as quarantine facilities for Vande Bharat passengers. Some chains such as ITC utilised the time to boost hygiene protocols. Anil Chadha, COO, ITC Hotels, said, “The last few months gave us the opportunity to strengthen our commitment to ‘responsible luxury’ and prepare for a new world order.” Rohit Arora, area general manager of The Park New Delhi, too expressed happiness and claimed his hotel had introduced the 'gold-certified programme’ for cleanliness while adopting a stringent approach to sanitation and hygiene. “Every team member has undergone mandatory hygiene, safety, sanitisation and social distancing training,” Arora said. While welcoming the move, Hotel Association of India hoped for more support for the sector. “We have been aggressively pursuing the government, both state and central, to allow an extension on the loan moratorium, and relief on property tax, excise duty, fixed electricity and power costs,” a HAI statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/relieved-hospitality-industry-now-hopes-for-a-bounceback/articleshow/77642875.cms||Amin Ali
August 20, 2020||Puducherry||Lack of awareness, delayed test results lead to massive spike in Covid-19 cases in Pondy||PUDUCHERRY: The Union territory of Puducherry has been recording an alarming rise in the number of Covid-19 cases every day. Authorities blame it on the lack of preparedness of the government in effectively tracking, tracing, testing and treating the infected people in institutions rather than asking them to undergo home isolation and treatment. Lack of social responsibility in adhering to social distancing norms is also cited as a reason. The territory, which claims to have a good healthcare infrastructure, has more than half of the Covid-19 positive cases undergoing treatment at their houses. Presently there are 3,321 active cases of which more than 50% (1,700) are under home isolation and treatment. The territory boasts of the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (Jipmer), Indira Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute (IGMC), Rajiv Gandhi Women and Children Hospital, an ESI hospital and seven private medical colleges and hospitals.  Lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi had pointed to the failure of the government to utilize the infrastructure of private medical colleges and services of their doctors and paramedical staff members in treating the Covid-19 patients rather than converting colleges, hostels and stadium into make-shift treatment centres without staff members.  Public health experts attributed the spike of Covid-19 cases to the delay in declaring the Covid-19 test results. “In many cases, the results are delayed by four or five days and by that time the patients come in contact with several people spreading the infection. My results came five days after testing,” said a healthcare worker.  The Covid testing, caring and treatment should be carried out by private medical colleges comprehensively on a par with government hospitals, said Bedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/lack-of-awareness-delayed-test-results-lead-to-massive-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-pondy/articleshow/77642851.cms||Bosco Dominique
August 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Row over denial of salute to ADMs||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: District collectors of Kozhikode and Malappuram have sought explanation from district police chiefs of the two districts regarding the act of police personnel not saluting the chief guests who had hoisted the national flag on Independence Day. With ministers and district collectors on quarantine, additional district magistrates (officers in the rank of deputy collector) were assigned as chief guests of celebration in both districts. But, police had refused to offer general salute to the chief guests. The district collectors have also taken up the matter with the chief secretary, home secretary and revenue secretary. The showcause notice issued by Kozhikode district collector Sriram Sambasiva Rao said that while SP (Kozhikode rural) was given a general salute, the ADM, who was the chief guest at the function was not given a general salute. Instead, as soon as the ADM reached the dais, she was requested to hoist the flag. Later, when the parade commander was asked to explain why it was done so, the parade commander informed that he acted upon the instructions of the assistant commissioner (special branch) who in turn received instructions from the commissioner of police and the assistant commissioner in charge of the parade. “The assistant commissioner apparently informed him that the ADM need not be given the general salute, and remaining in attention position would be sufficient,” the notice said. The notice said that these serious lapses by team to extend general salute to the ADM who is the chief guest amounts to dereliction of duty, bringing disrepute to a national event and violation of various government orders in this regard. It also said that as per the government order issued on August 14 in this regard, the ADMs were supposed to receive the salute in Kozhikode and Malappuram. “Moreover, the disrespect to the chief guest who has been identified by the government to hoist the national flag on independence day amounts to violation, under the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971,” it said. Meanwhile, Kozhikode city police commissioner A V George said that the matters cited in the notice are baseless. “General salute is not given even to the district collector. It is given only to officers of the rank of DIG and above. Also, there is absolutely no violation of the National Honour Act, 1971 as the salute has been given to the national flag as well as during the national anthem,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/row-over-denial-of-salute-to-adms/articleshow/77641541.cms||KP Saikiran
August 20, 2020||Rajkot||Welcome din drown Covid rules||Rajkot: BJP state president C R Paatil’s first visit to Saurashtra after his appointment to the coveted party post started from Somnath on Wednesday. Interestingly, the one-day visit to temple town turned out to be a massive disregard by party workers to government guidelines on Covid safety norms with rules on social distancing and face masks going for a toss flagrantly. Earlier, the leader reached Somnath in the morning, and a convoy of 200 cars joined his grand welcome. After heading straight to Somnath temple to offer prayers, Paatil met various community leaders in the temple’s tourist facility centre and thereafter addressed the party workers. Emphasizing on the need to make the party stronger, Paatil assured the party workers that the BJP will not bring people from Opposition Congress any longer. BJP workers gathered in huge numbers during Paatil’s walk in the town where all safety measures were breached rampantly. Only performers at the cultural programme organized in his welcome near Lilavati guest house were seen wearing face masks. Neither Gir-Somnath collector Ajay Prakash nor the superintendent of police, Rahul Tripathi could be reached for comments on flouting of Covid rules. However, BJP spoke person Raju Dhruv said, “People were so enthusiastic and emotional that everybody forgot about the rules. Our workers were, however, wearing masks and asking everybody to follow the government guidelines.” Paatil, who also met workers in Gadu, Keshod, Vanthli, Mendarda and Junagadh, will reach Rajkot on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/welcome-din-drown-covid-rules/articleshow/77641530.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Dehradun||At 14, U’khand records highest single-day deaths||Dehradun: Uttarakhand on Wednesday recorded the highest single-day fatalities attributed to Covid-19 with 14 deaths, taking the toll to 178. Also, 264 fresh coronavirus cases in the state pushed the total to 13,225 on the day. According to the health department, seven deaths were reported from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Rishikesh, six from Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani, and one from Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH). “The victims included a two-month-old baby admitted to Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. The maximum of 118 new Covid-19 cases were reported from Dehradun, followed by 60 cases from Nainital, 39 from Haridwar, 19 from Chamoli, 13 from Pauri Garhwal, seven from Udham Singh Nagar, three from Tehri, and one case each from Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi. Among the new infections reported from Dehradun on the day, 15 were Army personnel and 17 were residents of Gandhi Road in Clock Tower area, which was declared as a containment zone. The others were residents of Rishikesh, Kanwali Road, and a few other localities. On the day, the ENT department of Dehradun’s Coronation Hospital was sealed after a patient who recently underwent a surgery there tested Covid-19 positive. Meanwhile, 408 people in the state were also reported to have recovered from the infection on the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/at-14-ukhand-records-highest-single-day-deaths/articleshow/77640354.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 20, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Labourer caught for stealing injections, jumps off third floor||VADODARA: A casual labourer who was caught red-handed for stealing injections at a private hospital in Padra on Tuesday jumped off the third floor of the hospital. Accused Nikunj Makwana’s legs were severely damaged in the incident while doctors are still assessing his spinal cord injury. Makwana, who lives in Padra, was nabbed on Tuesday afternoon when he was going to the medical store of the hospital to sell 44 injections that he had stolen from a patient. Makwana told the cops that he needed money for his medicines and hence stole the injections and hand them over to the medical store. After nabbing the accused, the hospital staff made him sit in a room on the third floor of the building until cops arrived. However, a while later Makwana requested to go to the washroom and when he failed to come out till late, the staff checked inside but didn’t find him. They found a glass pane broken and saw Makwana lying unconscious on the ground floor. He was taken to the health centre at Padra for treatment. “Doctors are monitoring his health, but they claim that he will take at least six months to recover completely,” said sub-inspector P T Jaiswal of Padra police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/labourer-caught-for-stealing-injections-jumps-off-third-floor/articleshow/77640778.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||DRI finds Rs 6cr worth drugs at sealed firm||Hyderabad: Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) sleuths have discovered an additional 52.5 kilos of ephedrine and mephedrone narcotic drugs worth Rs 6 crore on the premises of a chemical factory, recently sealed by the enforcement agency, on the outskirts of Hyderabad. DRI team had conducted searches, which started late on Saturday night and ended on Sunday morning, at the chemical factory on the city outskirts and seized 142.6 kilos of mephedrone worth Rs 28.5 crore and 31 kilos of ephedrine worth Rs 3 crore along with 250 kilos of raw material during the raid. Three persons were arrested from Hyderabad and Mumbai. In continuation of the operation, based on the information gathered from the accused and their associates, the DRI team dug up at the chemical factory premises on Tuesday and unearthed 45 kilos of ephedrine and 7.5 kilos of mephedrone, all worth Rs 6 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dri-finds-rs-6cr-worth-drugs-at-sealed-firm/articleshow/77642856.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai colleges find discrepancies in minority quota admissions, seek more time||MUMBAI: Several city colleges are struggling with first year junior college (FYJC) admissions for in-house and minority quotas, after it went completely online this year. With Covid-19, colleges are working under constraints, and admitting around 1,000 students under these categories has become tedious, principals said. In a letter to director of school education (Pune), Maharashtra Association of Minority Educational Institutions has told the department to remove some conditions and sought an extension of schedule by two to three days. One problem was the requirement of one-time password (OTP) to confirm admissions. OTPs are sent to students’ registered mobile numbers. Colleges have to call each student, get the OTP and feed it into the computer. “We have to call them first to inform them about the OTP, then we have to call back to note the OTP. If we call without warning, several minutes are wasted in figuring out the registered number. With 1,000 students to be admitted in some colleges, this process will take more than five days. It is practically impossible to finish everything in seven days with limited staff,” said a principal. For minority admissions, students have to register on the FYJC admission portal with relevant documents and to individual colleges. The deputy director’s office then sends the list of registered applicants to colleges, and only students from the list can be admitted, said the letter. “Some students got the seat in the college’s merit list but were not in the government list of quota students. They cannot be admitted,” it added. The association said minority admissions were their prerogative and this will only encroach on their rights. Another principal said there are mistakes at various levels and they will come to the fore when merit lists are released and students do not find their names. The association’s letter also said that of the 11 days given for admissions to in-house and minority quotas, three were public holidays (Janmashtami, Independence Day and Ganeshotsav) and a Sunday was included. With the process going online, it is practically impossible for them to complete the process in seven days, they said. Education department officials said the changes kept in mind Covid-19. “We received the letter and will do the needful,” said secondary education director, Dinkar Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/colleges-seek-more-time-for-in-house-minority-quota-admissions/articleshow/77643169.cms||Yogita Rao
August 20, 2020||Chennai||DMK president questions AIADMK stand on medical seats for OBC quota||CHENNAI: DMK president M K Stalin on Wednesday questioned the dual stand adopted by the AIADMK government over the issue of implementing reservation for OBC categories in the all-India quota of medical seats allotted to the central pool from Tamil Nadu. On the one hand, the state government has appointed a member, as directed by the Madras high court in its July 27 order. On the other, the state also joined the Centre in approaching the Supreme Court with an appeal to stay the high court order, Stalin said in a statement. “The historic verdict of the Madras high court in ensuring social justice was achieved through efforts of several political parties. The ruling AIADMK should not think that it will go scot free after pledging the hard fought victory before the Centre,” Stalin said. Stalin also condemned the state for its nomination to the coordination committee, as suggested by the high court. “TN government has appointed Dr Umanath, managing director, Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation as its nominee for the committee, even though the high court had mentioned appointment of state health secretary,” Stalin wrote. Further, on the day it informed the Centre about the appointment of Umanath, it also moved a petition along with the Centre in the Supreme Court to appeal for a stay of the Madras High Court verdict. Fortunately, the apex court did not stay the high court verdict, Stalin said. “The dual stand of the AIADMK government has exposed itself. It thrives in the act of making people to believe it is taking actions in the interest of the people. But, eventually ends up favouring the Centre and helps the latter have its way, as seen in the past in the case of NEET and National Education Policy. That cannot be allowed to happen anymore,” Stalin warned, while pointing out that he had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to implement the Madras high court order at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dmk-prez-questions-aiadmk-stand-on-med-seats-for-obc-quota/articleshow/77642877.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Gym owners to hit the streets||NEW DELHI: With Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) not allowing gyms to reopen in Delhi, gym owners said they are on the verge of losing their livelihood and will take to the streets and protest. “This is a blow to our livelihood and fitness industry in Delhi will collapse,” said Chirag Sethi, vice-president of Delhi Gym Association, adding that more than one lakh people associated with the fitness industry will be rendered jobless. “Are gyms in Delhi the only source of corona outbreak? It is ridiculous that hotels and weekly markets can open, but not gyms. Gyms are open in Gurgaon, Noida, Faridabad and other places, but no spike in corona cases has been seen there,” Sethi said, adding “We have no choice, but to protest at the LG’s house.” There are around 5,500 gyms in Delhi and every gym employs 10 to 15 people, including trainers, helpers and housekeeping staff. The capital’s fitness industry was one of the hardest hit by Covid-19 and the Unlock-3 guidelines had brought momentary respite as gym owners started making preparations to reopen their premises. The association had even prepared a SOP, which included booking through slots, thermal scanning at entry point, mandatory use of masks, gloves and sanitisers. Zuhaib Rana, owner of Gravitaz in Ashok Vihar, said that his clients are keen to resume their fitness regimen. “I have invested in complete sanitisation of the gym, but there is still no clarity on when gyms would reopen,” Rana said. “We have been closed for the last five months and paying rent, electricity bills and other EMIs is getting very difficult now,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gym-owners-to-hit-the-streets/articleshow/77642898.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 20, 2020||Chennai||AIADMK poster war continues, minister warns of severe action||CHENNAI: AIADMK partymen, especially in southern Tamil Nadu, have opted for guerilla tactics to hit out at their opponents within the party by raking up the issue of who should be projected as the next CM candidate – EPS or OPS? Posters are springing up from nowhere – highlighting this issue – keeping the senior AIADMK leaders on tenterhooks.  What started last Saturday in Periyakulam and Bodinaickanur - projecting deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam as chief minister -- has now expanded to Dindigul, with posters in English depicting Edappadi K Palaniswami as deputy CM, while promoting OPS as CM. While local partymen sought to dismiss it as an error committed by the printing press, not many are convinced that it was a mere ‘proof reading’ error.  While the posters in Theni district resulted in senior ministers rushing to put out any factional fire at the earliest, both OPS and EPS had called for a truce and issued a joint statement on Saturday restraining partymen. But that seems to have had little bearing on the ground, with what came up in Dindigul.  Senior minister and party spokesman, D Jayakumar warned partymen not to indulge in such skirmishes anymore. "The party leadership has already, through a joint statement, asked party people not to indulge in such acts of provocation. But still some sections in the party are indulging in these activities. Party leadership will take a serious view and take severe action," Jayakumar told TOI.  Party insiders blame the latest development on the recent division of Dindigul party district into two – East and West. Minister for forests and environment, Dindigul C Srinivasan was appointed district secretary for Dindigul west. Former minister and senior party leader Natham R Viswanathan was made Dindigul east district secretary.  Srinivasan’s supporters had put up the posters to thank the party leadership for making him a district secretary. The posters ended up thanking “Chief Minister O Panneerselvam and Deputy Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami” in English.  R Ramesh Kumar of Chinnalapatti, who put up those posters, said it was a printing mistake, and that they had not spell checked the English posters, while the Tamil posters had the designations right. “The printing press has also clarified,” he said. But, a supporter of Natham Viswathan said it was a deliberate move. “Our leader was with OPS and has now sided with CM. Hence, this seems to be a deliberate move to create trouble,” he said on condition of anonymity.  People in the OPS camp say the poster war was kicked off from Tirunelveli over a fortnight ago. Someone had put up posters hailing EPS as ‘all time’ CM. While the issue was brought to the attention of EPS, no action was taken, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aiadmk-poster-war-continues-minister-warns-of-severe-action/articleshow/77642876.cms||D Govardan
August 20, 2020||Chennai||Sounds of parai reverberate in lockdown||CHENNAI: Charithra Ganeshkumar had heard a lot about the parai, but never got an opportunity to learn to play it. But when she heard the beats of the small drum from her neighbour’s house, she knew this was her opportunity. "The moment I heard the beats of parai I got attracted to it. I thought it was difficult to learn but I was wrong," said the Class VIII student of Alagappa matriculation higher secondary school in Karaikudi, who finished the basics in two months. As one of the oldest percussion instruments in the country, parai once had a strong connection with cultural and social spaces of Tamil Nadu. But its importance was lost over time due to lack of sponsorships. Struck in his native, Karaikudi, Mutamil Bharathy, a clinical research associate, has been training children on how to play parai since lockdown. The idea is to regain the space of this traditional drum and use it as a stress buster during this pandemic outbreak. It was while Bharathi was playing parai to rejuvenate himself that the children around his house got attracted to its sounds. Starting with two, Bharathy says the number of students grew within a a week. There are two batches now, and they learn parai every day by following the Covid safety measures. "I am promoting harmony through parai and it will help regain confidence and positive energy," says the 25-year-old. Played with two sticks, one being larger and thinner than the other, parai is mainly performed in dances, funerals, temple festivals and sporting events. For the children, learning the instruments has been a healthy engagement when schools have been closed. "I am always fascinated by percussion instruments. I wanted to learn mridangam, but my parents didn’t allow me to do so. I don’t regret it now, as I am happy that I could learn parai," said S Anbuchozhan, a Class VII student of the Leaders Academy, Karaikudi. It was a novel experience for Bharathy too. "I never knew I would train children. It happened due to lockdown. It was after the two or three classes that I realised how interested they are. I am happy that I am passing on the love for the drum to the next generation," said Bharathy, who works with the ICON Clinical Research India, Chennai and is a part-time parai trainer with the Chennai-based Nimirvu Kalaiyagam. Parai has contributed immensely to the development of Tamil culture. However, it became outdated due to lack of sponsorships over the years. "Many have started learning to play parai, thanks to the training session organised by cultural groups in and around the state. The willingness of these students shows that the instrument can make a comeback," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sounds-of-parai-reverberate-in-lockdown/articleshow/77642858.cms||M T Saju
August 20, 2020||Kanpur||Rs 25K reward on 3 brothers of Bajpai||Kanpur: Kanpur police on Tuesday announced a reward of Rs 25,000 on the three absconding brothers—Rajai, Ajai and Shobhit—of gangster Vikas Dubey’s financier Jaikant Bajpai. A case was filed against the three under the Gangster Act at Nazirabad police station recently. On August 16, the police had conducted raids at Jaikant’s house in Harshnagar to look for his three brothers, but to no avail. To recall, the police had earlier accused Jaikant Bajpai of providing gangster Vikas Dubey with 25 cartridges of .32 bore revolvers and cash worth Rs 2 lakh on July 2, prior to the Bikru ambush which had left eight cops dead and seven injured. Bajpai had also attempted to flee, but was arrested along with one of his aides Prashant Shukla alias Dabblu. Earlier, the police had also seized his three luxury vehicles Audi, Fortuner and Verna, abandoned by him and his aides in Kakadeo’s Vijay Nagar area. It came to fore that Bajpai, on the gangster’s direction, was supposed to ferry him and his gang members to their safe hideouts in two luxury cars and an SUV. However, due to extensive checking and patrolling by police, he and his aides abandoned the SUVs near Vijay Nagar crossing on July 4 and fled thereafter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/rs-25k-reward-on-3-brothers-of-bajpai/articleshow/77641519.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||State inches towards 1 lakh Covid cases, records 8 deaths||Hyderabad: Telangana is inching towards 1 lakh Covid-19 caseload with the total number of cases touching 95,700, even as eight more people died from the virus on Wednesday. Authorities reported 1,763 new cases of Covid-19 and the total death count stood at 719. Testing touched its single day highest number with 24,542 samples analyzed on Wednesday, still far behind the 40,000 per day target set by the state government. With the latest numbers, so far 7.97 lakh samples have been tested in the state. Samples tested per million population stood at 21,480 on Wednesday against 20,818 on Tuesday. The case fatality rate in the state stood at 0.75% which has been constant for the last 7-10 days now. With testing increasing in the state, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits saw a sharp rise in the number of positive cases. GHMC area recorded 484 new cases on Wednesday as against 235 on Tuesday. Medchal-Malkajgiri with 169 cases and Rangareddy with 166 cases reported the second and third highest number of cases respectively. “The dip in numbers in the GHMC area over the last few days was due to less testing. It is clear that once testing is ramped up, the numbers might still be more than 500 easily,” said a source, adding that testing in districts is still far from satisfactory. “In fact, we are seeing many cases turn up very late and have symptoms of Covid-19 but have not been tested,” added the source. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-inches-towards-1-lakh-covid-cases-records-8-deaths/articleshow/77642897.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Chennai||Anbumani Ramadoss urges state to ensure jobs for locals||CHENNAI: A day after Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said legal provisions would be made to ensure that only locals would be given priority in government jobs in that state, PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss urged the Tamil Nadu government to enact a similar legislation to ensure job opportunities for youth in the state. Chouhan categorically said “children of Madhya Pradesh” will be eligible for government jobs in the state. Calling the MP government’s decision as a “bold move”, Anbumani in statement said it was a long pending demand of his party. He demanded the TN government follow the footsteps of the MP government. “Though it is against the ideology of the federal government, there is no other option to ensure job opportunities for youngsters of the state,” he said. In the recent past, there is a decline of representation of people of Tamil Nadu in the central government and public undertaking firms. It is because of a systematic planned debacle, he said and recalled the appointment in the postal department a few years ago. Several candidates from Haryana, who do not know Tamil, were declared as toppers in the Tamil language examination. Hence, the TN government should ensure the appointment of qualified youngsters from the state in government jobs. The state should insist the Centre to allocate vacancies, except for the post of top-level officers, in all the central government departments and public sector offices to youngsters in the state, Anbumani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/anbumani-urges-state-to-ensure-jobs-for-locals/articleshow/77642896.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Delhi||How will Delhi test returning migrants: HC||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court has asked the AAP government to focus on ramping up Covid-19 testing in view of the fact that cases are still “hovering” around 1,300 per day. A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad expressed concern that cases are yet to steadily reduce in Delhi. “It is a matter of great concern that though the number of Covid-19 cases were expected to climb down gradually or at least remain stable below 1,000 per day in the month of August, the daily Covid-19 cases that had touched 707 on August 10, 652 on August 16 and 787 on August 17, have shot up to 1,374 on August 18,” the bench noted, while taking stock of testing being carried out in the capital. The court further pointed out that “the numbers are still floating around 1,300 odd cases per day, which shows that there must be a concentrated focus on ramping up of lab testing.” It then zeroed in on the question of migrant labour returning to Delhi after Unlock 3.0 and industrial activity slowly picking up in Delhi. “We have enquired as to whether adequate arrangements have been made by the Delhi government at the borders and at other places where industries/construction sites exist in Delhi for large scale testing to detect Covid-19 cases and for segregating them without causing any inconvenience,” the bench noted, while seeking a detailed status report from the government. Appearing for the government, standing counsel Satyakam informed the court that the second sero-surveillance will be completed by the end of this week. The court directed that an analysis of the second survey shall be placed on record well before the next date of hearing and also contain “an analysis of the results of the first sero surveillance vis-a-vis the latest sero-surveillance for this court to understand the status of the extent of the spread of infection in Delhi.” The court also perused a status report filed by Delhi government in pursuance to its earlier order, stating that a letter was written to the Indian Council of Medical Research for clarification on the manner of implementation of its advisories for deploying the Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) and RT/PCR test in Delhi. The ICMR has clarified that use of RAT has been approved in containment zones and health care settings and it has also recorded its satisfaction that Delhi government was conducting RAT and RT/PCR tests as per its guidelines, the report said. The court also perused the figures of testing, which show that between July 31 and August 17, the ratio of testing through RAT has virtually doubled, whereas testing through RT/PCR varies in the range of 2,927 to 6,015 tests with an average of less than 5,000 tests per day. Watch Covid-19: Delhi HC asks govt to focus on ramping up testing as migrants return||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/what-measures-taken-to-test-returning-migrants/articleshow/77644675.cms||Abhinav Garg
August 20, 2020||Chennai||Centre sets 2024 target for 1 crore house taps in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Setting the target of providing one crore water tap connections by 2024 under its ambitious Jal Jeevan Mission in Tamil Nadu, the Union government on Tuesday warned the state that it may lose grant-in-aid since financial progress was very low. For the record, Tamil Nadu stands 17th in the country with just 20% of the 1.3 crore rural households given tap connections. Telangana and Goa top the list. In an hour-long video conference with chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and his team raised the case of 12,522 of the 12,525 villages having piped water supply, but the state government providing only 17,120 house tap connections last year against the target of 21.03 lakh. It has provided only around four lakh house tap connections so far this year against the targeted 34 lakh. “If a campaign is launched, the state can provide 55 to 60 lakh households with house tap connections in the next four to six months,” said a ministry source. An assessment carried out a year ago suggested that the majority of the schemes are functional and only required a relook. The state made little progress despite the Centre allocating Rs 373 crore last fiscal under Jal Jeevan Mission and a matching share from the state government. The Central allocation this year shot up to Rs 922crore. The state is supposed to spend a similar amount. The Union minister also noted that six districts -- Kallakurichi, Karur, Madurai, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Villupuram -- are affected by Japanese encephalitis (JE) and acute encephalitis syndrome (AES). At least 739 AES cases and 77 JE cases were reported in the last decade in the districts, where 20% of 19 lakh vulnerable households alone have tap connections despite separate funding from the Centre since 2012. In the two districts (Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar), where the BJP looks to make a mark in the polls, 7 lakh tap connections should be given in 879 villages, but the number of connections provided were very low, the source said. “The state government was told that it is a top priority of the Union government and regularly monitored by the PM’s office and NITI Aayog,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/centre-sets-2024-target-for-1-crore-house-taps-in-tn/articleshow/77642899.cms||Julie Mariappan
August 20, 2020||Dehradun||India-Nepal talks bring hope to people in U’khand border areas||Nainital: A day after the talks between Indian ambassador to Nepal and Nepal’s foreign secretary on the ongoing projects between the two countries, local residents are hopeful that tensions will ease and work on collaborative projects will pick up pace. The tension between the two countries had escalated in May after Nepal alleged that Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura areas in Uttarakhand were part of its territory and had also issued an amended political map incorporating these areas. The dispute had many of the locals living in border areas worried about the fate of the joint projects initiated by both countries. India and Nepal have been engaged in several projects along the border, including high-value hydropower projects like Pancheshwar dam, Sapta Kosi dam as well as the Kamla and Bagmati dam projects. The biggest of these is the Pancheshwar project over the Sarada river along the international border. The project, when completed, will generate 5,040 MW of electricity and will irrigate over 2.59 lakh hectares of land in India and 1.7 lakh hectares in Nepal. Apart from this, the two countries are also collaborating on four Integrated Check Points (ICPs) as well as major railway projects like the Jogbani-Biratnagar rail extension as well as the Janakpur-Jayanagar and the Raxaul-Birganj railway link to Kathmandu. Of all these projects, the Pancheshwar dam project is perhaps the most significant. A centrepiece of the Mahakali Treaty signed between the two countries, the dam will cover three districts of Uttarakhand – Pithoragarh, Almora and Champawat – and the Far Western Development Region of Nepal. The project is estimated to cost around Rs 40,000 crore and provide employment to thousands of people on both sides of the border.  “The wide range of collaborative projects between the two countries will not help in infrastructural development but would also offer much-needed jobs to people from both countries. We have been hoping that any border row will not have an adverse impact on these projects since the hopes and aspirations of a lot of people are linked to them,” said Harish Chandra Haisiyat, a resident of Tanakpur area of Champawat. Another resident, Pramod Bhatt from Jhulaghat area of Pithoragarh, also expressed happiness that the two countries have resumed talks on these projects. Speaking to TOI, he said, “The hills of Uttarakhand have for years been neglected. There have been no good jobs while agriculture options are also limited. Though the Pancheshwar dam will submerge several villages in both Pithoragarh and Almora, the massive investment that the project is expected to bring will provide employment to locals and is therefore a crucial project for all of us. We just hope that the two countries settle their disputes soon and start work on the dam which has been in the pipeline since 1996.” In a similar vein, Arjun Mahar, a resident of Champawat, said, “The border dispute has strained the roti-beti ties between the two nations. There is an increasing sense of bitterness between the people on each side of the border and it is therefore necessary that these projects continue as planned. The development will ease the strain in the relations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/india-nepal-talks-bring-hope-to-people-in-ukhand-border-areas/articleshow/77640378.cms||Prashant Jha
August 20, 2020||Kochi||Retail merchants in Kochi pin hope on Onam sales||KOCHI: As customers remain reluctant to go shopping and make bulk purchases, retail merchants in the city keep their fingers crossed expecting that sales will pick up in the coming days. Generally, the traders witness frenzied business activity during the weeks ahead of Onam. However, Covid outbreak and the resultant lockdown have turned the festival season into a lacklustre affair. “Not many customers come to the shops. People are buying online. But the entire stock cannot be displayed online. When it comes to retail clothing, customers are limiting shopping to essential items like everyday wear. Customers have become very cost conscious and are opting for budget products,” said an owner of a boutique at Convent Junction. Convent Junction, MG Road and Edapally are some of the prominent areas in the city which do bulk business during festival season. He also said that when dealers announce discounts, particularly for electronic goods, customers queue up. But if large number of people crowd at the shops, it could invite punitive action from authorities for violating Covid protocols. Tailoring shops and shops selling designer wears, footwear, jewellery and other accessories have been severely hit. A trader said that at least two shops and a hotel at Convent Junction have already shut shop, and two other shopowners are contemplating on shutting down. “There are hardly any events or functions scheduled during this Onam season. People who have money are trying to save it. In this scenario the business community has nothing much to hope this Onam,” said Geo George, a city-based trader. However, traders point out that wholesale dealers in Kochi are in a better position as retailers from rural areas of the state are buying from them. “But these sales are mostly on credit. If the retailers are not able to sell their products, the wholesale merchants will not get their money,” said a trader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/retail-merchants-in-city-pin-hope-on-onam-sales/articleshow/77641543.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Agra||Man hacks wife to death in Mainpuri||Agra: The husband of a 45-year-old woman allegedly hacked her to death with a spade in Mainpuri’s Darapur village on Wednesday afternoon. The suspect has been arrested. Additional SP Madhuban K Singh said the suspect was known as a hot-headed person who used to fight with his wife often. However, the exact reason behind him murdering his wife is being investigated. He said the body of the deceased has been sent for post mortem, and an FIR under Section 302 (murder) has been registered against him. The couple has three sons, only one of whom was at home when the incident took place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/man-hacks-wife-to-death-in-mainpuri/articleshow/77640377.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Rajkot||Fire cracker hurts Paatil||The welcome also had its share of calamities as the fire crackers burst by party workers to welcome Paatil near Lilavati guest house, however, ended up hurting the guest himself. Paatil received minor injury near his eye and forehead and was taken to Veraval for primary treatment. He rejoined the celebrations after about an hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fire-cracker-hurts-paatil/articleshow/77640412.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Can’t probe sand mining case: VACB||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The vigilance and anti-corruption bureau (VACB) informed the special court here that the agency is not empowered to probe the petition by opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala against sand mining in Pampa-Thriveni, under the prevention of corruption act without clearance from the government. The agency’s counsel informed the court that the agency requires the government’s permission under section 17 (1) of the amended prevention of corruption act, and the government had refused to give permission under the act. The primary argument over the petition was completed on Wednesday, and the court will consider the case again on August 26. According to the section, “no police officer shall conduct any inquiry or investigation into any offence alleged to have been committed by a public servant under this Act, where the alleged offence is relatable to any recommendation made or decision taken by such public servant in discharge of his official functions or duties, without the previous approval of the government”. The petition arraigns Pathnamthitta district collector P B Nooh, former chief secretary Tom Jose and managing director of Kannur-based public sector undertaking Kerala Clays And Ceramic Products Ltd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cant-probe-sand-mining-case-vacb/articleshow/77641575.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Agra||UP: Speeding truck overturns in Etah, four killed||AGRA: Four people were killed and one was seriously injured after a speeding truck carrying sacks of mustard overturned on GT road under Mallawan police station of Etah district here on Wednesday. The deceased – three women and a two-year-old baby – were standing on the side of the road when the truck ran over them. The driver and a helper fled the spot soon after the accident. Police had seized the truck. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Etah Sunil Kumar Singh, “The accident took place around 1.20pm when the truck overturned while negotiating a turn and fell on bystanders.” The deceased were identified as Maya Devi (62), Ramshri (60), Anu Gupta (21) and Ansh (2). The four were trapped beneath the overturned truck, the SSP said, adding that they were rushed to the district hospital where the doctors declared them dead. “Another person was seriously injured and admitted to hospital. An FIR has been lodged in the case and a hunt has been launched to nab the truck driver, who managed to escape after the accident,” the SSP said. Superintendent of police (crime) Rahul Kumar said, “On the complaint of Rishipal who is a relative of the three people who died in the accident, a case has been against the driver (unknown) under IPC sections 279 (Rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304-A (Causing death by negligence).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/speeding-truck-overturns-in-etah-four-killed/articleshow/77640411.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Child delivery charges hit the roof amid Covid||Hyderabad: Covid-19 treatment is burning holes in the pockets of soon-to-be mothers too. Delivery charges for pregnant women have almost doubled during the pandemic, forcing many to go for hand loans. Delivery costs were between Rs 30,000 and Rs 60,000 before coronavirus hit the country, but now the tariff has gone up to Rs 1.5 lakh. Private hospitals used to charge between Rs 20,000 and Rs 30,000 for normal delivery. Now, the would-be mothers have to shell out a minimum of Rs 60,000. C-section deliveries which earlier used to cost Rs 60,000 now have shot up to Rs 1 lakh and Rs 1.5 lakh, depending on the hospital, package and complication. Many maternity nursing homes had closed down during the lockdown, while those which were working revised tariff to cover personal protective equipment (PPE) and sanitisation cost. “We have not increased the tariff, but there is extra cost due to PPEs,” Dr K Sireesha, one of the partners of Udbhava Hospital, said. Though several hospitals refused to reveal their tariff, women, who went there for enquires, said it could cost them up to Rs 1. 5 lakh. “I was told they would have charged me Rs 60,000. However, due to Covid, I paid Rs 50,000 more,” a 27 -year-old private teacher, who took a loan from her parents for delivery in July, said. The situation worsened after some doctors and nurses tested positive. Gandhi Hospital had admitted a few pregnant women, who were positive, and 10 of them delivered babies too. However, all private hospitals were carrying out mandatory Covid tests on pregnant women before delivery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/child-delivery-charges-hit-the-roof-amid-covid/articleshow/77642912.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 20, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Two-year-old boy found dead in well||KOCHI: A two-year-old boy was found dead in a well at Pulinchod in Muvattupuzha on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Able, son of Sijo of Pulinchod. The boy was found to be missing around 12.30pm on Wednesday and in the subsequent search, he was found dead in the well around 1.15pm. According to police, the well had a protective wall around it, however the child is suspected to have climbed on an adjacent boundary wall and walked on top of it to reach the well. Muvattupuzha police have registered an FIR of unnatural death. Police conducted inquest proceedings and moved the body to a hospital for autopsy. Body would be handed over to the kin after autopsy on Thursday. Police said that prima facie there was no foul play involved in the death. Man killed in bike accident A 46-year-old man died after his bike collided with a truck on Wednesday evening. The accident happened near St Ann’s College, Angamaly, around 6.30pm. The deceased has been identified as Martin Paulose of Karukutty. Police said they are probing the exact cause of the accident. Body was moved to Angamaly taluk hospital after an inquest. Angamaly police have registered a case of unnatural death. Body would be handed over to the kin after an autopsy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/two-year-old-boy-found-dead-in-well/articleshow/77641569.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Chennai||H Raja’s tweet sparks war of words between BJP, AIADMK||CHENNAI: National secretary of BJP H Raja has yet again stoked controversy. This time, his tweet ridiculing the AIADMK government in connection with Ganesha Chathurthi celebrations has led to an exchange of hard-hitting words in social media between functionaries of the BJP and its ally AIADMK. The IT wings of both the parties locked horns and exchanged salvos. It all started with Raja’s sarcastic tweet, expressing his happiness over the Karnataka government’s decision to permit Ganesha Chathurthi festivities and applauded it as a “macho government (annmaiyulla arasu)”, taking a dig at the AIADMK government, which has banned celebrations citing the Covid-19 pandemic. The Edappadi K Palaniswami government has denied permission for the installation of Vinayagar idols in public places and procession in view of the pandemic and fears over the infection spreading. The Madras high court had also passed an order in favour of the state government and expressed hope of the police acting against violators. Soon after Raja’s tweet, AIADMK’s spokesperson Kovai Sathyan and secretary of the party’s IT wing Raj Satyan retaliated with #999 - the number of votes that Raja had secured as an independent candidate in an earlier election. “Amma’s government does not need Sharma’s (Referring Raja’s family name) certificate,” he further tweeted. Raja recalled the government’s earlier decision to open Tasmac outlets in Chennai but denying permission for the Hindu festival. Kovai Satyan tweeted that showing guts means winning the scouts (Tamil Nadu Bharat Scouts and Guides) election. Raja had secured only 58 votes out of the total 286 votes polled in that election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/h-rajas-tweet-sparks-war-of-words-between-bjp-aiadmk/articleshow/77642903.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur district registers 30 deaths, highest single-day tally of 1,257 cases||Nagpur: Vidarbha registered its highest single-day spike of 1,641 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. Nagpur district once again led the region with highest single-day tally of 1,257 cases. Except Nagpur district, the other five districts in Nagpur division didn’t record any deaths on Wednesday. Vidarbha registered 37 Covid-19 deaths on Wednesday, with Nagpur district contributing 30 while Akola (4) and Yavatmal (2) and Buldhana (1) being the only other districts to register deaths.Excluding Nagpur district, the division recorded only 151 cases — Bhandara (69), Wardha (11) Chandrapur (30), Gadchiroli (7) and Gondia (34) while Amravati division saw 302 cases and seven deaths. Vidarbha’s tally touched 36,686 beside 987 deaths.AMRAVATI: A spike of 94 cases took the district's Covid count to 4,139 . With 97 patients getting discharge, the number of recovered patients went up to 2,848 for a recovery rate of 68.8%.Since the district did not report any death on Wednesday, the toll remained constant at 100. This left 1,191 patients under treatment, including 27 referred to Nagpur and 315 in home isolation.The rural belt reported 23 cases to take its count to 1,115. Daryapur tehsil reported seven cases that took its count to 79 while Paratwada reported four (total 62). Morshi and Rahatgaon reported two cases each to take their respective count to 67 and 12. Single cases were reported from Achalpur, Shirkhed, Satargaon, Chikhaldara, Shirala Pusda, Wadgaon Mahore and Loni Takli. Two cases came from Karanja Lad in Washim district and one from Murtijapur in Akola district.In City, Ram Nagar reported five cases while 19 cases came from Dastur Nagar. Four from Nagpuri Gate police station too tested positive while two inmates of Central jail also tested positive to take its tally to 38.Two cases each were also reported from Badnera, Sanjay Gandhi Nagar, Saturna and Professor’s Colony. Paradise Colony reported three cases. Single cases were reported from 38 other localities of the city.AKOLA: Four patients died during treatment in Akola on August 19. A 35-year-old woman from Gulzarpura, who was admitted on August 16, died on Wednesday. A 65-year-old man from Kothari Pailpada village also died. He was admitted since August 10. An 82-year-old man from Belkhed in Telhara tehsil, who was admitted in a critical condition on August 17, died on August 19 while a 70-year-old man from Raikhed in Telhara Tehsil, who was admitted on August 16, also died on Wednesday. This took the Covid-19 death toll of Akola to 141. More than 280 results were received on August 19 out of which 41 tested positive. Most of them are from rural areas. Total 58 patients recovered and were discharged. This took the number of recovered patients to 2817. Now, Akola has 3331 Covid-19 cases, with 2817 recovered and 373 positive patients under treatment.YAVATMAL: A total of 593 active positive patients are admitted in various Covid Care Centres across the district. Two deaths were reported on Wednesday — one was a 52-year-old man from village Sawala of Yavatmal tehsil and the other was a 90-year-old man of Ner tehsil. There were 25 new positive patients, 19 men and 6 women. They are from Yavatmal, Arni, Pusad, Darwha, Wani, Pandharkawda and Babhlgaon. There are 139 in home quarantine while 155 are in isolation wards. Around 101 swab samples were sent to the VRDL lab on Wednesday, informed dean Dr RP Singh. BULDHANA: A 77-year-old man from Pardesipura in Buldhana died while undergoing treatment on August 19. This is the 41st Covid-19 death in Buldhana district. Apart from this, 39 new patients tested positive while 45 got discharge from the hospitals after recovery. Now, Buldhana has 2395 patients with 1494 of them recovered and 860 under treatment.GADCHIROLI: Seven persons tested positive for Covid-19 while 5 got discharge from Gadchiroli district on August 19. Four of the 7 patients detected on Wednesday are Bihar returnees, 2 are policemen from Gadchiroli, 1 doctor and 1 cancer patient who is being treated in Nagpur. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Gadchiroli has reached 856, including 716 of them discharged and 139 under treatment.CHANDRAPUR: Detection of 30 new positive cases propelled the Covid-19 total in Chandrapur to 1195 on Wednesday. However, the district also registered surge of 32 discharges taking the total of cured cases up to 816 during the day. This has left 370 actives cases under treatment. No death was registered during the day. New detection include 13 positive cases from Chandrapur city, five from Nagbhid teshil, two each from Rajrua, Bramahpuri, Korpana, Bhadrawati and Chimur tehsil and one other is from Ballarpur.WARDHA: Total 11 new positive for coronavirus and 21 were discharged on Wednesday. Eight women and three men are positive from Arvi (3), Ashti (3) Selu (3) each one from Hinganghat and Wardha. A 55-year-old woman from Sudampuri, Wardha, a 45-year-old man from Hinganghat, a 29-year-old man and a 48-year-old woman of Khardiward and a 29-year-old woman of Bhaiyapur Arvi tested positive. A 10-year-old boy, and two women, 40 and 42 respectively from the same family in Ashti, a 5-year-old boy, a 27-year-old youth and a 60-year-old woman of Hamadapur village of Selu tahsil are the positive among 1471 reports received on Wednesday. Reports include antigen test and laboratory test. The total count of positive cases in district reached 466, and active cases are 97 while 358 are discharged so far in the district.WASHIM: With 34 new cases and 37 getting discharged, Washim district now has 1273 cases, including 887 recovered, 21 deaths and 365 under treatment.BHANDARA: District reported 69 new patients in a day on August 19. With 37 recovering in a day, total 405 patients have been discharged till date. With nine deaths reported till date, Bhandara has 251 patients under treatment.GONDIA: Total 34 positive patients were detected in Gondia district on August 19. These include 17 from Gondia; 4 from Arjuni-Morgaon; 3 each from Goregaon, Amgaon, Salekasa; 2 each from Sadak Arjuni and Tirora tehsils. Total 25 patients have recovered. Now, Gondia has 868 total cases, including 612 discharged and 11 deceased. Total 245 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-district-registers-30-deaths-highest-single-day-tally-of-1257-cases/articleshow/77642906.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka to sell recovered land to raise funds||BENGALURU: The fund-starved Karnataka government has decided to auction land recovered from encroachers in and around Bengaluru city to mop up an estimated Rs 3,000 crore. In the first round, the state will auction 107 acres worth Rs 500 crore. "This is litigation-free land recovered from encroachers in the past few years. We plan to e-auction it soon," Bengaluru Urban deputy commissioner GS Shivamurthy told TOI. At a revenue-mobilization strategy meeting on August 10, chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar reportedly directed the Bengaluru Urban deputy commissioner, BBMP and BDA to take steps and sell such properties to fill the state's coffers at the earliest. Govt aims to raise Rs 3,000cr through saleSince December 2013, the Bengaluru Urban district administration has recovered 16,029 acres of government land. Most of it has already been auctioned to fund public projects. “Instead of auctioning smaller plots, the government is targeting large parcels suitable for companies or big residential ventures. This helps the government in realising substantial money in one go,” a revenue official said. The Bangalore Development Authority has finalised a proposal to sell civic amenities (CA) sites to 21 trusts, including educational, religious institutions, recreational and sports clubs, on the condition it should be utilised for the purpose for which it is allotted. The cabinet will consider the proposal on Thursday. Officials said about 1,200 CA sites have been leased to different institutions for a 30-year period. The government has set a target of raising Rs 3,000 crore through land sale. According to BDA rules, 10% of the area in every layout must be set aside for civic amenities — parks, recreational and sports clubs or educational institutions. These will be sold at the prevailing guidance value. For now, the government has given permission to sell 112 CA sites leased to institutions, including Bangalore Golf Club. Of these, Shivamurthy said, 21 educational institutions have agreed to buy the land. Forty-eight institutions which have violated land-allotment norms have been asked to pay lease dues or buy land. “Some are negotiating on the rate,” he added. In Bengaluru Rural district, the deputy commissioner has been asked to identify the encroached gomala and ‘B’ kharab land using satellite images and auction them at four times the guidance value.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-to-sell-recovered-land-to-raise-funds/articleshow/77645336.cms||ManuAiyappa Kanathanda
August 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Hong Kong bars AI flights as 11 flyers test Covid+ve||NEW DELHI: With 11 passengers on an Air India flight bound for Hong Kong testing positive for Covid-19, questions have been raised on the standard procedure of screening at airports. For now, Hong Kong has stopped operations of all Air India flights. This is, perhaps, the first time an emergency public health regulation has been used to penalise an airline. Air India officials, however, refused to comment when asked about the incident and whether the contacts of the passengers were being traced and staff tested and quarantined. An Air India spokesperson said, “In the wake of the recent developments regarding operations to Hong Kong, Air India will not be operating its three flights till August-end. Only one of these will operate as a cargo-only flight from India and return from Hong Kong with passengers of Vande Bharat Mission. Whatever is being done is by strictly adhering to laid down protocol and norms. We would not like to comment on the issue.” Airline officials said that a cargo flight would leave Delhi for Hong Kong on August 21 and return with passengers under Vande Bharat Mission. The two flights scheduled for August 25 and 28 stand cancelled. Sources said Tuesday’s flight was almost fully occupied with more than 200 passengers scheduled to fly out. At IGI Airport, a passenger of a domestic or an international flight has to go through multi-layer screening starting outside the terminal. Their temperature is checked twice, once through a machine and the second time manually. Any person displaying symptoms of the viral infection is not allowed to board the flight. Passengers with even the mildest of symptoms are turned away. If symptoms develop en route, the in-flight crew informs the airport authorities and medical officers take over once the aircraft lands. If the symptoms are severe, the individual is sent to a Covid care centre. Otherwise, they are sent to their homes and asked to take a Covid-19 test. Officials said the possibility of anyone developing symptoms mid-air was low since domestic flights were short. However, officials said that screening could not be as precise as testing for the virus, which means asymptomatic patients might go undetected. Sources said Hong Kong officials have asked the airlines to ensure that the flights are deep cleaned before they start operations again. The flights have been suspended for two weeks, from August 18 to 31, by invoking Prevention and Control of Disease (Regulation of Cross-boundary Conveyances and Travellers) Regulation. Under the law, a health officer can prohibit an aircraft from landing in Hong Kong when passengers on board have contracted or are likely to have been exposed to the virus and are, therefore, at “significant risk”. On Monday, Air India tweeted, “#FlyAI: Bringing India Home 3,43,864 stranded Indians have been repatriated under #VandeBharatMission in 1,872 flights. Air India lent wind beneath the wings to fly so many Indians back home with care and commitment.” Hong Kong announced the ban the same evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hong-kong-bars-ai-flights-as-11-flyers-test-covidve/articleshow/77642924.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
August 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC refuses bail to man accused in IB officer’s murder||NEW DELHI: Applicant has been found involved in several cases of rioting, including the murder of Intelligence Bureau (IB) officer Ankit Sharma, said a Delhi court while dismissing the bail plea of a man who claimed his complicity was shown in riot cases only because he was the neighbourhood’s “bad character”. Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav was hearing the bail arguments of Nazim, who sought his release from prison on the ground that his involvement was never proved by the investigating agency. Through his counsel Salim Malik and Sonia Pandey, Nazim further contended that initially the statements of two eye witnesses – Prashant and Harish Chandra – were recorded in the matter and subsequently their supplementary statements were also recorded. However, Nazim’ name was not mentioned in these statements, argued his counsel. Another man, who was stated to be an “interested witness” for he allegedly suffered loss of property, did not name the applicant in his statement initially but was claimed to have identified him as a rioter for his “enmity towards a particular community”. Special public prosecutor Manoj Chaudhary attributed Nazim’s role to stone pelting and inciting religious feelings to “cause maximum damage to people of the other community”. At the current stage of the case, the court highlighted that it can’t be said with certainty that Nazim did not have a common object with members of an unlawful assembly. “We are at the pre-cognizance stage and this court has limitations in making an in-depth analysis of the statements of witnesses, which are yet to be tested during trial. Whether he can be convicted in the matter with the aid of Section 149 IPC is a preposterous conclusion at this stage, as the evidence is yet to be led in the matter,” it added. Further, factors such as gravity of offence and damage to property, the court didn’t find it “a fit case” for grant of bail. “The bail application is accordingly dismissed. It is hereby clarified that anything stated hereinabove shall not be construed as expressing any opinion on the final merits of the case, as the case is at pre-cognizance stage,” the court clarified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-refuses-bail-to-man-accused-in-ib-officers-murder/articleshow/77644681.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab crosses 36,000-mark in Covid cases, death toll now 920||CHANDIGARH: Punjab reported 1,693 fresh cases of Covid-19 while the virus claimed the lives of 24 more patients on Wednesday. The state’s tally now stands at 36,083 and toll at 920. Meanwhile, two duplicate death entries recorded in the August 18 tally were deleted. Eight patients died in Ludhiana, six in Patiala, three in Jalandhar and one each in Amritsar, Barnala, Ferozepur, Kapurthala, Mansa, Pathankot and Fatehgarh Sahib. In the last seven days, 280 people have succumbed to the virus. With the virus claiming the lives of a large number of people in the last one month, Punjab’s rate of death per million population, 29.9, has surpassed the national average figure of 29.4. The trend of high mortality rate is expected to continue, as 37 people are in critical condition and are on ventilator and 336 on oxygen support. Ludhiana tops the list with 462 cases, followed by Jalandhar district, which added 208 fresh cases to the state’s tally. In Patiala, 117 people tested positive, in Mohali 114, Ferozepur 111, Amritsar 86, Sangrur 68, Moga 64, Bathinda 62, Fatehgarh Sahib 59, Faridkot 52, Barnala 52, Muktsar 46, Gurdaspur 39, Fazilka 38, Ropar 34, Hoshiarpur 29, Mansa 24, Nawanshahr 10, Tarn Taran seven, and Pathankot one. A total of 941 people were discharged after recovering, taking the tally of patients discharged 22,703.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-crosses-36000-mark-in-covid-cases-death-toll-now-920/articleshow/77650662.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Kochi||‘Land survey will increase Covid risk’||KOCHI: People who face eviction due to the widening of Edapally-Moothakunnam stretch of national highway say they are under immense stress as the district administration carries out land survey at a time when Covid cases are increasing. The national highway joint protest council, a people’s collective fighting against the land acquisition process, termed the move to evict people during the time of the pandemic “inhuman and against Covid protocols.” “The increasing number of Covid cases in the region has created a fear factor. In addition to this they have to deal with land acquisition and eviction. These people are mentally and emotionally drained. The fear that they would lose their homes and end up on the streets add to their troubles,” said the protest council chairman Hashim Chennampilly. When people remain confined to their houses by avoiding public places, including places of worship, to prevent contracting the disease, officials from revenue department, NHAI and police are visiting various locations along the stretch, houses and shops for the purpose of survey. “Such interactions will cause further spread of the virus. Many regions along the Edapally-Moothakunnam stretch are declared as containment zones,” added Chennampilly. The protest council stated that these people have already given their land for widening the highway to 30m. Despite taking over the land, the authorities, including NHAI, did not take any effort to widen the highway. In addition, the residents had to face the hardships caused by the recent floods. “All these factors should be taken into consideration while evicting the residents,” said protest council convener K V Satyan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/land-survey-will-increase-covid-risk/articleshow/77641615.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Agra||Six-month-old among 3 buried alive after 3-storey bldg collapses in Agra||Agra: A three-storey building collapsed due to heavy rainfall in Agra killing three persons on Wednesday. A 40-year-old shoe factory owner, his 36-year-old wife and six-month-old daughter were buried under the debris. It took rescue teams of police and Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) around 10 hours to locate the family members who couldn't survive. According to the police, heavy equipment for the rescue operation were unable to reach the site due to its narrow lane. And this caused much delay in bringing out those trapped under the debris. Deceased Mohammad Vakil was the owner of a small shoe manufacturing unit. He was living with his wife Samataj and baby daughter Aayat in the building at Dholikhar locality under Mantola police station. The house reportedly collapsed at 6:45am. Locals called the police control room for assistance. Within 30 minutes, Chatta circle officer (CO) along with his team arrived. A civic body team was called in to remove the debris. After determined efforts of six policemen and a dozen civic body workers, the debris was finally removed. The family of three was taken to the SN Medical College where they were declared dead by the doctors. Chatta CO Udayraj Singh said, “The narrow lane leading to the collapsed building caused much delay in the operation. A police team and civic body workers had to remove a large part of the debris with spades. The bodies have been sent for postmortem.” Ahead of the monsoon, AMC had identified 72 dilapidated buildings in the city, and issued notices to their owners and caretakers asking them to carry out the necessary repair work. They even warned that the buildings could collapse during monsoon rains or high winds, leading to loss of life and property. The AMC administration had also issued letters to all city police stations asking SHOs to ensure suitable compliance with the notices issued to residents of such buildings in their areas, and asked engineers to ensure residents vacate the buildings that are in "poor condition". The city has 100 wards across four zones, with the most number of dilapidated buildings in the Chatta zone, followed by Loha Mandi, Taj Ganj and Hari Parvat zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/six-month-old-among-3-buried-alive-after-3-storey-bldg-collapses-in-agra/articleshow/77640430.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 20, 2020||Goa||Notify 46.11 sqkm as private forest: NGT to Goa govt||PANAJI: The National Green Tribunal has asked the Goa government to notify 46.11 sqkm as private forest. Four committees and decades of struggle finally came to an end on Tuesday, when NGT passed an order stating, “41.2 sqkm area demarcated by the forest department and 4.91 sqkm identified by the Sharma Committee totalling 46.11 sqkm is confirmed and accepted as private forest”. In its 24-page judgment, the NGT said, “dragging the matter to courts of law years after years, would not serve any public interest”. It also directed the state government to “reasonably compensate” Goa Foundation, which had taken up the case. A private forest is defined as a contiguous forests of more than 5 hectare or .05 sqkm with canopy density of not less than 0.4%. With a geographical area of 3,702 sqkm, Goa has a total forest of 1,424.5 sqkm. Earlier, in August 2019, the state government was asked to deposit Rs 1 crore with the Central Pollution Board as performance guarantee for not submitting the final report on demarcation and identification of private forests. It had also imposed Rs 10,000 penalty per day from July 1 till the final report was submitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/notify-46-11-sqkm-as-private-forest-ngt-to-goa-govt/articleshow/77644079.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab crosses 36,000-mark in Covid cases, death toll now 920||CHANDIGARH: Punjab reported 1,693 fresh cases of Covid-19 while the virus claimed the lives of 24 more patients on Wednesday. The state’s tally now stands at 36,083 and toll at 920. Meanwhile, two duplicate death entries recorded in the August 18 tally were deleted. Eight patients died in Ludhiana, six in Patiala, three in Jalandhar and one each in Amritsar, Barnala, Ferozepur, Kapurthala, Mansa, Pathankot and Fatehgarh Sahib. In the last seven days, 280 people have succumbed to the virus. With the virus claiming the lives of a large number of people in the last one month, Punjab’s rate of death per million population, 29.9, has surpassed the national average figure of 29.4. The trend of high mortality rate is expected to continue, as 37 people are in critical condition and are on ventilator and 336 on oxygen support. Ludhiana tops the list with 462 cases, followed by Jalandhar district, which added 208 fresh cases to the state’s tally. In Patiala, 117 people tested positive, in Mohali 114, Ferozepur 111, Amritsar 86, Sangrur 68, Moga 64, Bathinda 62, Fatehgarh Sahib 59, Faridkot 52, Barnala 52, Muktsar 46, Gurdaspur 39, Fazilka 38, Ropar 34, Hoshiarpur 29, Mansa 24, Nawanshahr 10, Tarn Taran seven, and Pathankot one. A total of 941 people were discharged after recovering, taking the tally of patients discharged 22,703.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-crosses-36000-mark-in-covid-cases-death-toll-now-920/articleshow/77642921.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab crosses 36,000-mark in Covid cases, death toll now 920||CHANDIGARH: Punjab reported 1,693 fresh cases of Covid-19 while the virus claimed the lives of 24 more patients on Wednesday. The state’s tally now stands at 36,083 and toll at 920. Meanwhile, two duplicate death entries recorded in the August 18 tally were deleted. Eight patients died in Ludhiana, six in Patiala, three in Jalandhar and one each in Amritsar, Barnala, Ferozepur, Kapurthala, Mansa, Pathankot and Fatehgarh Sahib. In the last seven days, 280 people have succumbed to the virus. With the virus claiming the lives of a large number of people in the last one month, Punjab’s rate of death per million population, 29.9, has surpassed the national average figure of 29.4. The trend of high mortality rate is expected to continue, as 37 people are in critical condition and are on ventilator and 336 on oxygen support. Ludhiana tops the list with 462 cases, followed by Jalandhar district, which added 208 fresh cases to the state’s tally. In Patiala, 117 people tested positive, in Mohali 114, Ferozepur 111, Amritsar 86, Sangrur 68, Moga 64, Bathinda 62, Fatehgarh Sahib 59, Faridkot 52, Barnala 52, Muktsar 46, Gurdaspur 39, Fazilka 38, Ropar 34, Hoshiarpur 29, Mansa 24, Nawanshahr 10, Tarn Taran seven, and Pathankot one. A total of 941 people were discharged after recovering, taking the tally of patients discharged 22,703.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-crosses-36000-mark-in-covid-cases-death-toll-now-920/articleshow/77650660.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Dams across region have around 90% storage||Kolhapur: Incessant rainfall over the past week has increased the water stocks in the dams across Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara districts to more than 90% of their storage capacity. Meanwhile, the water discharge from the major dams in Satara and Sangli were further reduced after the rain subsided considerably. The Krishna river water level has also come down at various places in these two districts. According to the official data, nine major dams in the Satara district are filled to around 90% of capacity. Koyna, the biggest dam in western Maharashtra, has live storage of 91% — 87 TMC of its total capacity of 105 TMC. The discharge from Koyna was 31,000 cusec on Wednesday. An official from the irrigation department said: “Bhatghar, which has a capacity of 24 TMC, is filled to capacity while other major dams like Dhom, Kanher, Dhom Balkawdi, Urmodi, Tarli, Neera Deoghar and Veer are filled to 90%.” He added, “All the dams were receiving inflows on Wednesday even tough the intensity of rain had reduced. Discharge rates from all the dams have been reduced and they are unlikely to be increased. Nine major dams in the Satara district currently have collective water storage of 164 TMC,” Chandoli, the biggest dam in Sangli district, also has over 90% water storage — 32 TMC of its capacity of 34.5 TMC. Water discharge from Chndoli has been brought down to 9,000 cusec. On Tuesday, it was 14,000 cusec. Meanwhile, in Kolhapur district, six dams have 100% storage. These reservoirs are in Chandgad, Gaganbawda and Ajara tehsils, but their storage capacities are less. All other major dams, including Radhangagari, Tulshi, Kasari, Kadwi and Chikotra, have more than 90% stocks. According to the official data, dams in Kolhapur currently have 53 TMC water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/dams-across-region-have-around-90-storage/articleshow/77640459.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Goa||Diwali holidays nixed, only online classes: Goa University to colleges||PANAJI: Goa University in a circular to affiliated general stream degree colleges has said when classes for the new academic year 2020-21 begin, they should be held ‘exclusively in online mode’ until further notice. As the new academic year for general stream degree programmes in Goa University affiliated colleges will begin online from September 1, GU’s academic calendar shows that there will be no winter vacation which usually coincides with Diwali. Already there has been loss of days caused by delay in beginning new academic year, because of the pandemic. Colleges will have a Ganesh Chaturthi break from August 21 to 27, after which the first semester for the new academic year 2020-21 will begin from September 1. The semester will end on November 11. Colleges will be conducting exams from December 4 to 23 and this will be followed by Christmas break from December 24 to January 2. The next semester will begin from January 4 and will extend later than usual upto May 13. The next academic year 2021-22 will start from June 25, the GU has said. The calendar will be applicable for all general stream degree programmes like BA, BSc (including home science), BSc BEd, BA BEd, BCom, BBA, BCA, BPEd, BPA and BSW.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hold-classes-exclusively-in-online-mode-says-gu/articleshow/77644103.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Kochi||‘Kundannoor, Vyttila flyovers to be ready by September first week’||KOCHI: City residents will have to wait a little longer to travel through the newly-constructed flyovers at Kundannoor and Vyttila. The ongoing construction works are at the final stage, and the agencies involved in the works need a few more days of sunshine to complete surface tarring works. Road and Bridges Development Corporation-Kerala (RBDCK) managing director Rahul R Pillai said: “The flyover should be ready by the first week of September. The rains have delayed the work, and there is a need to get continuous sunshine to complete the tarring works.” The completion of the two big-ticket projects is expected to bring down the traffic congestion at the busy Vyttila and Kundannoor Junctions on NH 66. RBDCK is in charge of constructing the Kundannoor flyover, and PWD is executing the Vyttila flyover. “The government has decided to open the two flyovers at the same time,” added Pillai. The Covid outbreak and resulted lockdown had slowed down the work. Officials said quality checks are being carried out at various stages of construction and there would be no compromise on this aspect. Controversies over the now defunct Palarivattom flyover have forced the government to be extremely cautious about maintaining quality in the construction works. Pillai also maintained that plans for construction of Atlantis ROB is progressing at a fast pace. The construction of Vathuruthy ROB is also being discussed at various levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kundannoor-vyttila-flyovers-to-be-ready-by-sept-first-week/articleshow/77641667.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Aarogya Setu app not mandatory, Airports Authority of India tells HC||BENGALURU: The Airports Authority of India (AAI) on Thursday told a division bench of the high court that its guidelines have been modified, making downloading of Aarogya Setu application optional for air passengers. Counsel for AAI made this submission before a bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, after the court had directed AAI to clarify its position during a hearing on August 3. The court posted the PIL regarding Aarogya Setu to September 3 indicating that it would consider passing interim orders. The court wanted to know if a citizen can be denied service/ benefit of government facilities for not downloading the application and also said the issue of data protection needs to be looked into. Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, who appeared for the petitioner, pointed out that despite the central government’s assurance to the court on June 12 that Aarogya Setu application is only voluntary/ optional, a series of SOPs issued thereafter have made it mandatory. “It’s like a cat and mouse game,” he quipped in reference to contrasting circulars and sought the court’s intervention. Citing the Aadhaar judgement, he said the government cannot hold on to data without a valid legislation. The PIL was filed by Anivar A Aravind, a Bengaluru resident who claims to be a digital rights activist. Aravind says Aarogya Setu violates the right to privacy and other fundamental rights of citizens. He further contends that there is no law that mandates use of Aarogya Setu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/aarogya-setu-app-not-mandatory-airports-authority-of-india-tells-hc/articleshow/77641242.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Agra||Jeweller, 40, set ablaze in busy Firozabad market, dies; opposition slams government over law and order||Agra: Set ablaze inside his shop, Rakesh Verma, 40, rushed into busy Firozabad market, howling in pain and gasping for breath. He ran into a stationary bicycle and collapsed, but managed to stand up again while trying hard to shake off the flames. They didn’t go away. And before the passersby and traders could douse the flames, they had consumed 75% skin of Verma. Gazing from a balcony, a CCTV camera captured the grisly details of the Tuesday afternoon. Verma died at Agra’s SN Medical College hospital on Wednesday morning. The accused, Verma’s cousin Robin, 32, was also arrested a few hours later. According to police, Robin allegedly poured highly-inflammable industrial thinner (methyl) on Verma and lit a fire after a brief argument. Firozabad’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sachindra Patel said, “The accused was arrested from Cinema crossing in Firozabad. We have CCTV footage of the entire incident. Initial investigation revealed that Puja Verma, the wife of Robin had committed suicide on August 12. There seems to be some dispute over it in the family. And it led to the attack.” Rakesh was first admitted to Firozabad’s district hospital. Later, he was referred to SN Medical College in Agra due to his serious condition. Superintendent of police of Firozabad (rural) Rajesh Kumar said, “The accused has been booked under IPC’s section 302 (punishment for murder). Detailed investigation will be conducted in the entire matter”. Soon after the incident, Samajwadi Party (SP) leader and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav slammed the state government over “spike in crime”. He tweeted, “(Even) The leaders of BJP are raising serious questions about the law and order situation in their own government. There is no stopping crime in UP. Now, we are hearing the sad news about a man from the business community being burnt alive in Firozabad. It seems the leadership of the state has gone into the wrong hands.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/jeweller-40-set-ablaze-in-busy-firozabad-market-dies-opposition-slams-government-over-law-and-order/articleshow/77640496.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara dist reports 346 new cases||Kolhapur: Satara district has reported 346 fresh Covid-19 patients till Monday evening, which is the highest number of cases recorded in a single day. With this, the total number of cases rose to 8,275. The district has also reported nine deaths due to the infection, taking the death toll to 269. There are 3,557 active cases. Of the fresh cases Karad tehsil added 75 new cases including 41 from Karad town. Cases are being found in almost all the villages surrounding Karad town. Satara tehsil also reported 75 cases, including 46 from Satara town. In Satara town, patients were found in one family, officials said. Wai tehsil had 50 new cases while Mahabaleshwar tehsil registered 27 new cases among other tehsils. The deceased include four from Satara tehsil, two from Karad and Koregaon tehsil, each and one from Khatav tehsil. Of the deceased, eight were men and one was a woman. Dist guardian minister shifted to Mumbai hospital District guardian minister Balasaheb Patil, who had tested positive for Covid-19, was shifted to a private hospital in Mumbai on Tuesday late night. He said he decided to shift after being advised by health minister Rajesh Tope. The minister also has other health conditions like diabetes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-dist-reports-346-new-cases/articleshow/77640497.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Business||Cyient eyes overseas buys, sharpens focus on 4 key verticals to beat Covid-19 blues||Hyderabad: Global digital engineering and technology player Cyient Ltd is eyeing an expansion in markets like Europe, Nordics and Japan as part of its strategy to beat the Covid-19 blues and is also scouting for acquisitions in these markets as part of its future growth plan, a top official of the company told TOI. The company is also sharpening focus on certain verticals like telecommunications, mobility, healthcare, energy utilities and defence that have done well during the Covid-19 crisis, Karthikeyan Natarajan, president & COO, Cyient Ltd said. “We are trying to position ourselves as a company that will build the future of mobility, affordable healthcare and sustainability, which is driven by renewable energy and utilities that drive a green tomorrow,” Natarajan explained. Pointing out that every crisis presents an opportunity, he said this is the best time to invest in organic and inorganic growth. We are looking at how we can get our strategy right on these and are charting out a microscopic strategy for the next 18 months by focusing on existing customers and a telescopic strategy for growth over the next 3-5 years that includes acquisitions, he said. Talking about acquisition plans, he said the company is looking at targets in the $20-100 million range that will help Cyient build scale in the existing offerings in verticals where it is present in but does not have a geographical presence, building capabilities in design, build and maintain space and acquiring IP as it is shifting its positioning from a services to solutions player. While refusing to divulge details of the specific buyout opportunities under evaluation, he said Cyient is open to any anything that helps in the four growth areas it has identified and is value accretive to its shareholders. “We are working with many bankers and some of the targets across Germany, Japan, Australia and US. We are trying to see where they are likely to perform in the next 3-6 months and make those right decisions at the right time. We are not looking at any targets in India per se...” he said. He also added that the company is looking closely at startups too as part of its strategy to build IP either through the partnership route or the venture investment route or even acquisition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cyient-eyes-overseas-buys-sharpens-focus-on-4-key-verticals-to-beat-covid-19-blues/articleshow/77642997.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
August 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: Secretariat staff halt work to demand safety against Covid||PANAJI: Employees of the Goa state secretariat complex in Porvorim on Wednesday morning briefly stopped their work to press for their demands seeking better safety measures against Covid-19 infections. Employees said that 12 colleagues have already been tested positive and reports of several others are still awaited, yet they are forced to work in close proximity of one another with no social distancing. Staffers resumed work in the afternoon after an assurance from secretary Puneet Kumar Goel that he will convey their demands to the chief secretary. ‘If infection spreads, admin will be hit’We placed our demands asking for staggered work timings and asking employees to work at 50% strength. We have asked for sanitiSation of office space to be carried out by housekeeping staff at least two to three times a day. We have asked them to carry out testing of staff who come in contact with the public or have symptoms,” said one employee. In the morning session, employees came out in large numbers in a common area of the complex, stating that they will not carry on work as they fear contracting Covid-19 as they deal with files that change many hands. A female employee said that if the infection spreads in the complex, then administration will come to a standstill. “The government has to bring out some guidelines. We do not have the amenities to work from home, but at least we can work at 50% of the strength. Public is also being allowed to come in. How do we work under such stress? Many of our staff have young children, senior citizens at home. Many staffers have comorbidities,” said another employee. The staffers said that besides positive cases in the offices of the chief secretary and the health secretary, four have been tested positive in the revenue department, while two in the home department. “No testing has been carried out of employees. There have been employees even coming in with fever and cold. We are not criticizing the government. It is only a request to act and in a fast manner,” said one protesting employee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/secretariat-staff-demandmeasures-to-check-covid/articleshow/77644136.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
August 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Man gets 1yr RI under Pocso||Kolhapur: District and sessions judge S R Patil has sentenced Amar Annappa Wadar, a resident of Sawarde village in Hatkanangale tehsil, to one year of rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs 5,000 under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. In addition to Pocso, the accused was held guilty under sections 323,354, 504 and 506 of the IPC. According to the prosecution, the incident occurred on August 15, 2017 when a girl was returning home after flag hoisting ceremony in the school. The accused forcibly stopped the girl by holding her hand and asked her to marry him. The accused then beat her up and tried to strangle her.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-gets-1yr-ri-under-pocso/articleshow/77640521.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Kolhapur||603 Covid cases in Kolhapur district||KOLHAPUR: As many as 603 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported from across Kolhapur district along with 24 deaths on Wednesday. According to a health official, the district’s death toll stands at 463 while the total number of cases has increased to 16,282, out of which 7,240 are undergoing treatment at various hospitals across the district. “Till date, a total of 8,759 people have recovered from the contagion,” he said. After directions from district collector Daulat Desai, closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras have been installed in every ward of CPR Hospital. “Live streaming of activities in the hospital where over 300 Covid patients are undergoing treatment has been activated. By sitting in war room the bed vacancies, number of patients admitted and treatment services provided to the patients can be monitored,” Desai said. Sangli records 15 deathsMeanwhile, Sangli district recorded 15 deaths and 331 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday. With addition of these numbers, the death toll has now increased to 264, while the total number of patients has gone up to 7,401. “Currently, 3,038 patients are undergoing treatment and 4,099 have been discharged,” a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/603-covid-cases-in-kolhapur-dist/articleshow/77640573.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly session: Capt says SAD, AAP playing politics||Chandigarh: Accusing the opposition of playing “dirty politics” at a time when Punjab was going through a critical period in Covid crisis, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said the one-day assembly session convened on August 28 was a constitutional requirement, as clearly mentioned in the announcement two days ago. Amarinder pointed out that SAD chief Sukhbir Badal, who had called the one-day session as a “cruel joke” on people, had a pathetic record in attendance in assembly when he was the MLA from 2017 to 2019. He said the SAD leader attended only 16 of the 40 days when assembly was in session. Amarinder expressed shock at the reaction of SAD president Sukhbir Badal and AAP leader Harpal Singh Cheema, terming it not just “ludicrous” but a manifestation of a lack of sensitivity and concern on the part of the two opposition parties in the state. “Both the parties seem bent on playing with the sentiments of people, whose only concern at present is to protect themselves from the coronavirus, which is peaking in Punjab and could play havoc with the state before stabilising,” he said. Responding to Sukhbir’s remark that the single-day session was “evidence of the government’s acknowledgement that it has lost the mandate to govern”, Amarinder said his government had the mandate of the people and did not need the support of the handful of SAD MLAs in the assembly. ‘Several ministers, MLAs down with Covid’ Pointing out that several ministers, MLAs and officials were currently either Covid positive or in quarantine, Amarinder said either Sukhbir was ignorant of the ground situation or simply did not care. With 34,400 people in the state testing positive so far and 898 dying till August 18, the situation was grim, he noted, adding that as many as 366 people were on oxygen support and three critically ill were on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-assembly-session-capt-says-sad-aap-playing-politics/articleshow/77642995.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Goa||Goa likely to see heavy rain for two days starting today||PANAJI: A low pressure area that has formed over north west Bay of Bengal on Wednesday is expected to bring heavy showers to parts of the state on Thursday and Friday. “With its intensification and movement, there is a possibility of increase in rainfall over the state on August 20 and 21. The system is going to enhance the monsoon winds over Goa. Wind speeds over the state will be at over 1.5km height,” India meteorological department (IMD) scientist Rahul M said on Wednesday. The peak activity will be over by August 22 due to which the intensity of rainfall is expected to comparatively weaken by then. “Though the rain is expected to be heavy, it is not going to be as intense as it was in the first week of August. There will only be an increase in rainfall activity,” Rahul said. A few spells of heavy rainfall are very likely in Panaji and Mormugao over the next 24 hours. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 30°C and 24°C respectively. The IMD has also issued a warning for fishermen since squally weather with wind speed reaching 45-55 kmph are likely to prevail along and off South Maharashtra-Goa coast on August 20 and 23. Fishermen have therefore been advised not to venture along and off the coast during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-days-of-heavy-showers-likely-in-goa/articleshow/77644155.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Faulty results from private labs in Bengaluru on the rise||BENGALURU: Complaints have been pouring in over faulty Covid-19 tests by private diagnostic laboratories in Bengaluru. In several instances, individuals who were told their samples were positive have gone in for a second test only to find they are negative. A senior citizen in BTM Layout was rushed to a private lab after he developed fever on August 13. The lab took his samples and declared him positive two days later. His son Naveen Krshna, 28, IT employee, was aghast because his dad's fever had reduced by the time the result came. He got a second test done on his father - this time, through a family doctor - and the result was negative. We delay results: TechnicianKrshna confronted the lab technicians over the flawed results. “He did not give a hoot about our complaint and continued his work. Action needs to be taken against such labs,” Krshna said. A 34-year-old Junnasandra resident had a similar experience. “I have stayed home for the past few months, stepping out only to purchase essentials. On August 11, I went to a private clinic and gave my swab samples for a Covid-19 test out of curiosity,” he said. Two days later, the resident was told he was positive. He rushed to another lab to find he’s negative. He informed the first lab about the differential results and asked for the test report. The lab staff cut his call, he claimed. On Monday, a lab technician’s post admitting that diagnostic labs were heavily into money-making through unjust means went viral on WhatsApp. He explained how the racket works: “Some 40 people come to our labs every day, and 90% turn negative. We delay in giving results. After three days, we give their result saying they are positive. Their primary and secondary contacts too get tested. This allows our business to thrive.” A medical officer at a Covid hospital confirmed many patients who have tested positive in private clinics are rushing to his hospital for a confirmation test, which often throws up negative result. He said the facility received 33 such cases in a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/faulty-results-from-private-labs-in-bengaluru-on-the-rise/articleshow/77645343.cms||Nithya Mandyam
August 20, 2020||Chandigarh||994 +ve in Hry, 10 succumb||Chandigarh: Haryana’s count of Covid-19 cases is all set to hit 50,000 mark, as the state on Wednesday recorded 994 fresh cases, highest for a day so far, and 10 deaths, taking the count of nCov cases to 49,930 and death toll to 567. Yamunanagar and Panipat have emerged as the latest hotspots. As many as 758 recoveries took the tally to 42,056, 84.23%. There are 7,307 active cases in the state, of which 158 are critical, with 14 on ventilators. The doubling rate remained stable at 32 days. Yamunanagar reported highest 88 new cases. Panipat recorded 83 new patients and the district’s total has gone up to 2,399. Faridabad reported 79 new cases and two deaths. It has total 721 active cases, while the overall total of positive cases has gone up to 11,315 with 157 deaths. Karnal reported 78 new patients, pushing the district’s tally of positive cases to 1,815. Bhiwani registered 71 new patients, and Ambala reported 68 new patients and two deaths, taking the district’s overall count to 2,772 with 24 deaths. Gurugram reported 67 new cases and one death. Here, the overall total has gone up to 10,539 patients, while 131 have died. With 9,672 recoveries, Gurugram has 736 active cases now. Kurukshetra reported 60 new patients and one death, taking the district’s case count to 1,071 with 18 deaths. Rohtak reported 56 new patients, where the total has gone up to 23, followed by Mahendragarh with 55 new cases, while Rewari reported 52 fresh cases and two deaths. Rewari district’s total of positive cases has hit 2,692 with 16 deaths. Panchkula reported 46 new patients followed by 40 in Sonipat, Hisar 39, Fatehabad 29 and Jind 25. Sirsa reported 18 new patients and one death. Jhajjar reported 17 new cases, while Nuh and Palwal districts reported seven and six fresh cases, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/994-ve-in-hry-10-succumb/articleshow/77643028.cms||Manvir Saini
August 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Eight migrants set to leave Bengaluru test +ve, kin moved to shelter homes||BENGALURU: Eight migrant workers were found infected with coronavirus following tests conducted before a Shramik train left Bengaluru on Saturday. The infected have been shifted to designated hospitals. Their family members have been lodged in shelter homes. The migrants had started gathering at Palace Grounds from August 13. “It’s the first time rigorous testing was done as part of the migrants departure proceedings. It is worrisome that so many cases have come positive. The families of those tested positive couldn’t board the train,” said Aditi Chanchani, volunteer with the Bangalore With Migrants. A total of 1,139 migrants, including 173 children, left on the Saturday train to Assam which passes through Odisha and West Bengal. “Twenty persons, who are relatives of the infected workers, have been moved to shelters in Yelahanka. Once recovered, the workers can take the next Shramik train,” said Sampath TD from Impact India, which is sheltering the migrants with support from the BBMP.  A new train for migrants to North East will operate on August 31. Workers have been asked to assemble at Palace Grounds two days prior the date for departure procedures, including Covid screening. Representatives of Bangalore With Migrants have requested the state government to postpone the date to September 4 or 5. “We have urged Anjum Parvez, principal secretary, who is incharge of migrants’ issues, to consider the change of date as the departing migrants can collect their wages for August. If they have to leave on August 31, some employers may not pay them by the end of the month,” said Rosemary Viswanath, a representative of the volunteers. Postponing the date can also help those who tested positive to complete their treatment and leave with their families, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/8-migrants-set-to-leave-bluru-test-ve-kin-moved-to-shelter-homes/articleshow/77641283.cms||Petlee Peter
August 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: Iconic Arambol tree, once fallen, stands again||PANAJI: For a decade or two, the dense, soothing shade of a 90-year-old banyan tree in Girkavaddo, Arambol, had been where several foreign visitors, most of them unknown to each other, had built a community. Lovingly called ‘The Source’, visitors connected at this quiet spot over informal sessions of yoga, meditation and dance, be it day or night. Being located only around 500m from the beach, the sound of the lapping waves made the space under this banyan tree perfect to find solace. Thus, it came as no surprise then that when the tree came crashing down on August 5, during a heavy spell of rain accompanied by gusty winds, members of this informal community were heartbroken. What followed was an online crowd-funding effort to have the tree re-rooted. It was an ambitious project, given that it was the first such example in Goa, more so for a tree of this magnitude. Over Tuesday and Wednesday, the tree was finally re-rooted, with the help of an expert in re-rooting banyan trees specially flown in for this project from Hyderabad. It is a native of Finland, Santeri Saahko, who saw that the tree still had some roots intact in the soil, and decided it was not yet time to give up on ‘The Source’. “We found support from many Goan voluntary organisations as well, and a crowd-funding effort to have the tree re-rooted was started,” Saahko said. “Gathering Rs 2 lakh proved easy, with funds coming in from admirers of ‘The Source’ the world over.” Avertino Miranda, coordinator of the Goa Green Brigade, said that the foreigners have set an example of re-rooting in Goa, for authorities to follow. “It is the first time ever that such a re-rooting has been carried out in Goa. Small trees have been transplanted before, but this is a huge and old tree. This effort shows that if you have the will to do it, it is not very difficult,” said Miranda. Having successfully carried out such re-rooting of banyan trees earlier elsewhere in the country, expert Uday Krishna of Vata Foundation found this project particularly challenging. “There were many challenges,” he said. “There was no access to get a crane to this spot. So we tied ropes to the branches and pulled the tree up using JCBs. The tree was already down since August 5, so time was a factor as well. But even after re-rooting, the tree needs post-operative care, which locals and the community around the tree have promised to provide it.” As decided by Krishna, workers were brought in to cut off the heavier branches to help the tree find its balance again when it was erected. A 3-4 ft deep hole was dug, for the tree’s roots to sink in, helping it stand upright again. “Somewhere along the way, the aerial roots coming down from the trees, helping it to stay anchored, had been cut off,” Krishna said. “The original tree is around 90 years old. A few new trees had grown over this tree. The weight of these new trees and the lack of the anchor of aerial roots caused imbalance and caused the tree to fall.” Marc Francis of the organisation Living Heritage said that from the Rs 2 lakh raised online, the balance would now be handed over to the Goan family who owns the land where the tree stands. He said the family will then provide the care needed for the tree post its re-rooting. “Eco-champions for Goa made a short film on this banyan tree, which helped raise the necessary funds online,” said Francis. Clive Phillips from England said that he now plans to have branches of the tree from ‘The Source’ planted at different locations across Arambol to help propogate the much-loved tree. “I want it to become a thousand trees,” said Phillips.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/iconic-arambol-tree-once-fallen-stands-again/articleshow/77644168.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
August 20, 2020||Nagpur||One PHC, 2 medical officers caring for 1.76L rural population||Nagpur: With Covid-19 cases projected to reach 44,000 in 12 days, the district administration is facing an uphill task in some parts of Nagpur Rural. Raipur Public Health Centre (PHC), at Hingna in the zilla parishad (ZP) jurisdiction, has just two medical officers for a population of 1.76 lakh spread over 23 villages for Covid, non-Covid patients, contact tracing, enforcing containment zones and regular drives of the central and state governments. A major worry is that Raipur PHC covers Hingna, Wanadongri, Isasani, Nildoh, Digdoh, and MIDC areas, all having many migrants and labourers. The regular movement of people from these areas into adjoining localities in the city, where there are a large number of cases, and vice versa makes the situation difficult. Some villages under this PHC are up to 11km away. There are three more PHCs in Hingna tehsil — Takalghat, Adegaon and Kanoli Bara — which cover population of 40,000, 12,500 and 26,000, respectively. Until now, Hingna tehsil has registered 569 positive cases and 8 deaths, majority under Raipur PHC. As per central and state guidelines, a PHC in non-tribal area should service maximum 30,000 people. Raipur PHC is bearing 5.8 times more load. A ZP official told TOI, “Raipur PHC was established in 1962 with population of around 30,000. The population has increased many fold, but not PHCs. Till recently, many people also visited private clinics and hospitals. Since the pandemic, majority of people are dependent upon the PHC.” Also, Wanadongri municipal council and Hingna nagar panchayat should have their own PHCs. But both these urban areas are dependent upon ZP’s Raipur PHC. The district administration has opened Covid-19 testing centre under Raipur PHC, where around 200 tests are done every day. The ZP has asked each of the four PHCs in Hingna tehsil to run the centre for two days each. So Raipur PHC staff also take care of the testing centre for two days in a week. ZP has developed a Covid Care Centre (CCC) under Raipur PHC for asymptomatic positive patients, where separate staff has been provided for some relief. Apart from two medical officers, Raipur PHC has a lab technician, male and female health assistants, one each of nurse, pharmacist, junior assistant, ambulance with driver, and three attendants. The PHC has to take care of walk-in patients and over 12 schemes run by the central and state governments. From the beginning of pandemic, the PHC also has the responsibility of maintaining record of positive patients, trace their contacts, collect swabs, enforce containment zones, and create awareness among people. One of the employees at Raipur PHC said, “We are all tired from the work over last four months, and no one has an idea when this pandemic will end. Still, we are giving our best due to additional support from Hingna tehsil health officer and his staff. Our PHC is probably the only one in state to take care of 1.76 lakh population.” The employee said staff engaged to collect samples at Covid-19 testing centre have collapsed some times due to lack of AC. “We are working despite all odds and require cooperation of people. Two Dedicated Covid Health Centres — Lata Mangeshkar and Shalinitai Meghe hospitals — are situated in our area. It will be easy for us to admit positive patients in these two DCHCs. Instead, we have been asked to take patients to GMCH in South Nagpur, get them screened, and then admit them in these two DCHCs. Responsibilities are rising instead of giving helping hands to fight the pandemic,” he said. Collector Ravindra Thakare did not respond to TOI’s calls and messages. ZP district health officer Dipak Selokar said, “Rural Hospital is situated in Hingna to take care of some load. We got approval for new building of Raipur PHC, where construction will start soon. Two new PHCs have been proposed to divide population under Raipur PHC. The proposal has been submitted to government four months ago.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-phc-2-medical-officers-caring-for-1-76l-rural-population/articleshow/77643054.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 20, 2020||Delhi||Less than 5% of Covid+ve kids need ICU care in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 in children is mostly asymptomatic or mild. Less than five per cent of the children who test positive for the novel coronavirus require ICU care. Paediatricians from AIIMS, PGI Chandigarh and other top medical institutions in the country confirmed this on Wednesday while sharing their experiences on treating children suffering from Covid-19 over the past few months. The doctors, however, said multi-system inflammatory syndrome (MIS-C) – in which multiple organs are affected due to the infection – is an emerging illness in children suffering from Covid-19. Dr Jhuma Sankar, associate professor, department of paediatrics, said MIS-C has been confirmed in a few cases involving children at AIIMS. This includes a six-year-old boy who was rushed to the emergency with a history of fever, malaise, poor appetite, skin rash and shortness of breath. The boy’s heart function was also affected. Tests confirmed he had Covid-19. “MIS-C is emerging. We are still searching for its causal association with Covid-19,” Dr SK Kabra, professor of paediatrics at AIIMS, said. At least two major studies conducted in the US and UK have also reported MIS-C in children affected with Covid-19. In the UK, doctors said, 78 cases were identified in a study involving 21 paediatric ICUs. In the US, 570 such children were identified in 40 states. “Even in India, studies conducted in Mumbai and Chennai have confirmed instances of MIS-C in children suffering from Covid-19. But it is extremely rare,” the doctors said in a webinar organised on Wednesday by AIIMS. Dr Ashok Deorari, professor and head of paediatrics at the institute, said that 95% of the children recover at home or wards itself. “Only about five % require ICU care and supportive treatment,” he added. The doctors said children are able to recover faster and with less severe symptoms possibly because they have strong innate immune response. Also, their respiratory membrane has an excellent regeneration capacity, they added. “Absence of known risk factors, such as diabetes and hypertension, in children also plays a role,” the experts said. About the opening of schools, the doctors said universal use of masks will have to be followed even if the government allows that in future. “Operational changes required may include reducing the size of the classes and screening all staff and students for Covid symptoms,” the experts said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/less-than-5-of-covidve-kids-need-icu-care/articleshow/77643125.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
August 20, 2020||Vijayawada||AP government ready to repay loans of 90 lakh women||VIJAYAWADA: The state cabinet on Wednesday cleared yet another welfare scheme, which will benefit close to 90 lakh women in the state. The proposal was cleared at a meeting held at the Velagapudi secretariat that was chaired by chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy. The scheme, which was promised by Jaganmohan Reddy during his padayatra and which was part of the party’s election manifesto, would cost Rs 6,792.21 crore per year to the exchequer and Rs 27,169 crore for the next four years. This would repay the loans of 90 lakh women till April 11, 2019. The cabinet also cleared the nutrition programme for women and children. It includes YSR Sampurna Poshan Plus in 77 tribal mandals and Sampurna Poshan in the rest of the state giving nutritious food to pregnant and lactating women for 36 months and children for 72 months. This would cost another Rs 1,863 crore to the coffers and benefit over 30 lakh women and children. Besides, the cabinet also cleared the proposal of the AP Civil Supplies Corporation to purchase 9,260 vehicles on loan to supply quality rice to beneficiaries across the state from December 1. The corporation would assist the unemployed youth belonging to the SC, ST, BC and minorities under self-employment programme. The beneficiaries would have to pay just 10% of the vehicle cost, while the state government would provide 60% subsidy. The banks will offer the remaining 30% loan. The state government would spend Rs 550 crore on this scheme. Apart from theses the government would spend Rs 776 crore on distribution of quality rice to the beneficiaries in 10 kg and 15 kg bags; the cabinet approved YSR Social Insurance Scheme to provide insurance cover to the people. The scheme would benefit over 1.50 crore people in the state in the age group of 18 to 70. The government would pay Rs 2 lakh in case of natural death, Rs 5 lakh for death or permanent disability in accident. It would be implemented through LIC and spend Rs 583 crore annually for it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-ready-to-repay-loans-of-90l-women/articleshow/77643055.cms||Gopi Dara
August 20, 2020||Mumbai||BMC announces water cut will reduce to 10% from Friday||MUMBAI: BMC reduced a water cut from 20% to 10% from Friday, as levels at seven lakes that supply water to the city crossed the 85% mark on Wednesday morning. Last year, on the same date, the stock in lakes was 94.3%. BMC imposed cuts from the first week of the month as catchment areas had received poor rainfall in June-July. But lake levels increased from 35% to 85% in the last 15 days. The smaller lakes in city limits — Tulsi and Vehar — have been overflowing since last month, and Modak Sagar (Lower Vaitarna) overflowed on Tuesday. BMC may withdraw the 10% cut once levels cross the 90% mark. Officials said it was raining in catchment areas and they expect lakes to get required stock in few days. In September 2019, residents of Bandra, Matunga and Dharavi faced a 30-hour cut as BMC tried to plug a leak in one of its water mains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-water-cut-to-reduce-to-10-from-friday/articleshow/77643167.cms||Vijay V Singh
August 20, 2020||Amritsar||NRIs charged Rs 3,500 for prompt testing: Complaint to Moga DC||BATHINDA: Conducting Covid-19 tests with TrueNat machines of those who want to fly abroad has apparently turned a murky affair at Moga, with charges of money changing hands levelled against some medical officers. According to a complaint made to the Moga deputy commissioner, NRIs are being charged up to Rs 3,500 for each test done with the machine. Results with TrueNat machine can be had within half an hour. Those going abroad need tests done within 72 hours before the departure. Moga MLA Harjot Kamal had also raised the issue last week, accusing some doctors of demanding money for tests, but no formal complaint was made. The medical officers had, however, refuted the allegation, claiming that the MLA made the charges as they were reluctant to conduct TruNat test of a large number of persons sent by him every day. Karamjit Singh, a relative of an NRI, on Wednesday made the complaint, alleging he paid Rs 31,500 for getting tested nine persons who were to fly abroad to one Om Parkash, who allegedly said he would pay it to Dr Naresh Amla. The complaint alleged that Rs 1.70 lakh has been collected for prompt test reports. District epidemiologist Dr Amla, however, refuted the charges, saying, “I have nothing to do with it. I don’t take money for tests and it is a plot to defame me. The person might have taken the money in my name and kept with him." Moga deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans confirmed the complaint. “I have forwarded it to SSP.” The issue surfaced on August 11 when the MLA had a tiff with Dr Ritu Jain over his recommendation to conduct TrueNat test of some persons. The medical officers had then said only 18 tests could be conducted in 12 hours through TrueNat, and as per the instruction from higher authorities, this machine is meant for only those in urgent need of the test. On August 2, 75 samples were tested, after which the machine had got burnt and no test could be conducted for four days, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/nris-charged-rs-3500-for-prompt-testing-complaint-to-moga-dc/articleshow/77643065.cms||Neel Kamal
August 20, 2020||Goa||Bhagat Singh Koshyari becomes first Goa governor to take oath in Konkani||PANAJI: Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, who was sworn in as governor of Goa at Raj Bhavan on Wednesday, took many by surprise when he took the oath of office in Konkani. Koshyari, a former Uttarakhand CM and ex-journalist, thus became the first governor of Goa to take his oath in Konkani. He was sworn in by Bombay high court chief justice Dipankar Dutta, and after that, reviewed the guard of honour accorded by Goa police. Koshyari appeared at ease with Konkani. “I am the first to take oath in Konkani,” he said while informally interacting with dignitaries and media after the ceremony. “The chief minister told me I can speak in Hindi, but I said I will speak in Konkani.” The 78-year-old will continue as Maharashtra governor, with additional charge of Goa. He is expected to meet state ministers on Thursday. “It is a proud moment for all Goans that he took the oath in Konkani. We welcome him to our state,” chief minister Pramod Sawant said. The governor’s move also pleased the Konkani camp. Veteran Konkani writer and former MLA Uday Bhembre said there was no precedent to it. “When even some of our ministers take oath of office and secrecy in languages other than Konkani, it’s indeed laudable that this governor took his oath in Konkani,” he said. “This will serve as a lesson to our people, particularly politicians, who have no qualms in making use of other languages for official purposes,” Bhembre said. Even Congress, which slammed the transfer of former governor Satya Pal Malik, appreciated Koshyari’s gesture. “The governor has started on a good note by taking oath in Konkani,” said opposition leader Digambar Kamat. “As far as I can remember, no governor has taken oath in Konkani. Hope he will uphold the aspirations of the people and take proactive steps in the interest of Goa,” he said. Koshyari holds an MA in English literature and worked as a managing editor of a Hindi weekly before jumping into politics in 1997 as part of the Uttar Pradesh legislative council. He became chief minister of Uttarakhand in 2001, and then moved on to national politics in 2008 as a Rajya Sabha member. A BJP veteran, Koshyari was elected to Lok Sabha in May 2014, and took charge as Maharashtra governor in September 2019. Besides Sawant and Kamat, deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar speaker Rajesh Patnekar and MP Vinay Tendulkar were present for the swearing-in ceremony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/koshyari-becomes-first-goa-guv-to-take-oath-in-konkani/articleshow/77644186.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Coimbatore||10,000 & still counting - no let-up in Covid cases in district||COIMBATORE: Covid-19 cases crossed the 10,000-mark in the district on Wednesday, when it recorded 394 new cases. Of the 10,158 people who tested positive for the virus in the district so far, 2,720 are undergoing treatment now. At least 286 patients were cured and discharged in the day. The toll, meanwhile, rose to 217 with the district recording 16 deaths, the highest in the state in the day. Chennai too recorded the same number of deaths. Of the 16 deceased, four didn’t have any comorbidities or complications and two died within 24 hours of hospitalization. Three were in their 40s. A 30-year-old police constable from Anamalai succumbed to the virus in the day. An official identified the deceased as Minhajudeen, who joined the force in February 2013. He was hospitalized on Tuesday at 9.37am and died around 2.55pm the same day. He was buried near Poo Market after the customary gun salute. The death was not included in the state bulletin. Among the new cases were 15 workers of a jasmine scent factory at K Pungampalayam, Karamadai. They were staying in the company quarters and made to undergo Covid-19 testing as part of health department officials’ contact tracing drive. Earlier, one person with fever had tested positive for the virus in the locality. Selvapuram saw 28 residents testing positive for the virus. Eight of them were from Indira Nagar. The district continues to be a popular treatment destination for Covid-19. Of the 2,392 patients undergoing treatment in hospitals and Covid care centres in the district, 1,981 are indigenous cases and the rest are from other districts. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “The remaining 400-odd patients are from other districts. At least 80 patients from districts such as Madurai, Kallakurichi, Karur, Dindigul, Tirupur and the Nilgiris have also died in hospitals here.” According to an official, 466 patients are undergoing treatment in government hospitals, 215 in the PSG Hospitals, 368 in private hospitals and another 41 in a private hospital taken over by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/10000-still-counting-no-let-up-in-covid-cases-in-dist/articleshow/77643069.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Experts, activists suggest measures to avoid flooding||Kolhapur: Experts and activists from the city have recommended 21 measures to avoid flooding of the Panchaganga and Krishna rivers. The suggestions have been sent to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and a response from the CM’s office is awaited. The experts said they have closely observed the earlier floods in both the rivers, and based on the observations, the suggestions have been prepared. One of the recommendations is to prevent silting caused by the haphazard mining in the hilly areas and remove obstructions to the natural flow of the rivers. The experts said the bridges that obstruct the free flow of rivers should be redesigned and construction activities along the banks should be stopped. Uday Gaikwad, a city-based expert said, “The suggestions made by the government-appointed panel are not practical. We were earlier asked to provide detailed reports to mitigate the floods in the region. Accordingly, we have submitted practical suggestions. Our focus is on ensuring the natural flow of the rivers.” The experts said mining activities have led to huge deposition of silt in the river streams. They have suggested a survey of the depth of the rivers and dams and desilting wherever possible. Also, a suggestion has been made to make way for floodwater to drain out by widening the nullahs and tributaries and developing drain lakes alongside the river banks. “There is no marking of flood lines. The markings should be done along the entire stretch,” said Gaikwad. The experts have suggested dam discharge management and adoption of farm practices to can help stop erosion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/experts-activists-suggest-measures-to-avoid-flooding/articleshow/77640582.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Vijayawada||New map of India shows Amaravati as AP’s capital||Amaravati: The Survey of India has confirmed that Amaravati has been incorporated in the India map as capital city of Andhra Pradesh. In a letter to Guntur MP Galla Jayadev, deputy director at the surveyor general of India office, Pradeep Singh, said it was published in the latest maps without any change. He said the MP had raised the issue in the zero hour in the Parliament during winter session of November, 2019. “In this regard, it is submitted that Amaravati has been incorporated as capital city of AP state in the latest political map of India (English edition 2019 and Hindi version 2020),” said Singh. He added that he has secured the permission of competent authority to issue the response to the MP. Amaravati has been recognised as the capital city after the TDP raised the issue in the Parliament. The surveyor general of India released the revised India map following the intervention of minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy after a controversy erupted over the release of the map without AP’s capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/new-map-of-india-shows-amaravati-as-aps-capital/articleshow/77643087.cms||Samdani MN
August 20, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: ‘Barda triple murder fallout of love affair’||RAJKOT: The Porbandar police on Wednesday claimed to have cracked the mysterious triple murder of woman forest guard, her husband and a casual labourer in Barda wildlife sanctuary and arrested her colleague who was already detained for questioning. Porbandar superintendent of police Ravi Saini told reporters that accused beat guard Lakhman Odedara plotted and executed all three murders over the extra-marital affair with the victim Hetal Solanki gone sour. He allegedly used gedia (a wooden weapon with sharp curved edge) to kill Hetal, her husband Kirti and labourer Naga Agaath one by one on August 15. Odedara, 32, and Hetal, had an affair for the last two years. However, after his wife Manju got to know about their relationship, there were frequent quarrels between them. “Around 20 days ago, Hetal had allegedly picked up a fight with Manju and even threatened her. Odedara was enraged and did not want his married life to be ruined, so he decided to eliminate Hetal,” said Saini. Odedara and Hetal were working together since 2017. Odedara, who has been working with the forest department since 2007, was in-charge of Godhana beat before Hetal took charge about a month-and-a-half ago. Deputy SP, Porbandar rural, Smit Gohil added, “During interrogation, Odedara confessed that he had planned to kill Hetal because she had threatened his wife. He gave false information about a liquor den to Agath who in turn encouraged Hetal to conduct a raid. Earlier, Odedara had told investigators that he had only accompanied them to show them the road to the den and returned. However, he had entered the forest area as per his plot. Police said when they reached the end of the road in the sanctuary area, Hetal stayed there while Agaath, Odedara and Kirti climbed up the hill. Agath went in one direction and Kirti and Odedara in another to find den. Seeing that Agath was at some distance, Odedara first killed Kirti by hitting him on his head from behind and thereafter killed Agath in the same way. When Hetal was trying to climb up the hill, he targeted her too. “There are no signs of struggle on the victims’ bodies and injury marks are also similar. This shows that the injuries were inflicted by the same person,” Saini said. Parents of the couple have, however, rejected the police claims of affair and alleged a botched up investigation. DNA test of foetusPolice are now planning to conduct DNA test of Hetal’s foetus to ascertain the paternity of the unborn. Hetal was seven months pregnant and her baby shower was planned in the next 10 days, according to her parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/barda-triple-murder-fallout-of-love-affair/articleshow/77640618.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Months after man ends life, mom dies in hospital; dad, bro kill self||MADURAI: Three months after a 20-year-old youth killed himself at a Covid care centre at Andipatti, his entire family is no more. His father, a small-time textile merchant, and 24-year-old brother hanged themselves early on Wednesday morning, just hours after his mother died in hospital. Neither of the sons was married. Tragedy struck on May 17 when Sasikumar hanged himself at the Covid care centre where he was sent for isolation on his return from Maharashtra, where he was employed. His mother, Ramalakshmi, 51, went into a decline after that, refusing to eat properly or take care of her health. Her condition deteriorated over the next couple of months. On Tuesday, she was admitted to a local hospital, where she died late in the night. Police said it appeared that the blow was too much for her husband, Manikandan, 55, a weaver-cum-cloth seller, and their elder son Vasanth, 24. Within hours, even before Ramalakshmi had been cremated, the two went to their store at Andipatti town and hanged themselves, police said. Their bodies were discovered by relatives who went looking for the father and son on Wednesday morning. Manikandan, who hails from T Subbulapuram village used to give textile orders to other weavers and sell the finished products through his small store at Andipatti. Vasanth had completed diploma in engineering and was employed in a Bengaluru-based company. Based on a complaint, a case was registered with the Andipatti police station. Deputy superintendent of police, Andipatti range, Seenivasan, said no suicide note was found. The father-son could have taken the extreme step due to the loss of two lives in the family. There was no financial burden on the family and they were doing decently well, he said. Though it is a clear case of suicide, they are awaiting post-mortem report to proceed further, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mths-after-man-ends-life-mom-dies-in-hospital-dad-bro-kill-self/articleshow/77643083.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Hubballi||Coracle tragedy: Bodies of two missing persons traced||Raichur: The bodies of two women, who were washed away after the coracle in which they were travelling capsized, were traced on Wednesday after relentless search operation for two days. The operation continued to recover two other missing persons. A coracle commuting from Makthal in Telangana to Kuruvakula island village in Raichur carrying 13 persons had capsized near Makthal due to gushing flood waters on Monday evening. Nine people were rescued and four went missing including three women and a 6-year-old girl. All hailed from Kuruvakula. The search operation commenced on Tuesday morning although NDRF team comprising 24 persons was sent by Raichur district on Monday night. The team was joined by Telangana fire and police department. Raichur deputy commissioner R Venkatesh Kumar said, “We have traced two bodies. The deceased are Sumalata Vishnu, 35, and Parvati Narasappa, 50. The bodies were found near a channel.” He added that as Jurala dam gates are open, the other two bodies may have vanished in flood waters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/coracle-tragedy-bodies-of-two-missing-persons-traced/articleshow/77640556.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 816 pourakarmikas had tested positive, high court told||BENGALURU: The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Wednesday informed the Karnataka high court that, so far, 816 pourakarmikas and workers engaged in clearing and treating solid waste management have tested positive for Covid-19. In a written submission, BBMP counsel V Sreenidhi revealed that as on August 14 (Friday), a total of 11,902 pourakarmikas, including supervisors, drivers and helpers and other staff involved in solid waste management and Covid management, were subjected to Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT). Of these, 3,872 were subjected to confirmatory RT-PCR tests and 816 tested positive. Of those who tested positive, 423 were hospitalised, 341 were sent to Covid Care Centres (CCC) and the remaining 52 workers who contracted the virus were put in home isolation, counsel told the court. After perusing the submission, a division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka directed the civic agency to specify whether necessary verification procedures were conducted regarding availability of separate rooms /washrooms etc in their respective houses in respect of the 52 pourakarmikas who were allowed to stay in home isolation. The bench also sought the civic body’s response on whether any pourakarmika, who tested negative in Rapid Antigen Test, but showed symptoms have been instructed to remain in quarantine at home.  During the hearing, some of the petitioners brought the shortage of oxygen cylinders, which forced a private hospital to shift patients to other hospitals, to the notice of the court. The bench directed the government to respond to this issue as well. The next hearing on the batch of PILs pertaining to Covid issues has now been fixed for August 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/816-pourakarmikas-had-tested-positive-high-court-told/articleshow/77641299.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Vadodara||Students too question MSU’s ‘success’ claim||Vadodara: The MS University on Wednesday countered the claims made by student outfits that the varsity had even failed in its second attempt of conducting online mock test. The university released the log of mock test held on August 13 and 14. But this also is being challenged by students. MSU had made a second attempt to organise online mock test for students of nine faculties/ colleges after its first attempt for students of all faculties turned into a fiasco earlier this month. Soon after conducting the test, phase-wise and in time-slots divided in two days, the university officials declared that it was a “success” and announced that it will organise online final examination from August 25. But student outfits staged protest at the university head office alleging that the claims made by the university were baseless as nearly half of the students were not able to appear in the test. To assert its stand, the university released the log of mock test on its website. The log contains the details of students, their PRN, name, the time when they logged in, the time of the last question they had appeared and the number of questions they had attempted. MSU’s officiating registrar K M Chudasama claimed that of the 2,576 students who were to appear, 2,097 had remained present. At Polytechnic College, of 521 students, 489 had appeared while at Faculty of Journalism and Communication (FJC), 80 students out of 82 had appeared. But students insisted that the log does not actually reflect how the mock test had failed. “Less than ten students of our faculty have been able to submit their answers successfully and that too after lot of technical glitches,” said Suresh Chaudhary, a student of FJC, who is shown as a student who attempted 30 questions. “First, the site had crashed. Later, students had to login multiple times. In many cases, the MCQs and answers were not getting displayed on the screen. Students could see only a radio button. Since, it was a mock test, many students clicked on the radio button even as they could neither read the questions nor the answers,” he said. Apart from August 13, FJC had made a second attempt to organise the mock test on August 14. “Even in the third attempt, less than a handful of students could login,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/students-too-question-msus-success-claim/articleshow/77640813.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Kolkata||Mashima malpoa khamu: Fans remember Bhanu@100||Kolkata: If Covid-19 had not upset their plans, family members of Bhanu Bandyopadhyay would have released a documentary on the actor on his birth centenary on August 26. The documentary titled ‘Range Rose Bhanu Bandyopadhyay’, which has generous footage from Dhaka where the actor had spent his childhood before migrating to Kolkata in 1941, will be released once the world heals from the pandemic. Another documentary by cine enthusiasts from Los Angeles is also on the cards. Though many regard him as a comedian, veterans, including ‘Sagina Mahato’ director Tapan Sinha and co-actor Dilip Kumar, have insisted he be referred to as an actor par excellence. Last November, the actor’s eldest son, Gautam Bandyopadhyay, and his daughter, Basabi Ghatak, travelled to Dhaka to work on their documentary. “We went to Baba’s St Gregory’s School in Dhaka where we were shown an old magazine which had an article written on my father. Bangladesh has great respect for my father and his comic skits are popular there,” Ghatak said. Bhanu Bandopadhyay with daughter Basabi and sons Gautam and PinakiDuring his childhood, Bandyopadhyay was deeply inspired by Dinesh Gupta of the Benoy-Badal-Dinesh trio. According to Ghatak, “Many have seen him riding pillion on Dinesh’s bicycle across Dhaka. I have even heard stories of how he would secretly dispatch books and even arms in his tiffin box. Had my father not been an actor, I think he would have been a revolutionary,” she said. The actor was a student of history, economics and physics at Dhaka University where he had scientist Satyendra Nath Bose as his professor. “My father was the only one who addressed him as Satyen-da. Others referred to him as ‘Sir’. However, Baba couldn’t complete his studies because an arrest warrant was issued against him in 1941 due to his involvement with the revolutionaries in the Anushilan Party. Baba escaped to Kolkata and my uncle got him a clerical job at the Iron & Steel Control Board,” Bandyopadhyay said. Equally interesting are the untold stories about the actor’s tryst with Bollywood where he did three Hindi films — ‘Bandish’ with Ashok Kumar and Meena Kumari, ‘Ek Gaon Ki Kahani’ with Talat Mehmood and Mala Sinha and ‘Sagina Mahato’ with Dilip Kumar and Saira Banu. “There was also an unfinished Hindi movie called ‘Chimney Ka Dhuan’. Some women on the sets of ‘Bandish’ would tease Baba for his Bengali-accented in Hindi. It was Meena Kumari who came to his rescue and insisted he be allowed to speak Hindi the way he did,” Bandyopadhyay said. Not too many know that during the making of ‘Bandish’, Guru Dutt had offered him ‘Pyasa’. “It required Baba to be in Mumbai for 14 days. But he didn’t want to stay away from his elderly parents for that long. Besides, he had some leave issues at his workplace too. His role in ‘Pyasa’ was truncated and was enacted by another Bengali actor. He had also refused Hrishikesh Mukherjee’s ‘Musafir’,” he added. On his centenary year, the family also wants to published some of the actor’s works. “Baba would write scratches for skits that he would later record. I have found some five such scratches that he never recorded. That apart, there are some autobiographical pieces too that were never published before. On his centenary year, we intend to publish all those works,” he added.  Incidentally, the documentary being made abroad has the actor’s Chicago-based son, Pinaki Bandopadhyay, as one of the creative consultants. This too will feature many unknown stories. “This documentary will cover his personal life, encounter and relation with famous and celebrated film and non-film personalities. A teaser of the docu featuring the likes of Lily Chakraborty, Aparna Sen, Prosenjit Chatterjee, Saswata Chatterjee, Subhasish Mukherjee, Kharaj Mukherjee, Shaheb Chatterjee and Saikat Mitra was released on August 26. The docu, which also has Krish Ghosh as a creative consultant, will be release in September. Editing is by Soumitra Khara. Not just his work in movies, theatre, jatra and standup comedy, it will also feature rare anecdotes, including how Mohammad Rafi had once cooked mutton for him,” said LA-based Babli Chakraborty, who along with Amit Chatterjee has given the concept for this docu.  Ghatak too remembers stories of that incident with Mohammad Rafi. “My father was very close to Sachin Dev Burman. One day, Baba had gone over to his house. Sachin Karta called up Mohammad Rafi and told him that he had a guest at home and asked him to cook. Mohammad Rafi had cooked mutton and brought it over,” she said.  Several other interesting stories, including how he had gone to Savitri Chatterjee’s house to seek permission so that she could do a play called “Notun Ihudi” and his unconditional love for co-actor Jahor Roy, do the rounds. On his centenary year, fans of the actor are now eagerly awaiting the release of the documentaries that will reveal the man behind the movies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mashima-malpoa-khamu-fans-remember-bhanu100/articleshow/77772261.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
August 20, 2020||Mangaluru||No plans to start seva at state temples soon, says muzrai dept commissioner||MANGALURU: Temples across Karnataka are unlikely to resume seva due to the spike in Covid-19 cases despite the rising demand from the devotees. In the interest of the safety of devotees, there is no plan to resume sevas in temples any time soon, said Rohini Sindhuri, commissioner, Hindu religious institutions and charitable endowment department. Muzrai minister Shrinivas Poojari had recently hinted about resuming sevas across temples in the state during a meeting held at Kukke Subrahmanya Temple. He had mentioned that the decision will be taken only after consultation with the health department and other officials. “The minister had consulted us about resuming services, but the department had said that it is not possible for the time being. There is a close physical contact when any seva is performed at a temple. Currently, the Covid-19 case-loads are increasing across the state and allowing sevas will further increase the risk,” she told TOI. Low footfall Ravindra MH, Kukke temple executive officer said the footfall at the temple hasn’t gone up since the temple was reopened. “Since the reopening the temple receives only 3,000 to 4,000 devotees every day as against 10,000 devotees earlier.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/no-plans-to-start-seva-at-state-temples-soon-says-muzrai-dept-commissioner/articleshow/77643201.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Demand for plasma therapy centre gets louder||MANGALURU/UDUPI: On a day Karnataka clocked record spurt of 8,642 new Covid-19 cases, the coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi made a 7% contribution of their own with a combined tally of 609 cases. While Udupi district recorded 375 new cases, Dakshina Kannada reported 234 cases on Wednesday taking the total positive cases in these districts to 9,041 and 9,535 respectively. Active cases in DK is now 2,303 and that in Udupi 2,831. With four more deaths — all due to co-morbidities — Dakshina Kannada’s tally of Covid-19 related fatalities rose to 290. Among the taluks Mangaluru recorded the highest number of 148 cases, followed by Bantwal that recorded 29 cases. Puttur and Sullia recorded 14 and 13 cases respectively. Out of the total number of cases reported, 105 including 67 males were symptomatic and 104 had an influenza-like illness (ILI) and cause of infection in 76 others is under investigation. With the number of cases on the rise, the clamour for setting up plasma therapy centres in Mangaluru is growing and several private hospitals are trying hard for permission. Currently, youth are travelling to Bengaluru for plasma therapy. At least 13 donors through NGOs Blood help Care Karnataka and Wellness Helpline travelled to Bengaluru to donate plasma in the last couple of weeks. The volunteers believe that many donors are willing to donate plasma. Nawaz Ullal, one such donor, told reporters that setting up such centres in the city will save the willing donors the hardship of making the arduous and back breaking journey to Bengaluru on the ragged Shirady Ghat. “The government on priority should consider setting up a plasma therapy centre here,” Nawaz said, adding that the NGOs are in touch with doctors in Bengaluru who are ready to arrange plasma for patients here for replacement from donors here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/demand-for-plasma-therapy-centre-gets-louder/articleshow/77642787.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
August 20, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC unhappy over report on ‘custody death’, seeks info on CCTV footage||MUMBAI: Bombay high court expressed its dissatisfaction over a report filed in March by the Mumbai Police and in an order on Monday said it expects the state "to file a "comprehensive report bringing out what further steps have been taken towards investigation of the alleged custodial death of the victim Vijay Singh''. The Wadala TT police picked him up last October over a skirmish that he and two others allegedly had with a couple who alleged that three men sexually harassed the woman. The HC directed the report to be filed in a sealed cover by September 7. Hriday Singh, a taxi driver and father of Vijay Singh had petitioned the HC seeking justice in custodial death case. He alleged that his son, 26, had died in "illegal custody of Wadala Truck terminal police on the night of October 27, 2019, as a result of a cruel assault and inhuman treatment by police official of this station.'' The HC bench of Justices Amjad Sayed and Abhay Ahuja also wants the state to inform whether two co-victims’ statements have been recorded. The duo, Ankit Mishra and Nirmal Singh, also co-petitioners in the matter, were also alleged eye-witnesses, their lawyer submitted. After hearing his lawyer Vinay Nair and public prosecutor Deepak Thakre the HC also called for information whether CCTV footage of that day from the police station is available. Advocate Nair had contended during the hearing via videoconferencing pointed to a judgment of the HC passed in August 2014 in a petition filed by Leonard Xavier Valdaris against the Wadala railway police where the state was directed to install and maintain CCTV with rotating cameras in every corridor, room and lock up of each Police Station, so that every part of the Police Station is covered 24 hours and the tapes of the CCTV to be preserved for a minimum period of one year. The bench directed the state to indicate in its report "whether recordings of such CCTV footage are available'' and adjourned the matter to September 7. The petition alleged that Vijay Singh was on his way to meet his fiance after a family pooja and while Mishra and Nirmal Singh had gone to fill fuel in their bike, at around 10.30 pm they heard shouts at a distance, and on coming closer thay allegedly found Vijay being beaten by the couple who alleged that he had intentionally flashed his bike headlight towards where they were sitting. The Wadala TT police was nearby and a police van passing by stopped on seeing the skirmish and picking Vijay took him to the police station, allegedly beating him all the way "mercilessly with their bare hands and sometimes with their lathi.'' Vijay complained of chest pain, said the Petition and asked for water which the police allegedly "pitilessly refused'' asking him to that the police. Even when his family came and pleaded with the police to let him go and later while Vijay writhed in pain clenching at his chest, requested that he be taken to a hospital urgently,the police allegedly refused and by the time the family managed to take him, it was too late. "The entire set of events took place inside Wadala TT police station between around 11 pm on the night of October 27 and 4 am next day,''said the petition adding "No CCTV camera s were installed inside the police station and the one at the entrance was conveniently not functional." Huge protests followed the next day demanding justice for Vijay Singh, the petition demanding that the an FIR be directed to be filed immediately against concerned police in the custodial death case, which amounts to murder and to produce Ankit Mishra before the court. It also sought orders for compensation of Rs 5 crore for Vijay Singh's family and Rs 1 crore each to Nirmal Singh and Ankit Mishra while holding state accountable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bombay-hc-unhappy-over-police-report-on-custody-death/articleshow/77643166.cms||Swati Deshpande
August 20, 2020||Chennai||Will slap Goondas Act, police warn repeat offenders||CHENNAI: The city police have summoned at least 32 chain/cellphone snatchers who struck repeatedly during the Covid-19 lockdown and have warned that the next time they commit a crime, they would be booked under the Goondas Act and all their existing bails would be cancelled. The prisoners were not lodged in prisons to avoid crowding in jails and prevent a Covid-19 outbreak in the facilities. The offenders were mostly either juveniles or youngsters studying in schools and colleges. They were let off after taking a written undertaking was taken from them. "We identified first-time offenders and booked them under Section 110 of CrPC of 1973, under which prisoners can be summoned in front of deputy commissioner of the respective jurisdiction. He has the power to get an undertaking from the accused that they will no commit a crime again. If the person breaks his/ her undertaking within a year, he/she can be jailed without trial," a police officer said. The top brass of the city police has sent directions to stations across to detain repeat offenders to curb the growing menace of chain snatching and robberies in the city. To avoid crowding in Puzhal, prison officials had restricted intake of prisoners from March 24 to May 9. While inmates with Covid-19 were housed in a quarantine block in Puzhal prison-I, some remand prisoners were housed in Puzhal prison-II while others were moved to sub-jails. Prisoners were not admitted directly to Puzhal but were taken into sub-jails and moved to Puzhal from there in batches, to keep spread of Covid-19 in check. At least 156 prisoners were shifted from the sub-jails in Ponneri, Tiruvallur, Chengalpet, Poonamallee, Saidapet and Madurantakam to Puzhal on May 13 while another 250 prisoners were brought to Puzhal prison last Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/will-slap-goondas-act-police-warn-repeat-offenders/articleshow/77643118.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Mortality rate drops during lockdown||COIMBATORE: Amid the concerns over the rise in Covid-19 deaths, the district can take some solace in the fact that overall mortality rate has dropped by nearly 13% during March-July this year, compared to the same period last year. As per the death registry data, during the period, when the lockdown was in force, the number of deaths has reduced by more than 1,700, compared to last year. Officials attributed this to the lesser road accidents, lesser crime and drop in deaths due to other infections. The district has recorded 13,082 deaths during the period, as against 14,816 in the comparable period last year. Except for March and June, the number of deaths that the district recorded in the remaining four months was lesser than that of last year. A doctor with the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital said, “We are seeing a dip in accident and trauma cases. Compared to the times before the lockdown, when we used to get at least eight to 10 trauma cases every night, nowadays we hardly see two to three cases. Sometimes, cases are nil.” Data available with the rural police show the number of suicides had dropped to 32 in April this year from 79 in the comparable period last year. Only two had died in fatal accidents in the month. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, says there is s marked drop in fever and seasonal flu cases, and other infections. “We are not seeing the usual H1N1 cases, dengue cases or flu cases that are common during monsoon, because people are mostly staying indoors and avoiding travel. So, even pneumonia cases due to H1N1 and season flu or dengue death are much lesser compared to last year. There is also a drop in other infections that could lead to deaths.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mortality-rate-drops-during-lockdown/articleshow/77643148.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Chandigarh||HC stays its order favouring realty firm for ‘hiding facts’||Chandigarh: Hearing a plea accusing realty firm, N K Sharma Enterprises Pvt Ltd, owned by Derabassi MLA N K Sharma, of obtaining an order from the Punjab and Haryana high court by “fraud and suppression of facts”, the HC has stayed its July 13 order passed in the realtor’s favour According to the applicant, Daljit Kaur of Zirakpur in Mohali district, the realty company had obtained the order by concealing the fact that a petition filed by her in February this year accusing the company of land grabbing is already pending before the HC. The dispute between the applicant, Daljit Kaur, and N K Sharma Enterprises pertains to the possession on part of her land to carve out a passage which the petitioner has never sold. “The counsel for applicant (Daljit Kaur) specifically submits that at the relevant time when CRM-M-18328-2020 [criminal main proceedings] was disposed of on July 13, another CRWP [criminal writ petition] No.1716 of 2020 moved by applicant-Daljit Kaur against M/s N K Sharma Enterprises Pvt. Ltd. and others was still pending for July 23. Meanwhile, an order dated July 13 passed by this court in CRM-M-18328-2020 be kept in abeyance,” observed the HC. The court has also issued notice to the N K Sharma Enterprises Pvt. Ltd and the Punjab government to submit their replies on the contentions raised by the applicant. The matter has been fixed for September 28 for further hearing. Justice Lalit Batra of the HC has passed these orders while hearing an application filed by Daljit Kaur, wherein she has sought directions to recall the order dated July 13 passed by the HC while disposing of a petition filed by N K Sharma Enterprises Ltd. In its petition, the company had sought directions to protect its life and liberty from the applicant Daljit Kaur for which the HC had asked the SSP Mohali to take appropriate decision on the representation submitted to the SSP on February 24, 2020, by the company. The counsel for the applicant, Sumeet Goel submitted that the order has been obtained by fraud, deception and suppression of facts and without hearing the applicant. According to the counsel, immediately after passing of the order dated July 13, Daljit had started receiving calls from the office of SP (investigation) Mohali to be present for investigation. The action of the police was very prompt like never before in any other case which created doubt in the mind of the applicant that she and her family were in trouble. The counsel pointed out that in Daljit’s earlier plea against the realtor, specific allegations have been made against the company and its directors for attempting to grab property of the applicant. “Thus it is apparent that the HC is already seized of the matter whereas N K Sharma Enterprises, instead of choosing to file an application in the said petition, has filed a new petition to fraudulently obtain a favourable order from this HC by concealing fact. A prayer has already been made by the applicant for protecting her life and liberty against the company. In that case, the HC has already issued notice to the SSP Mohali and also directed the SHO Zirakpur to appear in person before the HC,” the HC was informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-stays-its-order-favouring-realty-firm-for-hiding-facts/articleshow/77643098.cms||Ajay Sura
August 20, 2020||Chandigarh||1.4kg smack, 270kg ganja seized; 6 held in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana Police have recovered 1.4kg smack and 270kg ganja (cannabis) in Rohtak and Jind districts, respectively, and arrested six persons in connection with the two cases. A state police spokesperson on Wednesday said in the first incident, based on a tipoff, a police team set up a naka near Jail Chowk in Rohtak and nabbed four accused, including a woman, and recovered 1.4kg smack worth around Rs 1 crore and Rs 1 lakh in cash from their possession. The cops also impounded the two cars being used by them to smuggle the contraband. The arrested accused were identified as Kishan Gupta and Sanjiv Kumar, both natives of Pilibhit in Uttar Pradesh, and Nihal Kaur and Sanjay of Rohtak. In the other incident, the Jind police seized 270kg ganja being smuggled in a light commercial vehicle from Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh and arrested two persons in this connection. Based on a secret information about the narcotic substance being smuggled, the vehicle was intercepted near Kila Zafargarh and its search led to the seizure of 270kg ganja. The arrested accused were identified as Kamal and Ajay. Initial investigations revealed that the accused brought the contraband from Visakhapatnam for supply in Jind district. Cases under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act have been registered against the accused in both cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1-4kg-smack-270kg-ganja-seized-6-held-in-haryana/articleshow/77643128.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan BJP to raise displace Pak Hindu issues with Centre||JAIPUR: In the wake of the mysterious death of 11 persons from Pakistan in Jodhpur’s Lodhta village on August 9, the state BJP has decided to raise the issues coming in their way of acquiring Indian Citizenship with the central government. BJP state president Satish Poonia has already briefed party chief JP Nadda on these deaths and will also take up the issue with home minister Amit Shah after he recovers from post-Covid complications. He underlined the need of drawing an equivalence of Pakistan degrees with India for better rehabilitation of skilled migrants, training programmes to teach them to read any prevalent local language, treat them under the Hindu Marriage Act and a time-bound professional training or course to integrate them. “This incident is an eye-opener that how immigrants from Pakistan continue to live in extreme poverty and denied basic rights which every Indian is entitled. They migrate to India hoping better life and quality but face red tape and harassment in the hands of the administration before he gets a rightful place in society,” said Poonia, who paid a visit to the family. He said that the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) will give them respite from the misery. “But, still other issues to be dealt with including proper rehabilitation, the onus of which lies on the states,” said Poonia. BJP workers and people from different organisations congratulated Rajsamand MP Diya Kumari on being made the state general secretary in Jaipur on Wednesday. She met students of Jaitaran, Alwar, Dausa, rural Jaipur, Beawar, Sawai Madhopur, Kala Khera and Rajasthan University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-bjp-to-raise-displace-pak-hindu-issues-with-centre/articleshow/77643156.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Toddler falls into manhole, found dead||MUMBAI: An 18-month-old girl died after falling into an open manhole in Dhanivbaug, Nalasopara (E), on Wednesday. Sweety Pal was playing outside her house in the afternoon and her mother, who was in the kitchen, could not find her later. Residents suspected she fell into the manhole filled with rain water. She was found floating hours later. She was taken to hospital but declared dead before admission. She was the youngest of four siblings. Tuling police registered a case of accidental death. Residents said the manhole was without a lid for few months and her father Virendra said they had pointed it out to civic workers. Police said a civic contractor will be questioned. Officials said the lid could have been removed by residents to avert flooding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nalasopara-toddler-falls-into-manhole-dies/articleshow/77643160.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Nagpur||Covid surge must be curbed: Fadnavis||Yavatmal: After taking cognisance of a video posted on social media by a patient alleging poor facilities at the GMCH’s Covid Care Centre, leader of the opposition in the state legislature Devendra Fadnavis visited the hospital on Wednesday to take stock of the situation. The former chief minister was accompanied by BJP MLAs Madan Yerawar and Dr Ashok Uikey. After inspection, Fadnavis sounded satisfied with the availability of oxygen and adequate beds for patients. He urged the authorities to gear up to tackle the surge in the spread of Covid-19. “We must be prepared to prevent a sudden surge. It must be curbed. We must be alert for the next one month,” he said, adding that the current death rate is 2.5 per cent which must be 1. On the Shushant Singh Rajput case, Fadnavis said, “The case would now be investigated by the CBI. The Supreme Court has delivered a clear judgment. There’s a nationwide adverse opinion about the state government and the Mumbai police. The government must ‘self introspect’,” said Fadnavis. “As the Mumbai police is entirely professional, it’s difficult to point fingers. I worked with them for five years,” he added. When asked about Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut’s controversial statements in the Rajput case, Fadnavis said, “Raut speaks a lot. Why do you take him so seriously.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-surge-must-be-curbed-fadnavis/articleshow/77643154.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Chennai||Unlocked: Crime returns to Chennai after Covid norms eased||CHENNAI: This is a pre-Covid normalcy the city can do without. With Chennai shut during the Covid-19 outbreak, the crime chart had plummeted. Criminals chose to remain at home and killed time watching movies. But now, with the lockdown norms easing, they are on the prowl again. Last Saturday, a man was hacked to death after he alerted police about illicit sale of liquor in Tondiarpet. In Sholavaram, a 20-year-old ganja peddler was killed while on his way home from a funeral. The city was used to see more than 20 murders a month on an average before the Covid lockdown. The number had come down to six in June. But with curbs on movement easing, the crime graph is rising. In the first 18 days of August, the city has already seen 12 murders. Robberies, incidents of chain snatching and thefts have started to occur with pre-lockdown frequency this month after a lull in April and May. Retired police officer Aravindhan says some first-time offenders revealed that they had lost their jobs and took to chain snatching to meet their financial needs. And with and gold prices reigning high, it’s the easiest way to make a quick buck for desperate youngsters. When the lockdown was strictly enforced people stayed indoors, so chain-snatchers had fewer targets. Now, there are more people on the roads and so cases of gold chain and mobile phone snatching are rising once again. On Wednesday, two youths on a bike snatched a bag with Rs 1 lakh in it from a senior citizen at Virugambakkam, and two shops were burgled at Ambattur. In July, the Abhirampuram police arrested a three-member that was involved in 13 chain-snatching incidents. Aravindhan says one problem the police face is that to check the spread of Covid-19, magistrates had granted bail to make inmates of Puzhal jail, who were arrested for crimes that attracted punishment below seven years. “The magistrates were strictly following the Supreme Court guidelines and letting all those arrested under Section 379 of IPC and involved in thefts, robbery. Many criminals took advantage of it and are now indulging in crime,” he said. Police sources said that they faced a difficulty in putting criminals behind bars as they had to get them tested for Covid-19, but had no legal way of retaining custody of them while waiting for test results, which took time. A police officer with the commissionerate said that despite these constraints they have cracked most cases. “We have solved almost 92% crimes and murders reported during the lockdown with the help of traditional policing and CCTV camera footage,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/unlocked-crime-returns-to-city-after-covid-norms-eased/articleshow/77643151.cms||A Selvaraj
August 20, 2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Parth Pawar, who called for CBI probe, says ‘Satyamev Jayate’||MUMBAI: In a brief yet cryptic reaction to the Supreme Court order in the Sushant case, Parth Pawar, grand-nephew of NCP chief Sharad Pawar, tweeted “Satyamev Jayate (truth alone triumphs)”, raising speculation once again about his differences with the party leadership on the issue. A fortnight ago, Parth had personally called on home minister Anil Deshmukh to press his demand for a CBI probe into the Rajput case. He was subsequently pulled up by Sharad Pawar for deviating from the line taken by the leadership, which has consistently resisted “interference” from the Centre and CBI in the handling of the probe. Pawar publicly reprimanded Parth, describing him as “immature”. सत्यमेव जयते!— Parth Pawar (@parthajitpawar) 1597817339000Parth had submitted to the home minister that considering popular sentiment, especially of the youth, it would be better for the probe to be entrusted to CBI. Pawar, in a statement, came down heavily on Parth. He said Mumbai Police was a professional force and had the necessary competence to handle the probe. “I have seen the performance of the Mumbai police for more than five cases. If after completing the probe by the Mumbai police, if any one feels that the probe should be entrusted to the CBI, then I have no objection,’’ Pawar had observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/parth-who-called-for-cbi-probe-says-satyamev-jayate/articleshow/77643165.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
August 20, 2020||Jaipur||BJP summons four MLAs who left assembly in the middle||JAIPUR: The state BJP has summoned its four MLAs who caused embarrassment to the party for leaving the assembly in the middle of the session on August 14. They have to appear before state president Satish Poonia and leader of opposition Gulabchand Kataria at the party headquarters on Thursday. These four MLAs are from reserved seats from the tribal belt - Kailesh Chandra Meena (Garhi, Banswara), Harendra Ninama (Ghatol, Banswara), Gopichand Meena (Aspur, Dungarpur) and Gautam Lal Meena (Dhariawad, Pratapgarh) Interestingly, they were among the 19 MLAs who were sent to Gujarat by the party, though senior leaders gave a different reason for their temporary shift to Gujarat. Some said they were the weakest link being harassed by the state government and sent for a leisure trip to Gujarat. “The matter needs clarification from these MLAs. It is no doubt sheer negligence on their part. I will talk to them to evaluate the intent of the leaving the assembly session before any step in taken further,” said Poonia. The party seems to have taken a hard stand from Day-1. On August 14, Poonia released a video statement stating all the MLAs left the assembly out of confusion. Now they have hinted that if they found their move part of some conspiracy, a action will follow. “In the event of the floor test which was announced by the BJP, all MLAs are required to stand with the party. It is also big negligence on party leaders in-charge in the assembly who could not pre-empt their move,” said a party leader. TOI spoke to three MLAs who said “since there was no voting, they chose to leave the assembly.” BJP has 72 MLAs in the 200 seat assembly. Who said whatGopichand Meena, Aspur (Dungarpur) “Since there was no floor test on August 14 as told by Rathoreji (Rajendra Singh Rathore), I left the assembly for home at 1 pm to take rest as I was suffering from a stomach bug. At home, l fell asleep in my quarter and woke up only to attend the call of our party president.” Kailesh Chandra Meena, Garhi, Banswara “I had left the assembly at 11:30 am to pay the service charge of my car at a showroom in Jhotwara. My driver forgot to pay the sum and the car service company called me up to clear the amount. I didn’t know it will rain heavily and was stranded for hours in traffic.” Harendra Ninama, Ghatol, Banswara “I had to reach home (Banswara) and so I left from the assembly early. I have told the party about it and I will tell them again.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-summons-four-mlas-who-left-assembly-in-the-middle/articleshow/77643163.cms||Shoeb Khan
August 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro’s smart card to get auto top-up feature||NEW DELHI: When Delhi Metro services resume, commuters will not have to queue up to recharge their smart cards. They will be able to use a new type of smart card featuring an ‘auto top-up’ feature, which will get automatically recharged at Automatic Fare Collection (AFC) gates at metro stations. “This new smart card is available for customers through the mobile application, Autope, which has been specially developed for this purpose,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), Delhi Metro Rail Corporation. Whenever the value of the smart card goes below Rs 100, it will automatically recharge the card with Rs 200 at the AFC entry gate and the amount will be debited from the commuter’s linked card or bank account the next working day. Commuters will need to download Autope from Google Play Store or Apple store. They can also register at Autope’s mobile site autope.in and link their bank, credit card or UPI account to the card as a one-time exercise. A fee of up to 1%, however, will be charged as convenience fee from the customer for each transaction, Dayal said. Commuters who already have Delhi Metro smart cards can get the auto top-up feature enabled in their cards by registering through Autope application. They will then have to visit the customer care centre of any metro station (when services resume) after three days and get their cards activated as a one-time exercise. This feature will help commuters maintain social distancing and use contactless services. “Existing smart cards owned by the commuters will continue to remain valid in the same manner as they used to be so far,” Dayal said. “Apart from auto top-up facility, the benefits extended by Autope also include home delivery of new cards, besides their customisation facility and 5% additional discount on each top-up,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/metros-smart-card-to-get-auto-top-up-feature/articleshow/77643184.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Madurai||5,795 new Covid cases in Tamil Nadu, nearly 3 lakh cured||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 5,795 Covid-19 cases and 116 deaths on Wednesday, pushing the case tally beyond 3.5 lakh to 3,55,449 and the cumulative toll to 6,123. By the end of the day, 53,155 people were under treatment and the total number of people who had recovered inched closer to 3 lakh. Health minister C Vijayabaskar launched the post-Covid care centre at the Government Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. Here, doctors will screen, counsel and prescribe treatment to patients who have residual problems or post-Covid complication. “All patients who have recovered from the viral infection can come here for check-up,” he said. After basic blood tests and clinical examination, if a patient’s respiratory rate is more than 20 breaths per minute (normal being 12-14) they will be sent for chest x-ray and CT. “We have list of 15,000 patients discharged from our hospital. Our community medicine experts call 25 people who had severe illness every day for a screening,” said hospital dean Dr Theranirajan. On Wednesday, Chennai reported the maximum number of new cases and the district reported 16 deaths. In the west, Coimbatore had 16 casualties. Active cases were the highest in Chennai (12,256), followed by Tiruvallur (3,935) and Cuddalore (2,930). The recovery rates were also higher in these districts. At least 1.05 lakh people in Chennai, 18,850 in Chengalpet and 16,715 patients in Tiruvallur have been declared cured. The Chennai region reported 2,151 fresh cases, while the other northern districts together logged 832 cases. While, Chennai had 1,186 new cases, the neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur (393), Chengalpet (315) and Kancheepuram (257) reported 965 cases. Tiruvallur recorded nine deaths, while Chengalpet and Kancheepuram had four and three deaths. Number of cases in the south and west also went up. The eight districts in the south reported 1,233 cases, the western districts had 942 cases. In the west Coimbatore reported 394 cases. High incidence was reported in Salem (295), Erode (85), Dindigul (111), Kanyakumari (122), Madurai (109), Tuticorin (99), Tirunelveli (151) and Virudhunagar(184).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/5795-new-covid-cases-in-tamil-nadu-nearly-3l-cured/articleshow/77648879.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Chennai||5,795 new Covid cases in Tamil Nadu, nearly 3 lakh cured||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 5,795 Covid-19 cases and 116 deaths on Wednesday, pushing the case tally beyond 3.5 lakh to 3,55,449 and the cumulative toll to 6,123. By the end of the day, 53,155 people were under treatment and the total number of people who had recovered inched closer to 3 lakh. Health minister C Vijayabaskar launched the post-Covid care centre at the Government Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. Here, doctors will screen, counsel and prescribe treatment to patients who have residual problems or post-Covid complication. “All patients who have recovered from the viral infection can come here for check-up,” he said. After basic blood tests and clinical examination, if a patient’s respiratory rate is more than 20 breaths per minute (normal being 12-14) they will be sent for chest x-ray and CT. “We have list of 15,000 patients discharged from our hospital. Our community medicine experts call 25 people who had severe illness every day for a screening,” said hospital dean Dr Theranirajan. On Wednesday, Chennai reported the maximum number of new cases and the district reported 16 deaths. In the west, Coimbatore had 16 casualties. Active cases were the highest in Chennai (12,256), followed by Tiruvallur (3,935) and Cuddalore (2,930). The recovery rates were also higher in these districts. At least 1.05 lakh people in Chennai, 18,850 in Chengalpet and 16,715 patients in Tiruvallur have been declared cured. The Chennai region reported 2,151 fresh cases, while the other northern districts together logged 832 cases. While, Chennai had 1,186 new cases, the neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur (393), Chengalpet (315) and Kancheepuram (257) reported 965 cases. Tiruvallur recorded nine deaths, while Chengalpet and Kancheepuram had four and three deaths. Number of cases in the south and west also went up. The eight districts in the south reported 1,233 cases, the western districts had 942 cases. In the west Coimbatore reported 394 cases. High incidence was reported in Salem (295), Erode (85), Dindigul (111), Kanyakumari (122), Madurai (109), Tuticorin (99), Tirunelveli (151) and Virudhunagar(184).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/5795-new-covid-cases-in-tamil-nadu-nearly-3l-cured/articleshow/77643162.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Salem||5,795 new Covid cases in Tamil Nadu, nearly 3 lakh cured||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 5,795 Covid-19 cases and 116 deaths on Wednesday, pushing the case tally beyond 3.5 lakh to 3,55,449 and the cumulative toll to 6,123. By the end of the day, 53,155 people were under treatment and the total number of people who had recovered inched closer to 3 lakh. Health minister C Vijayabaskar launched the post-Covid care centre at the Government Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. Here, doctors will screen, counsel and prescribe treatment to patients who have residual problems or post-Covid complication. “All patients who have recovered from the viral infection can come here for check-up,” he said. After basic blood tests and clinical examination, if a patient’s respiratory rate is more than 20 breaths per minute (normal being 12-14) they will be sent for chest x-ray and CT. “We have list of 15,000 patients discharged from our hospital. Our community medicine experts call 25 people who had severe illness every day for a screening,” said hospital dean Dr Theranirajan. On Wednesday, Chennai reported the maximum number of new cases and the district reported 16 deaths. In the west, Coimbatore had 16 casualties. Active cases were the highest in Chennai (12,256), followed by Tiruvallur (3,935) and Cuddalore (2,930). The recovery rates were also higher in these districts. At least 1.05 lakh people in Chennai, 18,850 in Chengalpet and 16,715 patients in Tiruvallur have been declared cured. The Chennai region reported 2,151 fresh cases, while the other northern districts together logged 832 cases. While, Chennai had 1,186 new cases, the neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur (393), Chengalpet (315) and Kancheepuram (257) reported 965 cases. Tiruvallur recorded nine deaths, while Chengalpet and Kancheepuram had four and three deaths. Number of cases in the south and west also went up. The eight districts in the south reported 1,233 cases, the western districts had 942 cases. In the west Coimbatore reported 394 cases. High incidence was reported in Salem (295), Erode (85), Dindigul (111), Kanyakumari (122), Madurai (109), Tuticorin (99), Tirunelveli (151) and Virudhunagar(184).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/5795-new-covid-cases-in-tamil-nadu-nearly-3l-cured/articleshow/77648882.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Coimbatore||5,795 new Covid cases in Tamil Nadu, nearly 3 lakh cured||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 5,795 Covid-19 cases and 116 deaths on Wednesday, pushing the case tally beyond 3.5 lakh to 3,55,449 and the cumulative toll to 6,123. By the end of the day, 53,155 people were under treatment and the total number of people who had recovered inched closer to 3 lakh. Health minister C Vijayabaskar launched the post-Covid care centre at the Government Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. Here, doctors will screen, counsel and prescribe treatment to patients who have residual problems or post-Covid complication. “All patients who have recovered from the viral infection can come here for check-up,” he said. After basic blood tests and clinical examination, if a patient’s respiratory rate is more than 20 breaths per minute (normal being 12-14) they will be sent for chest x-ray and CT. “We have list of 15,000 patients discharged from our hospital. Our community medicine experts call 25 people who had severe illness every day for a screening,” said hospital dean Dr Theranirajan. On Wednesday, Chennai reported the maximum number of new cases and the district reported 16 deaths. In the west, Coimbatore had 16 casualties. Active cases were the highest in Chennai (12,256), followed by Tiruvallur (3,935) and Cuddalore (2,930). The recovery rates were also higher in these districts. At least 1.05 lakh people in Chennai, 18,850 in Chengalpet and 16,715 patients in Tiruvallur have been declared cured. The Chennai region reported 2,151 fresh cases, while the other northern districts together logged 832 cases. While, Chennai had 1,186 new cases, the neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur (393), Chengalpet (315) and Kancheepuram (257) reported 965 cases. Tiruvallur recorded nine deaths, while Chengalpet and Kancheepuram had four and three deaths. Number of cases in the south and west also went up. The eight districts in the south reported 1,233 cases, the western districts had 942 cases. In the west Coimbatore reported 394 cases. High incidence was reported in Salem (295), Erode (85), Dindigul (111), Kanyakumari (122), Madurai (109), Tuticorin (99), Tirunelveli (151) and Virudhunagar(184).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/5795-new-covid-cases-in-tamil-nadu-nearly-3l-cured/articleshow/77648876.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Erode||5,795 new Covid cases in Tamil Nadu, nearly 3 lakh cured||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 5,795 Covid-19 cases and 116 deaths on Wednesday, pushing the case tally beyond 3.5 lakh to 3,55,449 and the cumulative toll to 6,123. By the end of the day, 53,155 people were under treatment and the total number of people who had recovered inched closer to 3 lakh. Health minister C Vijayabaskar launched the post-Covid care centre at the Government Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. Here, doctors will screen, counsel and prescribe treatment to patients who have residual problems or post-Covid complication. “All patients who have recovered from the viral infection can come here for check-up,” he said. After basic blood tests and clinical examination, if a patient’s respiratory rate is more than 20 breaths per minute (normal being 12-14) they will be sent for chest x-ray and CT. “We have list of 15,000 patients discharged from our hospital. Our community medicine experts call 25 people who had severe illness every day for a screening,” said hospital dean Dr Theranirajan. On Wednesday, Chennai reported the maximum number of new cases and the district reported 16 deaths. In the west, Coimbatore had 16 casualties. Active cases were the highest in Chennai (12,256), followed by Tiruvallur (3,935) and Cuddalore (2,930). The recovery rates were also higher in these districts. At least 1.05 lakh people in Chennai, 18,850 in Chengalpet and 16,715 patients in Tiruvallur have been declared cured. The Chennai region reported 2,151 fresh cases, while the other northern districts together logged 832 cases. While, Chennai had 1,186 new cases, the neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur (393), Chengalpet (315) and Kancheepuram (257) reported 965 cases. Tiruvallur recorded nine deaths, while Chengalpet and Kancheepuram had four and three deaths. Number of cases in the south and west also went up. The eight districts in the south reported 1,233 cases, the western districts had 942 cases. In the west Coimbatore reported 394 cases. High incidence was reported in Salem (295), Erode (85), Dindigul (111), Kanyakumari (122), Madurai (109), Tuticorin (99), Tirunelveli (151) and Virudhunagar(184).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/5795-new-covid-cases-in-tamil-nadu-nearly-3l-cured/articleshow/77648878.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Trichy||5,795 new Covid cases in Tamil Nadu, nearly 3 lakh cured||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 5,795 Covid-19 cases and 116 deaths on Wednesday, pushing the case tally beyond 3.5 lakh to 3,55,449 and the cumulative toll to 6,123. By the end of the day, 53,155 people were under treatment and the total number of people who had recovered inched closer to 3 lakh. Health minister C Vijayabaskar launched the post-Covid care centre at the Government Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. Here, doctors will screen, counsel and prescribe treatment to patients who have residual problems or post-Covid complication. “All patients who have recovered from the viral infection can come here for check-up,” he said. After basic blood tests and clinical examination, if a patient’s respiratory rate is more than 20 breaths per minute (normal being 12-14) they will be sent for chest x-ray and CT. “We have list of 15,000 patients discharged from our hospital. Our community medicine experts call 25 people who had severe illness every day for a screening,” said hospital dean Dr Theranirajan. On Wednesday, Chennai reported the maximum number of new cases and the district reported 16 deaths. In the west, Coimbatore had 16 casualties. Active cases were the highest in Chennai (12,256), followed by Tiruvallur (3,935) and Cuddalore (2,930). The recovery rates were also higher in these districts. At least 1.05 lakh people in Chennai, 18,850 in Chengalpet and 16,715 patients in Tiruvallur have been declared cured. The Chennai region reported 2,151 fresh cases, while the other northern districts together logged 832 cases. While, Chennai had 1,186 new cases, the neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur (393), Chengalpet (315) and Kancheepuram (257) reported 965 cases. Tiruvallur recorded nine deaths, while Chengalpet and Kancheepuram had four and three deaths. Number of cases in the south and west also went up. The eight districts in the south reported 1,233 cases, the western districts had 942 cases. In the west Coimbatore reported 394 cases. High incidence was reported in Salem (295), Erode (85), Dindigul (111), Kanyakumari (122), Madurai (109), Tuticorin (99), Tirunelveli (151) and Virudhunagar(184).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/5795-new-covid-cases-in-tamil-nadu-nearly-3l-cured/articleshow/77648881.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Delhi||Heavy showers bring a sense of deja vu with Delhi brought to its knees yet again||NEW DELHI: Rain lashed the capital on Wednesday for some hours and brought it to its knees. The sustained spell of rain in the morning left the city waterlogged, causing much inconvenience to commuters and other road users. The Safdarjung weather station, the base for Delhi, recorded a moderate 32mm of rainfall with city regions abutting Gurgaon, such as Aya Nagar, receiving heavy precipitation of 66.1mm. The showers continued through the day, resulting in uprooted trees, roof collapses and unending traffic jams. The three municipal corporations logged 15 instances of building portions collapsing, while there were 16 complaints of trees falling in various parts of the city. The underpasses and spaces under flyovers have been persistent trouble spots, and Wednesday was no exception. Barring Minto Bridge, which perpetually drowned in showers of the sort that the day saw, there was waterlogging in locations like the underpasses at Pul Prahladpur, Mother Dairy in Patparganj, Zakhira, Mayur Vihar Phase II, Dilshad Garden, Kasturba Nagar and in the stretches under Badarpur flyover, Palam flyover and Sarita Vihar flyover. A Public Works Department official said that the low-lying areas are the most problematic ones for civic agencies, but such spots had now been identified and compared with what happened in the past few monsoons, the situation remained under control this season. However, the reality on the ground was slightly different. Water has started entering the ground floors of several buildings in such areas and travelling was a problem for commuters on the arterial roads. The PWD official said the agency was taking more steps and holding meetings with other civic bodies to quickly implement plans that could ensure waterlogging didn't bug the people as much as it does at the moment Another official claimed that the old underpasses did not have the provision of sump wells and redesigning these dated structures was not feasible. In such circumstances, the situation had to be managed with pumps. “In most of the locations, the accumulated water was removed within hours of the rain stopping,” official said. The monsoon reports from the three municipal corporations showed that complaints of waterlogging were received from 45 locations. These reports stated that parts of buildings were damaged in Nangloi in the Narela zone; Jahangirpuri in Civil Lines zone; Chameliyan Road and Club Road in City-SP zone, and Todapur and Moti Nagar in Karol Bagh. Other sites that reported portions of buildings collapsing included Wazirpur, Ashok Vihar and Sultanpuri under North Delhi Municipal Corporation. South Delhi had two such cases, one in Saket where a school wall fell and another in Chirag Dilli where a portion of a balcony crumbled. In east Delhi, the part of the TLM Community Hospital on Tathirpur Road opposite Rajiv Gandhi Hospital collapsed. The maximum number of tree falls was recorded in Keshavpuram, Karol Bagh and Rohini, with these places accounting for over 62% of the complaints related to fallen trees. In 2009, the then lieutenant-governor, Tejendra Khanna, had asked civic agencies and stakeholders to prepare a master plan for Delhi's watershed and drainage system. The city’s last Drainage Master Plan was drafted in 1976. Delhi has grown exponentially since, but the drainage system remains what it was 44 years ago. Delhi government accepted the new Delhi Drainage Masterplan report prepared by IIT Delhi last year, but not much has changed on ground. The plan recommends several long-terms steps, including removal of encroachments from storm-water drains, separation of sewage and storm-water drains, overhauling of the desilting process and rejuvenation of water bodies as retention and recharge basins. Jai Prakash, mayor of the north corporation, said on Wednesday that he had inspected the waterlogged sites, and blamed PWD and Delhi government’s irrigation and flood department for the inundation. “If clearing of bigger drains had been carried out, we wouldn’t have been in such a situation today,” the mayor alleged. “The smaller colony drains have their outfall in bigger drains managed by these agencies under Delhi government.” Delhiites posted pictures and videos of their flooded localities on social media, while many commuters complained of long snarls on the main stretches of the capital. Ï usually take an hour to reach Mayur Vihar from Dwarka, but today it took me more than two hours,” said Raj Verma, a regular commuter. “We had to find alternate routes because our daily ones were choked.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rains-and-ruins/articleshow/77643193.cms||Paras Singh
August 20, 2020||Nagpur||Owners hold protest workout for reopening of gyms in city, mayor joins||Nagpur: At least half a dozen people squatted and lunged with dumbbells on Wednesday at Samvidhan Square and outside every gym across the city during a workout protest intended to highlight the plight of gyms that have been closed for months under the state government’s coronavirus orders. “We are desperately in need of help. The state government allowed liquor vending, opening of malls, but doesn’t allow reopening of gyms. The government must give scientific reasons for not allowing the reopening of gyms,” was the general reaction of gym owners who protested in a unique way outside over 222 fitness centres across the city to draw the attention of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government to their plight. Mayor Sandip Joshi, too, joined the protesters at Samvidhan Square and ridiculed the state government for allowing liquor vending while disallowing functioning of gyms across the city. According to Joshi, even the World Health Organisation (WHO) had endorsed functioning of gyms during the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. “Physical workouts will help to develop the immune system,” said Joshi. The central government has already issued Unlock3.0 guidelines and allowed gyms and yoga institutes to reopen from August 5 subject to certain terms and conditions. However, the state government excluded gyms and other fitness centres from reopening in the next phase of Mission Begin Again. Joshi threatened of an agitation if the state government doesn’t permit reopening of gyms within seven days. “We will support the Nagpur District Health Club Association to intensify their stir,” said Joshi. Gym owner Avinash Waghule said it’s high time the government gave the nod for the reopening of gyms. “In Nagpur, there are around 250 gyms that provide employment to around 2,500 people, including health instructors. With gyms shut, they have been rendered jobless, said Waghule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/owners-hold-protest-workout-for-reopening-of-gyms-in-city-mayor-joins/articleshow/77643197.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 20, 2020||Chandigarh||8 security men of Haryana CM, CMO official infected||Chandigarh: A week ahead of commencing of the monsoon session, eight security personnel and a senior functionary in the chief minister office have tested positive for Covid-19. All those who have been tested positive were deployed at the residence of CM Manohar Lal Khattar in Chandigarh. Their samples were drawn on Monday. The result of CMO functionary came on Tuesday afternoon. The other eight are commandos who were supposed to join their duty of CM security from Wednesday. Those tested positive have been isolated at the civil hospital, Panchkula. Medical teams deployed at the CM’s residence have quarantined the entire batch of 45 security personnel. According to information, the deployment of commandos in CM security was belong done in rotation and the teams change after every fortnight. Those tested positive had arrived last week and were quarantined. “Since the outbreak of Covid-19 in state, this is a standard protocol of putting all those attached with CM duty to test before putting them on the job. Hence these personnel too were first quarantined and on Monday our teams had drawn samples from them. As they have tested positive, we have sent the entire batch of 45 personnel to a quarantine facility,” said a senior official attached with the CMO. The medical teams are now involved in contact tracing of these commandos as well as the CMO official, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/8-security-men-of-haryana-cm-cmo-official-infected/articleshow/77643170.cms||Manvir Saini
August 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: With Palike’s results inaccurate, people seeking second opinion||BENGALURU: The efficacy of Covid-19 tests conducted by BBMP during its sample-collection drives has come under a cloud. Complaints of inaccurate test results and arbitrary actions have raised doubts over how the state’s testing-tracing-tracking-treatment strategy is unravelling on the ground. On August 10, Anshu (name changed), a resident of Begur, got himself tested at a Covid-19 camp set up by the civic body at his apartment. Three days later, a Palike official informed Anshu that he was Covid positive. “I had been strictly following home quarantine and only stepped out to buy essentials. There was zero chance of me catching the virus,” said Anshu. In less than an hour an ambulance rushed to his apartment and BBMP officials began pressuring him to shift to a Covid Care Centre (CCC). Anshu refused to go, saying he was asymptomatic and wanted to be in home quarantine. “BBMP officials sealed the ninth floor of my apartment where I reside, leaving everyone in my neighbourhood worried,” he added. In all, nine flats were sealed. Officials from the apartment owners’ association fought with the BBMP and sought more time before shifting their resident to a CCC. Anshu, meanwhile, called another private Covid testing lab, which arranged for home collection of his and his family members’ swab samples. All of them tested negative. Anshu called the BBMP official and asked for a copy of the report, which is yet to reach him. “When I asked the officials why they fudged my test result, they told me that they were paid to do so,” he said, adding: “The trauma has been unimaginable. My family was worried and my neighbours panicked.” In a similar incident reported from Electronics City, all five members of a family were declared positive after they underwent Covid-19 tests at a BBMP camp. Kishan Sarkar, a resident of Electronics City, said he, his parents, wife, and son underwent Covid test as they were planning to travel. “We were all healthy and hadn’t stepped out. Our essentials too were door-delivered. But because we wanted to drop my parents at their home in Chitradurga, we decided to take the test on August 11,” said Sarkar. On August 13, Sarkar got a call informing him that his entire family was positive. “We immediately called our family doctor and on her suggestion got a private lab to collect our swab samples from home,” said Sarkar. The results showed all five were negative. “My parents are in their 70s and we were worried about them,” said Sarkar. Sarkar called the BBMP officials and asked them for the reports, but he still hasn’t got them. Meanwhile, the officials have stopped responding to his calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/civic-agencys-faulty-test-results-leave-residents-traumatised/articleshow/77641359.cms||Nithya Mandyam
August 20, 2020||Puducherry||5,795 new Covid cases in Tamil Nadu, nearly 3 lakh cured||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 5,795 Covid-19 cases and 116 deaths on Wednesday, pushing the case tally beyond 3.5 lakh to 3,55,449 and the cumulative toll to 6,123. By the end of the day, 53,155 people were under treatment and the total number of people who had recovered inched closer to 3 lakh. Health minister C Vijayabaskar launched the post-Covid care centre at the Government Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. Here, doctors will screen, counsel and prescribe treatment to patients who have residual problems or post-Covid complication. “All patients who have recovered from the viral infection can come here for check-up,” he said. After basic blood tests and clinical examination, if a patient’s respiratory rate is more than 20 breaths per minute (normal being 12-14) they will be sent for chest x-ray and CT. “We have list of 15,000 patients discharged from our hospital. Our community medicine experts call 25 people who had severe illness every day for a screening,” said hospital dean Dr Theranirajan. On Wednesday, Chennai reported the maximum number of new cases and the district reported 16 deaths. In the west, Coimbatore had 16 casualties. Active cases were the highest in Chennai (12,256), followed by Tiruvallur (3,935) and Cuddalore (2,930). The recovery rates were also higher in these districts. At least 1.05 lakh people in Chennai, 18,850 in Chengalpet and 16,715 patients in Tiruvallur have been declared cured. The Chennai region reported 2,151 fresh cases, while the other northern districts together logged 832 cases. While, Chennai had 1,186 new cases, the neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur (393), Chengalpet (315) and Kancheepuram (257) reported 965 cases. Tiruvallur recorded nine deaths, while Chengalpet and Kancheepuram had four and three deaths. Number of cases in the south and west also went up. The eight districts in the south reported 1,233 cases, the western districts had 942 cases. In the west Coimbatore reported 394 cases. High incidence was reported in Salem (295), Erode (85), Dindigul (111), Kanyakumari (122), Madurai (109), Tuticorin (99), Tirunelveli (151) and Virudhunagar(184).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/5795-new-covid-cases-in-tamil-nadu-nearly-3l-cured/articleshow/77648875.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Acquire 25 acres for airport expansion within a month: HC||COIMBATORE: The Madras high court has ordered district collector K Rajamani to complete acquisition of 25 acres of land that was earmarked for airport expansion project at Singanallur by paying 13 landowners the compensation of Rs 98 crore in a month. The landowners had leased the land to the airport during the World War II. They hadn’t received the lease amount for the past six years. The court has now ordered the collector to pay the compensation fixed for the land along with a 9% interest on the land cost from 2011. The land was earmarked for acquisition in April 2011. “While the project did not move forward since then, the airport authority stopped paying us lease for the land from 2013. The lease is 5% of the land cost as fixed by the revenue department,” said P R Jaganathan, the petitioner. In May 2018, the state government had fixed the land price at Rs 900 per sqft for agricultural land and Rs 1,500 per sqft for residential land. Almost 90% of the landowners agreed to the pricing and submitted all the required documents for the registration and compensation. However, except for the initial instalment of Rs75 crore to acquire one (block 7) of the 24 blocks, funds are yet to arrive for the remaining. The high court noted that the state government had on its orders deposited Rs 98 crore in January this year. “The amount deposited under the interim order of this court with the registrar general shall be released to the state government and collector shall utilize the said amount for dispensation of compensation,” the order read. While petitioners will not get the lease amount pending since 2013, they will get 9% interest on the land cost for seven years. The landowners, who were happy with the judgement, say their saga would end only after they receive the money. “The court has ordered the collector to give us compensation within a month. Since it has been going on for so many years, we will truly believe it’s over only after we receive the money,” Jagannathan said. Ramadurai Murugan, district revenue officer, said they were yet to receive a copy of the court order and the Rs 98 crore was yet to be sent to the collector’s bank account. “Once the collectorate receives the amount, we will contact the landowners and finish the transaction,” he said. Other landowners, who have been stuck in the conundrum for the past nine years, are hopeful that the state government would finish their transactions too at the earliest. The project entails acquisition of 627 acres land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/acquire-25-acres-for-airport-expansion-within-a-month-hc/articleshow/77643168.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Jaipur||Govts’ endeavour to provide all medical facilities in the state: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said the government dream is that no person from the state be forced to go out in search for treatment. He said during previous Congress government, free medicines scheme and free screening scheme was launched to strengthen the health infrastructure. The chief minister was speaking at the virtual inauguration of 29 buildings and foundation laying of 8 construction works worth Rs 300 crore. At the time of onset of corona outbreak, the region had zero testing facility. Today, the state has a capacity of more than 40,000 tests per day, which would be increased 50,000 shortly. He said it has been successful in treating 50 patients in the state with plasma therapy. Gehlot said that in the last one year, 15 districts have got new medical colleges, taking the total number of medical colleges 31 in the state sector. Our intention is to open medical colleges in all districts. The Chief Minister said that Rajasthan has moved ahead in the field of medical facilities. Corona management has been appreciated nationwide. The mortality rate from corona is under control and state outperformed other states on all parameters, he claimed. Medical and Health Minister Raghu Sharma said that facilities are being developed on a war footing in medical colleges to meet the challenge of corona. Plasma banks have been set up in Kota and Jaipur and people are being motivated to donate plasma. More than 750 mobile OPD vehicles are operated now. He said that 12,500 nursing workers and 765 doctors have been recruited during the tenure of one and a half years of the present government. Recruitment of 2000 doctors is in the final stage. The process of recruitment of 6,310 community health officers (CHOs) will also start soon. Redress complaints of power consumers Chief minister reviewing the power department asked the officials address the complaints from consumers regarding power bills expeditiously. He had also directed the department to take steps to relocate the power line passing near residential buildings and schools premises. The chief minister also stressed on bringing down the transmission and distribution losses by close monitoring in the three discoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govts-endeavour-to-provide-all-medical-facilities-in-the-state-cm/articleshow/77643180.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Chandigarh||2 casualties in HP, 176 test +ve||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported two Covid-19 deaths on Wednesday with a woman from Dalhousie succumbing to the virus in Dharamshala and a second patient dying in Chamba. With this, the state’s death toll rose to 19. Also, 176 new positive cases were reported and 69 patients, including power minister Sukh Ram Chaudhary, recovered from the virus. The state’s tally for the virus rose to 4,441 cases, of which 1,358 cases are active,2,992 patients have recovered, 19 patients have died and 40 have migrated out of the state. The 48-year-old woman from Dalhousie, Chamba, had developed respiratory problem after which she was referred from Chamba to Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College Tanda in Kangra on April 17. After she was tested positive for Covid-19, she was shifted to Covid care hospital in Dharamshala where she died. The second patient, aged 48, died in Chamba at 12.40am and tested positive after death. The deceased was diabetic and had several other complications. Among the new cases, 51 are from Solan, 28 from Bilaspur, 21 each from Mandi and Sirmaur districts, 16 from Kangra, 10 from Kinnaur, 12 from Chamba, five each from Kullu and Shimla, four from Hamirpur, and three from Una. Among those who recovered, 21 are from Mandi, 14 each from Una and Kangra, 13 from Shimla, three from Bilaspur, two from Hamirpur, and one each from Kullu and Solan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-casualties-in-hp-176-test-ve/articleshow/77643176.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Nashik||Nashik civic officials told to fill potholes within 8 days||Nashik: Mayor Satish Kulkarni has given an eight-day ultimatum to the civic body’s public works department (PWD) officials to fill the potholes on city roads. Several important roads across the city, including those in the two industrial estates that come within the jurisdiction of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), have become pothole-riddled, especially following incessant rainfall over the past 15 days. After complaints from citizens and corporators, the mayor visited various spots to review the condition of the roads. He then called a meeting of the PWD officials and directed them to fill the potholes within eight days. “The roads are in very bad shape after the showers. I have directed the officials to fill up the potholes immediately to avoid inconvenience to citizens,” said the Kulkarni.The officials said they were earlier unable to fix the potholes due to the rain, but the work would now be completed.The two industrial estates of the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) — Satpur and Ambad — are within the jurisdiction of the NMC.Varun Talwar, president of the Ambad Industries and Manufacturers’ Association, said: “The roads in some sections have deteriorated after the rain. We want the NMC to undertake the repair works immediately.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-civic-officials-told-to-fill-potholes-within-8-days/articleshow/77769638.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 20, 2020||Jaipur||Alert sounded in Alwar after 13 kids found suffering from diphtheria-like symptoms||ALWAR: Health authorities in Alwar are on their toes after 13 children were found suffering from diphtheria-like symptoms. Health department officials have collected their samples and sent those to PGI Chandigarh for confirmatory tests. The department has launched a door-to-door survey in 21 primary health centre areas of Kishangarh Bas, Ramgarh and Alwar areas. Out of the 13 children, the condition of five is critical and have been admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Hospital in Alwar and one has been shifted to Jaipur. Other children are undergoing treatment at their homes as their condition is stable. The children admitted to the hospital have been kept in isolation. The health department collected samples of six suspected diphtheria cases and sent those to PGI Chandigarh for confirmatory test of diphtheria. Health department officials said the suspected cases of diphtheria were found from Naharpur village, which falls in Mewat area. It is a village of 1,500 people. During survey of the houses, the health department found 444 children. The health department officials conducted screening of children and found that 142 children were partially vaccinated. Chief medical health officier OP Meena said diphtheria is 10 times more fatal that Covid. It is a preventable disease for which vaccine is available. “The mortality rate of diphtheria is 30%, which is a cause of concern. The children affected from diphtheria avoid taking food. The condition deteriorates and children die,” he said. Meena said there are myths associated with vaccination in the area. In such a situation, it is difficult to persuade them for getting their children vaccinated. On the directions of district collector Anandi, the health department launched a survey in other nearby villages in 21 different primary health centres from Wednesday. During the survey, the health department teams will conduct screening of children to rule out that other children of the areas are also suffering from the same symtpoms. Along with that, they are identifying children who are partially vaccinated or not vaccinated at all. Parents of the children complained that their children developed symptoms such as swelling in throat, fever and having difficulty in breathing. On July 31, a 12-year-old girl had died who had symptoms of diphtheria. Apart from her, one more child died recently having similar symptoms. However, parents of both the children did not take them to hospital for treatment. Since the children were not taken to hospital, the health department officials did not confirm that the two children had died of diphtheria. Know the diseaseDiphtheria is an infectious disease caused by bacterium Corynebacterium diphtheria It primarily infects the throat and upper airways and produces a toxin affecting other organs Its symptoms are sore throat, low fever and swollen glands in the neck In severe cases, it may cause myocarditis or peripheral neuropathy It makes breathing and swallowing difficult The disease is spread through direct physical contact or from breathing in the aerosolized secretions from coughs or sneezes of infected individuals Vaccination against diphtheria has reduced the mortality and morbidity of diphtheria dramatically||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/alert-sounded-in-alwar-after-13-kids-found-suffering-from-diphtheria-like-symptoms/articleshow/77643171.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Most Swiggy staff continue strike over revised wage policy||CHENNAI: Swiggy resumed services on a lean scale on Wednesday even as most of its delivery executives in Chennai continued protesting against the new wage policy. Around 5,000 Swiggy executives have been on protest since Friday, demanding a pay increase as promised during recruitment. The protesters claim the company cut their incentives by 50%-60% and rolled back 20 other weekly and monthly incentives last week.  “After waiting for almost 45 minutes at the restaurant and delivering food at a customer’s home, nearly 7km away, all I got paid was Rs 35. We used to get almost double until the new wage policy was implemented,” said an executive at the forefront of the protest. Given the rise in fuel cost and food rates (for personal consumption), an employee takes back just 50% of the daily earnings, or Rs 500 a day, he claimed, requesting anonymity as Swiggy had blocked IDs of workers who protested in the past. Others said incentives should be based on number of orders delivered instead of customer feedback as some tend to rate them poor for no fault of theirs. A Swiggy spokesperson denied reports that executives earned only Rs 15 per order and said most made over Rs 65 per order this week and some even Rs 100 per order. Service fee is based on, among others, distance travelled, waiting time, customer experience and incentives and the Rs 15 is only one of seven components of the payout. Naturally, zero active delivery partners earned just this, he added. Swiggy, which over the past couple of days met some employees to assuage concerns, claimed there was steady increase in number of employees doing deliveries in the last 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/most-swiggy-staff-continue-strike-over-revised-wage-policy/articleshow/77643178.cms||Ram Sundaram
August 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Hospitals worried as Ballari oxygen unit breaks down||BENGALURU: A breakdown at a liquid oxygen manufacturing unit in Ballari on August 8 has set alarm bells ringing at some Bengaluru hospitals. Air Water India, a leading player in this sector, has written to ESI Hospital, Rajajinagar and Jayanagar General Hospital about the disruption in the 1,800-tonne air separation unit and asked them to source medical oxygen from others. These hospitals have many Covid-19 patients. 10%-15% of active cases in state need oxygen supportRajajinagar ESI Hospital and Jayanagar General Hospital have many Covid-19 patients who require oxygen support for survival. They are now looking at alternative suppliers. At least 10%-15% of the 81,097 active cases in Karnataka and 33,280 in Bengaluru as on August 19 need high flow oxygen support. There are 704 patients in ICUs across the state, of which 329 are in Bengaluru. Alarmed by the alert, ESI Hospital, Rajajinagar has tapped backup sources and plans to ask its 39 empanelled hospitals to take its patients during an emergency. “In the worst-case scenario, we have to shift two patients each to our empanelled hospitals. I’ll write to all these hospitals to accommodate our patients if needed,” said Dr Imtihan Hussain, medical chief, ESI Hospital, Rajajinagar. The hospital has 120 Covid-19 beds and at least 60-70 patients need oxygen support. At Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, which gets liquid oxygen from Air Water India, measures have been taken to ensure uninterrupted supply with oxygen cylinders. The hospital has 28 beds fitted with ventilators. “We have a backup of over 70 oxygen cylinders and 9 kilolitres of liquid oxygen. The company has assured us uninterrupted supply,” said Dr C Nagaraj, director, Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases. Jayanagar General Hospital is preparing to build a 3KL tank on its premises in a tie-up with Air Water India. Dr Kiran Kumar, medical superintendent of the hospital, was unavailable for comment. The company has been supplying to many private hospitals in the city. Joseph Pasangha, COO, Narayana Health, said there are no issues with supply but it increased prices which is being discussed. Manipal Hospitals, Old Airport Road, said it has enough oxygen for at least10 days. “Our vendor is Air Water India Private Ltd. Manipal Hospitals is well prepared for exigency due to supply issues. If need be, we’ll go for alternatives,” Dr Manish Rai, hospital director, Manipal Hospitals, said. Air Water India senior sales manager and spokesperson Harish Prabhu said the company informed clients, especially government hospitals, to make back-up arrangements only as a precautionary measure. “We faced a pump failure at our Ballari unit. Our technical staff are working on it. It’s all set to restart, possibly before August 20. At Dobbspet, we have a storage vessel of 60 tonnes. Consumption of liquid medical oxygen has gone up in the Covid scenario and therefore we asked hospitals to keep back-up for a day or to engage with the other providers if there’s a shortage,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-hospitals-worried-as-ballari-oxygen-unit-breaks-down/articleshow/77645355.cms||Sunitha Rao R
August 20, 2020||Chandigarh||HC seeks details of panel members to check hospitals||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh high court has directed the state to furnish the particulars of members of the committee, so stated to be constituted by the state, in view of the orders passed by the apex court, for inspection, supervision and guidance of government hospital and other hospitals dedicated to Covid-19 in each state. A division bench comprising Chief Justice L Narayana Swamy and Justice Anoop Chitkara passed these orders on a petition filed by Nareshwar Singh Chandel who had alleged that though the state government is taking preventive measures to contain Covid-19, these are not sufficient considering the wildfire-like spread of the pandemic. He had suggested various measures to handle the situation. He had prayed to direct the respondents to implement the measures and submit a report to this effect to the court. He had also prayed for appointment of an expert body or committee of doctors and executives to monitor the rapidly evolving situation with regard to Covid-19 in the state. During the course of hearing, the counsel for the petitioner furnished the copy of June 19 order passed by the apex court in a suo motu writ petition regarding the proper treatment of Covid-19 patients and dignified handling of bodies in the hospitals and invited the attention of the court towards directions regarding constitution of expert committees for inspection, supervision and guidance of government hospital and other hospitals dedicated to Covid-19 in each state and issuance of direction by the Union of India to all the states/union territories with regard to prescribing reasonable rates of various Covid related facilities/tests. On this, it was stated on behalf of the state government that it has already constituted a committee. The court has posted the matter for further hearing on September 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-seeks-details-of-panel-members-to-check-hospitals/articleshow/77643203.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: RTOs restart helpdesks after 5 months to assist in online operations||NEW DELHI: After being closed for nearly five months, helpdesk counters at Regional Transport Offices (RTOs) have now reopened. The facility first restarted at the south zone RTO at Sarai Kale Khan on Monday and other RTOs have now followed suit. The transport department operates helpdesks at RTOs in partnership with Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System. For a fee of Rs 50, applicants who are not comfortable applying or paying fees online are helped by the helpdesk staff. The facility, which first started in 2017, caters to one lakh applicants across Delhi annually. RTOs in Delhi were closed in March following the Covid-19 outbreak and while these reopened in May, albeit catering to fewer applicants than earlier, the helpdesks didn’t reopen due to apprehensions of overcrowding at RTOs. However, this also led to private agents charging anything between Rs 200 and Rs 500 for helping people with online applications, sources said. This is what led to the reopening of helpdesks. “We restarted the helpdesks from Monday and while the number of these was four earlier, we have added one more now to ensure social distancing. This has been done with direction from the Commissioner and Special Commissioner, transport,” said Nand Gopal, motor licensing officer, Sarai Kale Khan RTO. “There were apprehensions due to Covid-19 and only those with appointments were allowed, but people were facing problems and that is why the helpdesks were reopened. There are many applicants who are not comfortable applying or making payments online,” he said. “The helpdesks are now catering to 80 to 100 applicants every day,” he said. Following Sarai Kale Khan, the transport department has restarted helpdesks in other RTOs as well and the number varies between two to three helpdesks. With four helpdesks, Dwarka RTO is having the second highest number of these counters after Sarai Kale Khan. Since their inception in 2017 to 2019-end, more than 2.5 lakh applicants were catered to at these helpdesks with the number of applicants at Dwarka, nearly 40,000, being the highest, followed by Sarai Kale Khan, Wazirpur, Rohini and Janakpuri RTOs, which saw 25,000 to 30,000 applicants during that period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rtos-restart-helpdesks-after-5-months-to-assist-in-online-ops/articleshow/77643209.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Temple to livestream puja for Ganesha Chathurthi||COIMBATORE: With big temples in the district still out of bounds to the public due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the Vinayagar Temple at Eachanari has decided to go digital this Ganesha Chathurthi on Saturday. The temple, one of the prominent temples in the district, would see a huge rush on the festival day. However, with the lockdown in place, the festivities and rituals will be streamed live on YouTube. A temple representative said this is the first time they have decided to stream the rituals. “Usually, around one lakh devotes would visit the temple on the Ganesha Chathurthi day between 5am and 10pm. This year, we will stream the morning rituals.” The temple administration, in a communication, said on Saturday from 5.30am to 6am the Ganapathi velvi ritual will be streamed at https://youtu.be/M_i9Kl1vWOk, followed by the abishekam rituals for the urchavar deity from 6.30am to 7am. Though the temple is closed for public, daily puja and rituals are being conducted without disruption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/temple-to-livestream-puja-for-ganesha-chathurthi/articleshow/77643204.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Elections to 129 local bodies postponed till October 20||JAIPUR: The state election commission on Wednesday postponed the elections to 129 urban local bodies in August to October 20 this year. But the commission said it will review the Covid situation from time-to-time and if the conditions were conducive for polls, then election to these urban local bodies could be preponed before October 20. Elections to urban local bodies in the state were scheduled for August along with some panchayati raj institutions. However, the urban areas scheduled for elections, especially Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, and Bhilwara, are the ones most affected by the coronavirus pandemic. About 4,450 wards of the state are supposed to go to polls in the 129 urban local bodies in 31 districts of the state. This has prompted the state election commission to write to the state government seeking a report from the government on the Covid situation. The state election commission (SEC) had written to the local self-government (LSG) department seeking to know the Covid status - up to July 31 - in the municipal bodies, where elections were scheduled to be held in August. Keeping in view the rising cases of Covid, the LSG department had sought postponement of elections. Earlier, the Rajasthan high court had extended the time for holding the elections to Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota municipal corporations till the end of October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/elections-to-129-local-bodies-postponed-till-oct-20/articleshow/77643198.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Chennai||Better results if depression, diabetes treated together: Study||CHENNAI: People with diabetes are more likely to experience depression and have poorer outcomes when depression occurs, but a study published in the Journal of the American Medical Association on Tuesday has found that ‘collaborative’ care – where both the physiological and mental implications of the disease are monitored -- improved both depression and diabetes outcomes. “On account of the pandemic, there is social isolation, which increases the risk of depression, thereby resulting in diabetes management going out of control,” says Dr Viswanathan Mohan, director of the Chennai-based Madras Diabetes Research Foundation in India, which was the coordinating centre for the ‘Integrating Depression and Diabetes Treatment’ study, funded by the National Institute of Mental Health. In the study, researchers from Emory University, University of Washington School of Medicine, AIIMS, Delhi, and MDRF compared a collaborative care model with routine treatment in 404 patients in India with diabetes and moderate-to-severe depressive symptoms. More than 70% in the group receiving the integrated approach showed improvements in diabetes and depression. “We need to stop fragmenting care for chronic physical and mental conditions that commonly co-occur, especially in these times where poor diabetes control appears to worsen Covid-19 outcomes,” says Dr Mohan. Diabetes and depression, he says, have a bi-directional relationship, if you can control one, you can regulate the other. “People with diabetes have twice the likelihood of having depressive symptoms, and depression leads to worse self-care and a higher risk of complications and mortality,” he says. At the diabetes clinics, ‘care coordinators’– in most cases nursing staff trained in mental health counseling – were asked to use a questionnaire to assess if a person with diabetes was also exhibiting symptoms of depression. “If so, they were counseled by the nurses, or in more severe cases, referred to psychiatrists.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/better-results-if-depression-diabetes-treated-together-study/articleshow/77643223.cms||Kamini Mathai
August 20, 2020||Coimbatore||As Covid casts a shadow, art provides light||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Covid-19 pandemic has put everyone’s life on hold and cast a shadow over our lives. But Iqbal Mohamed, renowned photographer and founder of Light and Life Academy (LLA) at Lovedale near Ooty gives this trying times a positive turn. “We cannot appreciate light without the shadows. But for the visually inclined, what a wonderful mind space it is to be in. Move into light and it feels awesome.” LLA could not afford to celebrate the world photography day on Wednesday owing to the pandemic but the presence of smartphones ensures that one can always capture moments. “The invention of the smartphone has radically changed the present and future of photography. With the exponential popularity of social media, the main form of communication has become photography. So even a pandemic does not stop that,” Iqbal said. However he believes that beyond everything, it is the sheer urge that leads to wanting to take better pictures, to understand photography better and to communicate the best way possible through a picture. This makes photography an art form. “The art is to create and interpret a moment, as we see it. And this is the space we strive to exist in”, he adds. While online education is now the buzz word, in the field of photography, the story is a little different. According to Iqbal, face to face interaction with faculty and fellow students, a live exchange of ideas and working together are needed to nurture a talent. “Online classes are going on at LLA. However, when the desire is to create a piece of art with every image, there is no option to learning on campus”, he emphasizes. “With a country as diverse as ours, the potential for photography is abounding. And this is exactly what we chose to celebrate, on World Photography Day. Our students, from all corners of India, were split into virtual pairs and tasked with creating a diptych, where each half represented a photograph of an element unique to their own culture. And the results were fascinating”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/as-covid-casts-a-shadow-art-provides-light/articleshow/77643233.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Meerut||Man gets challan of his stolen bike, leads cops to lifters’ gang, 3 nabbed||BIJNOR: It has been months since Rajesh lost his beloved motorcycle. The feeling of loss was yet to sink in, but he was trying hard to move on. He didn’t have to. Last week, he jumped on his seat with his eyes sparkling. He had just read a text message. It was from the traffic police department alerting him about a challan issued to his stolen bike. It also had the location – Amroha. Rajesh immediately rushed to the police with the message. And, during the course of a probe, police not only found Rajesh’s stolen motorcycle but also that of 11 other people. A big racket of vehicle lifters was busted in Amroha with the arrest of three persons on Wednesday. According to Amroha’s additional superintendent of police Ajay Pratap Singh, “Rajabpur police was checking vehicles on Amroha road when they stopped a man riding a motorcycle and asked for documents of the two-wheeler. When he failed to show the papers, police issued an online challan. The real owner of the motorcycle got a SMS of the challan on his mobile phone which shocked him. He alerted police and the probe was launched.” The three arrested accused were Shanul, Naem and Intakhab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-gets-challan-of-his-stolen-bike-leads-cops-to-lifters-gang-3-nabbed/articleshow/77640664.cms||Harveer Dabas
August 20, 2020||Dehradun||Your work is like ‘tapasya’: CM Trivendra Singh Rawat to docs treating Covid-19 cases||DEHRADUN: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday interacted with doctors and staff members of hospitals across the state dedicated for Covid-19 treatment through video-conferencing. He termed their work as “tapasya” (penance) and assured them that there will be no shortage of funds in the war against Covid-19. The CM also interacted with two patients — Baljit Singh and Mahavir Kandari —at Doon Hospital. Meanwhile, patients at Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) will soon be able to get ultrasound tests done through Colour Doppler machine that helps doctors get a comprehensive idea of the state of organs in a patient’s body. Patients who otherwise pay Rs 5,000 for this test at private facilities will be able to get it done for Rs 450 in the hospital. Talking to TOI, Dr Ashutosh Sayana, principal of GDMC, said the Colour Doppler machine will make it easier to diagnose many diseases, including cancer. “This will also help in checking blood flow to the foetus to determine the health of the baby during pregnancy,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/your-work-is-like-tapasya-cm-rawat-to-docs-treating-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77640676.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 20, 2020||Kolkata||RVNL begins underground utility mapping for Joka Metro||KOLKATA: Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd (RVNL) has started the work of mapping underground utilities for the 5.5km underground section of the Joka-Esplanade Metro corridor. RVNL will execute the process with the help of ground-penetrating radar over the next fortnight and prepare a report. Underground utility mapping or identifying the position and labelling public utility mains is crucial for building the 5.5km underground Mominpore-Esplanade stretch of the 14.35km metro link. After studying the underground utility status report, the British-era brick sewer at Mominpore, CESC cables and other lines for telecommunication, water mains, and waste-water pipes will be shifted accordingly and the coast freed for the tunnel boring machines (TBMs) to burrow and build twin tunnels through the alignment. “The GPR method uses radar pulses to detect the utilities. The process started yesterday and will carry on for the next 10 days from Mominpore to Esplanade,” an RVNL official said. “Utility mapping reveals what lies beneath the metro construction route. Information about the electric cables, telecom cables and sewers available with the KMC are incomplete, scattered or missing. Utility mapping involves reviewing existing records identifying the type and location of the underground infrastructure. Stumbling unexpectedly over an underground feature during construction can have serious consequences for the project,” the RVNL official said. The Joka-Esplanade link got a major boost last year when the railway ministry approved additional funds for building the underground tracks. With the revised Rs 2,685 crore allocated for the underground section, RVNL also started the process of land acquisition for the underground section. The Metro project was stalled since 2011 because of a stand-off between the railways and defence ministry and construction could happen only between Joka and Majerhat. RVNL has, therefore, split the project into two phases. The first phase is elevated -- from Joka till Majerhat. The second phase is from Majerhat till Esplanade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rvnl-begins-underground-utility-mapping-for-joka-metro/articleshow/77644276.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
August 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: North corporation withdraws 4 tax proposals, AAP claims credit||NEW DELHI: North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s standing committee on Wednesday postponed introduction of the four taxes that had been proposed earlier, including a new professional fee. Meanwhile, AAP claimed that its protest led by party functionary Durgesh Pathak at Civic Centre, the headquarters of north and south corporations, forced the BJP-led civic body to withdraw the taxes. The proposals, which were aimed at improving the financial health of the civic agency, included professional tax of different slabs, 1% hike in transfer duty of immovable properties and electricity tax and increase in property tax. The taxes were proposed on the lines of South Delhi Municipal Corporation introducing professional fee and increasing duty on transfer of property. Mayor Jai Prakash said, “We don’t want to put any additional burden on residents. The tax hike proposals were postponed as we cannot approve them without proper discussion.” With an eye on the 2022 municipal polls, AAP is aggressively working on civic issues in the capital. It has also been trying to corner BJP on corruption, the core political issue in the corporations. Currently, all three municipalities are led by BJP with AAP being the primary opposition party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/n-corpn-withdraws-4-tax-proposals-aap-claims-credit/articleshow/77643253.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Covid cases on the rise in Barmer, Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: Covid-19 cases are on the rise in Barmer district and the number has reached 2,066, while lockdown has been imposed twice in the district. The seven-day lockdown ended on August 13 and even after that, fresh cases are surfacing. There are 50 containment zones at present in Barmer. In Barmer district, till 7pm on Wednesday, 39 more cases were reported, including 15 were from Barmer and 14 from Balotara city. There is also an increase in the incidents of jawans deployed in many battalions of BSF getting infected in Rajasthan. Total nine cases were reported on Wednesday, of which five were BSF jawans. Some of the jawans have returned from their training course, while few have returned from holiday. Similarly, in Ganganagar and Bikaner sectors, the number of infected jawans is increasing. In the last three days, around 12 jawans in Ganganagar were found infected. In Bikaner too, a few jawans tested positive. Looking at this, a Covid centre has been set up at Bikaner sector headquarters for BSF jawans. This centre was inaugurated by BSF Bikaner Sector DIG Pushpendra Singh Rathore. He said that the pandemic has come as a big crisis and the BSF jawans are strongly facing this crisis and discharging their duties. The government hospital in Barmer has been made into a 500-bed facility to fight Covid. Hospital PMO Dr BA Mansuria confirmed this and said that a total 158 posts have been created, of which there are 36 new posts for doctors and now, the total doctors in the hospital are 92. Earlier there were 300 beds in the hospital, which have now been increased to 500. The first case in Barmer was reported on April 8 and in the first 100 days, 1,000 cases were reported while another 1,000 cases came up in just 28 days. In Jaisalmer too, cases are on the rise and have crossed the mark of 300. Looking at this, a four-day district level orientation workshop has been started, in which district collector Ashish Modi gave detailed information on prevention from corona to villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-cases-on-the-rise-in-barmer-jaisalmer/articleshow/77643214.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Nagpur||All lakes to be sealed, immerse Ganesh idols at home this year||Nagpur: For the first time in the city’s history, all the lakes will be cordoned off during immersions of Ganesh idols. To ensure safety of all amid increasing corona cases, mayor Sandip Joshi has urged all citizens to carry out immersions at home.On Wednesday, Joshi chaired a meeting with officials of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and local NGOs to discuss the preparations for Ganesh idol immersion days. Following the meeting, Joshi had a discussion with municipal commissioner Tukaram Munde, after which it was decided to cordon off all lakes this time.Last year, all the lakes were closed for immersions except for Futala. “The water quality of Futala lake is deteriorating and it is high time that we protect it. Keeping this in mind, we took a decision to cordon off the lake. Along with it, Gandhisagar, Sakkardara and Sonegaon lakes will also be completely barricaded,” said Joshi.Every year, all the big idols from different Ganesh mandals across the city were mostly immersed at Futala. As part of Covid-19 restrictions, NMC has restricted the height of idols to four feet this year. However, mandals will not be permitted to immerse any idols in the lake. “We appeal to all the mandals to prepare in advance. Buying a five-to-six feet drum for immersing their idols is a good option. To ensure social distancing, we want to avoid gathering of crowds at lakes,” said Joshi.He added that the number of artificial tanks will also be less this year. “We will be placing tanks across the ten zones. However, the best thing to do right now is to do immersions at home,” the mayor added.Highlighting that Plaster of Paris (PoP) idols can’t be easily immersed at home, members of NGO Green Vigil at the meeting said citizens should know what type of idol they are buying. “In most local markets, PoP idols do not have the mandatory red mark. Sellers are fooling people by selling PoP idols in the name of clay ones. Concept of visarjan at home will fail if PoP idols are not segregated,” said founder of the NGO Kaustav Chatterjee.According to NMC officials, action against idol sellers has been initiated. “We are inspecting local markets and directing sellers to put the red mark and segregate PoP idols. In the next few days, our teams will be on ground zero to ensure that no rules are violated,” said Virsen Tambe, commandant of NMC’s nuisance detection squad.A day earlier, TOI had reported that most sellers in local markets at Chitar Oli and Khamla were not following the directives related to sale of PoP idols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/all-lakes-to-be-sealed-immerse-ganesh-idols-at-home-this-year/articleshow/77643225.cms||Manka Behl
August 20, 2020||Nagpur||NMC’s testing centres rise to 34, new helpline no. to start today||Nagpur: The number of testing centres in city went up by 12, to 34, from Wednesday. Also, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation will launch on Thursday a helpline number (0712 2567021) to guide positive patients get admission to Covid care centres (CCCs), dedicated Covid health centres (DCHCs), government and private-run dedicated Covid hospitals (DCHs). In coming days, the testing centres will go up to 45. Testing will be free of cost at all centres. Currently, rapid antigen test is being done at 15 UPHCs and Real Time PCR at 6 centres. The additional 12 too will conduct antigen tests to start with. Testing at UPHCs started on July 24 and at the others on August 3. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI that high-risk patients, persons with comorbidities, contact persons of positive patients, symptomatic and senior citizens will be tested on priority at the centres. “Those who can afford should go to private labs,” he said. Private labs were testing around 2000 samples before started the 21 centres. “Now, its down to less than 1,000. The main motive behind launching testing centres is to detect the cases early and give treatment in time and prevent deaths,” said Mundhe. NMC decided to start a helpline number following TOI reports that symptomatic patients were finding it difficult to get admission in hospitals. “NMC’s zone offices and control rooms are already guiding asymptomatic people to remain in home isolation and taking update of their health. Symptomatic and critical patients can call the helpline number to find vacant beds. We will also call the centre selected by the patient,” said Mundhe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmcs-testing-centres-rise-to-34-new-helpline-no-to-start-today/articleshow/77643232.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 20, 2020||Meerut||Meerut lad Saurabh Chaudhary’s name sent for Arjuna award, shooter & kin ecstatic||Meerut: The family of Asian Games gold medalist shooter Saurabh Chaudhary, 18, was ecstatic after his name was recommended for the prestigious Arjuna Award. Saurabh has also won ISSF World Championship.He became the fifth Indian shooter to claim a gold medal in the Asian Games. Since the lockdown, he has been rehearsing shooting at his home in Meerut.Instituted in 1961, the award is given to recognize outstanding achievement in national sports.Saurabh said, “It is a proud moment for me and my entire family. The hard work that I have put in until now has paid off well.”The Meerut lad has also won a bronze in the junior 10m air pistol mixed team along with Abhidnya Patil to tally 407.3 points in the final in the world championship in South Korea. Breaking his own junior world record of 243.7, Saurabh clinched gold in junior men’s 10m air pistol by scoring 245.5-- which is 2.4 points above the senior record of 243.6 points.Saurabh, the youngest Asian Games individual gold medalist, started learning shooting at Veer Shahmal Rifle Club in Baghpat’s Binoli village in April 2015. Just 13 then, he used to practice for long spells, sometimes even 10 hours a day. “Currently, I am practicing at home and the shooting range at my home is of great help as I am avoiding going outside due to the Covid-19 restrictions,” said Saurabh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-lad-saurabh-chaudharys-name-sent-for-arjuna-award-shooter-kin-ecstatic/articleshow/77640680.cms||Ishita Bhatia
August 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka government wary of using CDR model||BENGALURU: Officials managing the pandemic will continue using geographic information system (GIS) to trace contacts of Covid-19 patients even while the state takes a call on using call data records (CDR) of patients for the purpose. CDR were used in Kerala and Uttar Pradesh, but ran into controversy after concerns were raised over privacy. Officials say a proposal has been sent to the government seeking approval to use CDR. "The model is simple," an official said. "CDR of a patient is used to find out who s/he interacted with over the previous 14 days. The government then reaches out to these 'contacts' and tracks their symptoms." Sources say officials are keen on using CDRs since many patients are refusing to reveal their contacts. However, the government has been sitting on the proposal for some time now, fearful of blowback. But one official defended the model saying, "The issue of privacy does not hold merit as the poor would not be bothered if their call records are used. "It is only intellectuals or those who can voice their opinion, who are raising concerns." Senior cabinet ministers say the proposal was shot down previously since there was no precedence on CDR use in the fight against the pandemic. "As technology goes, GPS and GIS is more than enough to track contacts. Using CDR will be a strict no at this point due to potential blowback," said a minister. Neither chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar nor Covid-19 affairs minister K Sudhakar responded to queries on whether a decision has been taken to utilise CDR, but law minister JC Madhuswamy said: "At present we have no proposal to use CDR for contact tracing."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-government-wary-of-using-cdr-model/articleshow/77645366.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
August 20, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Now, get affordable hilsa at government outlets||KOLKATA: To make hilsa affordable to middle class, the state agricultural marketing department is reviving its plan to sell them from Sufal Bangla outlets across the state. Sufal Bangla had started selling hilsa in July. But supply constraints left most of the outlets dry. However, successive good catches of the fish in coastal Bengal has once more revived the possibility of having affordable hilsa at these government stores. Hilsas weighing more than 1kg were sold around Rs 1,900 to Rs 2,000 a kg across the city markets. The department had signed an agreement with Farmers Producers Organizations (FPOs) in East Midnapore, East Burdwan and South 24 Parganas for a steady supply of hilsa. But till the middle of August, hilsa managed to elude the fisherman’s net. “From August 15 onwards, catch increased steadily and the supply to city markets also went up,” said Satinath Patra, secretary, Fishermen’s Association. State agricultural marketing minister Tapan Dasgupta said: “We are trying our best to bridge the demand-supply gap. Before the lockdown, there were 130 Sufal Bangla outlets in the state. Now, it has gone up to around 300. The total number of movable outlets selling Sufal Bangla products have also grown to169.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/now-get-affordable-hilsa-at-govt-outlets/articleshow/77644282.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
August 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Lukewarm response to cold storage facilities||COIMBATORE: Agriculture marketing department officials exhorted farmers and traders to make use of the seven cold storage facilities at Sikkathasampalayam, Karamadai, Thondamuthur, Sencheri, Anaimalai, Annur, and Kinathukkadavu. The facilities, of 25 tonnes to 500 tonnes, are available for 11-month lease. “Farmers and traders are welcome to use them. They have to pay a monthly rent and a nominal holding charge depending on the produce. Produce such as potato, chillies, tamarind, banana and fruits can be stored. By storing millets and grain in cold storage, insect infestation can be prevented. Tamarind retains colour when stored in the facilities,” an official said. The 25-tonne facilities at Vadakkipalayam and Pollachi are used for storing gourds and dates respectively. The rest are used for storing banana, potato, curry leaves and vegetables. At the 500-tonne facility at Kinathukadavu, 125-tonne has been leased out for storing papain, a papaya extract. Farmers want the department to inform which produce can be stored and for how long, said R Periasamy, district vice-president of farmers association. “We need to know which produce can be stocked and which would fetch good price later. Without that information, farmers would be keen only on selling their produce immediately for profit,” he said. “There have been instances when we were told the facilities were under repair. The department should maintain the facilities well and ensure they are available at all times.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lukewarm-response-to-cold-storage-facilities/articleshow/77643254.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot gets a rousing welcome in Tonk||JAIPUR: Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot got a rousing reception on his first visit to his assembly constituency Tonk on Wednesday after he raised a banner of revolt against chief minister Ashok Gehlot. Enthusiastic party workers garlanded and jostled to meet the young leader at various places like Shivdaspura, Chaksu, and Niwai on his way to Tonk, many a time without following social distancing norm due to Covid. Pilot, while speaking to media in Tonk, said the issues raised by him now is being seized by the high command and the party leadership constituted a three-member committee promptly as promised shows its seriousness and all issues would now take care of by the party. He stressed the need for coordination between the party organization and the government. “The workers should feel that it is their government and to ensure their participation in government is of utmost importance,” said Pilot. “I always feel very happy to be in the midst of public . The public gave a lot of support in every situation, so I want to share their grief and happiness. Since there is a Congress government in the state, we will ensure maximum work and participation of people. we are working in this direction.” he said. He said the purpose of his visit to Tonk was to meet the grassroots representatives and give a push to the pending development works. “I have met with sarpanch, parshads, leaders and workers and all pending issues of development would be speeded up. He also held meeting with the district officials at Circuit House. In the meeting, all the officers, including Tonk municipal council chairman Ali Ahmed, district collector, superintendent of police and CMHO, were present. Pilot emphasized the need for strengthening health infrastructure as he said the state should be prepared for any eventuality in future like the Covid-19 pandemic now. ‘Probe charges against Facebook’ On the latest controversy over social media being partial to the ruling dispensation at the Centre and not acting against trolls, Pilot said it is a matter of serious concern. “AICC general secretary K C Venugopal has written to the social media giant Facebook to constitute a team and investigate the charges. The highest number of Facebook users is in India and if there is no transparency in its functioning, it is a matter of grave concern.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pilot-gets-a-rousing-welcome-in-tonk/articleshow/77643255.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Delhi||Wet and watch: Clogged streets put residents under house arrest in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Colony roads and service lanes in Delhi were submerged after drains and sewer lines flooded during Wednesday's downpour. In east Delhi, in some areas of Vinod Nagar East and West, people were restricted to their homes and couldn't get out till evening. Things were equally bad in Mayur Vihar III and Krishna Nagar and in south Delhi’s Malviya Nagar. Dharmendra Chahal, RWA president of Vinod Nagar West E Block, said that it took 4-5 hours for the situation to return to normal. “Besides the knee-deep water on the roads, rainwater entered the ground floors, basements and residences in low-lying areas,” he said, explaining that Vinod Nagar East and West are divided by the Delhi Meerut expressway and both are low lying neighbourhoods. “Due to the non-functional drain, water accumulates on Shanti Marg and then enters the inner lanes and remains accumulated for hours,” said Chahal. The harassed residents of Mayur Vihar claimed to have written to the civic authorities six months ago to prevent a situation like they faced on Wednesday. “The main road connecting Red Fox Hotel and other societies is badly damaged. The road is sloped and rainwater flows into our society. The drain too is sloped and impedes the outflow of water,” said Vijay Raina of Mayur Vihar III RWA. In Krishna Nagar, though residents claimed to have got the interior drains cleared of silt before the rainy season, those on the main road were not cleaned. “I fail to understand the purpose of holding joint meetings when there’s no coordination among different departments,” fumed BS Vohra, president of East Delhi RWAs Joint Front. “All that is required is timely action to prevent the pain of waterlogging every year.” A resident in Malviya Nagar was exasperated. “Dirty water entered my mother’s room and damaged our furniture and washing machine, just as it did on June 22. Since the roads were also flooded, we couldn’t channel the water out of our house,” he grumbled. In Greater Kailash I, M K Gupta said, “Some basements flooded because their owners have connected their roof water pipes to sewer lines and they started flowing back.” Many residents questioned the purpose of creating rainwater harvesting pits when so many litres of water go down the drain every year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wet-and-watch-clogged-streets-put-residents-under-house-arrest/articleshow/77643267.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 20, 2020||Nagpur||Walking from Guntur, Brit techie helped by cops to take Delhi train||Nagpur: Walking from Guntur in Andhra Pradesh to New Delhi, a 37-year-old Indian-origin IT professional from Britain, who had come to India to perform last rites of his father but got stuck after the Covid lockdown was imposed, was helped by city traffic police to reach the national capital. On Wednesday, he was sent by train to New Delhi from where he will fly back to his country. Senior PI (Sitabuldi traffic zone) Vijay Malviya said he came across a well-versed English speaking man enquiring about New Delhi route. “As he was on foot, it raised suspicion and I stopped him. During enquiry, I came to know he was walking to New Delhi from where he had planned to fly back to London,” said Malviya. The traveller revealed his name as Austin Venkat. He claimed to have started for New Delhi on foot on August 14 from Guntur, a coastal town in Andhra Pradesh. Covering around 800km on foot, Austin reached Nagpur on Wednesday. He claimed to have no money and hence started his journey on foot. Austin said he arrived in India in October last year to perform last rites of his father at his native place in Guntur. He stayed back for a long time and got stuck due to indefinite lockdown imposed because of Covid-19 outbreak. During this period, he exhausted all his savings. “To ensure that Austin’s journey remains trouble-free, we also got his Covid-19 test done, which was negative,” said Malviya. “Later, with the help of railway police, we arranged a ticket for him to travel to New Delhi. We also informed the British embassy about Austin and officials there confirmed that he would be flown back to London,” said the senior PI. Austin was all praise for the city traffic police for helping him to reach his destination in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/walking-from-guntur-brit-techie-helped-by-cops-to-take-delhi-train/articleshow/77643328.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 20, 2020||Meerut||Four new Gangetic wetlands 'discovered' in Meerut||MEERUT: A set of new wetlands have been "discovered" with the help of a government-directed remote sensing agency, and now it will be developed by the forest department of Meerut in UP. According to forest officials, the size of these four wetlands ranges from 0.03 hectare to 2,563 hectares - all present in the vicinity of Ganga. The action plan funded by Namami Gange will involve removal of hyacinth, lantana weed, securing boundaries and introduction of biodiversity in a phased manner. At present, the largest wetland in the region is Haiderpur near Bijnor barrage which witnesses thousands of migratory birds every year. "After the completion of identification process, we are now all set to conduct surveys that include workshops with villagers, study of the region's socio-economic condition, current status of biodiversity, presence of hyacinth and other weeds. Soon after, a management plan will be developed," Aditi Sharma, Meerut's divisional forest officer (DFO), said on Wednesday. The plan to introduce biodiversity is being worked out on the lines of Ganga in Hastinapur where in the last decade a joint effort of UP forest division and WWF India has resulted in the reintroduction of water species like gharial, dolphins and turtles. The process involved the local communities and their active sensitization towards conservation. "Training of villagers as Ganga mitras has provided a major boost to the conservation process and has been a success story. We hope to develop these wetlands on similar lines," the DFO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/four-new-gangetic-wetlands-discovered/articleshow/77640695.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 20, 2020||Dehradun||Tourism dept doubles wages, DA of artists||DEHRADUN: The wages and daily allowances of the artistes who work with the tourism department in cultural functions were doubled on Wednesday. The orders were issued by state tourism secretary Dilip Jawalkar. “The head of the artiste team, that includes 20 people, will get Rs 1,000 per day and Rs 500 as daily allowance while the performers will now get Rs 800 per day as wage and Rs 400 as daily allowance,” read the order. Hailing the move, tourism minister Satpal Maharaj said, “The artistes of the state have been facing financial issues due to Covid-19 pandemic. In such times, the move will help them financially and boost their morale.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tourism-dept-doubles-wages-da-of-artists/articleshow/77640689.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 20, 2020||Dehradun||Residents of Dudli area grapple with sanitation woes||Dehradun: Residents of Dudhli area, barely 20 km from the prestigious Doon University, are grappling with the problem of waste disposal. According to residents, there is no public dustbin in the area, no place designated for dumping trash. To add to the menace, a stream in the area that gets its water from Raipur, Maldevta, is strewn with non-biodegradable waste. Residents are worried that the polluted water and trash lying in the open would spread diseases, including dengue and malaria. Talking to TOI, Tara Kumari, a dairy owner in the vicinity, said that squatters in the area would dump waste in the stream. “The encroachers, mostly migrant labourers, have constructed makeshift houses along the stream and dump their garbage in it. They also leave their cattle to roam around freely, which adds to the pollution. Apart from that, several localities around here use the river as a dustbin,” Kumari said. Yogendra (who goes only by his first name), a local vegetable vendor, said, “There is no place earmarked for dumping trash. So residents have no option but to dump their trash wherever they can. It would be a great help if the municipal corporation places a public dustbin in the area. Dev (who uses only his first name), a local resident, said that the municipal corporation’s vehicle to collect garbage comes only once or twice a week, which is why people have no option but to dump their waste in the stream. “It would be a great relief if the vehicle starts collecting garbage door to door on a regular basis,” he said. Speaking to TOI, Dehradun municipal commissioner Vinay Shankar Pandey, “The onus of waste disposal at Dudhli isn’t the Dehradun Municipal Coporation’s as the area falls under jurisdiction of the Gram Sabha. Waste collection and disposal is taking place efficiently in the areas that fall under the civic body’s jurisdiction.” The head of Dudhli Gram Sabha couldn’t be contacted despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/residents-of-dudli-area-grapple-with-sanitation-woes/articleshow/77640705.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Nagpur||Sluggish start to resumption of state transport bus service||Nagpur: The resumption of inter-district bus services by Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) after a gap of five months evoked timid response on day one with 8-9 passengers travelling per bus on an average.Divisional controller Nilesh Belsare said, “During the day, 900 passengers travelled through 98 trips (buses) within Nagpur district and other districts like Wardha, Chandrapur, Amravati, Yavatmal, Gadchiroli, Gondia and Bhandara.”Belsare said the sluggish start was due to many people not knowing about resumption of bus services. Even as 9 passengers per bus was low but not bad as these buses would have picked up passengers from roadside stoppages.As it is, there are directives not to ferry more than 22 passengers to maintain social distancing. Besides, passengers below 10 years and above 55 are not allowed to travel due to Covid-19 protocol.“We expect more inflow of passengers owing to Ganeshotsav and Mahalaxmi celebrations. People are happy with start of bus services as many were still stuck up due to lockdown and were unable to move as they could not afford travel by private vehicles,” Belsare said.Though passengers travelling to other districts will not need an e-pass, Gadchiroli district administration has decided to put passengers arriving from red zone in 14-day quarantine.“We have issued forms to MSRTC employees and they have been entrusted with the responsibility to home quarantine passengers by asking their list from places where they are travelling. With start of buses, there will be unnecessary flow of passengers from red zones, which is likely to increase Covid-19 cases. All tehsildars have been asked to collect data of passengers and check whether these people are put under quarantine,” Gadchiroli district collector Deepak Singla said.As bus frequency has been low due to lack of passenger availability, people had to wait for long hours. Student Adarsh Bhure said, “I was travelling to Pulgaon from Nagpur. At Wardha, I saw passengers not following any protocol and scrambled to enter the buses. One of the buses was fully packed. You cannot rule out spread of Covid-19 cases.”“Secondly, the bus from Nagpur covered 75km distance in 3 hours and stopped at every small place. This was indicative of the fact that the cash-strapped MSRTC wants to earn every a bit to recover the huge losses it suffered during lockdown,” said Bhure. Belsare said, “Earlier, buses used to operate on scheduled timings even if there were no passengers. Now, we will run buses depending on passenger availability. There will be one or two hour’s gap between buses at same destinations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sluggish-start-to-resumption-of-state-transport-bus-service/articleshow/77662216.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Codissia industrial parks to embrace green practices||COIMBATORE: The Codissia Industrial Parks, which would come up on 393 acres at Mopperipalayam and Kallapalayam near the city, would be green certified with measures in place to reduce power and water usage, and recycle waste. The Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) and the Codissia Industrial Park Limited (CIPL) on Wednesday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for developing the parks in a green and sustainable manner. Rajesh Lund, chairman, district chapter of IGBC, said they had approached CIPL for making the facility green. He said they would help build the industrial parks by adhering to green guidelines and certify them. “By following the green guidelines, right from design to construction materials and power fixtures, there would be a 40% reduction in usage of power and water.” He said in industrial units would have better daylighting and air circulation, reducing the need for air conditioning. As per the MoU, IGBC would work with CIPL’s design and project teams and individual factories to facilitate green initiatives. It would handhold the process through feasibility studies, skill development, awareness and outreach programmes. K S Natarajan, director, CIPL, said the members had started constructing individual units at the parks. “Under the MoU, the parks would be green certified with adequate trees, wide roads, sewage treatment plants and rainwater harvesting infrastructure. In addition, individual industrial units would also be green certified.” The area of individual units ranges from 25 cents to four acres. The park would be spread across 235 acres at Mopperipalayam and 140 acres at Kallapalayam. The parks, which were inaugurated by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami in February 2019, are expected to generate around 10,000 direct jobs and 30,000 indirect jobs, according to Codissia representatives. Lund said they had green certified 7.5 billion sqft across the country so far and their target was to reach 10billion sqft by 2022. A V Varadharajan, managing director, CIPL and Lund exchanged the MoU documents in the presence of R Ramamurthy, president, Codissia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/codissia-industrial-parks-to-embrace-green-practices/articleshow/77643264.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Dehradun||Soon, Colour Doppler ultrasound test at Rs 450 in Doon hospital||DEHRADUN: Patients at Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) will soon be able to get ultrasound tests done through Colour Doppler machine that helps doctors see what’s going on inside the body without X-ray procedures or certain injections. Patients who otherwise pay Rs 5,000 to get this test done outside will be able to get the same test done by just paying Rs 450 here, officials at GDMC said. GDMC has purchased a Colour Doppler machine, and it will be installed after getting the necessary formalities done, sources said. Talking to TOI, Dr Ashutosh Sayana, principal of GDMC, said the Colour Doppler machine will make it easier to diagnose many diseases, including cancer. This will also help in checking blood flow inside the foetus to determine the health of the baby in the making. “Doppler ultrasound is a non-invasive test that can be used to estimate the blood flow in the blood vessels by bouncing high-frequency sound waves. The machine can clearly demarcate the difference between cancerous and non-cancerous cells by detecting the type of blood flow. This makes diagnosis easy and accurate,” Dr Sayana said. The Colour Doppler machine is also useful in elastography and navigation, diseases related to heart, liver, etc. Licence for the machine is being procured and, after completion of the formalities, it will be installed in the hospital in the first week of September. As per the records, over 200 to 250 patients who visit Doon hospital every day are advised various ultrasound tests, including Colour Doppler.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/soon-colour-doppler-ultrasound-test-at-rs-450-in-doon-hospital/articleshow/77640720.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 20, 2020||Chandigarh||TCP dept panel nods draft development plan of 4 towns||Chandigarh: The state-level committee of Haryana town and country planning (TCP) department on Wednesday approved the Nilokheri-Taraori, Barwala, Julana, and Uchana Draft Development Plan-2041, and the Final Development Plan-2031 of Assandh. The committee, which met under the chairmanship of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, approved the draft development plan for a projected population of 2.3 lakh by the year 2041 with average residential sector density of 300 persons per hectare. While 767.89 hectare has been kept for residential purpose, 143 hectare area is for commercial purpose. Similarly, 282.72 hectare has been kept for industrial purpose, 243.38 hectare for transport and communication, 45.81 hectare for public utilities, 53 hectare for public and semi-public uses and 371.28 hectare for open spaces. The draft development plan of Barwala has been prepared for a projected population of 1.1lakh with average residential density of 250 persons per hectare. In the plan, while 558 hectare has been earmarked for residential purpose, 55 hectare for commercial sector, 87 hectare for industries, 402 hectare has been marked for transport and communication, public utilities, public and semi-public uses and open spaces. The draft development plan of Julana sees a population of 76,000 by 2041 and average density of 250 persons per hectare. While 216 hectares have been kept reserved for residential purpose, 25 hectares have been kept for commercial purpose and 282 hectare for industries, 84 transport and communication, etc. Similarly, the draft development plan of Uchana has been prepared for a projected population of 93,000 by 2041 with an density of 250 persons per hectare. In the revised development plan, 289 hectare has been kept for residential purpose, 52 hectare for commercial purpose and 281 hectare for other purposes. The amendment in the final development plan of Assandh has been prepared for a projected population of 1.17 lakh persons by 2031. The average residential density would be 250 persons per hectare. The amended development plan-2031 has been formulated with the objective of building an additional mandi, incorporating proposed sector roads according to ground realities or satellite imagery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tcp-dept-panel-nods-draft-development-plan-of-4-towns/articleshow/77643230.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Chennai||S P Balasubrahmanyam still critical, on ventilator support, ECMO, says hospital||CHENNAI: Playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, who was admitted with Covid-19 to a city hospital, has been connected to life support systems including a ventilator and extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO), a medical bulletin from the hospital, MGM Healthcare, said. The health condition of the 74-year-old singer remains critical. “The expert medical team treating him is closely monitoring his vital parameters, which are satisfactory at this point of time,” the bulletin from the hospital assistant director Dr Anuradha Baskaran said. The hospital said the doctors treating him are in touch with experts from across the globe and that they think SPB would require intensive care and life support for a few more days. “The round-the-clock monitoring and drugs are aimed at preventing infections or bleeding,” a senior doctor said. While the ventilator uses pressure to blow oxygenated air into the lungs, the ECMO pumps blood to a heart-lung machine, which removes carbon dioxide and returns oxygen-filled blood back to tissues. Doctors said using ECMO allows the blood to “bypass” the heart and lungs, allowing these organs to rest and heal. SPB was admitted to the hospital on August 5. The same day, the singer had posted a video message on his Facebook page, in which he said he had tested positive for Covid-19 after showing mild symptoms. He said though doctors had advised him to be on home isolation, he decided to get himself admitted to a hospital as he was concerned about the health of his family members. He had requested people not to call him as he wanted some rest. On August 14, the hospital announced there had been a setback in his health the previous night. His condition deteriorated and he was put on life support in the intensive care unit subsequently. His son and playback singer S P Charan, had the same day, said his father was responding to medical care but that doctors told him the recovery will be slow. Earlier, the legendary singer’s doctors said he was given plasma therapy, remdesivir, blood thinners and medications to avoid rapid clotting of blood, besides steroids and antibiotics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/spb-still-critical-on-ventilator-support-ecmo/articleshow/77643271.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Konkan Railway strives to extend RoRo service down south||Mangaluru: A good 21-years after it first pioneered the concept of ‘Roll On-Roll Off’ (RoRo) service in India with service between Kolad and Verna, Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd (KRCL) on Wednesday strove to extend this service that presently ends at Surathkal, down south. KRCL in collaboration with Southern Railway (SR) successfully conducted a RoRo trial run for trucks between Surathkal in Karnataka and Kozhikode in Kerala. Responding to demand from SR to extend its RoRo service between Kolad, off Mumbai and Surathkal near Mangaluru to destinations in Kerala, the trial run was held to explore operational feasibility of the service where trucks piggyback on BRN wagons. The trial commenced at 8.20am at Surathkal with a locomotive, three BRN wagons and a guard van. A metal structure equivalent to the height and width of a truck was mounted on the first BRN wagon. The structure was to ensure safe passage of train through tunnels as well beneath the electrified lines in SR’s jurisdiction, Pratap Singh Shami, divisional railway manager, Palakkad, said. The train passed through Kulashekara tunnel and beneath electrified lines without any issue and reached Mangaluru Junction at 9.10am and left for Kozhikode at 10.30am after a technical halt. The initial plan was to take the RoRo up to Thiruvananthapuram. Noting that a road over bridge just before Shoranur junction could be an obstruction, Shami said, the division will attempt to pass beneath the RoB on Wednesday and if not successful, the services will run till West Hill (Kozhikode). Incidentally, the service started between Kolad and Verna, off Madgaon in Goa (417 km) on January 26, 1999. This was extended up to Surathkal near Mangaluru (721 km) from June 15, 2004. KRCL initially started the service with one rake and augmented it to five rakes. Presently, KRCL operates daily services based on demand and transports up to 50 trucks at a time under this arrangement which is a win-win for both the Railways and truck operators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/konkan-railway-strives-to-extend-roro-service-down-south/articleshow/77640731.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Coimbatore||3 adolescent girls rescued from private firm||COIMBATORE: The Tirupur district administration on Wednesday rescued three adolescent girls from a garment factory at Veerapandi, where they were forced to work against their will. According to government officials, the girls, aged between 14 and 18 years, are residents of Tirupattur district. They were brought to the company through a middleman a week ago. The middleman had assured their families good salary and accommodation. “The girls came to know about the harsh working environment only after reaching the firm. They were forced to work even on the Independence Day. After finding the accommodation facilities and food bad, they sought permission from the company management to return to their native place. But the management refused and demanded 6,000 and transportation charges for bringing them to the firm,” said an official. The distressed girls reached out to NGO Vizhuthugal. NGO representatives informed Tirupur collector and other senior government officials about the plight of the girls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-adolescent-girls-rescued-from-pvt-firm/articleshow/77643276.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Delhi||Showers leave traffic signals dead in Delhi, add to commuter woes||NEW DELHI: If snarls due to waterlogged roads were not enough, traffic police is now braving a new challenge — breakdown of traffic signals due to water damage. The extensive construction work across the city has resulted in rainwater seeping into the automated signal management system. As a result, all signals switch off at the same time leading to a traffic mess. In the past one week, police have received about 30 calls of signals conking off. Traffic cops said nearly 40% of the 780 signals across the city were prone to outages, mostly during heavy rain as cables get damaged due to water seepage. Construction work being done by different agencies was also to blame for the snags. Once a signal stops working, it usually takes an hour to bring it back to the normal cycle. Though an agency is hired to do the maintenance work on a yearly basis, the problem arises when the contract expires. Maintenance is then done on a daily basis, officers say. According to the agreement with traffic police, the agencies can be penalised for failing to carry out repairs in time, but traffic jams and lack of space on the roads often lead to delays. With heavy rain predicted this year, police are preparing for extensive manual control of traffic on account of signals breaking down. An official said though the average lifespan of a traffic signal was eight years, some had been overhauled to keep them functional for a longer period. This had made them vulnerable to outages. Of the total malfunctioning traffic lights, only 7-8% require repairs. Most complaints pertain to timings of the signals, which can be rectified by policemen on duty. Moreover, every time a signal breaks down, the entire system needs to be reset and coordinated with the other signals at that particular crossing. Though inverters have been installed at the signals, a short circuit in the automatic system shuts them off too. Under the new Intelligent Traffic Management Plan, plans are afoot to procure systems that do not depend on underground cables for functioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/showers-leave-traffic-signals-dead-add-to-commuter-woes/articleshow/77643299.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Dehradun||Hemkund portals to open in Sept, Covid-19 test mandatory||DEHRADUN: The portals of revered Sikh shrine Hemkund Sahib will be opened for pilgrims from September 4 this year, announced the local administration on Wednesday. However, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Chamoli district administration has ordered a mandatory Covid-19 test for tourists to enter the shrine. “A negative RT-PCR test taken 72 hours before applying for the yatra and an e-pass issued by the Uttarakhand Government will be compulsory,” informed Chamoli district magistrate Swati Bhadauria. The district administration and the Gurdwara Management Committee claimed to have completed all arrangements for the yatra. NS Bindra, vice-president of Hemkund Management Trust, said that the doors of the temple will be opened for devotees at 10 am on September 4. The devotees will have to follow Covid-19 guidelines like physical distancing and wearing face masks. Thermal screening of devotees will also be conducted. The shrine, where the 10th Sikh Guru Gobind Singh is said to have meditated, opens every year in the last week of May but due to coronavirus scare, it will remain open just for a little over 2 months this time. Situated at a height of over 15,000 feet, the shrine is visited by Sikh devotees from across the country and abroad. During winter, the area remains snow-clad and the thick cover of snow continues till April. Hemkund Sahib witnesses thousands of pilgrims every year. As per records of the tourism department, the shrine witnessed 2.83 lakh devotees in 2019, while 1.5 lakh people visited the shrine in 2018, followed by 1.3 lakh in 2017, 1 lakh in 2016, 70,816 in 2015, 37,458 in 2014, and 78,051 in 2013.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hemkund-portals-to-open-in-sept-covid-19-test-mandatory/articleshow/77640742.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 20, 2020||Dehradun||IIT-Roorkee inks MoU with Bureau of Indian Standards||ROORKEE: Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee, has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) for collaboration in the areas of Standardisation and Conformity Assessment based on equality and reciprocity. As per the MoU, both entities will collaborate in the fields of civil, electrical, mechanical, chemical, earthquake engineering, development and management of water resources and Renewable Energy projects, infrastructure development, medical biotechnology & nanotechnology, and biomaterials, among others. To achieve the objectives of the MoU, both institutes will participate in standardisation activity through Technical Committees of the Bureau at national & international level, undertake R&D projects related to standardisation and conformity assessment, jointly organise seminars, conferences, workshops symposia or lectures and exchange publications and other literature of common interest related to standardisation and conformity assessment, among others. The Bureau also shall extend financial support to establish a Chair in the field of Standardisation and Conformity Assessment at IIT-R.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iit-roorkee-inks-mou-with-bureau-of-indian-standards/articleshow/77640729.cms||Tapan Susheel
August 20, 2020||Dehradun||Downpour triggers roadblock, waterlogging in several parts of Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN/UTTARKASHI/MUSSOORIE: Downpour in several parts of Uttarakhand on Tuesday late night triggered landslides and led to traffic disruption on several crucial roads. The roads leading to Char Dham shrines — including Badrinath, Kedarnath, and Yamunotri national highways — were reported to have been blocked at different places due to incessant rainfall since Tuesday night. Besides, National Highway (58), connecting Rishikesh with Badrinath shrine, was blocked at Kohed, Sonala, and Pagal Nala in Chamoli. The Kedarnath highway was closed in Rudraprayag at Bhiri and Banswara and the Yamunotri highway remains blocked at Dabarkot due to constant falling of debris from the hills, according to the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC). In Uttarkashi, several roads, including the crucial Gangotri and Yamunotri national highways, were blocked after the landslides triggered due to incessant rainfall in Uttarkashi district since Tuesday night. Adding to the inconvenience of the commuters, waterlogging was reported from several areas of the district. The concerned departments have begun restoration works. According to TOI sources, traffic movement at Yamunotri highway got interrupted on Tuesday night due to heavy landslides at Ojari Dabarkot and at some other places. Similarly, landslides also blocked Gangotri highway and several link roads including Gangori Sangamchatti, Gyansu Sald, and Bhukki Kujjan, cutting off more than two dozen villages from the district headquarters. Meanwhile, heavy rainfall also led to waterlogging at Kaleshwar temple road, Gyansu, Gangori, Uttarkashi market and other nearby areas. Devendra Patwal, Uttarkashi disaster management officer, said, “Border Road Organisation (BRO) has restored traffic movement at Gangotri highway. The teams of other concerned departments are also working to open the remaining blocked roads. However, they are facing some difficulties due to bad weather and constant threat of landslides. Taking note of the warning issued by the meteorological department, we have deployed sufficient men and machines in the sensitive areas.” In Mussoorie, landslides on the Mussoorie-Dehradun road on Wednesday hindered traffic movement. The stretch on either side of the road at Kolhu Ket was affected by a total of five landslides resulting in long queues of vehicles and traffic jams during the day time. A roadblock was reported near Galogi as well and it took almost an hour for officials to clear the stretch. Speaking to TOI, Pushpendra Kumar, junior engineer of Public Works Department (PWD) in Mussoorie, said, “We deployed a JCB machine and were able to clear the road within a short span of time.” Since Tuesday night, several places in Uttarakhand, including Dehradun and Haridwar, have received heavy rainfall. According to the regional meteorological centre, the outskirts of Dehradun received 120 mm rainfall and the capital city was lashed by 90 mm rainfall. Meanwhile, the regional meteorological centre has issued a red alert and has predicted the continuation of widespread rainfall in Uttarakhand on Thursday with possibilities of heavy to very heavy rainfall in Nainital, Udham Singh Nagar, Dehradun, Haridwar, Tehri, and Pauri districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/downpour-triggers-roadblock-waterlogging-in-several-parts-of-ukhand/articleshow/77640759.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Main accused held in attempt to murder case||Vijayawada: Police arrested Bheemireddy Venu Gopal Reddy, the main accused, for allegedly trying to kill his business partners by setting the car they were in on fire near Novotel hotel in the city on Tuesday. Addressing the media, DCP Harshavardhan Raja said Venu, who fled from the scene soon before the police could arrive, was traced based on his mobile signal location. Explaining the reason behind Venu’s actions, the DCP said the injured victim Krishna Reddy happens to be Venu’s relative. Both had started a real estate business in 2014. Soon, the venture turned into a disaster causing severe losses to Venu. Venu then sought a settlement from Krishna Reddy and after all efforts failed, laid a trap to take revenge against him. Venu then lured two other persons and Krishna Reddy in the name of a business proposal. Believing him, they met near Novotel and after spending five hours, he left the car to kill Krishna Reddy. The DCP clarified that Venu’s intention was to kill Krishna and not the couple, Gangadhar and Nagavalli, who were also present. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/main-accused-held-in-attempt-to-murder-case/articleshow/77621174.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Some private hospitals inflated bills of Covid-19 patients by 20%||PUNE: Certain city hospitals treating Covid-19 handed bills that overcharged patients by as much as 20%, a report submitted by the district administration has revealed. A total of nearly Rs 21 lakh in excess charges was reversed during pre-audit of bills handed to patients by 25 hospitals — all private units. Officials said a total of 39 bills submitted until August 19 — all exceeding Rs 1.5 lakh — were corrected. The administration earlier had stated that over 83 hospitals were being investigated for complaints of overcharging. From these, they examined 53 bills that had exceeded Rs 1.5 lakh — 39 such bills were later revised. The hospitals, it was found, had charged patients excessively for almost everything used during treatment: PPE kits worn by doctors (gloves, masks, etc) medical consumables, syringes, needles, tubes, medical gowns, adhesives and a host of other items. Officials, who had been appointed by the administration to inspect all bills above Rs 1.5 lakh, told TOI that these charges were revised during a pre-audit stage — before they were handed to families of patients. These pre-audit teams were appointed after state authorities said they had received numerous complaints of overcharging. The 55 bills that were collected for audits were issued between August 14 and 19 by some of the city’s main hospitals. The revised bills would now be handed to citizens, officials said. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said more hospitals in the city would now be brought under the auditing system. “This is just the start. All hospitals have been issued a warning. The Pune Collector and commissioners of both the PMC and PCMC are also likely to carry out surprise inspections of hospitals,” Rao said. Scores of patients had taken to social media to protest high charges that were often not covered under the insurance cover offered by the state government. Pune-based activist Salim Sheikh told TOI that many private hospitals that had overcharged Covid-19 patients were yet to face any official action. He said he had personally taken some of the complaints to the officials appointed by officials from the Pune Municipal Corporation. State health minister Rajesh Tope had last week directed all divisional commissioners of all the revenue divisions to appoint pre-auditors to keep a check on inflated bills reported by patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/some-private-hosps-inflated-bills-of-ncov-patients-by-20/articleshow/77643290.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Parties call out councillor over casteist slur claims||Several municipal councillors from Jalandhar and leaders of Congress, Shiromani Akali Dal and BJP have come together against a local Congress councillor, alleging that he had tried to give a caste turn to the issue of the bill of a Covid-19 patient to settle his scores with a private hospital owner. They have said the councillor levelled allegations of the owner using casteist slurs as a pressure tactic as the owner had pursued a criminal case of rioting against him and his associates during May 2009 violence here, after murder of Dera Ballan deputy head Sant Ramanand in Vienna, Austria. Congress councillors Gurnam Singh Multani, Shamsher Singh Khaira, former SAD councillor Balbir Singh Bittu, BJP state executive member Puneet Shukla, Guru Ravidass Sabha Jalandhar Cantonment president Vicky Tulsi, along with other local leaders from the three parties and from scheduled caste community held a joint press conference here on Tuesday, stating that Congres councillor Mandeep Jassal was vitiating caste and communal atmosphere in the city and this could impact the state. They said Dr B S Johl, who owns multi-speciality Johal Hospital in Rama Mandi, had been pursuing a criminal case related to post-Vienna violence in May 2009 when he and his hospital were attacked by rioters and now the case was at an advanced stage against Jassal and others. Jassal, on the night of August 15, had alleged that a patient was admitted to the hospital and his family had deposited Rs 65,000, but they wanted to shift their patient but the doctor was refusing. He alleged that when patient’s brother asked Dr Johal to speak to a Dalit leader, he used casteist words. A video clip of his allegations against Dr Johal had gone viral. When contacted, Dr Johal said he was just following deputy commissioner’s directions that no level-3 patient would be shifted to civil hospital. “I asked patient’s brother to get it in writing from civil hospital if they would accommodate the patient. Allegations of using casteist words are false and a pressure tactic. My entire conversation has been recorded in CCTV cameras,” said Dr Johal, adding that his 2009 case against Jassal was of attempt to murder and vandalise the hospital. Jassal said said the patient’s attendants, coming from an upper caste, themselves approached him and only told him that casteist words were used against a Dalit leader when they asked the doctor to speak to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/parties-call-out-councillor-over-casteist-slur-claims/articleshow/77643285.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Nagpur||This year, masks are an added test for JEE, NEET students||Nagpur: Even after two years of rigorous coaching for JEE, NEET, students now find themselves completely unprepared for a crucial part of the exam — masks. Wearing face mask for three hours straight during a high pressure exam is an uncharted territory for these teenagers. Both students and academicians worry that mental pressure combined with even a slight drop in oxygen flow can lead to a disaster on exam day. Hence it’s no surprise that both students and coaching institutes have started ‘mask tests’, where students will appear for practice’/mock tests from home while wearing masks. Rajnikant Bondre, president of Association of Coaching Institutes (ACI) said every student needs to practice wearing of masks daily till the exam scheduled for September. “These tests put immense pressure on students because questions are application based. So you are using your analytical skills and racing against the clock at the same time. In such a high pressure situation, Oxygen levels need to be high,” said Bondre. From Thursday onwards, every student enrolled in his centre will be giving such a test. Sameer Phale, treasurer of ACI, said that he discussed the mask tests with students on Tuesday itself. “In the evening, after getting a suggestion from a doctor, we resolved to practice wearing of masks while appearing for tests. Since we are not used to wearing masks, it can be cumbersome to breathe and might affect performance in the exams,” said Phale. Dr Madan Kapre, a renowned ENT surgeon said that students must adapt to the new normal. “They will be spending three hours in a room with other people and hence, precautions have to be taken. Also, from a medical point of view, these masks will not hinder your breathing process. The psychological aspect of it can be dealt with if students start practicing by wearing masks daily,” said Dr Kapre. JEE will be conducted between September 1-6 across 224 cities in India and another eight abroad. The admit card has been uploaded on the website. It has four pages, including the “Important Instructions for Candidates” on page-2 and “Advisory for Candidates regarding COVID-19” on pages 3 and 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/this-year-masks-are-an-added-test-for-jee-neet-students/articleshow/77643282.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Stay away from water bodies: DDMA||Nashik: The Nashik District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has warned people against venturing into water bodies in the district, as these could get easily flooded without prior warning during monsoon. The administration has issued a public notice in which it has said that India Meteorological Department has sounded an alert of heavy rains in the hilly areas along the Western region of Nashik district. This could bring in good flow of water in the rivulets and rivers. “Good rains since August have resulted in the dams of the district getting huge inflow of water. Since the water could be released from the dams any time, citizens should stay away from the water bodies from now on,” resident deputy district collector Bhagwat Doifode said. The DDMA also has warned against attempting to cross bridges across the rivers and rivulets, avoiding taking selfies in water bodies, staying away from old and dilapidated structures. The DDMA has asked people to call on 1077 – a toll-free number – in case they need any assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/stay-away-from-water-bodies-ddma/articleshow/77598172.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Man jailed for impregnating minor||COIMBATORE: A 26-year-old man was arrested for impregnating a 14-year-old girl near Karamadi on the outskirts of the city. A police officer said the issue came to light after Childline authorities received a complaint on child marriage on Tuesday. The Childline authorities, he said, conducted inquiry with the family members of the girl and their neighbours.  Preliminary inquiry revealed the accused, a daily wage labourer, was a relative of the girl. “They were in a relationship for the past one year and he used to visit the girl at her house frequently. The girl became pregnant three months ago,” the officer said. When her parents came to know that their daughter was pregnant, they took her to a nearby hospital for abortion. “Doctors there, however, refused to perform abortion. So, they decided to arrange her marriage,” the officer said. Based on a complaint from Childline, the Thudiyalur all-woman police registered a case under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and arrested him. He was later remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-jailed-for-impregnating-minor/articleshow/77643278.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan's Covid toll breaches 900 mark||JAIPUR: Covid-19 death toll in the state breached the 900 mark on Wednesday. In the last 24 hours, 12 persons lost their lives to the virus taking the casualty count to 910. The infection tally breached the 65,000 figure after 1,312 persons were found infected. As on Wednesday night, the cumulative count stood at 65,289. With deaths on the rise, the state government has devised a strategy to prevent mortalities due to the virus focusing on vulnerable groups. In this month so far, 230 people have died of the ailment in different parts of the state. Out of the 12 people who lost their lives in the state, four were from Jaipur, two each from Kota and Nagaur, and one each from Ajmer, Bikaner, Udaipur and Sriganganagar. At a meeting of health department officials headed by health minister Raghu Sharma on Wednesday, it has been decided to strengthen monitoring of vulnerable groups. “We will conduct special screening of vulnerable groups such as children below 10 years, elderly above 60 years, pregnant women and patients with co-morbidities. Special facility for referrals will be made available for such people of vulnerable groups to prevent mortalities,” said Sharma. Principal secretary (health) Akhil Arora has issued a direction mentioning that for each 100 houses in containment zones and hotspot areas, a team of two paramedical staff will be deployed, who will be equipped with pulse oximeters and thermal scanners. For every four to five teams, a vehicle will be made available for transportation of a patient immediately to the hospital. Teams of paramedical staff will be deployed in such a way that it will be able to conduct survey in containment zones and hotspot areas in 7 to 10 days. All teams will be trained first before being deployed in the field. For the first time, three districts reported more than 200 cases in a single day. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (225), Alwar (224), Bikaner (209), Jaipur (189), Kota (143), Dholpur (83), Sikar (68), Pali (63), Rajsamand (31), Jhalawar (23), Sriganganagar (22), Jaisalmer (9), Dungarpur (8), Hanumangarh (6), Sawai Madhopur (6) and Tonk (3). In Jaipur, 14 employees of a media house, an IAS officer deployed in the health department, an employee of chief medical health officer, three persons from Central Jail are among 189 persons who tested positive on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-toll-breaches-900-mark/articleshow/77643277.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Coimbatore||45-day-old Covid positive baby recovers||COIMBATORE: While doctors insist that Covid-19 does not severely affect infants and toddlers, the city saw the first case of a 45-day-old boy suffering respiratory failure due to Covid-19. The baby was referred to ESI Hospital from PSG Hospitals on August 3 after he turned critical. ESI Hospital dean, Dr Nirmala, said the baby arrived in an ambulance with an endotracheal tube and an ambu-bag ventilator. “He was unconscious because his brain was affected due to lack of oxygen,” she said. “We connected the baby to a mechanical ventilator and started him on intravenous antibiotics and steroids. On August 7, we shifted the baby to the operation theatre, where we made a small incision on the left side of the chest, inserted a wire and drained the liquid and air inside.” Now the baby is stable, Nirmala said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/45-day-old-covid-ve-baby-recovers/articleshow/77643330.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Salem||Water level in Mettur dam depleting fast||SALEM: Water level in the Mettur dam is depleting quickly after inflow dipped compared to discharges, officials said. The inflow stood at 7,079 cusecs while discharge level measured 16,500 cusecs on Wednesday. The dam’s water level marked 99.3 ft against its full capacity of 120 ft on August 17, when the state government ordered the release of water into the dam's east and west bank canals for irrigation purposes. “The water level has reduced two feet in the last two days,” said a PWD official from the dam. The water level in the dam measured 97.94 ft on Wednesday. Karnataka government meanwhile released 44,000 cusecs of water from KRS dam and Kabini dam on Wednesday morning. “Nearly 42,928 cusecs of water was released from KRS dam and 1,500 cusecs from Kabini dam,” the official said. This water would reach the Mettur dam in a couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/water-level-in-mettur-dam-depleting-fast/articleshow/77643303.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Dehradun||HC levies Rs 2 lakh fine on petitioner alleging loss of Rs 10,000 crore to public exchequer due to corrupt tax officials||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Wednesday dismissed the Public Interest Litigation (PIL) alleging a loss of Rs 10,000 crore each year to the public exchequer due to “corrupt” tax officials. The court also levied a fine of Rs 2 lakh on the petitioner for filing frivolous petition and making unsubstantiated claims. While the written order wasn’t available, the lawyers appearing for both sides told TOI that the bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Narayan Singh Dhanik has dismissed the petition as no evidence was presented to substantiate the claims against the officials. “The court dismissed the PIL with an exemplary cost of Rs 2 lakh. The court termed it as an abuse of the process of law and said that unsubstantiated claims cannot be made against officials,” said a counsel appearing in the case. The petitioner had sued over 40 tax and revenue officials working at the secretary level. The petition alleged that the state has been suffering a tax revenue loss of over Rs 10,000 crore because of the corrupt officials and their syndicate. The petitioner, however, could not place material evidence to substantiate their claims. Meanwhile, a counsel appearing for the respondent advocates, told TOI that they had argued that the petition was filed to tarnish the reputation of the officials and this was an abuse of the right to file a PIL. “We had argued that the PIL was filed with the sole intention of tarnishing the image of the officials. The court has taken a very stern view of this frivolous petition and has therefore dismissed the petition along with a monetary fine on the petitioner,” the counsel said. The petitioner has already deposited Rs 1 lakh fine. Notably, the fine amount will go to the Advocate Welfare Fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-levies-rs-2l-fine-on-petitioner-alleging-loss-of-rs-10k-cr-to-public-exchequer-due-to-corrupt-tax-officials/articleshow/77640766.cms||Prashant Jha
August 20, 2020||Bareilly||Covid-19 positive woman leaps from 2nd floor of hospital, killed; cops suspect escape bid||Bareilly: A 28-year-old woman, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died allegedly after falling from the second floor of a hospital in Moradabad in an apparent bid to escape from the facility on Wednesday morning. Kavita is survived by her husband and three children. A resident of Moradabad’s Bilari area, she was initially admitted to a private hospital after complaints of mild fever and breathlessness. When her Covid-19 report came positive, Kavita was brought to Teerthanker Mahaveer University Medical College (TMU) in Pakhvada area of Moradabad early Wednesday morning. A few hours later, she was found lying in a pool of blood. Police said that she jumped from a window of her second floor ward. They didn’t rule out suicide angle also, saying that a probe was on. Circle officer (CO) Ram Sagar and inspector Pakhvada Rajni Dwivedi rushed to the spot and the body was sent for post-mortem examination. ReplyReply allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/covid-19-positive-woman-leaps-from-2nd-floor-of-hospital-killed-cops-suspect-escape-bid/articleshow/77639599.cms||Maria Khan
August 20, 2020||Business||Raw material consumption at mfg firms dips 50-70%||Pune: Raw material consumption at Pune-based manufacturing firms fell between 50-70% in the quarter ended June as compared to the preceding quarter or the same period a year ago. Raw material consumption accounts for about 40-50% of a company’s total expenses in any given period. In Pune, the top 11 manufacturing firms spent a cumulative Rs 3,427 crore in the quarter ended June 2020 against Rs 8,886 crore in the preceding quarter and Rs 9,835 crore in the year-ago quarter. The manufacturing activity of these firms span vehicles to engines, generators and spare parts. Company executives said the trend showed the extent of the impact and how far it will stretch into the next two quarters, even as stocks have recovered and some green shoots were being seen with progressive unlocking. However, in official statements, firms have chosen to strike a more cautious note. “Looking ahead in to demand for the coming quarter, we are witnessing marginal improvement across both domestic and export markets. We expect our domestic revenues to be flat as compared to Q2 FY20 while the exports will be lower than the levels witnessed in Q2 FY20. The sustainability in the recovery in underlying demand is a key factor to track in the coming months,” said Baba Kalyani, chairman and managing director of Bharat Forge, in a statement. Thermax Ltd, which saw its year-on-year order booking drop by 50% in the quarter ended June, said the company registered a loss for the first time in two decades. A company executive said though order flow as well as industrial activity had improved since July 2020, there were still fears in the factories around how far this would stretch out. “Even industries need money to support government’s effort to deal with the pandemic. So, instead of spreading fear, the government must make sure that their decisions are informed by science and data instead of fear,” the executive said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/raw-material-consumption-at-mfg-firms-dips-50-70/articleshow/77643320.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
August 20, 2020||Nagpur||Don Ambekar’s nephew held with MD drugs||Nagpur: In a major breakthrough, sleuths of crime branch have arrested four drug peddlers including nephew of dreaded don Santosh Ambekar and struck a haul of 182.26 gram of mephedrone. The narcotic substance is often called a party drug which goes by the street name of MD. The raid on the drug dealers was conducted under the guidance of deputy commissioner of police Gajanan Rajmane and led by senior PI Sarthan Nehete. The total cost of the seized mephedrone is estimated to be around Rs5.50 lakh. The crime branch sleuths got a tip off that Ambekar’s nephew Sunny Verma was bringing MD in a four-wheeler to Nagpur from Mumbai. Subsequently, the sleuths laid a trap at Wadi-New Katol Ring Road. The police spotted the car and intercepted it. The cops nabbed Sunny Verma, a resident of Itwari, and three of his accomplices Barqat Ali Nisar Khan (32), Sheikh Akbar Ali Shauqat Ali (19) and Siraz Abdul Sattar Khan (42), all residents of Govandi, Mumbai. During search of the vehicle, the police found 182.26 gram of MD, worth Rs5.5 lakh, four mobile phones worth Rs1.72 lakh from their possession. The police also detained the vehicle valued at Rs8 lakh. Police said three of Verma’s accomplices Ashish Gaiki (a resident of Ayodhya Nagar, Nagpur), Sufiyan Ibrahim (a resident of Shivaji Nagar, Mumbai) and Heena Shah, also a resident of Mumbai, are still at large. Police said Verma is a notorious criminal and has been involved in several serious crimes like extortion, possessing banned drugs etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/don-ambekars-nephew-held-with-md-drugs/articleshow/77643324.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Dehradun||DMC likely to re-open today||Dehradun: The Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) office, which was closed for public on August 18 and 19 after a senior official had tested Covid-19 positive, is likely to re-open on Thursday (August 20). Earlier, the staffers who had come in contact with the infected official were asked to remain under home quarantine with immediate effect. The DMC office is now being sanitised and precautionary measures will be taken once it reopens. However, some officials say that the ban on entry of the public may get extended. Notably, this is the second instance of a DMC employee testing Covid-19 positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-likely-to-re-open-today/articleshow/77640769.cms||Mohammad Anab
August 20, 2020||Pune||240 Pune police personnel test positive for contagion this month||PUNE: As many as 240 police personnel from Pune have tested positive for Covid-19 since August 1. In total, 654 Covid-19 positive cases have been reported among the Pune police personnel since the outbreak of the pandemic in March. Of these, three have succumbed to the contagion, 497 have been discharged after recovery and 154 continue to be under treatment as active cases. Additional commissioner of police Ashok Morale on Wednesday said, “The police personnel have tested positive for many reasons such as residing and discharging duties in containment zones and coming in contact with positive persons on field, at police stations and other places. Post-lockdown, the movement of police personnel on roads has increased for purposes ranging from investigations, arresting accused and maintaining law and order. In between, we also had Muhurrum and now the Ganesh festival will begin.” “We have subjected many policemen to tests because they have come in contact with relatives, friends and others testing positive. We are also focusing on contact tracing among policemen and their families,”he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/240-pune-police-personnel-test-positive-for-contagion-this-month/articleshow/77643321.cms||Asseem Shaikh
August 20, 2020||Salem||Salem registers 295 new cases of Covid-19||SALEM: In its continuing uptick of Covid-19 numbers, Salem district added 295 new cases on Wednesday, pushing the tally to 6,766. The district could soon edge past the 7,000 benchmark, health department officials said. Of the 295 new cases, 187 are from Salem municipal corporation limits, 14 from Attur, 12 from Magudanchavadi 12, 8 each from Veerapandi and Belur, 9 from Nangavalli, 7 each from Konganapuram and Panamarathupatty, six each from Tharamangalam and Ayothiyapattinam, five each from Edappadi and Thalaivasal, 4 from Sankari, 3 from Omalur, two each from Mecheri and Gangavalli, one each from Kadayampatty, Kolathur and Pethanaickenpalayam, while two persons had returned from Chennai. “Five persons, including three from West Bengal and one each from Karnataka and Maharashtra are the imported cases,” said Dr. J Nirmalson, deputy director of Salem district health services. A total of 48 people, including 28 women, 18 men and two children were discharged from the Salem government Mohan Kumaramangalam medical college and hospital on Wednesday. Dean Dr R Balajinathan informed that 1,974 people are currently being treated in the district. Meanwhile, director of medical education, Dr R Narayanababu visited the hospital on Wednesday and chaired a meeting with a team of doctors including the dean, medical superintendent Dr P V Dhanapal and others. “During the meeting, he reviewed Covid cases and the treatments given to them,” the dean said, adding that the director has also inspected the hospital premises, including Covid ward, after the meeting. In neighbouring Erode district, 85 new cases were recorded on Wednesday while Namakkal district registered 35 new cases. Krishnagiri district recorded 19 new cases and Dharmapuri district logged 18 fresh cases of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/salem-registers-295-new-cases-of-covid-19/articleshow/77643333.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Nagpur||Solar Grp becomes first pvt co to clear Pinaka rocket trials||Nagpur: City’s Economic Explosives Limited (EEL) has emerged as the first private Indian company to successfully test fire an artillery rocket. The Pinaka rockets manufactured by EEL were fired at the Pokhran range on Wednesday in a joint evaluation by the Army and Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO). The company had qualified to get transfer of technology (TOT) for making the Pinaka rocket from DRDO. With the successful evaluation, the company can now qualify to bid if the Army floats a request for proposal (RFP) to make Pinaka rockets. With a range of 37km, the Pinaka is currently made by the ordnance factory, which had got bulk production clearance in 2007. EEL was the sole private company to qualify for the TOT. EEL is a wholly owned subsidiary of Solar Industries headed by Satyanarayan Nuwal. The company had begun its venture with commercial explosives and continues to remain the leader in this segment. It has also entered into making high technology missiles and space rockets. The trials for Pinaka were conducted to complete the technology absorption process after the ToT from the DRDO. Six rockets were fired with different warheads to assess the structural integrity, flight stability and accuracy of the rockets made by EEL. The parameters were successfully met, said sources. Rockets are part of the artillery system. Placed on a mounted system, a salvo of six rockets can be fired at time. Trials for an advanced range of Pinaka rockets, with a higher range of over 40km, is also under way. The technology for Pinaka rockets has been developed by Armament Research and Development Establishment (ARDE) and High Energy Material Research Laboratory (HEMRL), both units of DRDO. EEL has a manufacturing facility for the rockets at Nagpur, which includes facilities to make critical sub-systems and components, like propellant high explosives and igniters. Warhead and rocket motors are also made in the factory, said a note shared with TOI. The Nagpur plant has the capacity to make 3,000 rockets in a year, with scope to further enhance the capacity, the note said. The Solar Group has plants in six countries apart from other locations in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/solar-grp-becomes-first-pvt-co-to-clear-pinaka-rocket-trials/articleshow/77639846.cms||Shishir Arya
August 20, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Dhule’s popular ‘poor people’s doctor’ succumbs to virus||PUNE: A renowned doctor from Dhule succumbed to Covid-19-induced organ failure at the city’s Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital on Tuesday. Chudaman Patil (48), widely known as the ‘poor people’s doctor’, had developed a fever two days before he started experiencing breathlessness. On August 14, he was moved to Noble hospital in Pune and a day later, shifted to the DMH where doctors had put him on ventilator support.  Patil is survived by his wife and two daughters. In Dhule, at least 21 doctors have contracted Covid-19 since March. Members of the Indian Medical Association, Dhule, said Patil is the first Covid casualty among medical workers in the region. He was running a 25-bed hospital with his pathologist wife. Dhule-based surgeon Ravi Wankhedkar said Patil was a popular figure in the region. “He never used an inability to pay as a reason to refuse treatment. He was known as the ‘poor people’s doctor’ here,” Wankhedkar said. An alumnus of the BJ Medical College and Sassoon hospital, Patil got his medical degree in 1988. He pursued his post-graduation in medicine at KEM Hospital and had been running his practice in Dhule for the past 20 years. “He had been relentless in his service to the people during Covid-19. He must have contracted infection from a patient,” said Wankhedkar, a former national president of the IMA. At the DMH, the hospital medical director, Dhananjay Kelkar, said, “He was critical when he was brought in. And he had been on ventilator since admission. In addition to partial renal failure and heart disease, he had chronic conditions including diabetes and hypertension. Despite the best of care here, he succumbed to complications.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dhules-popular-poor-peoples-doc-succumbs-to-virus/articleshow/77643367.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Khader opposed to order for traders to shift to APMC yard||Mangaluru: A directive by deputy commissioner K V Rajendra directing traders at Central Market to forthwith shift their activities back to the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) yard at Baikampady on Tuesday saw former district minister U T Khader and APMC president K Krishnaraj Hegde cross swords. While Hegde said the APMC will be constrained to act legally against the traders if they fail to do so, Khader said the DC’s directive smacked of hastiness. Hegde told reporters on Wednesday that APMC had spent close to Rs 1 crore since then DC Sindhu B Rupesh directed all activities at Central Market, deemed to be sub-yard of the main APMC yard at Baikampady, be shifted there on account of Covid-19. The directive was also given on grounds that the Central Market was in a dilapidated state and Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) intended to construct a new market after demolishing it. Not commenting on the legal dispute between the traders and MCC, Hegde said 60 traders who had obtained licences from the APMC continued to carry out their wholesale trade in fruits and vegetables at the Central Market, and did not shift to the main yard. “We have 74 godowns of 1,200 sq ft dimension with holding capacity of seven tonnes, which can be allotted to traders. Each godown can be further subdivided to house three units of 400 sq ft,” he said. The APMC, as per the directive from the district administration, and in wake of the public health exigency, permitted the traders to carry out their trade without insisting that they obtain a licence, pay the fee, APMC cess and other requirements they need to comply with. If the traders refuse to come back to APMC yard, the present committee will be constrained to proceed against them legally, and it is in the best interest of all to avoid a protracted legal mess, Hegde warned. Khader slammed the decision by the DC citing Covid as the reason for the order he issued. “District in-charge secretary V Ponnuraj who authored the decision that led to traders shifting their trade to the yard in April, must come back and set right the mess he created,” the Mangaluru MLA said. Noting that the APMC yard lacks facilities contrary to claims made by Hegde, Khader also assailed the MCC for going back on its decision asking the traders to vacate from the Central Market. There is no clarity on means of distributing the shops in the main yard, he said, adding that the shops distributed have been done at the whims and fancies of a select few. The administration also has no right to direct the traders to shift to the yard, or obtain licence there, given that the government has decided to do away with the APMCs, he said, demanding that traders should be asked to shift only after alternative arrangements have been made for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/khader-opposed-to-order-for-traders-to-shift-to-apmc-yard/articleshow/77640792.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Neet aspirant hangs self||COIMBATORE: A day after the Supreme Court dismissed a plea to postpone the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Neet), a 19-year-old medical aspirant from the city killed herself on Tuesday allegedly due to fear of the approaching medical entrance exam. The deceased, a resident of RS Puram, had completed her Class XII from a private school and was burning the midnight oil for the medical entrance for the past two years. A police official said she had appeared for the examination last year and managed to get a seat in a dental college. “As she wanted to study general medicine, she enrolled herself in a private coaching centre.” The Neet examination, usually conducted in May every year, was postponed to September 13 due to the pandemic. Several students had filed a plea before the Supreme Court requesting it to quash a July 3 notification from the National Testing Agency that announced the examination dates. The court, on Monday, dismissed the plea. The girl’s parents said she was under a lot of stress ever since the examination dates were confirmed. On Tuesday evening, she locked herself in a room and did not step out for hours. Sensing something was amiss, her parents broke open the door and found her hanging from the ceiling. Police sent the body to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) for postmortem and registered a case of unnatural death. Municipal administration minister SP Velumani and DMK MP Kanimozhi took to social media to express their condolences. DMK MLA N Karthik visited the family members, while party chief M K Stalin contacted them and expressed his condolences. He later tweeted, “Without considering the welfare of the students, the central government is making arrangements to conduct exam during the pandemic time and the state government is taking no steps to stop it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/neet-aspirant-hangs-self/articleshow/77643380.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Question on taking Hindi as 3rd language sparks row||COIMBATORE: A question in an application form for admission to an elementary class at a corporation higher secondary school at Siddhapudur in the city sparked a controversy on Wednesday. The question number 14 – whether the student is willing to study a third language (Hindi) or additionally learn a vocational subject – in the form received condemnation from political parties stating that it was a move by the corporation to impose Hindi on students. They sought immediate withdrawal of the forms. While corporation schoolteachers and educational officials said that the application format was in use until a couple of years ago, the city corporation went on a defensive mode and said that the form was a fake one. “It is nothing but imposing Hindi on children and is one of the recommendations made in the New Educational Policy (NEP). At a time when the state government itself has been opposing the three-language policy, the corporation’s act is condemnable,” general secretary of Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK) Ku Ramakrishnan said. If the corporation says that they have not distributed the form, then it is their responsibility to check how the form was available at its school, he added. The CPM also condemned the corporation. However, corporation commissioner J Sravan Kumar said, “We have not distributed any such forms. With the intention of creating a bad name for the corporation, some people are spreading a fake application form. We would take strict action against them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/school-courts-controversy-with-hindi-as-3rd-language/articleshow/77643381.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Woman found living with dad’s corpse; she did same with bodies of her mother, brother too in past||KOLKATA: For the third time in two years, residents of Behala’s Sarsuna on Wednesday woke up to the stench of a decomposing body emanating from a flat on Rakhal Mukherjee Road. Nilanjana Chatterjee (51) was found living with the corpse of her father Rabindranath (86), just as she had done when her brother died in Febrary last year and, five months later, her mother. She had neither tried to inform anyone nor cremate the body. Nilanjana, along with her father and mother Chhaya (82), had spent two days with the corpse of her brother Debasish. When Chhaya died, she and her father lived with the body for two days yet again. On Wednesday, locals, who guessed what must have happened after they got the stench, informed Sarsuna police. The cops then sent the body for autopsy. “It seems Rabindranath had been bed-ridden for the past one and a half years and the family survived on ration collected from locals. We are seeking help from NGOs and locals to ensure Nilanjana’s survival,” said a senior officer. The house was in a shambles. “The family suffered from mental illness. This was apparent by the state of the house,” he said.“We shall wait for the post-mortem report to peg the time of death,” said DC (Behala) Nilanjan Biswas. Nilanjana said that their relatives had refused to help, just as she had told the cops on the previous occasions. But neighbours said that she had kept all the doors and windows shut on their second-floor flat to keep the stench of the decomposing body from getting out and had even stopped eating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/woman-found-living-with-dads-corpse/articleshow/77642051.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 20, 2020||Pune||New district collector stresses on three ‘T’s||Pune: A comprehensive approach focused on testing, tracing and treatment of patients would be the way forward to meet the Covid-19 challenge, said Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh after taking charge on Wednesday.“I know the Pune district is leading in testing and so we are reporting large number of cases. The focus will be on contact tracing and testing, so that early treatment is possible,” he said. Deshmukh said, “I have been told that we are carrying out contact tracing of nearly 30 people behind each positive case in the rural areas. The same should be done everywhere,” he said.Deshmukh, a 2008 batch IAS officer, said the mortality rate in the district currently was 2.48% and the aim would be to reduce it further. The new collector conducted a detailed review meeting with all the officials in the district pertaining to all the issues after assuming charge. He said he would focus on speeding up the development projects.Deshmukh’s predecessor, Naval Kishore Ram, was transferred to the PMO earlier this month. Before taking over the charge of Pune collector, Deshmukh was in charge of Haffkine Institute, and also worked as state nodal officer for Covid-19 testing for past five months. He was earlier collector of Yavatmal and Satara Zilla Parishad CEO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-district-collector-stresses-on-three-ts/articleshow/77643384.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Kolkata||BPO employee molested in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A young woman returning home from her workplace in Sector V was allegedly molested by a passerby on Tuesday evening. The woman confronted her tormentor and slapped him. As he fled, she found out his name from local vendors and lodged a police complaint, following which he was arrested. The incident happened at College More in Sector V when the woman, a BPO employee, was walking from office with a colleague around 7.10pm. “The man, while walking past me, brushed his hand against me and tried to grab my arm. He even tried to snatch my bag. I chased and slapped him and threatened to call the cops when he fled the spot,” the woman said. Some local street vendors who were witness to the incident gave her the name of the accused, who lived in a nearby shanty. The woman, a resident of Shyambazar in north Kolkata, then informed the cops at Electronic Complex Police Station about the matter. A police team went into the shanty and nabbed the accused, Babu Halder. The woman further claimed that she was harassed by the cops who made her write a complaint several times before finally accepting it. Senior officers of Bidhannagar Commissionerate, however, said timely action was taken and the alleged molester was booked under relevant sections. “The woman was asked to rewrite the complaint just to ensure that all the facts were mentioned,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bpo-employee-molested-in-sector-v/articleshow/77642073.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Ajmer||Sindhi community will observe Sharada by feeding poor||AJMER: The Sindhi community has decided that Brahmins will not visit houses of people during Sharada month for feasts and the money spent on them will be used to feed the poor and animals. Sharada month according to Hindu ritual is an occasion where people feed their ancestors through Brahmins and give them gifts. Brahmins visit houses and perform rituals on the occasion. A meeting of Sindhi community and union of Sindhi Brahmins was held in Ajmer where they decided that since people of the community was unable to work and earn because of Covid, they were facing financial problems. Chanderbhan Sharma, a senior Brahmin of the community, said because of the pandemic, Brahmins will not visit houses of people during Sharada. Ramesh Lalwani, general secretary of Pujya Sindhi Panchayat, said the community was facing financial crisis and hadn’t earned their livelihood for the last five months. The community decided that to complete the rituals, families will feed poor and also provide food and water to animals and birds. Brahmins will dictate the steps of puja online and families will conduct the rituals. The community said the step would also help to maintain social distancing and people will remain safe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/sindhi-community-will-observe-sharada-by-feeding-poor/articleshow/77643383.cms||---
August 20, 2020||India||Sushant’s death needs impartial probe, says SC, hands case to CBI||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday ordered a CBI probe into the mysterious death by suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput to “ensure that search for truth is undertaken by an independent investigation agency” not controlled by either Bihar or Maharashtra. Justice Hrishikesh Roy invoked the SC’s inherent power under Article 142 of the Constitution to do complete justice in the case that has seen a bitter tug-of-war between police forces of the two states and said, “Dissemination of the real facts through unbiased investigation would certainly result in justice for the innocents, who might be the target of vilification campaign. Equally importantly, when integrity and credibility of the investigation is discernible, the trust, faith and confidence of the common man in the judicial process will resonate. When truth meets sunshine, justice will not prevail on the living alone but after life’s fitful fever, now the departed will also sleep well. Satyameva Jayate.” In his 35-page judgment, Justice Roy rejected actor Rhea Chakraborty’s plea for transfer of the FIR lodged with Patna police by Rajput's father to Mumbai. The SC said Patna police did no wrong in lodging an FIR on the basis of Rajput’s father K K Singh’s complaint as it disclosed a cognisable offence and also ruled that Bihar government was competent to refer the probe to the CBI. With the CBI registering a case on the basis of Rajput’s father’s complaint, Chakraborty too will be under the scanner as Singh had accused her and her family of cultivating proximity to Rajput for the purpose of misappropriating his wealth. Chakraborty, Rajput’s live-in partner, has vehemently denied the charge. The SC recorded a finding that Mumbai police had not even registered an FIR and was “stretching” its inquiry on the basis of an accidental death report. As the FIR lodged by Patna police is the only FIR in the domain of investigation, which has already been taken over by the CBI, any FIR lodged by Mumbai police in future would also be taken up by the central investigating agency, Justice Roy ordered. “Therefore, while according approval for the ongoing CBI investigation, if any other case is registered on the death of the actor Sushant Singh Rajput and the surrounding circumstances of his unnatural death, the CBI is directed to investigate the new case as well. It is ordered accordingly," he said. The SC said there was a chance that the investigation into Rajput’s unnatural death could get blemished because of trading of charges between Bihar and Maharashtra, causing the real culprits to go scot-free during the trial. “Actor Sushant Singh Rajput was a talented actor in the Mumbai film world and died well before his full potential could be realised. His family, friends and admirers are keenly waiting for the outcome of the investigation so that all the speculation floating around can be put to rest. Therefore, a fair, competent and impartial investigation is the need of the hour. The expected outcome then would be a measure of justice for the complainant, who lost his only son. For the petitioner (Chakraborty) too, it will be the desired justice as she herself called for a CBI investigation,” Justice Roy said. He justified the CBI probe into Rajput's death on June 14 and said, “As both states are making acrimonious allegations of political interference against each other, the legitimacy of the investigation has come under a cloud. Accusing fingers are being pointed and people have taken the liberty to put out their own conjectures and theories. Such comments, responsible or otherwise, have led to speculative public discourse which have hogged media limelight. These developments unfortunately have the propensity to delay and misdirect the investigation. In such a situation, there is reasonable apprehension of truth being a casualty and justice becoming a victim." Watch Here is why Supreme Court ordered a CBI probe into Sushant Singh Rajput's death case||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sushants-death-needs-impartial-probe-says-sc-hands-case-to-cbi/articleshow/77645373.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Panchaganga water level recedes to 40 ft||Kolhapur: The break in the rain in Kolhapur district over the past 24 hours led to the drop in the water levels of most of the rivers. The water level of the Panchaganga river, which was flowing above the danger mark of 43 ft, receded to 40 ft (one foot above the danger level) by Wednesday evening. The break in the rain came as a relief to the citizens as they were worried about flooding. The water level of Panchaganga declined rapidly after 4 pm on Wednesday. The continuous discharge from downstream dams and reduction in discharge from upstream dams also had their effect in rapid decline in water level. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) Mumbai had predicted heavy rains, however, since Wednesday morning most of the skyline was clear and the ghat section received very little rain. As per the latest report, the district received 40mm of rain on Wednesday as against 130 mm observed a day earlier. As per the forecast, the ‘yellow alert’ for heavy rainfall at isolated places will continue till August 22, however, the probability has changed from very likely to likely. Around 1,700 people from low lying villages and areas along Panchaganga river stretch were shifted to safe places. They have been requested to stay at the safe places until the water level recedes further. By Wednesday evening, 70 barrages were under water, a dip from 85 observed a day earlier. Two gates of Radhanagari dam are closed and two open. At present, the dam has a discharge of around 3,000 cusec. The irrigation authorities said the steady discharge will continue to ensure the dams have adequate space to accommodate inflow in cases of heavy rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/panchaganga-water-level-recedes-to-40-ft/articleshow/77640823.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Jodhpur||Military Hospital Jodhpur gets molecular bio lab||JODHPUR: A Molecular Biology Laboratory was commissioned at Military Hospital Jodhpur on Wednesday. The laboratory is authorised by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to conduct both Rapid Antigen test and confirmatory RT-PCR tests for diagnosis of Covid-19. The Military Hospital Jodhpur has achieved the distinction of becoming the first zonal military hospital to have a molecular biological laboratory approved by ICMR. Conceptualized under the guidance of Lt Gen Anil Puri, Konark Corps Commander, the laboratory has capability to conduct the much sought after confirmatory test for diagnosis of Covid-19 during the prevailing accelerated phase of pandemic. Defence spokesperson Col Sombit Ghosh said this laboratory has opened the doors for research in the fields of virology, tumour pathology, haematological disorders and other infectious diseases and would be working in collaboration with other premier institutions like AIIMS Jodhpur, AFMC Pune and NIV Pune. The laboratory is yet another effort by the Indian Army to serve the nation and will surely go a long way in ensuring the health and safety of its countrymen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/military-hospital-jodhpur-gets-molecular-bio-lab/articleshow/77643390.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: ‘Decision on private buses next week’||PUNE: State transport minister Anil Parab has said that a decision on allowing private bus operators to start inter-district services will be taken within a week once the standard operating procedures (SOP) for them are finalised. Kiran Desai, secretary, Pune Bus Owners Association, alleged that the state government was biased against them. “The state government is just focusing on MSRTC. We have been out of business for more than four months,” he said. Officials of the MSRTC’s Pune division said buses from Pune to Kolhapur, Thane, Dadar, Nashik, Aurangabad and Borivli would start from Thursday. Services will soon start on Pune-Solapur, Pune-Pandharpur and Pune-Shirdi routes. “Buses will be available as per passenger response,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/decision-on-pvt-buses-next-week/articleshow/77643391.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur dist admin acquires all 5 oxygen producing units||Kolhapur: The district administration has acquired all five private oxygen production units and has made the production of medical oxygen mandatory, following its shortage to treat critical Covid patients.District collector Daulat Desai ordered the production units on Tuesday, appointing officials of Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) to monitor these units. The unit operators cannot sell the oxygen other than for medical purposes and the permission of MIDC authorities will be required to produce and sell oxygen for other purposes such as industrial.A senior district official requesting anonymity said, “The medical oxygen is in demand among both public and private hospitals where Covid patients are undergoing treatment. The plan is to add more number of oxygen beds to treat critical patients and thereby bring down the death rate. Three officials of MIDC will monitor the production of medical-grade of oxygen at these units.”District hospitals and Covid Care Centres have 7,400 beds, of which around 800 oxygen beds and 288 ICU beds. The plan is to increase oxygen and ICU beds by 500 more each. A few days ago, a huge oxygen tank of 20,000 litre capacity was installed at CPR Hospital Kolhapur. However, it is yet to be operational||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-dist-admin-acquires-all-5-oxygen-producing-units/articleshow/77640814.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Goa||Superstructure of Zuari bridge to emerge by Oct||Panaji: By October, the superstructure of the new eight-lane Zuari bridge will finally be seen taking shape against the skyscape over the river and the existing bridge. The work of erection of cables for the bridge superstructure is scheduled to begin within the next two months, Atul Joshi, vice-president (constructions) for Dilip Buildcon told TOI. The construction work had to unexpectedly slow down during the lockdown period and the bridge work contractors were faced with a labour shortage, as workers chose to return to their home state. Joshi said that these workers have now begun returning to Goa and pace of work on the bridge is normalising. He said the target of April 2021 set to open one four-lane section for traffic will be achieved. “We are about to begin work on the steel pier, segment by segment, between the two pylons of the bridge in the river part. Within three to four days’ time, this structure will be visible in the river. This work is part of the work of the superstructure. Following this, erection of cables will start in October,” said Joshi. The state government had earlier announced that a four-lane section of the new bridge would be opened for use by December 2020. The lockdown pushed this target to April 2021. “The labour shortage is partially resolved. Workers are returning from their home states and things are normalising. We will meet the target of April 2021,” said Joshi. The new Zuari bridge is an ambitious Rs 1,403 crore project funded by the Union ministry for road transport and highways. The bridge is being constructed in three packages, i.e. the main section, the approach road on the Cortalim end and the approach road to the bridge on the Agasaim end. On Wednesday, PWD minister Deepak Pauskar also told reporters that nearly 80% of the work on the approach roads is complete. Bhopal-based Dilip Buildcon, along with a Ukrainian company Mostobudivelnyi Zahin Ltd, was awarded the contract for construction of the bridge in 2016. The new Zuari bridge project’s four-lane approach road will begin near the Bambolim Cross on the northern end and lead upto Verna industrial estate, covering 13.7km, including the new bridge. The bridge will serve as an expressway of sorts between North and South Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/superstructure-of-zuari-bridge-to-emerge-by-oct/articleshow/77772513.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Kolkata||WB launches website to update real-time data on UG admissions||KOLKATA: Applying to the colleges of your choice has got easier with the higher education department launching an interactive portal with real-time updates on admissions across the state. The website — https://banglaruchchashiksha.wb. gov.in — will give candidates details on the applications and make the process more transparent. The state government has also asked each college to upload day-to-day data — such as the number of forms filled up by the candidates, availability of seats in individual categories, etc — on the website. “The website has information on every college affiliated to the universities in Bengal. There are around 450 state-aided colleges, which are offering undergraduate admissions this session. Many a time students struggle to find information while applying to the colleges. With the launch of the portal, candidates will also know the combinations available with the honours courses,” said a higher education department official. One of the objectives of the website is to collect data from the colleges during the undergraduate admission season. “Most of our communication with the colleges was through e-mail. Now, the institutes will be able to update the data on availability of seats and publish merit lists through the portal,” pointed out the official. “A common platform has been created. Even complaints against colleges can be registered through the same website,” he added. Principal of Surendranath College Indranil Kar said, “Data management and a common format were the needs of the hour. This would enable the decision-makers to have ready access to a repository of data. Also, there will be no ambiguity since the website has every detail. Candidates can also verify the authenticity. The GIS microdata collection and the algorithm can assist in simplification of the admission process.” Siuli Sarkar, principal of Lady Brabourne College, added that the intimation from the higher education department to update the relevant data every day will make the process student-friendly thereby allowing fewer seats to remain vacant. “With no application cost this year, more students will be able to apply at multiple colleges of their choice. The website will ease the application process even further,” pointed out the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-launches-website-to-update-real-time-data-on-ug-admissions/articleshow/77642093.cms||Somdatta Basu
August 20, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: 8,000 cops in two shifts to impose 48-hour lockdown||KOLKATA: The state will go into a total lockdown for 48 hours at a stretch — for the first time since unlocking started on June 1 — on Thursday and Lalbazar has made elaborate plans to keep people indoors and break the transmission chain. The cops have come up with two separate arrangements — one for the day and the other for night. It has been decided that close to 30-45 personnel will be deployed in each police station area during the peak morning hours. They will be supplemented by traffic police, who will run naka checks at 28 different points. Another 25-odd personnel will be deployed by each police station at night. The total deployment, though, is not being changed. Just like the lockdown days earlier this month, around 8,000 personnel will be deployed yet again. On Wednesday, policemen on the road spent a hectic day after thousands of vehicles and people converged around the central business district to complete last-minute business before the lockdown and the extended weekend began. The rain, along with a couple of fatal accidents and the movement of idols, added to the pressure. The cops have been booking a sizeable number of people prior to the lockdown as per a strategy that has already paid dividends since last month. Police had prosecuted 162 people on Monday for breaking lockdown rules and took action against 427 for not wearing masks properly. On Tuesday, these numbers stood at 140 and 365, respectively. On Wednesday, 139 people had been challaned for breaking lockdown rules, another 382 were pulled up for not wearing masks and 16 vehicles were prosecuted. “The message must go out that police will implement the lockdown just like the other shutdown days. It will be as intense as earlier,” said a senior cop, adding they were trying to piece together all intelligent inputs. The cops have asked everyone out on emergency duty to keep ID cards ready. “On previous lockdown days, we found gaps between the ID cards and the stickers stuck on cars,” said an officer. According to the strategy, each trouble pocket of each police station saw announcements from 5pm on Wednesday. “This was the general warning for residents not to venture out during the lockdown,” said an officer at Lalbazar. At 10pm on Wednesday, cops carried out another round of announcements. This time, they had a larger force. “Anyone who ventured out was questioned on his purpose of stepping out. If we found that there was no suitable reason, we prosecuted him,” said an officer from a southeast division who has two containment zones in his police station. The last-minute rush on Wednesday led to traffic congestion on CR Avenue with the tail reaching Sovabazar. “There was huge crossover at the Dorina Crossing and even at Park Street. The number of vehicles on the road was one of the highest this month so far. Add to it the rain that slowed down vehicle movement. Reports of congestion also came from AJC Bose Road and Park Circus. “Buses were packed as compared to other days. The minibus I took from Dalhousie to Behala Chowrasta had many people standing. Social distancing norms went for a toss,” said Ankita Banerjee, a bank employee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/8k-cops-in-two-shifts-to-impose-48-hr-lockdown/articleshow/77642097.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Dumper runs over man and son in Barmer district||JAISALMER: In a hit-and-run case at Balotara town in Barmer district, a dumper driver crushed a man and his 4-year-old son sleeping in a factory on Tuesday night. The child’s mother, who was injured, has been admitted to a government hospital. The labourers were sleeping at a brick kiln on Samdadi Road when a dumper carrying dust used in making bricks reached the factory. As it was dark in the factory, the driver could not see the sleeping labourers and drove the vehicle over them. Police reached the spot after getting information and started investigation. According to police, the injured woman said she was sleeping in an open place in the factory when the dumper entered. On hearing the sound of the vehicle, she got up and screamed but dumper drove over the man and his son, both residents of Madhya Pradesh. The deceased were identified as Mukesh (26) and his son Rohit (4). The wife of the deceased was seriously injured and was admitted to Nahata Hospital. They had come from Dhar district of Madhya Pradesh for working.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dumper-runs-over-man-son-in-barmer-dist/articleshow/77643387.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Ranchi||Banna’s false -ve result sends CM, 7 mins into quarantine||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren and all but three ministers in his 10-member cabinet have gone under home quarantine due to a false negative report generated by a rapid antigen test (RAT) conducted on state health minister Banna Gupta (Congress). The CM and eight of his ministers have also cancelled all their scheduled meetings and programmes. Gupta had tested negative for Covid-19 in a RAT on Tuesday morning and then attended a 30-minute cabinet meeting at Project Building in the evening, with the ministers approving as many as nine proposals. A couple of hours later, Banna’s RT-PCR test report, considered the gold standard for Covid diagnosis, returned positive. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni clarified the issue of authenticity of tests conducted through rapid antigen kits. Talking to TOI, he said, “The positive result from an antigen testing kit is 100% authentic, but a negative report has an accuracy of about 70%. If a person tests negative on RAT and develops symptoms of Covid, we immediately send him for an RT-PCR test. For asymptomatic patients testing negative, we do not conduct any further tests.” While Banna was admitted to Rims late at night on Tuesday, water resources minister Mithilesh Kumar Thakur, who recovered from Covid-19 in July, had skipped Tuesday’s meeting and does not need to isolate himself. Only finance minister Rameshwar Oraon (Congress), who shared the space with Banna at the cabinet meeting, carried on with his schedule. The 73-year-old on Wednesday attended a programme hosted by Congress’s Ranchi Mahanagar unit in Dhurwa on the eve of former PM Rajiv Gandhi’s 77th birth anniversary. Sporting an N-95 mask – which, experts say, does not prevent the spread of the virus, Oraon distributed sweets to the sanitation workers in front of former PM Jawaharlal Nehru’s statue. “Since this programme was scheduled beforehand, he took part in it in the capacity of the Jharkhand Congress president,” the party’s working president Rajesh Thakur said. Soren, who has taken tests twice since July and tested negative on both occasions, cancelled all his scheduled programs for Wednesday. He was to launch the rural welfare department’s Ajivika Samvardhan and Hunar Abhiyan (ASHA), a scheme to provide livelihood to migrant workers who returned during lockdown, and unveil Palash, a brand designed by the state Livelihood Promotion Society to market food items produced by women self-help groups. Rural development minister Alamgir Alam, who was supposed to attend some events with the CM, said: “After the news (of Banna testing positive) came in late on Tuesday, it was mutually agreed that all of us will remain in home quarantine as a precautionary measure till our samples are tested. I have cancelled all my scheduled visits and will work from home for seven days.” Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) sources said all their ministers -- Haji Hussain Ansari (land reforms and revenue), Champai Soren (transport), Jagarnath Mahto (education and excise) and Joba Manjhi (women, child development and social security) will remain in quarantine until their throat and nasal swabs are collected and tested. RJD’s lone minister Satyanand Bhokta (labour) also followed the protocols. While most ministers maintained distance with each other, Manjhi and state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh were seated closest to Gupta. The opposotion BJP expressed concern over the cabinet going into quarantine. “This is perhaps the first such instance in India where an entire cabinet is in quarantine amid the soaring cases, low recovery rates and glaring gaps in contact tracing and isolation of Covid-19 patients,” BJP’s state spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said in a statement. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said the contract tracing of Gupta is underway. “All those who came in contact with the minister will be tested in the next two-three days,” he told the TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bannas-false-ve-result-sends-cm-7-mins-into-quarantine/articleshow/77643764.cms||Dhritiman Ray
August 20, 2020||Ranchi||SC junks plea challenging M V Rao appointment as DGP||RANCHI: Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed the PIL challenging the appointment of IPS officer M V Rao as Jharkhand DGP while observing that PILs are not maintainable in service matters. A bench comprising Chief Justice of India S A Bobde, Justice A S Bopanna and Justice V Ramasubramanium observed that the petition has been dismissed after hearing both the sides. Notably, the apex court had in an earlier judgement stated PILs are not maintainable in service matters. Advocate General (AG) Rajiv Ranjan informed that during the hearing they had argued that the PIL was malafide and a proxy effort. He said, “The state also informed the court that the appointment of Rao was an interim arrangement. As soon as the panel of officers is provided by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), the regular DGP will be appointed.” Notably, petitioner Prahlad Narayan Singh had claimed that the appointment of Rao as the DGP (in-charge) violated the top court’s order. The SC had in a judgment ruled that the tenure of the DGP should be of at least two years. The court had also restrained states from appointing acting DGPs. Notably the Hemant Soren-led government had transferred the then DGP K N Chaubey on March 16 this year, 10 months after his appointment to the post, and posted Rao as the acting DGP. Meanwhile, UPSC in a communiqué to the state government said relieving Chaubey before two years without proper grounds amounted to violation of the SC order. It said that the state government should comply with the SC orders. When asked, the AG said that state government had filed its reply to the UPSC in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/sc-junks-plea-challenging-rao-appointment-as-dgp/articleshow/77643832.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Ranchi||JMM plans to contest on 12 Bihar seats with Congress & RJD||RANCHI: JMM, the strongest partner of the grand alliance in Jharkhand, wants the alliance to continue in the upcoming Bihar election. Of the 243 constituencies, the tribal party is planning to contest on 12 seats. Congress sources said the party is also willing to fight the election in the neighbouring state under the mahagathbandhan, but a decision will be taken only after the election dates are announced and the party representatives hold a formal discussion in this regard. State RJD president Abhay Singh indicated that the idea of contesting in Bihar polls with Congress is almost final and the party would have no objection in including JMM or any other like-minded political groups it can put a strong fight in the election. Talking to TOI, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said the party has promising candidates for at least 50 constituencies in Bihar. “If under any circumstances we have to contest the election alone, we are going to field candidates on 43 seats,” he added. The party has started strategising and preparing under the leadership of JMM president Shibu Soren. “Keeping in mind the outbreak, we have not yet decided the extent of his physical involvement in the meetings and campaign, but senior leaders will soon take a call in this regard,” he said. The Congres state unit is also preparing to engage leaders and workers for the election. JPCC vice-president Rajesh Thakur said Jharkhand and Bihar share a common history and, with the alliance is working properly in Jharkhand, they would be eager to continue in Bihar as well. “Grand alliance indicates unity of the anti-BJP parties and if we can fight the Bihar polls with JMM and RJD, the message to the masses will be clear that a secular government would be formed to take forward people’s aspirations,” he added. Singh said that the decision of fighting the Bihar election as part of the mahagathbandhan will taken at the national-level. “We are there to execute whatever is decided by the party president Lalu Prasad. We are going to keep a list of star campaigners and workers to be engaged in the election process,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jmm-plans-to-contest-on-12-bihar-seats-with-cong-rjd/articleshow/77643805.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
August 20, 2020||Ranchi||6 of 13 Covid deaths in East Singhbhum; 967 cases take tally above 26,000||RANCHI: Jharkhand reported 13 casualties 967 fresh cases in 24 hours until 10pm on Wednesday. Three staff members posted at the Doranda-based official residence of health minister Banna Gupta were among those who were diagnosed with the new virus. “After collecting samples based on contact tracing, the three staff from the minister’s residence were found infected. They are being shifted to isolation centres and hospitals,” said a district administration official. Among the 13 casualties reported in 24 hours; East Singhbhum continued to report the highest figure with six deaths reported on Wednesday and three late on Tuesday night. Ranchi reported two -- one on Wednesday and one late on Tuesday. Palamu and Bokaro reported one casualty each on Tuesday. East Singhbhum also continued to dominate the numbers in fresh infections with 208 fresh cases reported on Wednesday, followed by 150 in Ranchi and Deoghar with 129 cases. Palamu, which has seen a spurt in number of cases in the last fortnight, reported 82 cases, followed by 67 in Hazaribag. With 2,233 fresh cases in 48 hours, the number of active cases saw a spike of around 1,000 cases. The steep increases poses a challenge for health department as Jharkhand has reported a hike in seven days growth and doubling rate in comparison to national average whereas the recovery rate has taken a hit. Jharkhand’s seven-day growth rate stands at 3.75% against the national average of 2.51% and the seven-day doubling rate stands at 18.83 days in comparison to 28.13 nationally. The recovery rate has also taken a hit of 10% as state stand at 63% whereas it is 73% nationally. The positivity percentage on Wednesday stood at 7.87% as 967 out of 12,282 samples tested positive for infection. The state’s Covid-19 tally stood at 26,300; of which 16,566 have recovered 9,456 are active and 278 have succumbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/6-of-13-covid-deaths-in-e-sbhum-967-cases-take-tally-above-26k/articleshow/77643784.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 20, 2020||Jamshedpur||6 of 13 Covid deaths in East Singhbhum; 967 cases take tally above 26,000||RANCHI: Jharkhand reported 13 casualties 967 fresh cases in 24 hours until 10pm on Wednesday. Three staff members posted at the Doranda-based official residence of health minister Banna Gupta were among those who were diagnosed with the new virus. “After collecting samples based on contact tracing, the three staff from the minister’s residence were found infected. They are being shifted to isolation centres and hospitals,” said a district administration official. Among the 13 casualties reported in 24 hours; East Singhbhum continued to report the highest figure with six deaths reported on Wednesday and three late on Tuesday night. Ranchi reported two -- one on Wednesday and one late on Tuesday. Palamu and Bokaro reported one casualty each on Tuesday. East Singhbhum also continued to dominate the numbers in fresh infections with 208 fresh cases reported on Wednesday, followed by 150 in Ranchi and Deoghar with 129 cases. Palamu, which has seen a spurt in number of cases in the last fortnight, reported 82 cases, followed by 67 in Hazaribag. With 2,233 fresh cases in 48 hours, the number of active cases saw a spike of around 1,000 cases. The steep increases poses a challenge for health department as Jharkhand has reported a hike in seven days growth and doubling rate in comparison to national average whereas the recovery rate has taken a hit. Jharkhand’s seven-day growth rate stands at 3.75% against the national average of 2.51% and the seven-day doubling rate stands at 18.83 days in comparison to 28.13 nationally. The recovery rate has also taken a hit of 10% as state stand at 63% whereas it is 73% nationally. The positivity percentage on Wednesday stood at 7.87% as 967 out of 12,282 samples tested positive for infection. The state’s Covid-19 tally stood at 26,300; of which 16,566 have recovered 9,456 are active and 278 have succumbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/6-of-13-covid-deaths-in-e-sbhum-967-cases-take-tally-above-26k/articleshow/77652147.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 20, 2020||Business||Flipkart sales beat that of pre-Covid era||Digbijay.Mishra@timesgroup.com Bengaluru: US retail major Walmart said its international sales was hit due to Covid-19 lockdowns in India as Flipkart’s business was down for half of the second-quarter ending in June, 2020. But since the opening after mid-May, Flipkart’s gross sales, or GMV, has exceeded pre-Covid numbers, staging a fast recovery. During the quarter under review, Walmart’s international net sales was down by almost 7% at over $27 billion. Markets like Africa and central America were also affected, impacting its overseas business. “In India, Flipkart re-opened in mid-May, after which we saw GMV exceeding pre-Covid levels,” said Walmart CEO Doug McMillon. In its July 10 edition, TOI had reported both Amazon India and Flipkart are seeing high growth of 120-140% in online sales, accelerated by the pandemic. During the post-earnings call with analysts, McMillon said recent capital infusion in the local e-tailer was to make sure it had enough cash to operate at a time when the size of the prize in India is so significant that he is not “hung-up” on the valuation, in the short run. Last month, Walmart said it will invest an additional $1.2 billion in Flipkart, valuing it at almost $25 billion. “We want to make sure we’re on our front foot, being aggressive. Over time, everybody will understand just how valuable that business in India is — whether it’s Flipkart portion or PhonePe portion,” McMillon added, responding to an analyst query. In the US, Walmart saw its highest ever e-commerce growth of 97% during the quarter, which sent its share prices jumping by 6% soon after it announced the earnings. Like in the US, Walmart, via Flipkart, is fighting against Amazon in India to get a piece of the growing e-commerce market here. Amazon has also said India remains its biggest market in terms of investments outside the US. Last week, TOI reported that Amazon India, for the first time, had surpassed Flipkart’s market share in smartphone sales for the quarter ending June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/flipkart-sales-beat-that-of-pre-covid-era/articleshow/77623315.cms||Digbijay Mishra
August 20, 2020||Ranchi||BJP office-bearer shot dead in Dhanbad town||SINDRI: BJP’s Kendua committee vice-president Satish Singh (34) was shot dead on Wednesday afternoon at Matkuria Main Road, barely a kilometre away from the heart of Dhanbad city’s Bank More. Singh was also a land broker. SP (City) R Ramkumar said an investigation has begun and the criminals will be nabbed soon. Sources said Satish alighted from a car at Matkuria Main Road around 3pm and was walking towards Vikash Nagar talking on his phone when two bike-borne miscreants wearing helmets approached him from behind. The pillion rider alighted from and shot him point blank and fled towards Vikash Nagar. The entire episode has been captured in the CCTV camera of a nearby house. People took him to Patliputra Medical College and Hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. BJP’s Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha said, “One bullet pierced his neck and it seems to have caused his death. It appears to be a planned murder and the manner in which it was carried out indicates the state of the law and order situation in the district.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bjp-office-bearer-shot-dead-in-dhanbad-town/articleshow/77643866.cms||---
August 20, 2020||Jamshedpur||JMM plans to contest on 12 Bihar seats with Congress & RJD||RANCHI: JMM, the strongest partner of the grand alliance in Jharkhand, wants the alliance to continue in the upcoming Bihar election. Of the 243 constituencies, the tribal party is planning to contest on 12 seats. Congress sources said the party is also willing to fight the election in the neighbouring state under the mahagathbandhan, but a decision will be taken only after the election dates are announced and the party representatives hold a formal discussion in this regard. State RJD president Abhay Singh indicated that the idea of contesting in Bihar polls with Congress is almost final and the party would have no objection in including JMM or any other like-minded political groups it can put a strong fight in the election. Talking to TOI, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said the party has promising candidates for at least 50 constituencies in Bihar. “If under any circumstances we have to contest the election alone, we are going to field candidates on 43 seats,” he added. The party has started strategising and preparing under the leadership of JMM president Shibu Soren. “Keeping in mind the outbreak, we have not yet decided the extent of his physical involvement in the meetings and campaign, but senior leaders will soon take a call in this regard,” he said. The Congres state unit is also preparing to engage leaders and workers for the election. JPCC vice-president Rajesh Thakur said Jharkhand and Bihar share a common history and, with the alliance is working properly in Jharkhand, they would be eager to continue in Bihar as well. “Grand alliance indicates unity of the anti-BJP parties and if we can fight the Bihar polls with JMM and RJD, the message to the masses will be clear that a secular government would be formed to take forward people’s aspirations,” he added. Singh said that the decision of fighting the Bihar election as part of the mahagathbandhan will taken at the national-level. “We are there to execute whatever is decided by the party president Lalu Prasad. We are going to keep a list of star campaigners and workers to be engaged in the election process,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/jmm-plans-to-contest-on-12-bihar-seats-with-cong-rjd/articleshow/77652083.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
August 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Man downloads app to cancel online order, loses Rs 70,000 in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A 37-year-old private company employee recently lost Rs 70,000 to online fraudsters after he asked a delivery boy to cancel his order for a headphone set over a payment dispute. Raman (name changed) from Koramangala came across an advertisement about sale of headphones on social media. He placed an order and paid Rs 1,600 digitally. "A delivery boy identifying himself as Raj visited my house. He asked me to pay the amount but I told him I had already paid online. I showed him a screenshot of the payment but he was not convinced. So I asked him to cancel the order. Raj called another person who identified himself as Sandeep to inform him about my decision. Sandeep asked me to download an app. I did so and provided information, including my bank account details. Soon after the delivery boy left, I realised Rs 70,000 had been deducted from my account," Raman said. Raman approached Central CEN Crime police on Monday to lodge the complaint. Man agrees to enhance credit limit, duped of 1L A 43-year-old private firm staffer lost over Rs 1 lakh after he agreed to enhance his credit limit to Rs 1.5 lakh from Rs 1 lakh and shared details of his credit card. Salman from Rajendranagar near Koramangala told police he had received a call from an unknown number and the caller had introduced herself as Ankita, representative of the bank from which he had availed the card. "She enquired about quality of the service and later told Salman the bank was ready to increase his credit limit to Rs 1.5 lakh. She collected his card details. After a few days, he got to know that some miscreants had siphoned off Rs 1,03,525 from his card," a police officer said. Central CEN Crime police have taken up the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/man-downloads-app-to-cancel-online-order-loses-rs-70000-in-bengaluru/articleshow/77645387.cms||---
