August 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Pandemic dampens Ganesha idol sales in Bengaluru||Ganesha Habba is one of the most popular festivals not just in the state, but in several parts of the country. It is a time of processions and music, with Ganesha idols adorning every home and grand idols at pandals installed across the city, for the public to pay their respects. However, popular areas where idols are made and sold in Bengaluru, wore a deserted look. Doraiswamy, 61, an artisan from Pottery Town, usually starts making idols in January, in preparation for the bulk orders that start in March. But this has not been the case this year. “We haven’t got any big orders. People are scared to step out and buy readymade idols,” he says. Some idol makers even anticipated the slump and hence, made fewer idols than usual. “We didn’t make any big idols when we heard about the onset of the pandemic,” says Devaraj, who sells on Bull Temple Road and has a factory at Talaghattapura. “There has been a slump in the sales, which we had expected,” he shares, adding that his idols have been priced the same as last year. Small to medium sized idols are priced between Rs 100 and Rs 1,500, in shops across the city. While many Bengalureans already make their own idols at home, those who opt to buy, will find limited options in the market, as most idol makers have reduced production in anticipation of the lull in sales. They have also been instructed by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to reduce the size of idols made for homes, as they will have to be immersed at home itself. Kumbalgod Shivakumar, who has a factory on Mysore Road and sells in Basavanagudi, concentrates only on eco-friendly idols for home use. He says, “These range from half a foot to one and a half feet in size. But we have made only around 60 per cent of the number of idols that we made last year.” Guidelines issued by the BBMP * Idols of two feet or lesser for homes * No idol above four feet allowed in public * Only one public idol per ward * No loud music * No gathering of more than 20 people Rise in use of plasticWhile the idol makers have made eco-friendly idols, they admit that the fear among the public has led to the use of plastic wrap for each idol, to ensure safety during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pandemic-dampens-ganesha-idol-sales-in-bengaluru/articleshow/77660375.cms||Sunayana Suresh
August 21, 2020||Chennai||#MadrasWeek: Chennai’s youngsters experience city through its public transport||Sundar Raman, an assistant relationship manager at a private bank, can tell you which station along the Beach-Chengalpattu route his train has halted at, with his eyes closed. “The buzz, the smell, the kind of conversations you hear at each of these stations are so different, so unique. I board at Tambaram, and till the time I get off at Chetpet, I literally breathe in and experience Chennai, which no other touristy option will help me achieve,” says the 26-year-old Chennaiite. Sundar is not alone. For most of us, the various means of public transports — trains, buses, autos, share autos and the relatively newer addition, metro — are a cultural identity of the city. And that’s why, many, like Muhilann Murugan, a 24-year-old architect from Alandur, choose to travel by public transport despite having other options. “Train, share autos and bus — those are my modes of commute anywhere within the city,” says Muhilann, who’s currently working on a project with Nam Veedu Nam Oor Nam Kadhai (NVNONK), a community organisation, for the Madras Literary Society in DPI campus, Nungambakkam. He adds, “I travel by train from St Thomas Mount to Nungambakkam and then, take a share auto to the campus,” he says, adding that’s exactly what he has been missing the most during the pandemic — the suburban train journey. While Muhilann has been collecting data on tram service in Madras during the lockdown, 32-year-old Rajesh Seshadri has been spending his days sketching Chennai’s transport links. “It’s brought about a wave of nostalgia. So many people have messaged me, sharing stories of how they made friends for a lifetime while commuting on buses, trains and share autos,” says the artiste. Muhilann adds, “From people sharing breakfasts to flower sellers swiftly knotting garlands before reaching their destinations, you meet so many different people in trains. I’ve come across some really talented singers during my train journeys. I love those small onion samosas with green chilli that people sell in compartments. These are experiences that complete Chennai.” Just as much as suburban trains fascinate many, the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) buses, too, have several fans. Among them is 27-year-old Santhapriyan Kamaraj. “If local trains are the lifeline of Mumbai, for Chennaiites, it’s the bus. They ensure last-mile connectivity,” says the Salem lad, who’s spent most of his childhood in Chennai and continues to frequent the city. Santhapriyan, who’s the admin of the Facebook page called TNSTC Enthusiasts, adds, “While I was working in Chennai, I’d commute between Ashok Pillar and Siruseri on buses. MTC buses make us 90s kids nostalgic. I still remember those shutter-type windows that these buses once had. We’ve requested the MTC to start a bus museum in Chennai.” In fact, he along with other members of the group, have made miniatures of their favourite buses. “We’ve also come up with a document on how to manage the public once buses resume service. It has been submitted by the MTC as a fool-proof document in the Madras High Court,” he informs. The journey of the bus  1920s Low-elevated double-decker imported buses were in service  1960s Articulated double-decker was introduced in Madras 1967 Nationalisation of buses happened in Tamil Nadu, and State Transport Madras was renamed as the Tamil Nadu State Transport Department 1972 Pallavan Transport Corporation was formed 1994 Pallavan Transport Corporation was bifurcated into DATC (Dr Ambedkar Transport Corporation) for north Chennai and PTC (Pallavan Transport Corporation for South Chennai) 1997 PTC and DATC got renamed as MTC Division 1 and 2, respectively 2001 MTC Division 1 and 2 were merged to form MTC, Chennai 2001 Chennai's first air suspension luxury buses were introduced by MTC 2007 The last double-decker was withdrawn from service 2008 MTC introduced around 50 Volvo SLF, which ran until 2018 2011 MTC was the first in India to introduce BS4 buses  — Santhapriyan Kamaraj||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/madrasweek-chennais-youngsters-experience-city-through-its-public-transport/articleshow/77660000.cms||Ashish Ittyerah Joseph
August 21, 2020||India||Isro to allow startups to test launcher systems at its facilities: Chief Sivan||NEW DELHI: In another significant step to open its doors to private players, Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) said it “will soon allow some startups to test their launch vehicle systems at its facilities and will allow some of them to set up their own launchpads at Sriharikota”. TOI had earlier reported that Isro is likely to allow private players to have their own launchpads. Speaking to TOI, Isro chairman K Sivan said, “Some 2-3 startups are in an advanced stage of talks with us for testing their launcher systems like engine and navigation systems at Isro facilities. We have agreed to allow them to use our testing facilities like at the Mahendragiri centre. We have also agreed to allow them to set up their own launchpads at Sriharikota. But that stage will come later as it (developing a launcher) is a long way to go.” Sivan said some startups are busy in making satellites and some are making launchers and they will together work out a deal to launch their satellites from their own launchpads. Isro will provide all the technical expertise and share facilities they need in this venture. He also said the Centre’s decision to ban the import of communication satellites under the Atmanirbhar Bharat drive will open up big opportunities for the private sector. Speaking at a webinar on "Unlocking India's Potential In Space Sector" on Thursday, the Isro chief said, "We are extremely happy that the government's import embargo on communication satellites under the self-reliant India drive will boost indigenisation. I am sure it will continue and we are going to depend more and more on self-reliant (products). It will provide a huge opportunity not only for Isro, NewSpace India Ltd (NSIL) but also for the private sector." Giving a clearer picture of the composition of the new space board, IN-SPACE, R Umamaheshwaran, Isro's scientific secretary, during a webinar said that “the board will have five directorates and will oversee space activities by private players, integrated launch manifest, launch activities and sharing of Isro facilities”. The five directorates will be dealing with technical, legal, safety and security, monitoring and activity promotion aspects of the space sector. It will also promote handholding of industries, building of launch vehicles and satellites by the industry, and sharing of Isro facilities. Isro, on the other hand, will focus on development of new technologies, identifying cutting-edge technology to be developed by the industry, allowing sharing of its facilities to the private sector and offering its technology spin-offs for mass production, he said. On the expanded role of NSIL, Maheshwaran said, “The PSU will own satellites and provide space-based services on a commercial basis. It will build satellites and launch them as per demand, get launch vehicles built through the industry, promote satellite building by the industry and will facilitate technology transfer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/isro-to-allow-startups-to-test-launcher-systems-at-its-facilities-chief-sivan/articleshow/77662489.cms||Surendra Singh
August 21, 2020||Delhi||#CoronaEffect: Sharp drop in the sale of Ganpati idols this Ganesh Chaturthi||Every year, in the run up to Ganesh Chaturthi, the markets in Delhi selling Ganpati idols are abuzz with activity as sellers line up hundreds of idols, both big and small, for devotees to buy and take home. This year, the COVID-19 pandemic has put a dent in that. While not deserted, the markets are not as busy this year with idol makers across Delhi reporting a 60-70% decline in their sales. While visarjan in rivers like Yamuna and other natural water bodies has been prohibited since 2015 following an order by the National Green Tribunal, the Delhi government usually creates artificial ponds at public places for immersion at Ganesh Chaturthi and Durga Puja. This year, given the COVID-19 situation, all visarjan in public places is banned with a fine of Rs 50,000 for violators. As a result, most devotees are not going for larger idols that need to be immersed in bigger ponds and instead going for eco-friendly smaller Ganeshas, mostly made of clay. "The idols made of POP (Plaster Of Paris) don't dissolve easily and it is anyway better to go for clay or earthen idols as they are eco-friendly even if they are slightly costlier in comparison with POP idols of the same size," says Rati Singh, who bought a smaller clay idol this year as opposed to a large one that she used to buy each year. Sculptors say that due to the ban on visarjan in public places, there is no demand for large idols and hence, they are only making smaller ones this yearThere is absolutely no sale of the larger Ganesha idols due to the blanket ban on immersions this year. Idols larger than 4 feet, which generally cost from Rs 5,000 to anywhere up to Rs 50,000, are not being made by the artisans this year. Most of the sculptors and artists who create these idols live in Samaspur Jagir, Hauz Rani and Tughlaqabad villages. Most set up shop roadside, outside their workshop-cum-house during the season, where the larger idols are prominently displayed to attract buyers. This year, that is absent. "The larger idols are made on demand. People usually come weeks in advance and book them after which we make as many as we need. This year, that did not happen. So we did not make any. Our sales are almost one-third of what they would be every year," says Anita, an idol maker from Samaspur Jagir Village. The trouble for the idol makers is that the sale of these large idols would constitute a large share of their overall sales for the season. Sita, a sculptor from Samaspur Jagir, tells us, "We made Baahubali Ganesha idols two years ago that sold at Rs 8,000-10,000 each. We made 120 of them and they sold out in days. This year, we don't have anything like that because there is no demand. So we make smaller ones which sell for Rs 2,000-3,000. But since the quantity sold is the same, we are suffering losses." Devotees have shifted focus to smaller idols that can be immersed at homeNo takers for large size Ganesha idols Devotees have shifted focus to smaller idols that can be immersed at home and there are some takers for the traditional Ganpati idols made of shadu clay as well. However, the absence of skilled workers has meant that many are unable to meet that demand, too. A seller from Hauz Rani says, "We scaled down operations this year because many of our artisans went back home during the lockdown and haven't returned since. So, we don't have enough skilled workers to make the number of idols we do every year." A large section of buyers says they are hesitant to purchase something from the market given the COVID scare. Such folks have taken their purchases online. Ketan Sharma, a Gurgaon resident, says, "I don't know if an idol can be sanitised properly. I haven't been buying anything from the markets and hence, buying a Ganpati idol from the roadside didn't seem smart. So I got one online."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/coronaeffect-sharp-drop-in-the-sale-of-ganpati-idols-this-ganesh-chaturthi/articleshow/77654834.cms||Abhimanyu Mathur
August 21, 2020||Mumbai||Ganpati to reveal its ‘Corona Ka Vadh’ avatar in COVID-19 times||At a time when the focal point of discussions all around the world is COVID-19 and the number of lives it has claimed, India is set to welcome Ganpati with Ganesh Chaturthi, which will take off this weekend. This year, the much-loved deity will be seen in a new avatar — that of the vanquisher of coronavirus as a symbol of triumph of good over evil. Yes, it is the ‘Corona Ka Vadh’ karnewala Ganpati that dominates the theme this year. ‘We chose the corona theme because Bappa ke upar bohot vishwaas hai’Rajesh Jadhao giving finishing touches to the Ganpati idolAt Vithal Chavan Pratishthan, Parel, where these Ganesha idols are being made, the day goes by in a blur for the busy karigars in masks, who are stationed here. Idol maker Rajesh Jadhao, who’s been making the idol for the last 25 years, comes from a family of devout followers. He says, “It is the first time we are making the Ganpati idol with the theme called ‘Corona Na Naash’, or as we say in Marathi, ‘Corona Ka Vadh’. We chose this theme because Bappa ke upar bohot vishwaas hai. This design is our way of showing shraddha to him.” The idols are made keeping the government directive in mind, especially for sarvajanik mandals where the height of the moortis have been capped at 4-feet. “We have made idols at 3.45-feet. Fifty per cent of our idols are eco-friendly, so they can be easily immersed. But those using artificial ponds must add baking soda to the water first to be able to complete the immersion process smoothly,” adds the Ulhasnagar-based maker, who is from Buldhana district. ‘Customers are asking for idols at low prices, which does not cover our expenses’The 'Corona Na Naash Ganesha' takes an effort to be made Ever since the idol makers introduced the Corona Na Naash Ganesha, the demand for the themed idol has shot up. However, they add that the costs are outweighing the price, which is approximately 15k. “We made the theme and model ourselves. As soon as people saw it, they asked me to make more idols. I have about 6-7 pieces now. I may not be able to make more as it’s costly and customers say they can’t pay for it. Businesses have been affected due to the coronavirus, so customers are asking for idols at low prices, which does not cover up expenses incurred in making them. Mera labour aur material kharcha nahi nikal raha hai. I need certain materials to make the idol, like I have to make the lakdi ka paata. This idol is in a standing pose, so I need iron fabrication and welding for support.” Jadhao has involved five of his brothers in making the idols as there is a labour shortage during the pandemic. “So many people have closed their businesses out of coronavirus fears, lekin, maine socha main har saal Bappa ki dua se paise kamata hoon, toh aise sankat mein agar mujhe unke seva ka mauka mila hai, toh main Bappa ko banane ke liye Mumbai mein khada hoon,” he says. His wife has come along to help by cooking for them all. Adds his brother Lakshmi Das, “We have already given one moorti to the Chembur Ka Raja mandal. People want smaller ones for their homes, but we only make the sarvajanik ones. The puranas have shown ke rakshas ko Bhagwan ne maara hai, yeh bhi humare theme ka matlab hai.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ganpati-to-reveal-its-corona-ka-vadh-avatar-in-covid-19-times/articleshow/77660256.cms||Ismat Tahseen
August 21, 2020||India||Congress, RJD seek paper ballots in Bihar poll; BJP wants jailed leaders barred from virtual campaign||NEW DELHI: The Congress, RJD and AIMIM have suggested that Election Commission use paper ballots rather than electronic voting machines (EVMs) in the upcoming Bihar poll and bye-elections, citing the high risk of Covid-19 infection due to hundreds of voters coming in contact with each machine. BJP on the other hand, in its representation to the poll panel on safety measures to be taken for elections during the pandemic, suggested awareness campaigns by EC to encourage voters to come out and vote without fear by taking adequate safety measures against Covid-19. Importantly, the BJP has sought a direction from EC that no person lodged in jail post-conviction or as an undertrial, be permitted to campaign in the virtual mode. The ruling ally in Bihar wants strict consequences to be spelt for any party allowing participation by a jailed leader either directly or indirectly through social media. While no names were taken, the suggestion appears to be aimed at blocking any virtual campaign by jailed RJD supremo Lalu Prasad Yadav. In view of added expenses on masks, sanitisers, PPE kits and thermal screening, BJP suggested a raised expense limit for candidates or alternatively, exemption of such expenditure or its charging to the party’s account. It also requested that distribution of essential safety items not be considered as a ‘bribe’ to the voter. While four parties – Lok Janshakti Party, Nationalist Congress Party, Aam Aadmi Party and National People’s Party – in their suggestions to EC outrightly sought deferring of Bihar poll in view of the pandemic and floods, others like RJD, Congress and Trinamool Congress only questioned the need to time polls amid these situations. JD(U) has suggested a single-phase poll in view of Covid-19 situation and to cut poll expenditure. However, sources said this may be a difficult proposition due to continued deployment of a large number of para-military troops in J&K. RJD sought ballot-based voting, reasoning that the life of virus on metal and plastic surfaces was greater than on paper. AIMIM asked how sanitization of EVMs was possible without slowing down voting. EC, it is learnt, is working out a system wherein direct contact between the voter and EVM button will be avoided. EC guidelines on safety measures for upcoming polls and byepolls, are expected on Friday. Interestingly, JD(U) has demanded that EVMs be kept in a vertical and not horizontal position in the booths, with sequence of placement of multiple EVMs being left to right. A JD(U) source said this was to keep voters from pressing the button on the wrong machine where two EVMs are deployed to accommodate more candidates, diverting his vote to a non-preferred party. Congress said individuals attending campaign meetings must take care of themselves and organisers not should not be blamed for any breach by the public. It also suggested that campaigners from outside who violated model code in 2019 general election with communal or casteist speeches, must not be allowed to campaign. Other interesting suggestions include life-insurance for voters who contract Covid-19 during poll, by RJD; and compulsory and free Covid testing for polling staff and candidates at periodic intervals, by AIMIM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cong-rjd-aimim-cite-covid-urge-ec-to-use-paper-ballots/articleshow/77664680.cms||Bharti Jain
August 21, 2020||India||City’s population with Covid antibodies rises to 29%||NEW DELHI: The second serological survey conducted across Delhi has revealed that the prevalence of Covid-19 antibodies has gone up to 29.1% of the population, up from 23.5% in the first survey. This means that over 58 lakh of the two crore population of Delhi has been infected with the coronavirus and has recovered successfully. Their risk of getting infected again is now low. This time the survey was conducted by the Delhi government in association with Maulana Azad Medical College. State health minister Satyendar Jain said the result was a good sign and added that a third serological survey will be conducted in the capital from September 1. Another will follow in October. An average of 25% growth in antibodies was found among people as compared to the last sero survey. The prevalence was higher in women (32.2%) than men (28.3%). In age-groups, the highest prevalence was found among people below 18 years (34.7%) and lowest in the 18-49 age-group (28.5%). The city is still far from acquiring herd immunity, which is at least 40%, though experts disagree on the level required. The government is taking heart from the fact that between the first sero survey, which started on June 27, and the second one, which took off on August 1, the antibody prevalence in the capital has increased significantly. "On the other hand, 70% of people have not developed antibodies, which means that we are yet to reach the stage of herd immunity. The people of Delhi are very careful in taking precautions against Covid, which is very positive. The pandemic is not spreading exponentially in Delhi like before," said Jain, addressing a press conference. The survey, however, reveals that the spread of the infection has not been uniform in the city and the change between the two surveys varies from 6.8% in North-East district to 50.2% in South-East district. Seroprevalence is also highest in the South-East district (33.2%), where every third resident has got infected and recovered. It’s lowest in South-West district where only 16.3% people have antibodies. The survey was conducted in all 11 districts of the capital. A total of 15,000 samples were collected from the districts between August 1 and 7. Of these, 25% of the samples were collected from people in the 5-17 age group, 50% from the 18-49 age group and 25% from those above 50 years. The prevalence has been found to be 34.7%, 28.5% and 31.2%, respectively. "The sample size was decided on the basis of a study conducted by scientists. People belonging to every class were included — those living in slums, middle class and upper middle class. There are people from all age groups and genders," said the minister. A health official said that for the first serological survey, teams of health workers had visited different areas and chosen every fifth house from a selected locality. "For the second survey, however, we selected mostly residents of identified locations through a randomised sampling technique and asked them to visit their nearest dispensary for giving blood samples," explained the official. The health minister said the antibodies stay in the body from a period of 3-4 months up to 7-8 months. "Along with this, T-cells also develop and their life is much longer. They are called memory cells, and because of them, if people have been infected by the coronavirus in the past, it is not probable that they will get infected again," said Jain, attributing his remarks to scientists. The government will compare the data of the previous survey with the latest one and decide if any change of approach is required. "It is also reassuring to see that the positivity rate in Delhi has reduced to nearly 7%, which is much lower than the national average. The situation in Delhi is improving," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/citys-population-with-covid-antibodies-rises-to-29/articleshow/77664936.cms||Alok K N Mishra
August 21, 2020||India||Don’t seek mercy, will accept any penalty: Defiant Bhushan||NEW DELHI: Armed with the support of retired judges and buoyed by attorney general K K Venugopal’s “don’t punish him” plea, activist-advocate Prashant Bhushan on Thursday refused to apologise to avert punishment for his conviction for contempt and defiantly told the Supreme Court that he would cheerfully accept penalty without seeking the court’s mercy or magnanimity. He told a bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari that for the last three decades, he had tried to uphold the majesty of the SC, “not as a courtier or cheerleader but as a humble guard”. Reading out a four-paragraph statement, he said, “I find it hard to believe that the court finds my tweet ‘has the effect of destabilising the very foundation of this important pillar of Indian democracy’. I can only reiterate that these two tweets represented my bonafide beliefs, the expression of which must be permissible in any democracy... Failing to speak up would have been a dereliction of duty, especially for an officer of the court like myself. “I can only humbly paraphrase what the father of the nation Mahatma Gandhi had said in his trial: I do not ask for mercy. I do not appeal to magnanimity. I am here, therefore, to cheerfully submit to any penalty that can lawfully be inflicted upon me for what the court has determined to be an offence, and what appears to me to be the highest duty of a citizen.” The bench was not moved by the defiance and said the tone and tenor of the statement appeared to aggravate the contempt. It asked Bhushan to take “two-three days’ time and think over it and modify it”. Justice Mishra said Bhushan should admit before the court “from the core of his heart” that he realised his mistake of “crossing the Lakshman Rekha” and promise not to repeat it. The judge emphasised that he has never punished anyone for contempt in his two decade-long career. Bhushan bluntly told the court, “I do not want to reconsider my statement.” When the bench said he should not blame the court later on for not giving him time to rethink, Bhushan said, “The statement was a well thought out and considered one. If the Supreme Court wants, I can think it over. But it is unlikely that there will be any substantial change. I do not want to waste the court's time any more.” However, a little later, he said, “I will consult my lawyers and see if any change can be made.” The bench rejected Bhushan’s plea for deferment of sentencing till he had filed his petition seeking review of the judgment convicting him of contempt. But it clarified that in the event he was awarded punishment, the sentence would be kept in abeyance till the court decided his review petition.” The concession did not cut much ice with seasoned lawyer Rajeev Dhavan, who appeared for Bhushan. He elaborately argued how the conviction was wrong. The bench countered him by observing that “freedom of speech is not absolute, for you, the judges or anyone. There is a Lakshman Rekha. Being an activist does not mean you will cross that line.” Dhavan said the ‘Lakshman Rekha’ applied to the SC as well, requiring balancing free speech and finding out whether whatever Bhushan said was done with malice. He asked the bench to consider: “Who is the person before you? He has consistently highlighted corruption in public offices, including judiciary. He has the support of 10,000 lawyers. Former judges — Justices (R M) Lodha, (Madan B) Lokur, (Kurian) Joseph and (A P) Shah — have echoed my statements and support me. Are they also in contempt of SC?” The bench brushed aside the drumming of public support for Bhushan and said “a lot of things are happening. You do not want us to tell you everything.” While giving time to Bhushan to think about modifying his statement, the bench said, “When it comes to sentence, we can be lenient only when a person realises his mistake and is sincere about it. We may forget whatever is done in the past, even though we may not agree with him. But doing 10 bad things can ruin the hundred good things one has done. If doing good things should condone the bad acts, why should that parameter be not applicable to all?” Watch Supreme Court rejects Prashant Bhushan's submission, gives 2-3 days time to reconsider statement||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dont-seek-mercy-will-accept-any-penalty-defiant-bhushan/articleshow/77665204.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 21, 2020||Business||Unemployment allowance: 50% of pay for 3 months||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Thursday eased norms to offer 50% of salary for three months as unemployment allowance to lakhs of workers who are members of the Employees State Insurance Corporation and lost their jobs due to the coronavirus pandemic. The move comes as a major relief for industrial workers, who have lost jobs or are on the verge of losing jobs due to the impact of the pandemic and the lockdown, which had stalled economic activity. There have been demands from several sections to provide wage relief to workers hit hard by the pandemic. In fact, at least two months ago, the finance ministry and Niti Aayog had demanded that the rules be eased. Read AlsoDesi jobs attract resumes from abroadWhen TeamLease Services recently advertised for an opening in a marketing role at the recruitment firm, it was surprised to receive a response from candidates not only across India but from the US as well. Both employers and employees have recognised the potential of working from any location. ThisThe employees will be eligible to claim the allowance for three months (90 days) during the period from start of lockdown on March 24 to December 31. They should have been part of the ESI scheme for two years during the period from April 1, 2018, to March 31, 2020, and should have contributed at least for 78 days during the period from October 1, 2019, to March 31, 2020 and also in one of the other three six monthly contribution periods from April 1, 2018. V Radhakrishnan, member of the ESIC board and national executive member of Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, said the move will benefit around 30-35 lakh workers and provide relief to those who have lost jobs. The liberalised scheme has been introduced by modifying the Atal Bimit Vyakti Kalyan Yojana scheme. The ESIC scheme covers workers earning up to a specified limit and also entitles them to unemployment allowance. Under the scheme, relief to the extent of 25% of the average per day earning during the previous four contribution period is paid up to a maximum 90 days of unemployment once in a lifetime subject to certain conditions. This has now been raised to 50%. The conditions stipulate that the insured person should have been rendered unemployed during the period relief is claimed. He or she should have been in insurable employment for a minimum period of two years immediately before his/her unemployment. It also says that the insured person should have contributed for at least 78 days during each of preceding four contribution periods. Read AlsoCabinet decisions for discoms, sugarcane farmers, job seekers: All you need to knowThe Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved major decisions to provide liquidity to power sector, ease recruitment process for central government jobs and increased the fair and remunerative Price (FRP) of sugarcane to protect the interest of the farmers, in a meeting chaired by PM Modi. Union ministerSources said the earlier condition was the claim had to be submitted through the employers but now conditions have been eased to allow workers to approach the ESIC office to get the claim. Instead of the relief becoming payable 90 days after unemployment, it shall become due for payment after 30 days. The ESIC has decided to extend the scheme for one more year up to June 30, 2021. The decisions were taken at a meeting of the ESIC headed by minister of state for labour Santosh Gangwar. The meeting also decided to set up ICU and HDU services at 10% of total beds in ESIC hospitals, a government statement said. Watch Unemployment allowance: 50% of pay for 3 months||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/unemployment-allowance-50-of-pay-for-3-months/articleshow/77665237.cms||---
August 21, 2020||India||Manjhi rocks grand alliance boat, Lalu ‘samdhi’ joins JD(U)||PATNA: In a setback for the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan in Bihar, former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi announced on Thursday that his Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) would break away from the opposition alliance and look for an alternative ahead of the assembly polls in the state. Party sources, however, denied its merger with the JD(U). The party decided to part ways with the Magathbandhan at a meeting of the HAM(S) core group held here on Thursday. Party chief Manjhi, a Mahadalit leader, was also authorized at the meeting to decide the future course of action, including reaching an alliance with another political group. The development came even as three RJD MLAs, including Chandrika Rai – party chief Lalu Prasad’s relative – joined JD(U) on Thursday. Chandrika is father of Aishwarya Rai, who is married to Lalu’s elder son and former health minister Tej Pratap. Two other MLAs who joined JD(U) are Jaivardhan Yadav and Faraz Fatmi. On Monday, three RJD MLAs — Maheshwar Prasad Yadav, Prema Choudhary and Ashok Kumar -- had joined the JD(U). Soon after the meeting of HAM(S) members, party spokesperson Danish Rizwan said, “It was decided at the meeting of the core group not to stay any longer with the Mahagathbandhan as it ignored our main demands. The Mahaganthbandhan constituents deliberately ignored our top leaders.” HAM(S) would decide on allying with another political group in the next few days, he said, denying reports of a merger with JD(U). Speculation was rife over Manjhi switching over to NDA ever since his relations with the Mahagathbandhan, especially RJD, got strained over its repeated demand for setting up of a coordination committee to decide seat sharing and CM candidate of the Mahagathbandhan. Manjhi had contested the 2015 assembly election as part of the NDA and got 20 seats to fight from. However, it won only one and forfeited sureties on many of the seats. The JD(U), led by CM Nitish Kumar, was then part of the Mahagathbandhan, which consisted of RJD, JD(U) and Congress. In 2017, Nitish left the Mahagathbandhan and formed the government with the BJP and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party (LJP). The NDA will get another Mahadalit face ahead of the assembly election if Manjhi joins the alliance. Watch Jitan Ram Manjhi’s HAM breaks away from ‘Mahagathbandhan’ ahead of Bihar polls||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/manjhi-rocks-grand-alliance-boat-lalu-samdhi-joins-jdu/articleshow/77665292.cms||Ramashankar
August 21, 2020||India||Kerala parties unite to fight airport lease||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Setting aside political differences, leaders of ruling LDF and opposition UDF camps have resolved to put up a united fight against the Centre’s decision to lease out the Trivandrum International Airport to Adani Enterprises Group. An all-party meeting convened by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday demanded that the decision should be repealed. But the joint call by LDF and UDF leaders failed to deter Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor of the Congress from expressing his opinion in favour of the decision. “The people of Thiruvananthapuram want a first-class airport worthy of the city’s history, status, and potential. In this context, a decision, however controversial, is preferable to the long delay we have suffered,” he tweeted, adding that his position on the issue was consistent and he was not a politician who says ‘one thing to the voters and something else afterwards for political convenience’. Vijayan said the general feeling in the meeting was against the privatization of the airport. He accused the Union government for going back on its promise that the decision to hand over the airport to Adani group will be reviewed. The cooperation of state government was important in the functioning of the airport, said the CM, adding, ‘no one who knows business would be ready to challenge the state government’. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said the move to hand over the airport to Adani group cannot be justified as it is a novice in the field. “Since the decision to hand over the airport has been challenged in court, it won’t be possible for the Centre to take a decision unilaterally," he said. BJP state general secretary George Kurien who attended the all-party conference accused Vijayan of threatening investors ready to put money in projects beneficial to the state. “LDF and UDF are taking an anti-Kerala stand,” he said. Sources indicated that the takeover may not be a cakewalk for the company. Among the hurdles before the company is the ‘state support agreement,’ a crucial element to complete the takeover procedures. With the chief minister announcing non-cooperation with the Centre’s decision, chances are high that the state may abstain from signing the agreement. Also, petitions filed by the government and Airport Authority Employees’ Union against the takeover are pending before the high court. While politicians opposed the Centre’s decision, there was overwhelming support to the decision from city-based non-political organizations and various citizens’ groups. Several Facebook groups like Trivandrum Indian, Trivandrum Life and ‘Let’s make our city the best’ had recorded several comments by members hailing the Centre’s decision and congratulating the MP for taking an apolitical stand. Confederation of Indian Industry also welcomed the decision of the government to hand over the airport to the private sector. Chairman of CII Kerala state council Thomas John Muthoot, said “This is an ideal move which would improve flight connectivity and facilities at the airport including logistics and infrastructure facilities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-parties-unite-to-fight-airport-lease/articleshow/77665327.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Patna||Experts question impact of virtual rallies on electorate||PATNA: With political parties gearing up for the state assembly polls amid the Covid-19 pandemic, intellectuals and social scientists are not sure if virtual rallies and digital campaigning will make a pronounced impact on the minds of the electorate. According to Bihar State Intellectuals’ Forum convener Shiv Jatan Thakur, rallies and door-to-door campaigning cannot be done away with because most people living in villages and slums are influenced by the mass appeal of netas. “In a state where the internet penetration is limited to only 34% of the total population, how can the political parties mobilize the voters in their favour?” asks Thakur. Social scientist Ashesh Das Gupta points out that although virtual rallies may not pull large crowds and create a surcharged atmosphere for electioneering, they keep cadres and party workers motivated. “Digital campaigning has very limited impact on the voters as it fails to develop primary relationship between the leader and the audience. The success of virtual rallies, on the other hand, depends on the intellect of the electorate,” he says. Former head of the economics department in Patna University, Nawal Kishore Chaudhary, also says digital campaigning will hardly make any visible impact on the masses. He adds, “The electronic media is more popular and is likely to create some impact on the minds of the people. People usually cast votes on the basis of their personal experience about a party’s performance during the last five years.” A faculty member of the A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, Vidyarthi Vikas, claims that only 30% of the electorate will be impacted by digital campaigning as the remaining 70% is not conversant with the virtual world and casts votes on the basis of pre-conceived notions. PU psychology department head Iftekhar Hossain echoes similar views and says, “The electorate has preferences when it comes to casting votes in elections. Hence, rallies have very little impact on the masses.” Patna College sociology department head Randhir Kumar Singh also feels that virtual rallies are merely warm-up exercises for party workers and fail to make any noticeable impact on the electorate. “If the present situation continues, I wonder if voters will go to the polling booths,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/experts-question-impact-of-virtual-rallies-on-electorate/articleshow/77660949.cms||B K Mishra
August 21, 2020||Vadodara||Cameras atop 20m-towers to keep watch on highway||Vadodara: Soon, whenever the national highway that passes from the outskirts of the city faces traffic jams, the city police will be the first to get an alert. The police department is planning to install CCTVs on high mast towers on the highway that is one of the busiest routes in the country. The high-resolution cameras will cover the entire stretch that comes under the city’s jurisdiction. “These cameras will be installed specifically to keep an eye on the traffic movement on the highway. It’s a busy route and even a minor accident sometimes causes traffic jams. Whenever any such incident happens, these cameras will help us identify the locations where traffic jams have happened,” said Sandip Chaudhary, DCP (Zone II). Under the Smart City project, four 20-metre high mast towers will be erected on four different locations along the highway and each tower will have two cameras. “Having cameras at such height would help us expand our view field and monitor the traffic from above. If there is a traffic jam, we would be able to ascertain the density of vehicles and till how many kilometres has the traffic piled up,” Chaudhary told TOI. The cameras will be of very high resolution having a range of about one kilometre. The police said these CCTVs will also help the police in the case of hit and run on the highway. “If any vehicle disappears from the spot after the accident, these cameras will help us identify the direction in which the vehicle went,” Chaudhary added. The highway stretch between Maneja and Dumad Crossroads has several by-passes and thousands of locals cross the road everyday causing accidents. The locals have in the past staged protests after fatal accidents on by-passes. The cops have taken several measures including installing speed limit boards, laying rumble strips and spreading traffic awareness along the highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cameras-atop-20m-towers-to-keep-watch-on-highway/articleshow/77659961.cms||Tushar Tere
August 21, 2020||Mysuru||Midday meal workers demand wages||Mysuru: Midday meal workers on Thursday asked the state government to provide wages until the reopening of government schools as their livelihood was affected by the pandemic. They protested under the banner of Karnataka Rajya Samyuktha Akshara Dasoha Karmikara Sangha, which is affiliated to All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC) outside the zilla panchayat office. They raised slogans against the government for not releasing their wages for the last five months. Despite the pandemic, they distributed food grains to students’ doorsteps during the lockdown and due to the closure of schools in every village. Yet the government is dilly dallying to release wages, they said. They said the government must allow them to use the food grains available in schools for themselves, as it has been done in Morarji Desai and other residential schools. As many as 1,17,999 midday meal workers working as cooks cum helpers under the Askhara Dashoa Scheme in the state. Bus owners seek relief Members of Mysuru District Tourist Buses Owners and Drivers Welfare Association staged a protest appealing to the state government to provide state, motor vehicles and other local tax exemptions for this year as they are unable to generate income. They said though the lockdown rules have been relaxed, people are not coming forward to hire tourist vehicles due to Covid-19 fear. They asked the government to extend the EMI moratorium by another six months besides providing special incentives to all owners of tourist, goods, auto and passenger vehicles. They also sought financial stimulus to their business similar to the one provided to MSMEs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/midday-meal-workers-demand-wages/articleshow/77662581.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Mysuru||Shivarajkumar adopts Asiatic elephant Parvathi at Mysuru Zoo||Mysuru: Sandalwood actor Shivarajkumar has adopted the Asiatic elephant in the Mysore zoo for one year. The actor adopted Parvathi after paying adoption fees of Rs 75,000 under the animal adoption scheme. The executive director of the zoo on Thursday thanked the actor for the noble gesture and said it would inspire thousands of corporate, charitable institutions and donors to come forward to adopt animals and birds in large numbers. Shivarajkumar is not the first Sandalwood star to have adopted a zoo animal. Actors Darshan, Chikkanna and cricketers, including MS Dhoni, Zaheer Khan, Javagal Srinath and Anil Kumble are among those who have adopted animals here. Political leaders, including chief minister BS Yeddyurappa and KPCC president DK Shivakumar had also adopted animals. It was yoga guru BKS Iyengar who set the ball rolling after he adopted two tigers at the zoo. After his death, his son Prashant S Iyengar, also a yoga expert, continued the family’s association with the zoo by adopting animals in his father’s memory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/shivarajkumar-adopts-asiatic-elephant-parvathi-at-mysuru-zoo/articleshow/77661623.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Patna||Lalu Prasad Yadav’s ‘samdhi’ among three RJD MLAs join JD(U)||PATNA: The Lalu Prasad-led RJD on Thursday received a major jolt ahead of the assembly polls with three more MLAs, including Lalu’s ‘samdhi’ Chandrika Rai, joining the JD(U). Son of the former Bihar CM Daroga Prasad Rai, Chandrika is the father of Aishwarya Rai, who is married to Lalu’s elder son and former health minister Tej Pratap. Two other MLAs who joined JD(U) are the Paliganj MLA Jaivardhan Yadav and the Keoti MLA Dr Faraz Fatmi. While Jaivardhan is the grandson of former Union minister and prominent Yadava leader Ram Lakhan Singh Yadav; Faraz, a doctor by profession, is the son of former Union minister MAA Fatmi. These MLAs belonging to well-known political families have a significant influence on the electors in their respective areas. The joining programme took place at the JD(U)’s state headquarters here in the presence of the state’s energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav, parliamentary affairs minister Shravan Kumar and food and consumer protection minister Madan Sahni. “Bijendra Yadav formally inducted all three MLAs in the JD(U) by offering them membership of the party,” JD(U) state general secretary (headquarters) Navin Kumar Arya told TOI.“RJD is known as the party of Muslims and Yadavas (M-Y) combination. With the entry of two Yadav MLAs (Chandrika and Jaivardhan) and one Muslim MLA (Faraz), the M-Y combination virtually came into the fold of the JD(U) which is the party of A to Z castes and social groups,” Arya explained. Earlier on Monday, three other RJD MLAs—Maheshwar Prasad Yadav (Gaighat assembly constituency), Prema Choudhary (Patepur-reserved) and Ashok Kumar (Sasaram) had joined the JD(U) after deserting the Lalu Prasad’s party. With this development, altogether 11 RJD legislators have left Lalu’s party to join Nitish's party in the past two months. On June 23, RJD’s five MLCs had defected to the JD(U). Though reports about Chandrika and Faraz joining the RJD were doing the rounds in Bihar political circles for the last several weeks, the case of Jaivardhan has come as a surprise for the RJD leadership. “ No one in the RJD had expected such a move by the grandson of the great Yadava leader Ram Lakhan Singh Yadav,” a senior RJD leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lalus-samdhi-among-3-rjd-mlas-join-jdu/articleshow/77660903.cms||Madan Kumar
August 21, 2020||Business||RBI’s MPC feared broader inflation||MUMBAI: Fear of inflation dominated the monetary policy committee (MPC) meeting of the Reserve Bank of India on August 6. Members said supply disruption was pushing up prices even as consumption patterns changed in favour of food, which was increasing the risk of inflation becoming broad-based. In the meeting, the members had unanimously voted for a pause in monetary policy action and left the repo rate unchanged at 4%. According to the RBI, the inflation objective is obscured by the spike in food prices because of floods in eastern India and ongoing lockdown-related disruptions. Additionally, there are cost-push pressures in the form of high taxes on petroleum products, hikes in telecom charges, rising raw material costs reflected in upward revisions in steel prices and rise in gold prices due to demand for a safe haven. “Given the uncertainty surrounding the inflation outlook and taking into consideration the extremely weak state of the economy in the midst of an unprecedented shock from the ongoing pandemic, it is prudent to pause and remain watchful of incoming data as to how the outlook unravels,” the RBI said in a statement released with the MPC minutes on Thursday. In the meeting, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das called for the government to address sector-specific supply side measures to tackle inflation as there was no demand side pressure on prices. “The generalised inflationary pressures across food and CPI (consumer price index) excluding food and fuel, in a situation where growth is expected to contract sharply, is a matter of serious concern. The survey-based measures of slack in the economy testify that there is little risk to inflation from demand side,” said Das. Deputy governor Michael Patra hinted at a rate hike if inflation persists. “In fact, if inflation persists above the upper tolerance band for one more quarter, monetary policy will be constrained by mandate to undertake remedial action, including an immediate and more than proportionate response to head off the build-up of inflation pressures and prevent it from getting generalised. The question is: Can the economy withstand it in this virus-ravaged, debilitated state?” said Patra. “Inflation surprises of recent months are undermining the MPC’s actions and stymieing its resolve to do what it takes to revive growth and mitigate the impact of Covid-19 on the economy,” said Patra. He warned that a situation like 2009-10 could emerge if inflationary pressures continue to build up. “Monetary policy action was delayed on the ground of nurturing nascent growth impulses, inflation became generalised and 13 consecutive policy rate increases could not excoriate inflation’s pernicious hold,” said Patra, referring to the post-Global Financial Crisis stimulus. External member Chetan Ghate called upon the government to initiate reforms. “This should be a crisis that is not wasted. The government must continue to focus on much needed structural reforms. Some fiscal space should be reserved for later outbreaks,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbis-mpc-feared-broader-inflation/articleshow/77663145.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Waste segregation at source the key, says experts||NEW DELHI: The poor performance of Delhi’s three municipal corporations in the 2020 Swachh Survekshan is a wake-up call for a “fundamental shift” in the way sanitation is being handled in the city, feel waste management experts and former municipal commissioners. Some of them pointed out that over three years have elapsed since the new solid waste management rules were released without much to show on ground. Rakesh Mehta, municipal commissioner of the unified MCD and later Delhi’s chief secretary, said people’s participation was key in bringing about such a change. “If people and stakeholders have no ownership of the cleanliness of their areas, nothing can change,” he emphasised. Mehta suggested local swachhta agreements among RWAs, community groups and the civic administration defining the obligations of each stakeholder. “The corporations do not have enough staff to deal with waste at the household level,” he added. “We should form clusters of houses with internal mechanisms that leave only the minimum waste to be managed after segregation.” In fact, segregation of waste was the core need, said Dr Sonia Henam, deputy programme manager at Centre for Science and Environment. “Municipal byelaws on this were notified over three years ago, but they are not being enforced,” said Henam. “A fundamental component of waste management is segregation of dry and wet waste. Cities with high segregation levels are very high on the performance list.” Chitra Mukherjee, head of advocacy and policy at Chintan Environmental Research and Action Group, too pointed out that mixed waste collection was rife in Delhi. “There is no incentivisation or penalisation for not segregating waste at the household level,” Mukherjee said. “We are repeating the same mistakes over and over again. We need to return to the basics.” Citing the mixing of municipal solid waste with biomedical waste, Mukherjee said, “This is why the Covid-19 pandemic is posing such a challenge here. We wouldn't have been in such a pathetic state if we had started segregating garbage.” Mehta explained that the end treatment of wet waste, hazardous components and recyclables could be done at the central level. “Right now, a truck takes away everything. This is not how garbage is managed across the world,” he said, adding that wet-dry waste segregation was in its nascent stage during his tenure, but was abandoned after he left. KS Mehra, former commissioner of MCD and author of State of the Capital, said resources — machinery and manpower — had not kept pace with Delhi’s population growth, much of it in unauthorised areas. “Even during my tenure in 2008-12, we faced problems in collecting waste from unauthorised areas. Such localities have only increased since,” said Mehra. With oversaturated landfills, encroachments and proliferation of interest-lobbies, the situation is only likely to worsen, he cautioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/waste-segregation-at-source-the-key-experts/articleshow/77663842.cms||Paras Singh
August 21, 2020||Patna||Houses of two cops, NTPC contractor burgled in Patna||PATNA: Thieves decamped with jewellery and other valuables worth more than Rs 1 crore from four houses, including houses of two police officers and a NTPC contractor, at Nirala Nagar under the Digha police station area in Patna on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. Jewellery worth at least Rs 1 crore and Rs 2 lakh in cash were stolen from the house of NTPC contractor, Deobali Chauhan, who identified himself as the one associated with the family of governor Phagu Chauhan. The contractor originally hails from Mau in Uttar Pradesh, but is settled in Patna since several decades. The three other houses where the theft took place are owned by Ram Vinod Singh and Shambhu Nath, SHOs of Jagdishpur police station in Bettiah and Sahivara police station in Sitamarhi, respectively, and Manoj Kumar, who owns an ITI on Digha-Polson Road here. Police sources said gold jewellery, including two necklaces, two diamond rings, 27 gold rings, four gold bangles, two gold earrings, a diamond earring and four gold chains were stolen from Deobali’s house. “I had bought the jewellery for the wedding of my daughter to be solemnised in November. We were sleeping when at least six to seven thieves broke open the window of one of the rooms and entered the house,” Deobali said, adding his daughter-in-law Eti Agarwal is a 2017 batch IAS officer posted in Delhi. SHO of Digha police station Manoj Kumar Singh said efforts were on to identity the thieves and arrest them. The SHO of Jagdishpur police station said valuables worth more than Rs 30,000 were stolen from his two-story house. “At least six thieves are clearly visible in CCTV camera footage,” he said. SHO of Sahivara police station said five silver coins were stolen from his house. “The house was locked as my family is at our native place,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/houses-of-two-cops-ntpc-contractor-burgled-in-city/articleshow/77660970.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 21, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Man kills son by twisting his neck in a fit of rage||PATNA: In a horrific incident, a 30-year-old man said to be a drug addict allegedly killed his six-year-old son by twisting his neck in a fit of rage in Supaul district. Police said the accused Pintu Das was woken up by his son as he was crying for his mother, who had left home around four days ago after facing continuous domestic violence. “Amit (8), along with Sanit (4) and Nandini (8) were sleeping inside the house with Pintu. Amit woke up and started crying for mother Anita, who had left home after getting thrashed by Pintu. He initially tried to pacify Amit but when he didn’t stop his father killed him,” Marauna police station SHO Rajesh Chaudhary told TOI over phone on Thursday. He added, “Pintu also attempted to kill Nandini but she fled outside and stayed away from residence till morning to save herself.” Das, a resident of Lalmania village under Marauna police station, was produced before a judicial magistrate on Thursday after his Covid-19 test and was remanded in judicial custody. The accused was spotted by some villagers near Sipahi Chowk area on Wednesday evening after which police was informed and he was arrested. “There was no mark of strangulation or throttling. A medical board has been formed for the post-mortem report. Things would become clear after the report. Even doctors suspected that minor was killed by twisting neck,” the SHO said, adding, the police had got to know from his neighbours that Pintu was a drug addict, consumed liquor and was a hot-headed person. The SHO said an FIR was lodged based on the statement of Pintu’s mother Maraina Devi. “The grandmother who lived next door came to know everything when Nandini ran to her and narrated the incident,” the SHO added. The grandmother also confirmed that Pintu frequently thrashed his wife because of which she left him and returned to her parental home in a nearby village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-kills-son-by-twisting-his-neck-in-a-fit-of-rage/articleshow/77661371.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 21, 2020||Mysuru||CMC staff, BJP men clash over flex banners||HASSAN: Arsikere CMC Commissioner got flex banners, wishing chief minister BS Yediyurappa's political secretary NR Santhosh on his birthday, cleared on Wednesday night leading to war of words between the civic body’s staff and BJP activists. The commissioner also faced the wrath of BJP workers as they accused him of targeting their leader. Santhosh, who is related to Yediyurappa, is aiming to contest from Arsikere, which has a significant Lingayat population, in the next assembly elections. As Santhosh's birthday was on Thursday, BJP activists had fixed more than 50 banners throughout the town on Wednesday. Around 10pm the same day, CMC workers started removing the banners. When a few of the banners were removed, BJP activists under the leadership of CMC member Girish stopped the CMC’s tractors which were involved in the clearing process. Both sides had a verbal spat and the CMC workers eventually stopped the process after BJP activists agreed to remove the remaining banners by Thursday afternoon. The CMC had given permission to install five cloth banners, but the party banners were of plastic. “As per the Supreme Court order, we conducted the clearing process. After a few banners were removed, the party men agreed to remove the remaining in the afternoon,” said CMC commissioner Kantharaju. Earlier this month, Santhosh took a house on lease in Arsikere to begin groundwork for the next assembly elections. In the previous assembly polls in 2018, BJP had secured 14.6% (25,258 votes) of the votes polled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cmc-staff-bjp-men-clash-over-flex-banners/articleshow/77663173.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Patna||PU releases revised admission schedule for UG, PG courses||PATNA: Admissions to all postgraduate and undergraduate courses of Patna University (PU) under conventional as well as self-financing mode for the current academic session (2020-21) will be completed by October 31 and the classes of new batches will commence on November 5, according to a revised academic calendar of the university. Releasing the revised admission schedule here on Thursday, PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha said the last dates for submission of online applications for admission to UG and PG courses have already been extended to August 31 and September 21 respectively. Induction meet (Deeksharambh) of newly-admitted students would be held between November 2 and 5. Admission to UG courses in different colleges of PU will be held through faculty-wise combined entrance tests. While the entrance test for admission to B.Com (honours) course will be held on September 26, that for BA (honours) courses will be held on September 28. The entrance test for BSc (honours) course and BFA course will be held on September 29 and 30 respectively. While Magadh Mahila College has been authorized to hold combined entrance test for admission to BA and BCom (honours) courses, Patna Science College will conduct the entrance test for BSc (honours) course. All colleges and postgraduate departments of the university have been asked to update their websites and upload admission prospectus thereon. The entrance test for all self-financing courses both at the UG and PG level would be held between September 30 and October 7. Admission to all the conventional PG courses will be held on the basis of marks obtained in the last graduation examination. “As far as the number of sanctioned seats for conventional undergraduate courses in different colleges of PU is concerned, there are altogether 1,206 seats in science stream, including 600 in Patna Science College, 350 in B N College and 256 in Magadh Mahila College. In the faculty of arts, there are as many as 1,650 seats, including 600 each in Patna College and B N College and 450 in Magadh Mahila College. For admission to B Com (honours) course, there are altogether 650 seats ( 400 in Vanijya Mahavidyalay and 250 in Magadh Mahila College under self-financing scheme),” said the dean.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-releases-revised-admission-schedule-for-ug-pg-courses/articleshow/77661218.cms||B K Mishra
August 21, 2020||Business||Amazon, RIL’s e-pharma plans alarm chemists||BENGALURU/MUMBAI: Worried with the recent entry of biggies Amazon India and Reliance (RIL) into the e-pharmacy sector, All India Organisation of Chemists and Druggists (AIOCD) — representing 8.5 lakh chemists — is holding an all-India meeting of its executive committee on August 21 to finalise an action plan. “We are planning to legally contest the entry of Amazon, and have already written to RIL. We will take a final decision on our strategy soon,” a senior AIOCD official told TOI. Read AlsoRIL takes 60% stake in e-pharmacy firm NetmedsReliance Industries (RIL) has acquired a 60% stake in online pharmacy retailer Netmeds for Rs 620 crore, upping its play in India’s burgeoning digital commerce market. The $87-billion company has routed the Netmeds acquisition deal through subsidiary Reliance Retail Ventures.AIOCD on August 19 wrote a letter to RIL CMD Mukesh Ambani, saying the acquisition of Netmeds will threaten the livelihood of medicine retailers and create a monopoly in a competitive market resulting in concentration of wealth for the group. The letter, also marked to PM Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, poses a question on how shareholders of Reliance might react knowing it has entered a business (online sale of drugs), which is still not allowed under the laws. The Drugs and Cosmetics Act does not allow online sale of medicines. “They can be allowed once the government amends the law in consultation with stakeholders,” he added. After Amazon started delivering medicines in Bengaluru last week, AIOCD had expressed similar concerns, terming its entry illegal. Last year, we found instances of Amazon selling schedule X drugs (narcotics-based) and banned medicines through its platform. We submitted the list to the government, but it is yet to take any action, he added. Further, Mumbai-based PharmEasy is in the process of merging with Bengaluru-based rival Medlife. Read AlsoAmazon launches online pharmacy in IndiaUS tech giant Amazon launched its first Indian online pharmacy service on Friday as it attempts to grab more of the country's burgeoning e-commerce market. Amazon is battling Walmart-backed Flipkart and JioMart, owned by Asia's richest man Mukesh Ambani, as well as local companies in the vast market“It is pertinent to mention that this move will not only threaten the livelihood of millions of our citizens, it will create a monopoly in a perfect competition market and of course create concentration of wealth while taking it away from our citizens and putting it in Reliance’s pocket,” the letter said. Since regulations are weak, sale of sub-standard and spurious medicines, and misuse of antibiotics will get rampant through e-pharmacies, AIOCD feels. Also, the deep-discounting policy — up to 25% offered by big e-commerce companies will jeopardise hundreds of jobs (of chemists) and kill the industry. Typically, for non-scheduled (not under price control) drugs, the wholesale and retail trade margin is 10% and 20% respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amazon-rils-e-pharma-plans-alarm-chemists/articleshow/77663049.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Patna||MU can conduct exams in online & offline modes: VC||GAYA: As uncertain future haunts the two lakh plus students enrolled in two dozen postgraduate departments, 19 constituent, one government-funded minority college and about 40 affiliated colleges (the number of affiliated colleges keeps on changing as several affiliated colleges have got temporary affiliation), MU VC Prof Rajendra Prasad said that the university is ready to conduct the exams both in online and offline mode. The proposal of the VC awaits the approval of the Chancellor’s office. Explaining the pattern of examination, the VC said that online conduct of examination in courses is possible only where the number of examinees is less. Such courses include vocational courses like B.Ed/M.Ed and post graduate examination of different semesters.Given the infrastructural limitations including bottlenecks of high speed connectivity, online exam of undergraduate courses of conventional subjects was not possible. For such students, the VC favoured computer readable off line OMR format and short questions and answers. The UGC guidelines offer flexibility as the duration and the mode of exam was to be decided by the university. The UGC only insists on degree issuance after exam. In the off line mode too, SOP like social distancing, regular sanitisation and other mandatory requirements would be followed once the process takes off. “For MU, early conduct of examination is all the more important as the sessions are already running late and session regularisation figured high on his priority,” said Prof Prasad. Technology can effectively be used for session regularisation without compromising with the quality, he added. The university also shoulders the responsibility for the conduct of degree Part-III students of the session 2017-20 enrolled in colleges that now form part of the Pataliputra University. Students enrolled in the degree course in the session 2017-20 of Patna and Nalanda based colleges are registered in MU as Pataliputra University was established on March 18, 2018 and prior to that colleges located in these districts, now attached to Pataliputra University, were part of the undivided MU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mu-can-conduct-exams-in-online-offline-modes-vc/articleshow/77661083.cms||Abdul Qadir
August 21, 2020||Bareilly||UP doc kidnaps, stabs, uses cop dad’s gun to murder fellow doc he was in love with||Agra: A 30-year-old doctor from Delhi’s Shivpuri who had only on August 15 successfully completed her Master of Surgery (MS) in obstetrics and gynaecology from SN Medical College in Agra was found murdered – stabbed multiple times, her face disfigured and body buried under logs – on Wednesday, barely a few hours after she went missing. Police on Thursday arrested Dr Yogita Gautam’s senior at Moradabad’s Teerthanker Mahaveer University, Dr Vivek Tewari, for her murder. Tewari, a medical officer at a district hospital in Jalaun, UP, is believed to have confessed to the crime and told police in a recorded message that he was in a relationship with Yogita for seven years. “Differences had developed between us recently,” he is reported to have said, adding, “I went to meet her on Tuesday but we had heated argument. I strangled her before stabbing her with a knife. I then dumped her body and covered it with logs.” The post mortem report, however, found three bullets embedded in her body -- one in her head, two in the chest. There were injury marks on her neck. SSP Babloo Kumar told TOI that the car used to kidnap Yogita has been recovered from Tewari’s residence in Kanpur. “The gun that was used to commit the crime was owned by his father Vishnu Tewari, a retired DSP,” the officer said. Yogita’s younger brother Mohindra, also a doctor at a government hospital in Delhi,said his sister’s skull was fractured. “Medically this situation can occur if some hard object has been used to smash the head,” he said. Recalling the day he last spoke to his sister on phone, Mohindra said, “She called me around 4 pm on Tuesday and said Dr Tewari was threatening to kill her and her entire family as she was not willing to marry him. He was pressuring her for this the last few years. She was crying and was scared. We were in fact on our way to Agra to meet her.” Yogita’s father Ambesh Kumar, a deputy commissioner in Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti in Udaipur, told TOI: “I just want justice for my daughter who was brutally murdered. She was very happy as she had completed her MS and the results were declared on August 15.” Kumar said that CCTV footage shows Yogita had come to her rented room in Agra at 3 pm, going out again at 7.30 pm. “That’s when someone pulled her into a Tata Nexon. The car didn’t have a number plate. It was a planned murder.” Police had initially registered an FIR under section 364 (kidnapping in order to murder) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC on a complaint filed by Mohindra. But after they recovered the body, other sections, including murder and provisions under the SC/ST Act, have been added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-doc-kidnaps-stabs-uses-cop-dads-gun-to-murder-fellow-doc-he-was-in-love-with/articleshow/77661089.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
August 21, 2020||Patna||Ganesh Chaturthi to be a low-key affair as Covid plays spoilsport||PATNA: With all religious places remaining shut in the city owing to Covid-19 pandemic, Ganesh Chaturthi, a festival celebrating the arrival of Lord Ganesh to the Earth from Kailash mountain with his mother Goddess Parvati, will be a low-key affair on Saturday. Public gatherings and religious processions in the state are not allowed till September 6 to curb the spread of Covid. Artisans selling clay idols of Lord Ganesh in the city are the worst hit as the footfall of customers has dipped manifold when compared to previous years. The festival is marked by the installation of idols of Lord Ganesh at homes and pandals. “On Ganesh Chaturthi, we used to decorate our locality with lights and put up a pandal. People from the neighbourhood would also install Ganesh idols at their homes. However, no such celebrations are in sight this time,” said Sonal Sinha, a resident of Kisan Colony. Despite the uncertainty, sweet shops have made necessary preparations expecting an increase in sale of sweet ‘modak’, a traditional sweet offered to Lord Ganesh as ‘bhog’. “According to Hindu mythology, Lord Ganesh loved eating ‘modak’. Hence, the sweet is offered as prasad during the puja. Unlike previous years when we used to sell five different varieties of the sweet, we will be selling just two varieties this time,” said sweet shop owner at Kadamkuan. Rakesh Yadav, a clay artist at Anisabad, said there has been a slump in demand for Ganesh idols this year as people are ordering idols online in order to avoid stepping out during the pandemic. “We wait the entire year for festivals like Ganesh Chaturthi and Durga Puja to sell clay idols. However, people have changed the way they celebrate these festivals this year owing to the pandemic. This has led to deep holes in our pockets.” he said. Sanjay Bhosle, secretary of Maharashtra Mandal-Patna, said following restrictions imposed by the district administration, the committee would not set up Ganesh pandal on Serpentine Road this year. “Since 2011, we have been installing a replica of Lalbaugcha Raja on Serpentine Road. This year, we will install Ganesh idols at our homes and pray to the lord for the well-being of all.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ganesh-chaturthi-to-be-a-low-key-affair-as-covid-plays-spoilsport/articleshow/77661175.cms||Arunima Lal
August 21, 2020||Patna||Trader seeks justice for murdered bro, moves SC||PATNA: Executive member of Bihta Traders’ Association Ajay Kumar on Thursday said the state government should have shown the same urgency in moving Supreme Court in the case of murder of his brother Nibhay Kumar Singh and cancellation of bail of three shooters, as it showed in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. Kumar said his brother was eliminated as he was biggest hindrance for criminal groups in Bihta, who wanted to run their extortion racket freely. Nirbhay, founder member of the association and owner of Uday Chitra Mandir, a cinema hall, was shot dead on September 15, 2017. Ten people, including three sharpshooters – Amit Singh, Shankar Chaudhary and Sabir alias Tanveer – were arrested in connection with the case. Amit’s father Pappu Singh, the alleged mastermind behind the murder, was also arrested. One person is still evading arrest in the case. Kumar said the Patna high court granted bail to Amit on June 10 this year and to Pappu, Shankar and Sabir on May 1, 2019. “It was only after Amit procured bail that I decided to move Supreme Court where I filed an SLP, urging the court to cancel his bail. The matter was taken up for hearing on August 18 for the second time and one-week additional time was granted to the state government to file its reply,” he added. Kumar said he filed another SLP in the apex court on August 18 seeking cancellation of bail granted to Shankar and Sabir. “The speedy trial in my brother’s case is still going on. Government counsels get changed multiple times which badly affects such trials,” he added. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said granting of bail is a judicial process and police have no role to play in it. “Yes, if we are asked to give reply, we will do so,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/trader-seeks-justice-for-murdered-bro-moves-sc/articleshow/77661391.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 21, 2020||Mysuru||Committed to demand for separate district, says Adagooru H Vishwanath||Mysuru: Former minister and BJP MLC AH Vishwanath on Thursday reiterated his demand for separate district status for Hunsur and to be named after former chief minister Devaraj Urs after bifurcating Mysuru. Speaking after inaugurating the 105th birth anniversary of Devaraj Urs organised by the district administration, zilla panchayat and the department of Kannada and culture, he said he was still committed to carving out a new Hunsur district of six taluks that will include Saligrama, Heggadadevanakote, Krishanarajanagar, Saraguru and Periyapatna. “It would be a befitting tribute to the late chief minister who was a champion of social justice, for his works on land reforms and empowerment of underprivileged classes if the new district is realised in his name,” he said. “Soon a district formation struggle committee comprising members of all the six taluks will be formed to put forth the demand before chief minister BS Yediyurappa,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/committed-to-demand-for-separate-district-says-adagooru-h-vishwanath/articleshow/77662048.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Mysuru||Farmers’ body seeks increase in FRP for sugarcane purchase||Myuru: The State Sugar Cane Growers Association president Kurubur Shanthakumar on Thursday condemned the Centre for not increasing the fair remunerative price (FRP) for sugarcane purchase — a decision affecting millions of sugarcane growers across the country. He said the Centre, which has not revised the price in the past two years, has now suddenly fixed FRP price of Rs 2,850 per ton of sugarcane supply to sugar mills against the farmers’ demand of Rs 3,200 per ton. He urged the state government to come to the rescue of sugarcane growers by announcing astate advisory price of Rs 3,200 per ton. He also urged the state government to direct the sugar mill owners to pay the arrears and pending dues to farmers. Shanthakumar has also demanded the Centre to bring sugarcane under Fasal Bhima Insurance Cover to help farmers during natural calamities resulting in crop loss.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/farmers-body-seeks-increase-in-frp-for-sugarcane-purchase/articleshow/77662727.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Patna||Patna last among 47 cities in Swachh Survekshan||PATNA: The state capital has bagged the 47th rank — last among cities with a population of more than 10 lakh — in the 5th edition of the Swachh Survekshan 2020 under the Swachh Bharat Mission. Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri released the annual report of the cleanliness survey at the Swachh Mahotsav organised by the ministry of housing and urban affairs on Thursday. The survey covered 4,242 cities, 62 cantonment boards and 92 Ganga towns and completed in 28 days. Patna scored 1,552 out of 6,000 marks in the survey, which was 163 points lower than its previous-year score of 1,685. The cities evaluated under four categories — direct observation, citizen feedback, service level progress and certification— of 1,500 marks each. The Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) scored zero in the certification category under which points were awarded based on open defecation free and garbage-free certificates. “The civic body did not upload the certification as we still have not got the certificate from the Centre and it was still under process,” the PMC's public relations officer Harshita. The civic body got the maximum 846.9 points in the citizen feedback category and 600 points in the direct observation, which checked the number of community toilets, maintenance of planned settlement and overall management of waste generation. It managed only 105.1 points in the service level progress category, which includes verification of data submitted by the urban local bodies on the online portal of the ministry. Suresh Kumar Sharma, the state urban development and housing minister, told this newspaper that the previous-year waterlogging in Patna was the main reason behind the poor show. “After the waterlogging, we did a lot of work such as removal of encroachment and dug up road for several projects because of which our rating was affected,” he said. He added, “Now, we are on the right track and several development works have been executed under the chairmanship of the new PMC commissioner, including bioremediation treatment at the landfill site.” In a communiqué issued on Thursday, PMC officials said work on solid waste management, including 100% door- to- door garbage collection, management of plastic waste, installation of twin bin dustbins in commercial areas, and training of sweepers was done. "Under the Patna Smart City project, the general public will not only get information about picking up garbage from houses but also the real-time location of garbage vehicle. Payment for garbage collection, information on the ward's cleaning inspector and other facilities will also be available over the phone,” said PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma. In the state-wise ranking (with more than 100 ULBs), Bihar again secured the last position among cities with a population between 1 lakh and 10 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-last-among-47-cities-in-swachh-survekshan/articleshow/77660860.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 21, 2020||Patna||Central team visits NMCH, reviews facilities for patients||PATNA: A two-member central team on Thursday visited Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), a dedicated Covid hospital here, to review the measures taken for treatment of patients. The team, comprising Dr Sanjay Sadhukharn from All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health and Dr Deependra Kumar from AIIMS-Patna, inspected facilities at the hospital and interacted with its staff. The report will be sent to the Centre. It was the second inspection by the central team in the state. Earlier, a three-member team led by joint secretary of ministry of health and family welfare Lav Agarwal had visited Patna on July 19 to assess the Covid situation. An NMCH official said the central team was happy with the arrangements made by the hospital administration and state government in the last one month. NMCH superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh said the hospital administration, with the help of state government, has fulfilled all the shortcomings. “The health facilities have improved in terms of number of beds attached with the oxygen pipeline, ventilators, ICU beds, waiting areas for family members of Covid patients and round-the- clock duty of doctors. Besides, we have created a small cabin for doctors to change PPE kits apart from ensuring daily assessment of health report of patients, setting up of control room to address complaints and death management,” he said. Dr Singh added, “Of 447 beds, around 208 are connected to oxygen supply and the remaining beds will also be covered soon. Three teams have been formed for disposal of bodies. We have six mortuary vans and three mortuary refrigerators.” Dr Singh said adequate arrangements have also made at the hospital for proper disposal of biomedical waste. “As per the recommendations of the central team, we will further improve our services,” he added. The superintendent, however, pointed out the shortcomings faced by the hospital, including manpower crunch. “We are facing shortage of medical staff, such as anaesthetists and lab technicians. Posts of senior residents are also vacant. We have urged the state government to fill these posts soon,” Dr Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/central-team-visits-nmch-reviews-facilities-for-patients/articleshow/77661132.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 21, 2020||Mysuru||Veerappan aide serving life dies in jail||MYSURU: Late forest brigand Veerappan’s associate Bilavendran, 70, serving life sentence for blowing-up a police vehicle and killing 22 policemen in 1993, died due to illness in Mysuru early on Thursday morning. He was ailing for a week and admitted to the government-run KR Hospital where he breathed last, said KC Divyashree, chief superintendent of prisons, Mysuru. Bilavendran was in Mysuru Central Prison since 2014. According to officials, he had served 25 years in jail since his arrest after the landmine blast. It was on 9 April 1993, that Veerappan and his aides had killed a team of 22 Tamil Nadu policemen near Palar in MM Hills range in Chamarajnagar district by blowing up a landmine. As many as 143 persons including Veerappan, his wife Muthulakshmi were named as accused in the case. While many of them died during investigation, warrants were served against surviving members. Early this year, Chamarajanagar police detained – Stella - one of the accused who was absconding since the blast. She was arrested nearly 27 years after the incident. Four accused in the case are still at large and their whereabouts not known. Bilavendran, a resident of Martalli in Kollegal taluk of Chamarajanagar district, was among more than two dozen people convicted in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/veerappan-aide-serving-life-dies-in-jail/articleshow/77663043.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Mysuru||Two nabbed for smuggling cattle from Kodagu to Kerala||MADIKERI: The Srimangala police arrested two people allegedly involved in smuggling cattle from south Kodagu to Kerala. Six cows were being illegally transported to Kerala from Teralu village in South Kodagu by four men in a pick-up vehicle on Wednesday night when it was intercepted by the police at the check-post. The arrested accused have been identified as PS Jiyad and B Bhavan. Two others – Ubaid and Nijas — are on the run, said police. The cattle have been rescued and the vehicle used for the crime has been seized, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/two-nabbed-for-smuggling-cattle-from-kodagu-to-kerala/articleshow/77663220.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Business||‘Recipe for growth: Youth, connectivity’||MUMBAI: Blackstone Group, with investments in Indian businesses and real estate worth $40 billion, is one of the top 10 business groups in the country and largest office space owner with 118 million sqft of real estate. Stephen Schwarzman, its founder-chairman, is the guest of honour at IIT-Bombay’s 58th convocation ceremony and will be speaking to the students over video on Sunday. In an interview with TOI, he speaks of why India still looks good to Blackstone as an investor... What is your advice to students who are graduating amid the Covid crisis?Those in IITs are in a lucky position. Globally, it is the technology companies that have done the best with the world moving to virtual in a way that would never have happened. India in 2014 was barely virtual. But in 2020, there is a huge number of people who are linked into the system. IIT graduates are in the right neighbourhood. For younger people generally, as I say in my book ‘What it Takes’, it is important to step back, see how the world has changed, see new patterns and take advantage of where the world is going. How do you see India’s response to the health and economic crisis?It is hard to comment on India’s response because I am not there. The expectation for India is to be down 3% in GDP, according to World Bank estimates. I remember when India was growing at 9%, so this seems very dramatic. But India is going to have one of the best experiences with growth, even if it is negative. Around the world, it will take two to three years before you reach 2019 levels — that will be a normal pattern. When you have the largest population below 35, increasing levels of education and have a continuation of this explosive trend to connectivity, that is the recipe for higher levels of growth and I think India will get on that track. What is the mood in Blackstone? Are you conserving cash or do you see opportunities?We have $560 billion of assets, but we have $156 billion that can be put to work. Our attitude is driven by thematic investments — this is a time if you put your money into the areas that are doing best, they will continue to do well. Our real estate is primarily in technology and their businesses are doing great, so putting more money into these areas for us is very good. This is also an opportunity to be lending money to good companies that are just having a tough time, but will do well when people come back to the workplace. There is talk about a new normal of people working from home and shopping online ...The pandemic hasn’t given you an opportunity to choose. You have been trapped in your house, so people make the best of it. There are certain types of collaborative activities where having human beings gather is much better. We are now experiencing a double shock of people realising they can do some things at home and at the same time being scared to be in large groups. The second phenomenon will go away over time. I tend to think that most people’s homes are relatively small, wouldn’t want to stay home, and they will miss a broader array of human interaction. In two years, when there is a likelihood there will be a vaccine and more progress to herd immunity, I think people will go back to their historic way of working. Not necessarily 100%, but the type of world we have now which does not have any balance will not continue. Will you continue to invest here?This week we approved another investment in India. We are continuing to do things in real estate. Our life has been commercially very busy in India. India has been our most successful country in the world for investment at Blackstone. Do you see risks to financial markets arising out of monetary policy decisions?Equity valuations are high but not in bubble territory. In the debt markets, interest rates are incredibly low by historical standards, but the issue for debt markets is not interest rates but whether companies will pay back. Most financial institutions, without experiencing large losses, have taken very big charges for anticipated losses. The banking system is in pretty good shape, having repaired itself from the global financial crisis. I do not see any prospect of a large-scale financial crisis like in 2008-09. Despite GDP contraction, equity valuations are close to pre-Covid levels. Do you still see an opportunity?That is the biggest inhibition for investment globally. Stocks have recovered to pre-Covid levels because of the enormous liquidity that governments have put into the system as well as the surprising strength of some of the largest companies that have financial stability because they are providing services that people still want. There are lots of areas that have driven up economic value. Even if you take out these well-performing companies, the rest are having high valuations because of the liquidity. So, it is a bit harder to buy bargains. Do you foresee a correction or consolidation?Lots of companies have reduced the number of employees. When that happens, it gives you the opportunity to continue to have pretty good earnings. In the US, for example, it is almost shocking that large retailers — Walmart, Target or Amazon — are having exploding earnings. Although these are relatively few companies, they are giant-sized. The smaller companies have been much more adversely affected. Usually what happens is that companies do not buy other companies unless they have confidence in their own business. So, you have some consolidation, but it is hard to get those type of things done if businesses are not performing well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/recipe-for-growth-youth-connectivity/articleshow/77663393.cms||Mayur Shetty
August 21, 2020||Business||Used trucks, a new opportunity for organised sector||Chennai: With the slowdown in truck sales and now the pandemic causing nearly 80% drop in new vehicle sales, companies are focusing on the used business Already online used vehicle dealers including Mahindra First Choice Wheels and Droom are offering commercial vehicles though the numbers are still small. With organised players — both online aggregators as well as OEMs — getting into the business, the used CV customer is also getting a taste of the better service. Daimler India Commercial Vehicles announced its entry into organised used truck retail with BharatBenz Exchange. “The company expects to add 10% customers to its new truck business through the exchange programme and will extend it to include buses too,” said MD & CEO Satyakam Arya. Others like Volvo Eicher Commercial Vehicles (VECV) and Tata Motors are re-focussing on this segment to get around the 20% excess capacity that the new axle load norms have built into the market. “We have a separate vertical which helps customers or financiers remarket used trucks and buses. Around 50% of our dealers are certified to handle, refurbish and offer extended warranty on used CVs,” said Vinod Aggarwal, MD & CEO, VECV. As for Tata Motors it is investing in TATA OK, its used vehicle business, with “better offerings across the product range,” said a company spokesperson. “Globally, used vehicle market is larger than new vehicle business as also capture some of the value,” he added. “The Tata OK division is a growing business and we are investing in it to also help tap into the used vehicle customer base whenever they think of buying a new vehicle in future.” Online used vehicle marketers say the used truck and bus business will hit top gear once the loan moratorium ends this month. “ Used CV sales are expected to pick up speed post moratorium. While new buses and trucks have been under stress due to revised axle norms since late 2018, used segment has not de-grown,” said Ashutosh Pandey, CEO, Mahindra First Choice Wheels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/used-trucks-a-new-mkt-for-organised-sector/articleshow/77661733.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
August 21, 2020||Business||Indian Overseas Bank earns profit of Rs 121 crore in Q1||Chennai: State-owned Indian Overseas Bank has earned net profit of Rs 121 crore for the quarter ended June 2020, as against incurring a loss of Rs 342 crore in the corresponding period of the last fiscal year, on the back of treasury gains, improved asset quality and lower provisioning to cover bad loans. Provisions of the lender to cover contingencies were lower at Rs 970 crore for quarter ended June 30, 2020, as against Rs 1,170 crore made in 2019.“We have placed exposure cap as per ratings and as per the sectors. So, we will not go back to reporting loss anymore. Currently, 70% of our corporate book is in investment grade, compared to 20%-35% two-three years ago. Among the stressed asset cases, majority of them are in the resolution stages and hope the effect of this Covid-19 pandemic will get over soon and help us to move on,” MD & CEO Partha Pratim Sengupta said. Gross non-performing assets (bad loans) have reduced to Rs 18,291 crore as on June 30, 2020, as compared to Rs 33,262 crore in the same period last year. Net NPA have reduced to Rs 6,081 crore as on June 30, 2020, as against Rs 14,174 crore as on June 30, 2019. Gross advances were lower by 10% at Rs 1,31,565 crore as on June 30, 2020 on a year-on-year basis. Shares of IOB ended up 3.6% at Rs 11.43 apiece on BSE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-overseas-bank-earns-profit-of-rs-121-crore-in-q1/articleshow/77661704.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Patna||Experts for boosting makhana production||PATNA: Whether the recent move of the state government for securing a geographical indication (GI) tag for pseudocereal makhana (fox nut) succeeds or not, its delectable taste and rich nutritional value have already made it a popular snack in different parts of the country. Served either in roasted form or as a dessert, it has made its way into many people’s platters. According to agricultural experts and life scientists, Bihar accounts for nearly 90% of the makhana production in the country. Darbhanga, Madhubani, Saharsa, Katihar, Purnea, Supaul, Kishanganj, Araria and Sitamarhi districts comprise an area of approximately 15,000 hectares under makhana cultivation with an average productivity of 1.5 tonnes per hectare. However, not much has been done by the authorities concerned to boost the production of the pseudocereal on a large commercial scale. Patna University (PU) botany department head M P Trivedi says, “Makhana is being grown in Mithilanchal without much effort for the last 200 years. The production is somewhat tedious and the crop yield low. Generally, only one-third of the makhana is recovered from the total produce, making it non-economical.” PU biotechnology department teacher Birendra Prasad also opines that makhana is grown by small and marginal farmers using traditional methods. “They will have to shift to modern and scientific techniques for increasing the yield. Even a slight improvement in the methods of cultivation can give wonderful results,” he adds. However, Darbhanga-based Makhana Research Centre chief Indu Sekhar Singh claims that two new varieties of fox nuts — ‘Swarn Vaidehi’ and ‘Sabour Makhana I’ — have been released and seed graders, pop graders as well as makhana popping machines developed recently. Bihar Agricultural University scientist (BAU) Shashikant says, “The new varieties with better popping quality are bound to find a better market for makhana soon. Research is also going on at BAU’s centres in Saharsa and Purnea to cultivate this crop in fields like paddy, instead of ponds.” So far as the nutritional aspects of makhana are concerned, Veer Kunwar Singh University’s retired professor A K Sharan points out, “Makhana is attracting more and more health-conscious people as it is packed with nutrients and low in cholesterol, fat and sodium. It is beneficial to those suffering from high blood pressure, heart diseases and obesity due to its high magnesium and low sodium content. Besides, this anti-ageing food is also recommended for diabetics due to its low glycemic index.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/experts-for-boosting-makhana-production/articleshow/77661447.cms||B K Mishra
August 21, 2020||Patna||Statute for appointment of assistant professors amended||PATNA: The statute for appointment of assistant professors in universities and colleges has been amended in the light of suggestions made from various quarters in the larger interest of students of the state. Necessary amendments in various provisions of the statute approved by the governor on August 10 have reportedly been made by the three-member committee which had drafted it. Members of the committee are Munger University vice-chancellor (VC) Ranjit Kumar Verma, Magadh University VC Rajendra Prasad and Purnea University VC Rajesh Singh. Sources said the committee, at its meeting held at Raj Bhavan on Wednesday, reviewed the entire statute in the light of suggestions and removed some of the “objectionable” provisions. Allocation of seven marks on MPhil degree (which is not awarded by any university in the state) has been removed. Candidates who have been awarded PhD degree between July 11, 2009 (the date of implementation of UGC’s Minimum standards and procedure for the award of MPhil/Ph D degree, 2009) and 2012 or 2013 (the time of implementation of UGC regulations in the universities of Bihar) will also be awarded the same marks as envisaged for candidates getting PhD before 2009. The desirability of research papers to be published in the journals listed in Scopus has also been waived. However, the provision of awarding two marks on each paper (subject to a maximum of 10 marks) published in peer-reviewed journals would be retained, the sources said. The amendments would now be sent to all the VCs of state universities for their comment before the final approval by the governor. The state education department had on August 14 requested the chancellor’s secretariat to get the statute amended in the light of a representation made by Sanjeev Kumar, MLC. Earlier, a high-level meeting was held under the chairmanship of chief secretary Deepak Kumar to review the complaints received from various quarters about “discrepancies” in the statute. Later, CM Nitish Kumar also announced in his Independence Day address that the statute would be amended in the larger interest of students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/statute-for-appointment-of-assistant-professors-amended/articleshow/77661347.cms||B K Mishra
August 21, 2020||Business||WayCool Foods receives $1,14,000 grant from Dutch development bank FMO||Food enterprise WayCool Foods has received $114,000 in grant from Dutch development bank FMO for procurement and distribution of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits and soil testing kits for farmers. 15,000 small-holding farmers across Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, and Maharashtra will benefit through this initiative, the company said. “The dual-purpose PPE kits will help protect farmers during the Covid-19 pandemic, and also shield them during agricultural operations such as pesticide spraying. In-situ soil testing will enable farmers to get their soil health measured without having to travel, thus facilitating effective soil management while maintaining social distancing,” a note from WayCool Foods said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/waycool-foods-receives-114000-grant-from-dutch-development-bank-fmo/articleshow/77661747.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
August 21, 2020||Varanasi||Martyr’s body consigned to flames at native village||Varanasi: The mortal remains of martyr Ravi Singh, who sacrificed his life battling with terrorists in Baramulla in Jammu and Kashmir, were consigned to flames with full state honours at his native place Gaura village in Jigna area of Mirzapur district on Thursday. The villagers bade adieu to the brave son of the soil with tearful eyes. Thousands of people gathered to pay tributes to the martyr. The local youths carrying posters and banners and raising slogans took out procession in the area. Ravi (25) got martyred in an encounter with terrorists in Baramulla on August 17. The family got the information of his martyrdom on August 18. According to his father Sanjay Singh, a farmer, the family had a video chat with Ravi just before he left for the encounter. The family members, including his parents, wife and two sisters, were inconsolable after the body reached the village. Ravi was married to Priyanka in Prayagraj district just two years back. On behalf of the state government, minister Ramashankar Patel, former ministers Kailash Chaurasia and Munni Yadav, district magistrate Sishil Kumar Patel, SP Ajay Kumar Singh and army personnel were present on the occasion. Earlier, the incharge minister Dara Singh Chauhan along with Patel had visited the village on Wednesday to console the bereaved family. Responding to the wish of the martyr’s father, he asked the DM to present a proposal for the construction of a statue and a park in martyr’s memory. Besides, the Jigna-Mishrapur Road would also be named after the martyr.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/martyrs-body-consigned-to-flames-at-native-village/articleshow/77662843.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Business||Crisil downgraded Indian Bank Tier I & II bonds||Chennai: Credit rating agency Crisil downgraded Indian Bank’s tier 1 bonds under Basel III) to ‘AA’ from ‘AA+’ assigning a ‘negative’ outlook, due to lower eligible reserves position of the merged bank. Another state-owned Allahabad Bank merged with Indian Bank as on April 1, 2020.The rating agency said the negative outlook on debt instruments reflects the potential stress that the bank’s asset quality and profitability may see on account of the current challenging macro environment. Post the amalgamation, Indian Bank’s asset quality metrics have weakened compared to peers in the rating category. Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) as per Basel III guidelines was at 13.5% as against the regulatory requirement of 10.875%. Tier 1 CAR was at 10.47% as against the regulatory requirement of 8.875%. It has removed its rating on the long term debt instruments of Indian Bank from ‘Rating Watch with Developing implications’ and reaffirmed its ‘Crisil AAA’ rating and assigned a ‘negative’ outlook to the Tier II Bonds (under Basel III), Infrastructure Bonds, Upper Tier II Bonds (Under Basel II) and Lower Tier II Bonds (Under Basel II).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/crisil-downgraded-indian-bank-tier-i-ii-bonds/articleshow/77661695.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Business||Jan Dhan Yojana boosts financial literacy to 27%||MUMBAI: India has made a big jump in financial literacy since basic savings bank accounts were launched for all in 2013. However, the percentage of people who tick all the boxes when it comes to financial knowledge, behaviour and attitude is still only 27% as compared to 20% in 2013. According to the findings of a survey conducted by the RBI, financial literacy is higher among men compared to women, with 29% of males polled qualifying on all fronts as against 21% for females. When compared to 2013, there has been a general improvement in financial literacy across all ages, geographies and occupations. The only category where it has deteriorated is in the income group of over Rs 10 lakh and above where 40% of those polled crossed the minimum threshold score as against 47% in 2013. Among regions, financial awareness is highest in the west followed by the northeast with central India having the lowest financial literacy. In occupation groups, salaried government employees have the highest level of financial literacy followed by private-sector employees, then by urban self-employed. Incidentally, financial awareness is highest in the 18-29 age category (30%), and then decreases with age. The survey uses a global definition of financial literacy that takes into account responses in respect of three components — financial knowledge, financial behaviour, and financial attitude. There is a minimum target threshold score for each of these segments. The latest available World Bank’s Findex 2017 report had brought out that the proportion of adults with a formal account in the country has risen from 35% in 2011, to 53% in 2014, to 80% in 2017. The World Bank has also acknowledged progress in reducing the country’s gender gap in account ownership, from nearly 20% in 2014 to 6% in 2017. Much of this has been attributed to the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana scheme. “In order to take forward the benefits achieved through the financial inclusion efforts, financial literacy will have to play a central role in ensuring that people use appropriate formal financial services to ensure their financial well-being,” the report said. Watch Jan Dhan Yojana: India’s financial literacy jumps to 27%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jan-dhan-yojana-boosts-financial-literacy-to-27/articleshow/77663200.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Cops patrol on foot to curb crime in Bhagalpur||BHAGALPUR: With a view to procuring information about criminals besides instilling confidence in the common people, the Bhagalpur police led by SSP Ashish Bharti has initiated foot patrolling commonly known as ‘paidal gashti abhiyan’. The objective of this initiative is to check violation of traffic rules and motivating people to wear face masks. “The foot patrolling, launched on Wednesday night, intends to give a clear message to the criminals that police are alert and keeping a close eye on the activities of wrongdoers. Apart from instilling confidence in residents, this kind of conventional method helps establish good relations between the common citizen and the police,” the SSP said. “Even locals, who are hesitant to visit police stations, will also come forward to provide information about the criminals,” the police officer said and added,“Traffic violators will also be hauled up. We are strictly monitoring those who are moving around without face masks. They are being penalized.” “We have started getting information about law violators and anti-social elements ever since the launch of the patrolling,” Bharti said. “It makes the citizens feel safe and the criminals keep away from their actions,” said another police officer. City SP Sushant Kumar Saroj, City DSP Rajvansh Singh and others are also on foot patrol under their respective jurisdictions. Opening of shops: District magistrate Pranav Kumar has issued orders to regulate the opening of shops and business establishments during the Unlock-3 period. The regulated opening of shops and business establishments will be enforced from August 21 to September 6, 2020 in non-containment zones. Vegetable markets, fruit shops, fish, meat and egg shops will open from 6.00 am to 10.00 am, while shops selling construction materials sector like cement, sand, stone chips, steel rods etc will remain open from 8.00 am to 15.00pm. Readymade garment shops, electrical goods shops, mobile, optical, computer, photo studio, hardware, automobile showrooms, paint shops, books and stationary, footwear, plastic goods shops and other shops in non-essential category will remain open from 11.00 am to 2 pm. However, shops and establishments selling essential goods including grocery, medicine, surgical items, fertilizer and agriculture products, LPG etc will remain open for longer duration. Hotels and restaurants have been allowed to open for home delivery only. These restrictions will remain effective from 21.06.2020 to 06.09.2020, the DM stated in the order. He also directed the SDMs and BDOs, Bhagalpur Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials, Sultanganj Nagar Parishad officials, Nagar Panchayats of Kahalgaon and Naugachia besides other to ensure regulated opening of shops and establishments. Meanwhile, the DM and SSP Ashish Bharti have alerted the district administration officials and SHOs of police stations to keep a strict vigil on mischief mongers during Muharram, which falls on August 29 this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cops-patrol-on-foot-to-curb-crime-in-bhagalpur/articleshow/77661424.cms||Kumar Rajesh
August 21, 2020||Patna||Release of Indrapuri barrage water may swell Sone, Ganga||PATNA: As predicted by the water resources department (WRD), the release of water in Sone river at Indrapuri barrage in Rohtas district increased by nearly 50,000 cusecs in the past 24 hours showing a rising trend as on Thursday evening. The daily flood bulletin issued by the WRD on Thursday evening stated that a rise in water level is expected in Sone and Ganga rivers in the next three to four days even though the water level came down slightly at Bansagar dam. The water was flowing 62cm lower than the flood reservoir level (FRL) on Thursday as compared to 45cm above FRL recorded on Wednesday. “There is information on the release of 86,890 cusecs of water through all 16 gates of Bansagar dam on Thursday. This is likely to lead to an increase in water flow in the Sone river in the next three to four days along with the rise in the water level of the river at different places," the WRD bulletin stated. "Similarly, light to moderate rainfall has occurred in the catchment areas of few other rivers in Madhya Pradesh, including Kane, Betwa and Chambal rivers, which is in turn, is likely to lead to increasing of water level in Ganga,” the WRD bulletin added. The Ganga is flowing slightly above the danger level at Gandhi Ghat and Hathidah flood gauges in Patna district and Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur on Thursday. The river was flowing 12cm above the danger level at Gandhi Ghat, 27cm above the danger level at Hathidah and 32cm at Kahalgaon. Meanwhile, most rivers in north Bihar, including Bagmati, Burhi Gandak, Kamla Balan, Khiro and Adhwara group of rivers, showed either falling or static trend on Wednesday even as the population affected by floods in as many as 16 districts in north Bihar stood at 81.8 lakh. Bagmati, Burhi Gandak and Ghagra continued to flow above the danger level at a few places. The Patna Meteorological Centre on Thursday ruled out the possibility of significant showers in Bihar. “The monsoon activity was quite less in Bihar over the past 24 hours. A low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal and adjacent north Odisha was moving westward. It is likely to be positioned over Madhya Pradesh in the next 24 hours. Accordingly, rainfall activity will remain weak in Bihar, and only or two places in southwestern parts of the state are likely to receive light rainfall,” an official at the Patna met centre said, adding rainfall activity is likely to increase after August 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/release-of-indrapuri-barrage-water-may-swell-sone-ganga/articleshow/77661297.cms||Piyush Tripathi
August 21, 2020||Patna||Gaya quacks make hay as doctors, hospitals shun non-Covid patients||GAYA: Converting disaster into opportunity is the new mantra and quacks are the real beneficiaries of Covid-19 as the 550-bed Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College Hospital (ANMMCH) has been notified as Covid special hospital. The district hospital is also over crowded and private medical practitioners, in many cases shun patients. In the prevailing circumstances, quacks, while squeezing patients add to complications. As RTI activist Brajnandan Pathak, non-Covid patients are real sufferers. He has seen many patients and attendants running from one hospital to another and making rounds of clinics. Rajiv Kumar (name changed on request), a resident of Delha locality of the town says that catching even common cold and seasonal fever in Covid times too is fraught with dangers. Rajiv, himself a victim said that the problems are manifold. Many doctors have closed their clinics. Few clinics that are open shoo away those having even mild fever or cough. Some doctors have also increased their consultation fee on the alibi that they have to meet additional cost for safety kits of their staff and protective gears for themselves. Fewer patients are permitted to enter the waiting area and that too after thermal scanning. If you are lucky to get an appointment with some physician, most of the job would be done by compounders and doctors will not physically examine the patients even when required for clinical diagnosis,” Rajiv said. “In consultation chambers, doctors sit in near isolation in artificially fabricated cabins. This is not the time to fall sick,” said the Delha resident. Neither the civil surgeon nor the regional deputy director (health) were available for the official version on quacks and the cell phone numbers of both the officials were found ‘switched off’ on Thursday afternoon. “Responding to the charge that private practitioners were shooing away patients,” IMA president Dr Ram Sewak Singh said that within the limitations, private medical practitioners are providing best possible service. Some doctors and their family members too have got infected and such doctors are not in a position to open their clinics. By and large private clinics are open. “The doctors are more vulnerable to infection and as such they are required to exercise extra precaution, which, in many cases, was not liked by the patients and attendants. But compromises with personal safety of the doctors cannot be made,” maintained the IMA chief. Most of the doctors, according to IMA chief, have not raised the consultation fee despite rise in maintenance. While not ruling out fee hike by some members, as IMA chief he did not approve the hike at this critical juncture, said Dr Ram Sewak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-quacks-make-hay-as-doctors-hospitals-shun-non-covid-patients/articleshow/77661160.cms||Abdul Qadir
August 21, 2020||Pune||Man out on bail held in 2008 case||Pune: The crime branch arrested a man (28) in a 2008 burglary case dating n Wednesday night, three months after he was released on bail from the Yerawada jail due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The custody of Sidhu, alias Siddeshwar Chavan, from Ramtekdi was transferred to the Swargate police on Thursday. Inspector Mahendra Jagtap from crime branch (Unit III) said in 2008, Chavan was working as a security guard in Velhe. Swargate police Inspector Shabbir Sayyed said, “He was a minor in 2008. We handed his custody to his parents. He will be produced in the juvenile court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-out-on-bail-held-in-2008-case/articleshow/77662406.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Patna||Bihar caps Covid treatment rates for private hospitals||PATNA: The state health department on Thursday announced three slabs of maximum applicable daily charge for treatment of coronavirus patients in private hospitals. The rates for Covid treatment in private hospitals have been fixed after several complaints of overcharging poured in from different parts of the state. The rates have been divided into three categories depending on districts – category A (Patna), category B (Bhagalpur, Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Gaya and Purnia) and category C (other districts). All the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH)-accredited hospitals in Patna district will charge Rs 10,000 per day (including Rs 1,200 for personal protective equipment) for the isolation bed, supportive care and oxygen from patients with moderate symptoms. The severe patients will have to pay Rs 15,000 per day (including Rs 2,000 for PPE) for ICU bed without ventilator and Rs 18,000 per day (including PPE cost) for ICU bed with ventilator. At private hospitals not accredited by NABH in Patna, moderate patients will have to pay Rs 8,000 per day. Such hospitals will charge Rs 13,000 per day for ICU bed (without ventilator) and Rs 15,000 per day for very severe patients needing ventilator care. The charges include the cost of PPE kits. For the NABH-accredited private hospitals in B category, patients with moderate symptoms will have to shell out Rs 8,000 for isolation bed per day, 12,000 for ICU bed (without ventilator) per day and Rs 14,400 for ICU bed with ventilator care per day. Moderate patients getting treatment at non-NABH accredited hospitals will have to pay Rs 6,400 for isolation bed, Rs 10,400 for ICU bed and Rs 12,000 for ventilator care. The NABH-accredited hospitals in other districts will charge Rs 6,000 for isolation bed, Rs 9,000 for ICU bed and Rs 10,800 for bed with ventilator care. The charges at non-NABH accredited hospitals in category C hospitals are Rs 4,800 (with isolation bed), Rs 7,800 (with ICU bed) and Rs 9,000 (with ventilator care). Additional secretary (health department) Kaushal Kishore said in a letter to the district magistrates to ensure that the private hospitals follow the rate cap. “Strict action should be taken against erring hospitals,” he told the DMs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-caps-covid-treatment-rates-for-private-hospitals/articleshow/77661113.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 21, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur ranks 28 in swachh survey||JAIPUR: Jaipur bagged the 28th position in the all India Swachhta Survekshan Ranking 2020 released on Thursday. Last year, the city’s rank was 44. In categories of Rajasthan cities with population above 10 lakh, Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota bagged 28th, 29th and 44th positions, respectively. Jodhpur was also awarded with Fastest Moving Big City title. In 2019, Jodhpur was ranked 243rd and Kota 302. Municipal Corporation Jaipur, Heritage, commissioner Lok Bandhu said the city’s improved ranking was beacuse of the participation of the pubic and efficient work done by officials, former commissioners and sanitary staff. In citizens feedback, Jaipur has done well this year. JMC public relations officer Ram Singh, who helped in reaching out to people, said residents have given feedback on the basis of work done by the administration. While explaining the improvement needed in the city, Municipal Corporation, Jaipur Greater, commissioner Dinesh Yadav said, “We have definitely improved, but we need perform better in sewage treatment for which we have signed a contract with a company for 100% sewage treatment. With door-to-door garbage collection, we need improvement in the final disposal of the trash.” For the fourth time in a row, Indore bagged the top position in the country. Surat, Navi Mumbai, Vijayawada and Ahmedabad bagged the next four positions. None of the cities in Rajasthan managed to grab a position in the top 25. Out of 6,000 points, Jaipur got 3660.39 in Swachhta Survekshan – 2020 ranking. It consisted of 4 components of 1,500 points each. Of these, minimum 500 marks have come in the preparation of Municipal Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-ranks-28-in-swachh-survey/articleshow/77663860.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Pune||Eight PCMC medical officers to monitor hospital bills||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation has appointed eight medical officers across its eight zones to keep a tab on hospital bills being issued to Covid-19 patients by 40 private hospitals. The medical officers will assist teams pre-auditing the bills, especially in technical matters, to spot discrepancies. Patients will get their final bills only after approval from these officers. Additional commissioner of PCMC, Santosh Patil, said, “A pre-audit of all bills above Rs 1.5 lakh is now mandatory. For charges below that amount, there will be a post audit.” Patil said they had received a few complaints of inflated bills from patients. He said the complaints have now been resolved. A committee appointed by the divisional commissioner had issued showcause notices to at least six private hospitals in PCMC limits for allegedly charging exorbitant fees to Covid-19 patients and admitting asymptomatic patients this month. The hospitals were then advised to recalculate the bills and refund the difference.Officials said patients or their families can send complaints to medicalbillaudit@pcmc.india.gov.in or medical@pcmcindia.gov.in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eight-pcmc-med-officers-to-monitor-hospital-bills/articleshow/77662401.cms||Piyush Bhusari
August 21, 2020||Delhi||20-year-old saved from possible ‘honour killing’ in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 20-year-old girl was spared a possible honour killing after using a friend’s phone to seek help from Delhi Commission for Women when she apprehended she would be murdered. The girl had, braving her parents’ opposition, gotten married to a man of her choice and she alleged that her relatives had abducted her in order to kill her. The girl used Twitter to alert DCW, informing the panel that she got married on August 12 and since then her parents had been conspiring to kill her. When DCW's PRO Rahul Tahiliani asked her for her contact details, she disclosed that her father had seized her phone and that she was in hiding from her family. Officials said the frightened girl wasn’t keen to reveal her location. After Tahiliani counselled her and requested her to reach the DCW office, she finally relented. There, she told the commission officials that after her marriage, her family called her home to talk about it but was beaten and taken to Dadri when she reached home. She managed to escape from confinement, though her husband is still in hiding and is untraceable. She evaded her kin by living in the open for two-three days before seeking her friend’s help to send a message to DCW. The girl has been safely transferred to a shelter home, and DCW officials have got an FIR registered in the matter. The commission has also asked police to ensure the safety of the girl and her husband. With DCW’s legal assistance, she has now filed an application in Delhi high court seeking its protection. In protest, more than 50 relatives of the girl gathered at the DCW office on Thursday, forcing Tahiliani to seek police intervention. The commission staff filed a complaint about the threats issued by the protesters. DCW chief Swati Maliwal said, “It is shameful that honour killing still exists in this country. The commission's team handled the situation calmly and was able to rescue the girl.” She added that while DCW had been helping people who came to the office with complaints or used the ground network and helpline, the panel had also set up a real-time social media tracking system where its team kept a keen eye on complaints hinting at trouble. “We're actively helping people through almost all social media channels,” Maliwal claimed. Watch Delhi: 20-year-old saved from possible ‘honour killing’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/20-year-old-saved-from-possible-honour-killing/articleshow/77663861.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Pune||MahaRERA issues nearly 200 orders digitally in a month||PUNE: The Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority (MahaRERA) has issued nearly 200 orders after hearing cases through video conferencing from mid-July in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Over 342 cases were heard online and 187 orders issued during the period,” a MahaRERA official said, adding that the office was at present working in a 100% digital way. MahaRERA secretary Vasant Prabhu said the response to the online hearing initiative was encouraging from noth the developers and consumers. “The online process helps speed up the process. We plan to continue with the online hearing process and encourage involvement of maximum people to be part of it,” he said. MahaRERA member Vijay Satbir Singh told TOI both the petitioners and respondents were happy with the process while the lawyers were also finding it convenient, economic and less time consuming. “We can hear cases from across the state and anywhere in the country. We are constantly improving our online facilities,” he said. Singh had initiated the video conferencing hearing facility from the MahaRERA’s Pune office for the bench in Mumbai last year. “We would like to continue with the arrangements even in the post-coronavirus times,” he said. Developers on their part saidif the technical glitches were ironed out, the online hearing would be convenient for all stakeholders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maharera-issues-nearly-200-orders-digitally-in-a-month/articleshow/77662392.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 21, 2020||Agra||Main accused in Agra ‘bus hijack’ shot in the leg in ‘encounter’, arrested||Agra: Accused of “hijacking” a bus with 34 passengers on board to reclaim money he was owed, an Etawah-based transport service broker was shot in the leg in an “encounter” before he was arrested on Thursday. Pradeep Gupta had been identified in CCTV footage from the spot where the bus, going from Gurgaon to Panna in Madhya Pradesh, was stopped, taken over and driven off by musclemen he had allegedly hired on Tuesday night. The passengers and the bus were found the next morning, 12 hours later. On Thursday, police intercepted Gupta and an accomplice, Yatendra Yadav, in Fatehabad when they were travelling on a bike. “They opened fire on the cops while trying to escape. In retaliatory firing, Gupta was shot in the leg while Yadav managed to escape,” a police officer said. Gupta was taken to the community health centre at Fatehabad. “He told us he had business ties with the owner of the bus, Gwalior-based Ashok Arora, and his family since 2012,” Agra SSP Babloo Kumar told TOI. “He said Arora owed him Rs 67 lakh for the registration and permits for his buses, which Gupta had arranged for him at Etawah. Arora had not repaid him. He planned on taking the bus to recover the money,” the SSP added. Arora had died of Covid-19 a day before the bus was "hijacked". The bus had been stopped by a group of men at Agra's Southern Bypass, who then dragged the driver, conductor and helper out. One of them drove the bus off while the bus staff were brought to the car in which Gupta was waiting. They were dropped off later and the conductor filed a complaint with the police, based on which an FIR was lodged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/main-accused-in-agra-bus-hijack-shot-in-the-leg-in-encounter-arrested/articleshow/77661125.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
August 21, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Former DMK minister Rahman Khan succumbs to Covid-19||CHENNAI: Former DMK minister and five-time MLA A Rahman Khan passed away on Thursday morning in a private hospital in Chennai, where he was undergoing treatment after testing positive for Covid-19. He was 77. DMK president M K Stalin, while expressing his condolences, recalled Rahman Khan’s contribution towards strengthening the party and safeguarding the interests of minorities. Known as a firebrand speaker, he had served as the minister for labour and revenue for one term when M Karunanidhi was the chief minister. DMK has announced three-day mourning as a mark of respect to the leader and party flags will fly at half-mast. Elected to the state assembly first from Chepauk assembly segment in 1977, when the AIADMK under MGR captured power in the state, Rahman Khan later won in 1980, 1984, 1989 and 1996 assembly elections. He represented Park Town and Ramanathapuram assembly segments in his last two terms as elected member. Rahman Khan, whose family had settled in Cumbum in Theni district, did his graduation from American College, Madurai, when anti-Hindi agitation took place. He joined Chennai Law College in 1967 and became close to S Durai Murugan, now the treasurer of the DMK. “He loved wordplay and used wide vocabulary. Since I was already close to Kalaignar (M Karunanidhi), I used to challenge him saying Kalaignar was the best. The evenings at our hostel in Kellys used to be spent on such debates. Then one day I took him to meet Kalaignar,” recalled Durai Murugan, about his long association with Rahman Khan. Kalaignar had a long chat and inquired about people whom he knew in Cumbum, after getting to know Rahman Khan’s origin. Later, Kalaignar ordered tea and everyone also chewed beetle leaves in the end. “When we came out, Rahman Khan was very impressed with Kalaignar. I teased him for having fallen for a tea and two beetle leaves,” Durai Murugan told TOI. More than being a speaker, Rahman Khan was a keen writer. The first time his article appeared in Murasoli, he did not even sleep that night. “When the AIADMK came to power in 1977, MGR tried his best to get him to his party. But Rahman Khan refused, saying – he was no one and it was Kalaignar who gave him the address and will remain in the DMK till his end,” Durai Murugan said. Last year, he evinced interest to get elected to Rajya Sabha and conveyed it to party president M K Stalin, who said the latest nominations were to fulfill promises and that he will consider him the next time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/former-dmk-min-rahman-khan-succumbs-to-covid-19/articleshow/77662463.cms||D Govardan
August 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: Housing society kept economy running & members safe||PUNE: As a Covid-19 lockdown tightened its grip late March, members of the Span-O-Life housing society in Kharadi had to make quick decisions on how much they had to keep out to ensure residents’ safety. Curbs at scores of housing societies in the city had brought daily life to a complete standstill for residents. Many were left without essentials, including vital daily products such as newspapers and milk. But at Span-O-Life, office bearers decided against a total restriction. “Stopping e-commerce delivery agents from entering would have actually caused us more hardship. So we decided to allow them to enter and deliver whatever residents had ordered, including newspapers and milk deliverymen,” said RK Sheti, a member of the society’s management. Their measures were augmented by extensive health screenings. The society instructed its security staff to conduct temperature screenings on delivery personnel entering the premises, including compulsory sanitisation of hands. The agents could go up to doorsteps of residents to deliver packages or food parcels as long as they were ready to maintain social distancing. There was also a provision to just leave packages at the front gate. The choice to do so was left to residents or the delivery agent. The society also invited vegetable and fruits vendors to organise stalls near their gates, in an effort to keep people from going out a lot. Sheti said, “These are things people need regularly, and they may have to step out almost every day for the items. We realised that going out to the nearby store, even with masks and distancing, increases risk of exposure. That is why we arranged for vegetables and other essentials at the gate itself — for safety and convenience.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hsg-society-kept-economy-running-members-safe/articleshow/77662425.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: CBI books infra co, directors for loan fraud of Rs 26 crore||HYDERABAD: Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday booked city-based Elite Infra Projects and its directors for causing wrongful loss of Rs 26.8 crore to Bank of Maharashtra. The accused reportedly mortgaged 5.2 acre land on which they did not have clear titles. Elite Projects and its directors B Narasimha Reddy and B Nagi Reddy have been booked for criminal conspiracy, cheating, criminal breach of trust and under sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act. An FIR was booked based on a complaint lodged by Bank of Maharashtra zonal manager Divesh Dinakar. Elite Infra Projects located in Jubilee Hills is into infra projects, especially road construction, excavation and bridges. Elite Infra had taken Rs 15.5 crore loan from Bank of Maharashtra, Khairatabad branch, between 2012 and 2014. The company had mortgaged 5.22 acres, including two acres in the name of Narasimha Reddy, land in Pedda Amberpet as collateral. Elite Infra’s loan account turned into a non-performing asset (NPA) in 2015 and the amount with interest mounted to Rs 26.8 crore. Though the bank initiated the process of recovery, it couldn’t identify the property and entrusted the case to Inquisitio (Investigation and Recoveries) to verify the actual position. On investigation, it was found that the land was caught in litigation and the court had already granted a decree in favour of other parties. Despite knowing that the property was in legal wrangles, Narasimha Reddy had mortgaged it with Bank of Maharashtra. “Narasimha Reddy intentionally mortgaged the land by giving false declaration and cheated the bank. The bank had also approached the Debt Recovery Tribunal. It was claimed that no grave irregularities are observed on the part of bank officials. However, CBI will be looking into the role of Bank of Maharasthra officials,” the FIR added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbi-books-infra-co-directors-for-loan-fraud-of-rs-26-crore/articleshow/77663921.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 21, 2020||Delhi||Six held for role in Delhi Development Authority scam worth Rs 100 crore||NEW DELHI: Six people, including members of a residential society, have been arrested for their role in a DDA housing scam worth over Rs 100 crore. The scam is being probed by the Economic Offences Wing. The accused formed fictitious societies and offered DDA flats under a “central government scheme” in Dwarka. TOI had first reported about the scam after which a Special Investigation Team was formed to look into the case. It was found that the accused had collected Rs 40 crore from more than 350 investors with a promise to give them flats under a fictitious “and pooling” policy of DDA in Dwarka. The six men have been identified as Bharat Khanna, Paras Agarwal, Pawan Sahay, Mohammad Salauddin, Raghu Nandan Chona and Mukesh Kumar. Kumar was allegedly given Rs 12 crore by the others for procuring land, which he siphoned of. Joint CP(EOW), O P Mishra said that the accused would attract investments from the public by sending bulk SMSs for DDA flats up for sale in Dwarka. The investors had to pay a portion of the total value as token money, amounting between Rs 50,000 and 1 lakh. When the victims approached DDA offices for inquiry, they came to know that no such pooling policy was ever launched by the authority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/6-held-for-role-in-dda-scam-worth-rs-100cr/articleshow/77663925.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur residents trying to find their feet after rain fury||JAIPUR: For 45-year-old auto-rickshaw driver Rambharose Yadav, the downpour on August 14 had brought a flood of miseries. These days, Yadav is busy in repairing his auto-rickshaw which was completely damaged due to mud brought in by the rainwater. “Heavy rainfall on August 14 destroyed everything, including my livelihood,” said Yadav with teary eyes. He purchased this auto-rickshaw in 2008 on loan which was buried under mud for three days. “Earlier, lockdown hit us hard with no earnings for three months and now due to rainwater, I have to spend about Rs 12,000 to get my vehicle in running condition,” said Yadav. He is among hundreds of people in Lal Dungri area where rainwater on August 14 did lot of destructions. Hundreds of houses got buried under sand after the water dried down the effects of which can still be felt. Kamala Rani, a resident present on that day while cleaning mud from her house, said, “It was day time and we left everything behind on time or else there would have been dead bodies all over the area. We barely saved our lives and all our belongings like furniture, refrigerator and other home appliances were damaged.” Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has appointed two JCB machines in the area to remove sand from the roads. Social workers with the help of the donors are distributing food, clothes and medicines to people as majority of the people are not left with grocery items at home. Peoplespeak Kishan Verma All our belongings are destroyed. We are still busy to remove mud from our houses. Pandemic had hit us hard and now it is the turn of rainwater Maya Devi We ran out of our houses and in 15 minutes, the entire area was full of water. We were lucky to leave on time with our children, but the aftermath is still bad as we have to clear mud from our houses Sarvari Begum Our entire house was flooded. We are surviving on food provided by social workers, otherwise, we would have died Ram Kishore Meena | Zonal commissioner Work is undergoing to remove sand from the area. Our tractors and earth movers are working since August 14. Houses that are yet to be habitable, their residents are staying in community centres and nearby government schools||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/residents-trying-to-find-their-feet-after-rain-fury/articleshow/77663886.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Delhi||AAP slams BJP for poor show by corpns in cleanliness rankings||NEW DELHI: Following the poor performance of the capital’s three municipal corporations in the 2020 Swachh Survekshan, Aam Aadmi Party attacked BJP, which runs the corporations. Among the 47 cities with a population of 10 lakh or more, East Delhi Municipal Corporation ranked 46th, North Delhi Municipal Corporation was at 43 and South Delhi Municipal Corporation fared marginally better at 31st rank. AAP functionary Durgesh Pathak, in a press conference, said that the municipal corporations have tarnished the image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The PM talks about the cleanliness mission of the country everywhere,” Pathak said, blaming BJP councillors and functionaries for the poor performance of the civic bodies. “The corporations keep proving themselves to be the most corrupt and incompetent department over and over. If you try to find any 10 drains of your locality, you will see that the corporations never cleaned those drains. This is the reason why the city is waterlogged after every rain,” the functionary added. Pathak also alleged that the civic bodies have miserably failed in the capital in every area, from education to health. Pointing out that the survey was conducted by the Union government, not AAP, he said, “BJP leaders have been busy in making money through corruption”. The AAP functionary said that one of the key responsibilities of the municipal corporations of Delhi is cleaning the city, but the survey clearly shows that they have miserably failed. Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana rejected charges of corruption and asked the AAP functionaries to name a single leader against whom they have evidence of graft. “The AAP government has crippled the municipal corporations by not providing enough funds,” Khurana said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-slams-bjp-for-poor-show-by-corpns-in-cleanliness-rankings/articleshow/77663890.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Jaipur||CM Ashok Gehlot launches Indira Rasoi scheme||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday launched the state government’s ambitious scheme ‘Indira Rasoi’ (Indira Kitchen) through video conferencing. Under the scheme, full meals will be served to the poor and needy for just Rs 8. This scheme was launched on the occasion of ‘Sadbhavana Diwas’, the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Late Rajiv GandhiAround 4.87 crore people in the state will get fresh and nutritious food a year under the scheme. Gehlot launched 325 kitchens out of the 358 proposed Indira Rasois in 213 urban bodies across the state. He said former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi coined the slogan ‘Garibi Hatao’ and worked for the welfare of poor, backward, with a 20-point programme. Gehlot said Indira Gandhi was also instrumental in Green Revolution to make India self-reliant in food grains. The state government has launched this scheme after her. This scheme shows the sensitivity of the state government, he added. The CM also spoke to representatives of voluntary organisations running Indira Rasoi and beneficiaries at Jodhpur, Jaipur, Rajsamand, Ganganagar, Sirohi, Bharatpur, Kota, Banswara and other places. Beneficiaries expressed happiness over the scheme saying that one gets only a roti for Rs 10 in the market, while providing full meal for merely Rs 8 shows the state government’s public welfare-oriented thinking. The CM said Indira Rasoi is a big step towards fulfilling the government’s pledge of ‘No One Sleeps Hungry’. UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal said people will be respectfully seated and served fresh and nutritious food under Indira Rasoi scheme. He said special attention has been paid on the quality of food along with ensuring online monitoring to maintain complete transparency in the scheme. The menu will be as per the local taste, instead of serving the same food at all places. Education minister Govind Singh Dotasra said during the previous tenure of CM Gehlot, he had started public welfare schemes such as Social Security Pension, Chief Minister’s Free Medicine and Diagnostic Scheme. Now, launching such a scheme for poor and needy in the name of Indira Gandhi is a praiseworthy initiative, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-launches-indira-rasoi-scheme/articleshow/77663901.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Surat||Two cops awarded for timely response||Surat: Two cops were awarded by city police commissioner Ajay Tomar on Wednesday for their exemplary work in saving life of a man. Tomar met the cops of Athwalines police station and appreciated them for their quick response by reaching the spot of a wall collapse within five minutes. The Police Control Room (PCR) vehicle reached even before fire team got there. Govind Gamit (50), head constable, and Jayesh Gamit (33), constable, both posted with Athwalines police station, were awarded cash prizes and appreciated for their work by Tomar. Interestingly, Govind has recently joined duty after quarantine at Samras Hostel for five days and for 14 days at home after testing Covid-19 positive. In the incident on August 13, Govind and Jayesh were on duty in a PCR van when they were alerted by police control room at around 10.10 pm about the wall collapse in Lalwadi locality on Ring Road. They reached the spot at 10.15 pm sharp and cleared the crowd. “When we reached, we noticed the crowd and knowing that it will create difficulty for the fire brigade to rescue those trapped, we dispersed the crowd. The fire team could operate smoothly and rescue a man who was shifted to a hospital in an ambulance,” said Govind. The cops were at Ekta Circle near Kadarsha Ni Naal around 1.5 km away from the spot of the wall collapse. “We immediately rushed to the spot on receiving the call from the control room,” said Jayesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-cops-awarded-for-timely-response/articleshow/77661155.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Jaipur||Gehlot skips function at PCC attended by Pilot||Jaipur: Though the central leadership had brokered a deal with his former deputy Sachin Pilot who raised a banner of rebellion against the leadership of chief minister Ashok Gehlot, it seems the latter was not able to get over the bad blood created during the one-month-long acrimony and struggle to save his government. The occasion was the 76th birth anniversary of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi. A memorial function was scheduled at 11am at the PCC headquarters. Since the chief minister had to inaugurate Indira Raosi at 11am, the function at the PCC was rescheduled to 10.30am and all arrangements were made for the CM’s visit to the PCC. But, in the meanwhile, Pilot reached the PCC. Pilot had announced the previous night that he will be visiting the PCC to pay homage to Rajiv Gandhi. The chief minister at the last moment cancelled his visit to the PCC. This left the mediapersons disappointed who were waiting for the ‘milan’ of two leaders. Political observers feel that Gehlot’s action may be a signal that all is not well between them. Incidentally, the chief minister waited for new PCC president Govind Singh Dotasra to reach chief minister’s residence to begin the launch of Indira Raosi function. But on the contrary since the return of prodigal Pilot back to the state from his isolation in Haryana, he has been giving the impression that all is now well within the party. The message to Pilot is clear that the chief minister could not forget the ordeal of the past one month so easily and a meeting of minds is still a far cry. The new AICC general secretary in charge Ajay Maken who is expected to visit the state next week had make a lot of efforts to bring the two leaders and factions united. Maken is coming as part of the three-member committee constituted by the party high command to find a respectable rehabilitation of the leaders loyal to Pilot camp in to the government and organization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-skips-function-at-pcc-attended-by-pilot/articleshow/77663920.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Delhi||122.8mm in 24 hours: Aya Nagar soaked in ‘very heavy’ rain||NEW DELHI: Aya Nagar in southwest Delhi recorded the season’s first “very heavy” rainfall day as overnight showers continued to pour down on the capital. It received 122.8mm of rainfall in a 24-hour duration till 8.30am on Thursday. A second spell of light rain was also recorded till the afternoon, but Met officials said the intensity was expected to go down from Friday. IMD had issued an orange alert for the region from Tuesday till Thursday, forecasting moderate rain with parts receiving heavy showers. No weather station in Delhi had crossed the 100mm mark in a 24-hour period this season. The previous highest level was also recorded at Aya Nagar, which received 99.2mm of rainfall on August 13. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre in Delhi, said from Thursday evening the monsoon trough close to NCR was likely to shift southwards. This would reduce the intensity in the coming days. “You can expect a decreasing trend in terms of rain received from Friday onwards. The monsoon trough is shifting and one can only expect light rainfall after that,” he added. Since 2010, the highest rainfall recorded in a single day in August was 110mm at Safdarjung that year. For the Palam station, it was 101mm in 2018. The all-time record for Palam was 183.6mm in a single day on August 6, 1963. For Safdarjung, the all-time record for the month was 184mm recorded on August 2, 1961. “This is the first very heavy rainfall spell for the season. If you look at Safdarjung and Palam data for the last decade, they have not recorded a single very heavy rainfall day in August,” said Srivastava. IMD data showed that Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station, had recorded 54.8mm of rainfall till 8.30am on Thursday and another 8.2mm in the next nine hours. Aya Nagar received the most rainfall till 8.30am, followed by Palam (89.1mm) and Ridge (77.3mm). The maximum temperature was recorded at 29 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal for this time of the season. The relative humidity oscillated between 94% and 100% in the past 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/122-8mm-in-24-hrs-aya-nagar-soaked-in-very-heavy-rain/articleshow/77663956.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Varanasi||Swachh Survey: Varanasi grabs top slot among Ganga Towns||Varanasi/Lucknow: Six cities of Uttar Pradesh burst into the Swachch hall of fame this year with Lucknow and Varanasi hogging the limelight after trailing in national rankings since the cleanliness survey took off. While Varanasi was declared the best ‘Ganga Town’ with a population of more than 10lakh, Lucknow too shone in the same category by bagging the 12 th spot. The ‘fastest mover state capital’ honour also went to Lucknow in the 2020 Swachh Bharat Survey announced on Thursday. Besides Varanasi, Kannuaj and Chunar too came up with stellar performances to grab top slots in the three population-wise subcategories in the Cleanest Ganga Town category. Among 97 Ganga Towns in the country, Varanasi was at the top with 86.5 points followed by Kanpur (81), Munger in Bihar (78.5), Prayagraj (60) and Haridwar in Uttarakhand (58.8). Among 62 Cantonment Boards, Varanasi Cantonment Board secured the 5th rank with 3,148.10 score followed by Jhansi on 6th, Matura at 11th spot and Lucknow on 19th position. However, in national rankings with 10 lakh population, Varanasi was ranked 27, preceded by Kanpur (25), Ghaziabad (19), Agra (16). However, the city made a dramatic turnaround in its cleanliness quotient when it improved its rank from 70 in 2019 to 27 this year. The Swachh Survey, 2020, surveyed 4,242 cities, 62 Cantonment Boards and 97 Ganga Towns and witnessed participation of 1.87 crore citizens. The survey teams visited over 58,000 residential and over 20,000 commercial areas covering over 64,000 wards. Varanasi municipal commissioner Gaurang Rathi said, it is a big achievement to bag the top honour among Ganga Towns. “We are committed to improve the city’s national ranking,” he told TOI. Expressing happiness over the 5th rank of Varanasi Cantonment Board, member and former vice-president of Cantonment Board Shailendra Singh congratulated chairman Brig Hukum Singh Baisala and other officials for the achievement. He said, it is the collective effort of board officials and local citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/swachh-survey-varanasi-grabs-top-slot-among-ganga-towns/articleshow/77663406.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Surat||FOGWA, SMC strategic meet on migrant workers’ Surat return||Surat: The Federation of Gujarat Weavers Welfare Association (FOGWA) has organised a meeting on Friday with the senior authorities of the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) for devising a strategy for bringing back the migrant workers of the textile industry from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha.Office-bearers of FOGWA stated that a meeting will have the presence of SMC chief Banchhanidhi Pani and mayor Dr Jagdish Patel. The leaders will be discussing the possibility of scheduling Shramik special trains again, this time from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha to Surat. President of FOGWA, Ashok Jirawala told TOI, “Post-lockdown the textile sector is yet to restart with just 15% units operational and that too with skeletal staff. There is a severe shortage of workers in the industry. The workers want to return to Surat, but they do not have any mode of transportation.” Jirawala added, “The production of man-made fabric in the industry is less than 30 lakh metres per day against the pre-lockdown production of 4 crore metres per day. Like the government facilitated the travel of migrant workers from Surat to their native states during lockdown, the government must ensure that the workers are provided similar train facilities to return to Surat.” Ashish Gujarati, president of Pandesara Weavers Association told TOI, “We were given assurance by the top authorities in the city that they will bring the migrant workers back once the industrial operations resume. The industrial units started operating from June, still, we are unable to operate the units to its capacity due to the shortage of workers. We are looking forward to the meeting with SMC officials.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/fogwa-smc-strategic-meet-on-migrant-workers-surat-return/articleshow/77661170.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Pune||Home delivery of Ganesha idols helps keep the crowd away from stalls in Pune||PUNE: The city streets are likely to seem rather deserted on Friday as most sellers have opted to deliver idols to the devotees’ homes in an effort to prevent crowding during the pandemic. Vendors stated that most consumers have readily accepted home deliveries due to the fear of Covid-19. According to vendors, they had also provided consumers with the option of booking the idols online or through video calls so that people would not have to step out of their homes. “We had launched a website to help people book their Ganapati idol. After making the selection, people could also customize the idol as they wished. We had decided back in May that we would provide home delivery of idols so that people would not have to come to the stall. We have got over 100 orders online. We have already started deliveries of idols on Thursday,” explained Shubham Bhoir, owner of Pen Ganesh Murti. Bhoir stated that the final picture of the idol is sent to the consumers once ready as per specifications and an intimation is sent half-an-hour before delivery. Ravi Salunkhe, designer at Handmade Paper Institute’s Papertells, said, “Instead of taking bookings through a website, we opted to use the platform of chat and video calls so that people could see how the idol actually looks. The facility was launched so that people could choose their idol from home. We also wanted to prevent crowding at the centre. People chose their idol and completed payment online. We are not providing free delivery as people from far off areas have also placed orders with us. We are charging a minimal amount of Rs100 to Rs150 for delivery.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/home-delivery-of-idols-helps-keep-the-crowd-away-from-stalls/articleshow/77663963.cms||Rujuta Parekh
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Couple booked for trafficking in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday filed a chargesheet in Nampally court against a Hyderabadi man and his Bangladeshi wife for allegedly trafficking women from Bangladesh. NIA officials in a press note said Mohammed Abdul Salam, 47, and his wife Shiuli Khatun,30, were arrested in May and are now chargesheeted under Sections 120 b, 370, 471 of the IPC and provisions under Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act and Foreigners Act. The two accused in collusion with three other accused Rs 26 crore — Mohammed Yousuf Khan, Bithi Begum and Sojib Shaik — were setting up a brothel in Chatrinaka when they were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/couple-booked-for-trafficking/articleshow/77663979.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Chennai||‘Just 9% of Chennai restaurants are open’||CHENNAI: Covid-19 induced lockdown, restrictions and public fear over eating out have resulted in nearly 10% of restaurants across metros shutting down permanently, a survey has revealed. As much as 83% of the 15,000 surveyed dine-in restaurants — spread across Delhi-NCR, Chennai, Bengaluru, Kolkata and Hyderabad — are still shut for reasons ranging from labour shortage to poor patronage. This finding was part of the Status of Restaurant Industry in India-Mid-Covid19 Report released by food delivery aggregator Zomato. The restaurants were surveyed from August 1. Chennai is one of the worst affected cities with just 9% of all dine-in restaurants open for business, while 29% is open in Kolkata, which is the most among surveyed cities. “Of the 83% restaurants that are not open for business, 10% have shut down permanently while another 30% might not reopen at all. The remaining 43% are likely to open as the situation becomes better,” said the report. Though lockdown restrictions have eased, people are still reluctant to dine in over fear of infection. The slump is also due to restaurants not opening up due to non-availability of staff, many of whom were guest workers. Food delivery is currently clocking 75-80% of gross merchandise value of pre-Covid levels. But the same cannot be said for dine-in outlets, which are currently operating at 8-10% of gross merchandise value (GMV) from pre-pandemic levels, the report stated. M Ravi, president of Chennai Hotels Association said, “About 50% of the 8,000 eateries in the city and its suburbs are currently shut for business. One of the reasons is unavailability of workers.” The food aggregator has proposed that making dine-in experience contact-less would help faster revival of the businesses. It has introduced the “three Cs” system for its customers, where with a Contact-less menu, one can scan a QR code on the table to get the restaurant menu, with Contact-less ordering one can order through the app (you don’t need to interact with the waiting staff) and with Contact-less payment one can simply pay the bill via the app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/just-9-of-city-restaurants-are-open/articleshow/77662494.cms||Eetika Kapoor
August 21, 2020||Jaipur||Jodhpur city improves swachh ranking||Jodhpur: Jodhpur city has been adjudged as the ‘Fastest Mover Big City’ in the Swachhata Survey 2020, the results of which were announced by the ministry of urban development and housing on Thursday. Jodhpur has ranked 29th in this survey among 47 cities with population over 10 lakh, which is a huge jump from the 243rd rank in the previous survey. The ministry observed that Jodhpur has made tremendous improvement and it has a huge potential of further improvements. Jodhpur has earned a total of 3,615 points out of 6,000 in the present survey against just 2,091 in the 2019 Swachhata Survey. JMC commissioner Suresh Kumar Ola attributed this quantum leap of 214 points to immaculate working on all the aspects pertaining to the Swachhata Survey this year. Expressing his gratitude to the staff of the JMC and people of Jodhpur, Ola said, “We worked on various initiatives ensuring active participation of people of the city which helped to get the first place in the citizens’ feedback in the state”. He informed that 4000 swachhata sainiks, ward incharge and chief sanitation inspectors of the JMC played a key role in making this feat possible. “The paintings on city walls, roads and city circles made by the swachhata sainiks kicked off an atmosphere for cleanliness in the city and provided a radiance to the city,” Ola said, adding that because of this, Jodhpur got 1,045 points out of 1,500 in field observation. Besides this, Jodhpur has a system in place of door-to-door waste collection, which is being monitored through GPS technology. Ola said Jodhpur is the second city in the state, which has two material recovery facilities. In this facility, waste is sent through different streams by the ragpickers after separation. “This practice has helped in ensuring income to ragpickers on one hand, while on the other, JMC has also been earning,” Ola said. The ministry had included 4,242 cities in this survey with different categories corresponding to their population and Jodhpur was competing among 47 cities under the population category of 10 lakh-40 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-city-improves-swachh-ranking/articleshow/77663952.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Kochi||Kerala govt contemplating probe in housing scam||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With the chief minister’s office (CMO) receiving credible information that Rs 4.25 crore was handed over by Unitac builders – which is constructing Life Mission housing project at Wadakkancherry –to gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh and accomplices as commission, the government is seriously contemplating a probe in this deal. But, the involvement of UAE’s Red Crescent and the UAE consulate has created a tricky situation as none of the state agencies can conduct a proper inquiry. Vigilance and anti-corruption bureau (VACB) is not competent to probe UAE agencies and the government is thinking whether a limited probe into the role of state government officials in sanctioning the project with undue haste can be ordered. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan is learnt to have suggested a thorough review of all files pertaining to the project. Sources said a senior official at CMO has started reviewing files from LSG, finance and law departments on the project and the MoU signed between UAE-based Red Crescent and Life Mission on the Rs 20 crore project at Wadakkancherry. The latest information received at the CMO through sources in NIA and ED is that Rs. 4.25 crore was handed over by Unitac promoters to the gang. While Rs 75 lakh was transferred to a firm owned by Sandeep Nair, the co-accused in the gold smuggling case, Rs 3.50 crore was handed over to a senior official of the UAE consulate. According to John Brittas, the media advisor to CM, the amount was received by Egyptian citizen Khalid as rupees and dollars near a coffee shop at Kowdiar. Brittas told a vernacular news channel that the consulate employee came in the official car to receive the money between 7pm and 8pm on August 2, 2019. According to him, a part of the amount is advance payment for obtaining the contract for constructing the proposed consulate building at the land given by the government in Thiruvananthapuram. The investigators also found out that Swapna had used illegal money converting channels to collect bulk amounts in dollars to divide the share of commission amount. Though the Rs 1 crore seized from her locker was claimed by her as her share of the deal, investigators suspect that the money was meant to be gifted to some officials. It is learnt that enforcement directorate officials will interrogate Unitac promoters along with Swapna Suresh again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-contemplating-probe-in-housing-scam/articleshow/77661131.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Pune||Celebrate grand Ganeshotsav with Times Bappa||Pune: The city’s favourite festival begins on Saturday. The elaborate decorations by Ganesh mandals, the buzzing crowd and vibrant celebrations during Ganeshotsav starting August 22 won’t be there this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. But The Times of India has decided to ensure that Puneites do not miss out on the fun and the excitement that the 10-day Ganeshotsav brings. Amid the pandemic, our festive celebrations will get a new twist in the form of ‘Times Bappa’, an innovative way of celebrating Ganeshotsav with your family and friends. An online platform has been launched to help users create and customize their own Ganapati installation by choosing various inbuilt customizable options using their cellphone and laptops. All you have to do is log on to www.TimesBappa.com which has various idol options to choose from, multiple backgrounds, a plethora of sweets which can be selected as offering, lighting choices, flowers and other decoration items. Once you choose the idol, it will have to remain unchanged for the duration you have chosen to celebrate the festival. But, you can let your creativity flow by changing the decorations, background, flowers and sweets offered every day. Your ‘Bappa’ can be shared with friends and family via WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter among other social media platforms so that friends can ‘like’ your Bappa. The most liked Bappas will win 100 gift vouchers of Rs 500 each, every day. The leaderboard will be visible on the web/app which can list top liked Bappa creations. A digital visarjan of your Bappa can also be done. That is not all. There will be a ‘Live Aarti’ tab which will live stream aartis from many of the famous pandals in the city. To get cracking, you can either log on to www.timesbappa.com or scan the QR code or download the Times Bappa app from Android playstore. Besides the daily gift vouchers, the best five Bappa creations will be published in The Times Of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/celebrate-grand-ganeshotsav-with-times-bappa/articleshow/77663944.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Fund crunch hits Mission Kakatiya||HYDERABAD: Shortage of funds has severely affected implementation of Mission Kakatiya. Works on over 5,000 tanks and lakes have either been stalled or there has been no progress with contractors refusing to complete the works for over a year now till their bills are cleared. Sources said bills to the tune of Rs 450 crore are pending with the irrigation department. Nearly 6,000 contractors have bills pending up to Rs 20 lakh each, while the rest have completed works costing between Rs 20 lakh and Rs 1 crore.  “Initially, the government has paid bills to up to Rs 10 lakh and recently cleared nearly Rs 100 crore to bills up to Rs 20 lakh. Nearly 600 to 700 contractors have bills pending between Rs 50 lakh and Rs 1 crore. Since many contractors have take up more than a single work, many works have not been executed in the last one year with their bills pending,” a senior irrigation official said.  While work on 21,500 tanks and lakes had been completed, work on 5,500 water bodies is in different stages. The government had even sought Rs 5,000 crore from the Centre to complete the works, while the Niti Aayog had recommended to provide assistance for the scheme along with Mission Bhagiratha scheme two years ago. But, the Centre has not provided any support till now. “The government has other commitments and is focusing more on irrigation projects. The work on lakes and tanks has hit a rough patch owing to the pandemic,” an official of CMO said. Irrigation officials, however, claimed that with the restoration of tanks, groundwater has improved in dried-up wells, which account for 17% of irrigated water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fund-crunch-hits-mission-kakatiya/articleshow/77663878.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 21, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur docs save life of 2-year-old shot by sibling with airgun||JAIPUR: A two-year-old girl, who was accidentally shot by her own sibling while playing with an airgun, got a new lease of life. “The girl has been discharged from the hospital, but it could be life-threatening as the bullet was lodged inside the lungs of the child,” said Dr Sunita Ojha, paediatric surgeon of a private hospital. The incident is a lesson to all parents to be careful in keeping such airguns very carefully, away from the reach of children and always unloaded, otherwise life-threatening incidents could take place. Doctors pointed out that parents should not consider air guns very casually or lightly as a toy. The incident happened on August 5. The child was shot accidentally by her 6-year-old sibling while playing. She has been discharged from the hospital five days ago and has recovered after surgery. The boy found the loaded gun in the cupboard when maid was performing her routine cleaning work. Attracted by the gun, the child took it away without the knowledge of elders and shot his sibling accidentally while playing. “She had an entry wound on the left side of chest, crossing between the chest bone (sternum) and heart/vascular structures and penetrated in the right lung, resulting in collection of blood in the lung (lung contusion),” said Dr Ojha, who operated upon the girl. The child was operated by a key hole surgery (thoracoscopy), through small holes of 5mm size. With the help of telescope and fine instruments, the pellet was removed thus avoiding large incision, helping in quick recovery of the child with a barely visible scar. The air pistols, which typically come in .177 or .22 caliber, can be life threatening as they are designed to shoot pellets having aerodynamic shape which makes them extremely accurate. Doctors pointed out that air gun pellets can pierce the skin, and softer areas of the body such as the eyes and mouth and a person can be severely injured being shot with the pellet and sometimes it can even kill someone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-docs-save-life-of-two-year-old-shot-by-sibling-with-airgun/articleshow/77663964.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Surat||Reuse, reduce, recycle: Surat’s swachhata mantra||SURAT: The Diamond City saw a sparkling improvement in its cleanliness ranking, becoming India’s second cleanest city after Indore, in the fifth edition of Swachh Survekshan (country-wide sanitation survey) that was released by the union housing and urban affairs ministry on Friday. Surat improved from a distant 14 last year to number 2 and officials attributed this boost to capping of Khajod landfill site which has now been converted into sprawling green land mass and massive increase in recycling of solid and liquid waste. “We worked with a mantra of three Rs’ - reuse, reduce and recycle in waste management,” said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat. In February, SMC officially closed the solid waste landfill site near the world's largest Surat Diamond Bourse (SDB) at Khajod and it is now covered with lush green lawns. The site was spread over 60 hectare land and SMC had stopped dumping solid waste since 2014. However, it needed to be capped and the waste disposed of scientifically for which the civic body spent Rs 60 crore. The capping work started about a year-and-a-half ago by adhering to solid waste management rules. Out of the 60 hectare, SMC fully reclaimed 30 hectare land and this open space is now an ecological park. "This is a proud moment for all citizens of Surat who have contributed in making the city clean. Under the Swachh Bharat Mission, SMC’s solid waste management system focuses on collection, transportation, treatment and disposal of 1,800 metric tonnes of solid waste everyday,'' Pani said. Under the Samvendna initiative, food waste collected from rich people is given to those in need, which serves the dual purpose of help and reducing kitchen waste. Moreover, SMC is earning from waste water by recycling it and selling it to industry. "In order to recycle and reuse the city's waste water, the tertiary sewage treatment plant at Bamroli supplies industrial grade water to Pandesara estate. An estimated Rs.140 crore revenue is generated for the SMC every year. The project saves drinking water being used for industrial purposes as well,'' Pani added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/reuse-reduce-recycle-surats-swachhata-mantra/articleshow/77661096.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Pune||MBA grad held on charge of duping woman at ATM kiosk||Pune: The Chatushrungi police arrested an MBA graduate from Madhya Pradesh after a woman complained of being cheated of Rs6,000 at an ATM (autmated teller machine) kiosk in Aundh. The woman lodged the police complaint last week. After studying CCTV footage, police circulated photographs of the suspect — Deepak Rajendra Soni — among security guards of various kiosks. One of the guards in Aundh spotted Soni on Wednesday, pulled down the shutter and called the police, who arrested him. Soni hails from Chhatarpur and is in Pune hunting for a job. According to the complaint, on August 14, the woman went to the ATM kiosk located in Aundh and inserted her debit card to withdraw cash, when Soni, who was at the kiosk, informed her that the machine was not working. The woman, who had not completed the transaction on the first machine, used an adjacent machine. Both machines had slots in which cards could be inserted and removed to initiate a transaction.Police said Soni stood behind the woman, noted down her PIN and completed the transaction on the first machine, withdrawing Rs6,000. Police said they were looking into whether Soni targeted more people at kiosks with older cash dispensing machines. “During questioning, Soni told us that he was searching for job in Pune, but there were no openings and that he was going through a rough time financially. We suspect he may have executed more such crimes,” sub-inspector Mohan Jadhav of Chatushrungi police told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mba-grad-held-on-charge-of-duping-woman-at-atm-kiosk/articleshow/77663994.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Stop pollution of Nakkavagu, activist tells CS||Hyderabad: A green activist has made a representation to the chief secretary to take measures to stop pollution of Nakkavagu as per the 2017 National Green Tribunal (South Zone) judgment. Activist Damodar Reddy Pakanati said the NGT’s directions were not implemented even after two years. “NGT had given a judgment for controlling industrial pollution in Patancheru and IDA Bollaram. State government, Telangana State Pollution Control Board and all polluting and bulk drug companies were asked to ensure zero liquid discharge into water bodies, including Nakkavagu,” Damodar Reddy said. He requested the chief secretary to constitute an “implementation committee” to protect people from the industrial pollution under Section 3 (3) of the Environmental (Protection) Act 1986. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stop-pollution-of-nakkavagu-activist-tells-cs/articleshow/77663893.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Rajkot||Minor detained for murder over mobile phone use||Rajkot: A minor was detained for killing a youth with a scythe at a factory in Shapar Veraval industrial zone in Rajkot on Thursday.Police said the accused, a 17-year-old youth, allegedly hacked Vasant Talsana (18) with a scythe. According to the police, the factory owner, who happens to be the uncle of the accused, snatched the cellphone belonging to the accused, as he suspected the accused of playing whole day and not paying attention to his work. “When his cellphone was snatched the accused suspected that Talsana had ratted on him to his uncle. In a fit of rage, he picked up a scythe and went to Talsana, who was sleeping under the shade of the factory, and dealt him four blows on his head. Talsana was rushed to a private hospital where he died during the treatment,” said an official from Shapar Veraval police station. “We detained the accused soon after the crime. We will be formally arresting him once he undergoes Covid-19 test,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/minor-detained-for-murder-over-mobile-phone-use/articleshow/77662393.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Speaker, chairman inspect assembly||HYDERABAD: Assembly speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy and council chairman Gutta Sukhender Reddy have directed the assembly secretary to complete arrangements for holding assembly session by September 1.  Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had earlier announced that the assembly session will be held from September 7 for about 15 days. The speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy and chairman Gutta Sukhender Reddy on Thursday inspected assembly meeting hall, visitors’ gallery, speaker’s chamber, members’ entrance gate along with legislative affairs minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy and directed the secretary to ensure social distance is maintained and all precautions are taken. A decision has been taken not to allow visitors during the session and restrict the movement of people in the corridors other than the designated seats. The chairman and speaker asked the officials to install all necessary equipment to identify coronavirus-infected persons. Government has to hold assembly sessions within six months of previous session. Last session was held in March. A decision has been taken not to allow visitors during the session and restrict the movement of people in the corridors other than the designated seats||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/speaker-chairman-inspect-assembly/articleshow/77663919.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Varanasi||BHU VC’s remarks on Malviya spark protests||Varanasi: Massive protests erupted on Banaras Hindu University campus on Thursday over vice chancellor Prof Rakesh Bhatnagar’s remarks on shortage of funds in which he made a reference to the university founder which students said were disparaging to Bharat Ratna Mahamana Madan Mohan Malviya. Students affiliated to Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), National Students Union of India (NSUI) and Samajwadi Chhatra Sabha (SCS) staged demonstrations across campus and demanded VC’s resignation. An audio clip of a 16.15-minute telephonic conversation of Prof. Bhatnagar with a student leader Abhishek went viral on Wednesday. In the call recording, Abhishek is heard demanding free treatment at BHU hospital, and reviving the old provision of issuing health cards again since students have to pay every time for consulting doctors. In reply, Prof. Bhatnagar cites shortage of funds and says the UGC gives only Rs 60 crore to BHU per annum while just the annual electricity bill is Rs 66 crore. The VC added that it’s not possible to provide free treatment or else the hospital would have to be closed. “The Mahamana planted many saplings of mango trees on campus. If he would have planted some of currency notes, we would have given everything for free,” he added. Prof. Bhatnagar further said he himself also pays to avail treatment at the hospital. “The government is also facing financial constraints as tax collection is poor in Covid-19 period. There are chances that we might not get even Rs 60 crore in next session,” the VC said. He added that even IIT-Kanpur is facing problems in paying salaries of teachers and staff, but assured that he would initiate dialogue to find a way for resolving the issue. Different groups of students started collecting at various points in and around BHU in the morning despite closure of campus in view of Covid-19 crisis. The ABVP activists staged a protest in front of VC’s residence, while NSUI staged a sit-in at the central office. The SCS activists took out a procession and tried to burn the effigy of VC at the main gate in Lanka, but policemen foiled their bid. One group of students staged a protest by begging. The students demanded removal of the VC for his remarks on Pt. Madan Mohan Malviya. They said Mahamana founded the university by seeking donations, but instead of being grateful for his contribution the VC has made a statement, which hurts the sentiment of students and people. In a bid to soothe tempers as protests continued, BHU issued a clarification saying the VC was trying to convince a student like a guardian and had been apprising him of the financial problems the university is facing as Covid-19 pandemic has made the situation even more complex. BHU spokesman Rajesh Singh issued the statement quoting parts of the conversation between VC and a student leader and added that former had given examples and shared facts to make clear that the institution was facing increased financial pressure due to pandemic. The entire conversation proves that the welfare of students is on top priority of the VC. It reflects how the head of the institute is always ready to listen to the grievances of students and tries to provide a solution, the statement added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-vcs-remarks-on-malviya-spark-protests/articleshow/77663261.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Surat||BCom girl student donates plasma||Surat: A 21-year-old Janki Kalathiya became the third woman in the city to donate her plasma after fully recovering from Covid-19.Kalathiya, a resident of Nyalkaran Society on Ved Road, is a third year student of BBA at BRCM College on Athwalines in the city. She donated plasma at Surat Municipal Corporation-run (SMC) SMIMER hospital.“My uncle Maheshbhai inspired me to donate plasma to help Covid-19 patients recover. I had a fever and cough on July 8. I consulted Dr. Samir Gami who advised me about home isolation. I recovered after a few days and the antibody tests in a private lab and the report was positive. So, I decided to donate my plasma on Wednesday,” she said.Kalathiya also appealed to all people who have recovered from the infection to donate plasma for other patients. People who had fever or cough during this period should test their antibody and if found positive, they should donate,” she said.According to sources, till now as many as 690 people have donated plasma in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bcom-girl-student-donates-plasma/articleshow/77661193.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Kochi||Kerala gold smuggling case: Sleuths to look into forgery of documents||KOCHI: Sleuths part of the multi-agency probe into the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case will seek further evidence from the state protocol office relating to the smuggling of gold through diplomatic channel. According to sources with the Customs preventive, the specimen signature of the authorised signatory of the consulate available with the state protocol office would be crucial in verifying the suspected forgery of documents by the racket to smuggle gold through the diplomatic channel for 20 times. “Many of the documents submitted by the accused to smuggle gold through the channel has signatures of a top consulate official. At least in the first 18, the signature is of the same person. We can match the specimen signature with the signature in these documents to see if the accused forged the documents or faked the signatures,” said a Customs official, adding that they were planning to source the specimen signature through formal channels after informing the court. It is also learnt that the probe agencies, including Customs and the National Investigation Agency, would look into the contact history of Swapna Suresh and Sartih P S, the accused in the case and former employees of the UAE consulate, with officials of the protocol office. The investigation is to find if the accused received any kind of favours from their contacts at the protocol office. “Both these accused were in touch with some officials at the protocol office. Statements of these officials would be recorded. Though the accused has claimed that they used to contact the official of the protocol office for purposes of the consulate, this needs to be verified. At the same time, the office has taken a stand that there were only limited communications between the consulate and the office. We need to get more clarity on this,” said a source. Enforcement directorate on the other hand is looking into the matter that Swapna received a commission relating to the welfare housing project at Thrissur district funded by Red Crescent through Thiruvananthapuram UAE consulate. Even as there were reports about the Enforcement Directorate (ED) planning to record the statement of Life Mission CEO U V Jose, senior officials with the ED investigating team said that they haven’t issued a notice to the bureaucrat on the matter yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sleuths-to-look-into-forgery-of-documents/articleshow/77661143.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Rain gods smile, but in unequal measure||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s monsoon deficit, which had touched around 40% at the start of August, has been wiped out completely. IMD has now placed the city’s overall rainfall in the “normal” category. However, data shows that the distribution of rainfall has been quite uneven. So far, North district has received 554.3mm of rainfall this season, an excess of 40% and the highest in the city. However, North West and North East districts are struggling to get enough rain. North East district has received 370.2mm of rainfall compared with the normal mark of 491.6mm, placing it at a deficit of 25%. North West district has a deficit of 26%, receiving only 249.5mm of rainfall against the normal mark of 338.2mm. After Wednesday’s rain, North and South West were in the “excess” range, but three districts were still rainfall deficient. This shows how unevenly the rainfall has been distributed this season. Central district, which has only received 210.3mm of rainfall, fares the worst at the moment with a deficit of 57%. Meanwhile, four districts, including East, New Delhi, South and West are in the “normal” range. “North Delhi has received almost double the rainfall recorded in North West, even though both districts are adjacent to each other. Central district, which is not too far off, is close to plunging into the large deficient range,” said a Met official. Two “heavy” rainfall days have been recorded in August so far, on Wednesday and on August 13. There were two heavy rainfall days in July too. On July 19, Safdarjung had received 74.8mm of rainfall and 67.6mm on July 23. Rainfall above 64.4mm in a single day is classified as “heavy” by IMD. This season, Safdarjung, Palam and Lodhi Road stations are all in the “excess” category after Wednesday’s spell. The monthly data also shows an excess at these stations. This month, Palam has received 40% excess rainfall, followed by Safdarjung and Lodhi Road (15% extra). “Delhi tends to receive sufficient rainfall towards the end of the month. Light to moderate rainfall will continue this week,” said the Met official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rain-gods-smile-but-in-unequal-measure/articleshow/77663999.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 21, 2020||Jaipur||AAI letter soon for Adani group to operate Jaipur airport||JAIPUR: As the Union cabinet approved the right to operate, develop and maintain Jaipur airport for the next 50 years, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) will soon release the letter of award to Adani group. The letter of award would be followed by an agreement through which the group would deposit the required security deposit of nearly Rs 1,000 crore for the lease. Authorities did not rule out the possibility of enhancement of the facilities and infrastructure, but have also predicted some restrictions for passengers. From now, it will take around a year for the group to start its full and independent operations. TOI on Thursday spoke to the airport authorities at Jaipur to find out what exactly is going to change at the Jaipur airport after Adani group takes over and by when the airport would be handed over to the group. “After the Union cabinet approval, in next couple of days the AAI will give a letter of award to the Adani group and thereafter, they will have an agreement on the terms and conditions and announcement of a security deposit by the group to be given to AAI. Thereafter, a maximum time of six months would be given to the group for the commercial operation date (COD). So, the group would be able to start their operations within six months or before,” said a senior officer of the Jaipur airport on condition of anonymity. Also, after the group would complete six months’ time and will get the COD, the same staff of AAI will continue to serve at the Jaipur airport. “We would be left with the whole air traffic control (ATC) and communication navigation surveillance (CNS),” the officer added. When contacted, Jaideep Singh Balhara, director, AAI, Jaipur said, “Apart from ATC, CNS, the security would be handled by Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). Other than that, the group would be able to run its commercial activities, which would be developing of restaurants and other facilities. Also, there is a plan to develop a terminal-3 at the Jaipur airport by the group for which we already have the required land.” Balhara added that as per the tender conditions, the group will have to pay Rs 174 each for one passenger’s departure and arrival for domestic operations and Rs 348 for every arrival and departure of passenger travelling from and to international destinations. “Prior to Covid-19, our regular footfall was nearly 15,000 passengers per day, including arrivals and departures,” he added. Parking fees, restrictions to be decided by the group: Things like parking fees or any restrictions for the passengers and their relatives would be decided by the Adani group after taking over the airport There could be provisions for restricted and time-bound entry of vehicles at the porch area of the airport There is a provision for developing a terminal-3 by the group within the existing area of the airport Authorities expect things to be a little expensive at the airport with the development of infrastructural facilities Except ATC and CNS, everything would be operated by the Adani group||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/aai-letter-soon-for-adani-group-to-operate-jaipur-airport/articleshow/77663995.cms||Ashish Mehta
August 21, 2020||Vadodara||Testing crosses 2K/day, 115 test +ve||Vadodara: Covid-19 testing in the city and district crossed 2,000 even as a fresh high was made with 115 persons testing positive since Wednesday evening. The positivity rate, however, was pushed even lower despite the fresh cases. According to Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), 2,163 tests were conducted in the city and district since Wednesday evening. With 115 persons being found positive in these tests, the positivity rate stood at 5.32 per cent that was lower than 5.76% last month. A bulk of these tests were rapid antigen tests that are being widely used now. With the new cases, the total number of cases in the city went up to 6,762. The VMC also confirmed that two more persons had died due to Covid-19 being the primary cause of death. With these, the total number of such victims reached 126. As many as 75 persons were discharged on Thursday taking the total number of discharged persons to 5,379. This leaves 1,239 persons hospitalised or in home isolation. The condition of 57 such patients was serious and they were on ventilators or BIPAP machines. In the city, the west zone reported the highest number of new cases with 28 persons testing positive followed by 24 from the east zone. The north and south zone reported 16 cases each in the city. The rural areas of the district outside VMC limits reported 31 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/testing-crosses-2k/day-115-test-ve/articleshow/77661290.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Colleges seek ‘expression of interest’||KOLKATA: The glut of applications from candidates seeking UG admissions has apparently forced several colleges to ask the youngsters to submit “expression of interest” in preferred subjects and institutes so that the authorities will know their choices and can accordingly, prepare more accurate lists, sieving through the thousands of requests. After the government waived application fees, students have been going in for as many subjects as they want in multiple colleges. The college administrations are reportedly at a loss on how to include all the names as that would require the publication of several merit lists, which in turn, will push back the admission process. The new session classes, to be held online, are likely to begin in October. “We put up the names of all candidates on the respective subject merit lists and offer admissions till all the seats are taken. From the list, the applicants get an idea about their chance of securing a seat,” said an admission official at North City College (day). “This year, with such huge rise in the number of applicants, we expect the merit lists to expand. By the time we finish with the lists, we will be well past the date set for starting classes.” Many top-pick colleges want to “weed out” candidates who may not be interested to study in a particular subject in their institute. “As there is no cost involved, students are applying to as many colleges as possible. We are asking them to mention their preferred subjects. Accordingly, if the student finds a higher rank in a subject of his/her choice, we will know he/she will not be interested in a seat in the other subjects applied for,” said Kishor Mukherjee, associate professor of physics at Prabhu Jagatbandhu College in Andul, affiliated to Calcutta University. Another teacher at North City College pointed out that “showing expression of interest” might not eliminate the possibility of a student quitting the course even after admission, but it would at least remove some applicants. “Otherwise, we will have to keep admitting students from the lengthy merit list even after the semester begins. How will the students joining later cope with the studies?” he said. “The government has taken a positive initiative by allowing candidates to apply in multiple courses with no cost. Students, who earlier restricted themselves to three colleges are now filling forms for more institutions. They will be considered by all these colleges but the students will have to settle for only one institute. So, we are requesting the candidates to specify whether they genuinely want to study in a particular subject in our college or not,” said a college principal. Even Shri Shikshayatan College, a private college, which does not have to follow the government’s diktat to waive the application charges, has also issued notification for express of interest, stating the candidates have to confirm their preference between August 20 and August 21, latest by 11.30pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/colleges-seek-expression-of-interest/articleshow/77662530.cms||Somdatta Basu
August 21, 2020||Delhi||AAP to contest all seats in 2022 Uttarakhand assembly election: Delhi CM||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party convener Arvind Kejriwal announced that the party will contest Uttarakhand Assembly polls, likely to take place in early 2022. The party is likely to field candidates in all 70 seats of the hill state where it has an active party unit. AAP will use the Delhi model of governance — works done in education, health and other sectors — to seek trust of the voters and try to form the next government. The Delhi model of fighting Covid will also be used to win the elections. The party will also try to provide solutions for the issues being faced by the state. AAP’s Uttarakhand in-charge Dinesh Mohaniya said that the party will reach out to voters with solutions for the issues being faced by the state. AAP recently conducted a survey and found that 62% of the people of the state want AAP to contest the assembly elections. At present BJP is in power in Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kejriwal-aap-to-contest-all-seats-in-2022-uttarakhand-assembly-election/articleshow/77664013.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Surat||Tapi swells with release of 1.76L cusecs water from Ukai||Surat: Tapi river was flowing bank to bank following the release of 1.76 lakh cusecs of water from the Ukai reservoir due to heavy to heavy rains in its catchment areas on Thursday. According to the dam authorities, the inflow into the reservoir was 1.18 lakh cusecs due to heavy rains in the catchment area. They however said that the discharge from the reservoir will continue to maintain the rule level of 335 feet.On Thursday evening, the water level at Ukai reservoir is 333.76 feet against the rule level of 335 feet. In the last 24 hours, the catchment areas of the reservoir in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh have been pounded with an average of 100 mm rainfall, increasing the water income in the dam.H R Mahakal, superintending engineer of Ukai dam told TOI, “The release of 1.76 lakh cusecs will continue till the time the inflow does not decrease. We will maintain the rule level of 335 feet at the da.m” Meanwhile, district collector Dhaval Patel stated that the water released from the dam is flowing into the Arabian sea and that there are no reports of flooding in the downstream areas of Ukai dam. However, the residents in the low-lying areas have been requested to follow the shifting instructions given by the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) as and when needed. Chief fire officer (CFO), Basant Pareek told TOI, “We will shift people from the low-lying areas more than 2 lakh cusecs water is released. At present, the situation is under control and we are keeping a close watch.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/tapi-swells-with-release-of-1-76l-cusecs-water-from-ukai/articleshow/77661121.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Cops likely to interrogate 2 sons of slain gangster Vikas Dubey||KANPUR: The district police will interrogate the two sons of slain gangster Vikas Dubey, as investigators claim they both had gone to Bikru village along with their mother to attend the marriage function of Amar Dubey on June 29. “We have come to know through viral pictures that Vikas’s wife Richa along with their two minor sons had gone to Bikru village to attend marriage function of Amar Dubey on June 29. They stayed in Bikru village till July 1 before returning to Lucknow,” said investigating officer Dadhibal Tewari. SP Rural Brijesh Srivastava said, “There were inputs that Vikas had a confrontation with SHO Chaubeypur Vinay Tewari, who had gone to Bikru village to investigate the murderous attack on Rahul Tewari on July 1, in front of his two sons. Soon a police team will visit Lucknow and question the gangster’s sons to verify the same.” Vikas along with his aides had killed eight policemen and left seven others, including a civilian injured, at his native village Bikru in Chaubeypur police area of the district on July 2 & 3. The police had gone to arrest Vikas following a complaint by one Rahul Tewari, who had accused him of making a murderous attempt on him on July 1. Gangster Vikas was arrested by the Madhya Pradesh Police on July 9 from the premises of the Mahakal Temple in Ujjain after he was on the run for some days following the encounter in Kanpur, where eight policemen were killed. The Uttar Pradesh police shot Dubey in an encounter on July 10 after he ‘attempted to flee’ while being taken to Kanpur from Ujjain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cops-likely-to-interrogate-2-sons-of-slain-gangster/articleshow/77663820.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
August 21, 2020||Varanasi||HC serves notices to DM, cops;seeks details of missing BHU boy||Varanasi: Taking note of a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a Banaras Hindu University (BHU) alumnus, the Allahabad high court, on Wednesday, served notices to Varanasi DM, SSP and SHO Lanka asking them to produce details of the missing BHU student Shiv Kumar Trivedi on August 25. Shiv, a BSc-II student of BHU, has been missing since February 13 from Lanka police station where he was taken by the police following a complaint on helpline no 112 that he was found lying at the university’s Amphitheatre ground in an ‘abnormal condition’. Shiv’s father Pradeep Kumar Trivedi, a farmer from Panna district in Madhya Pradesh, has been searching for his son in the city since February 15 when he registered a missing complaint with the Lanka police and is camping at the Assi Ghat. After coming to know about the struggles of Pradeep and social media campaign carried out by BHU students for Shiv, a varsity alumnus and also a lawyer Saurabh Tiwari filed a PIL (No- 819 of 2020) before the Allahabad high court on August 17. Taking note of it, a bench of Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Samit Gopal issued the order in this regard on Wednesday. According to the order, letter of Tiwari addressed to the Chief Justice of HC has been treated as a writ petition in the nature of Habeas Corpus. After mentioning details of Shiv’s case and efforts made by his father to search him, the order stated that Pradeep has made his best efforts to get necessary details about his son but of no consequence. A complaint in this regard was also lodged by him with the chief proctor office of the university on February 16. It is asserted that despite the expiry of period of more than six months, no whereabouts of Shiv are available. Issuing a notice on the petition to the DM and SSP of Varanasi and SHO Lanka through government advocate, Allahabad High Court, the court listed the writ petition on August 25. The court asked the government advocate to file a complete statement of facts in a form of short counter-affidavit before next date of listing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/hc-serves-notices-to-dm-copsseeks-details-of-missing-bhu-boy/articleshow/77663384.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
August 21, 2020||Pune||Masked man steals Rs 1.4L from watch showroom||Pune: A masked person broke into the showroom of a branded wrist watch company near Akurdi Station Chowk around 5am on Wednesday and decamped with Rs1.4 lakh from the store’s cash counter. The incident came to light later in the morning when a company official alerted the showroom owner, Medha Gokhale (47), about the theft and she rushed to the spot. Gokhale found that the showroom shutter had been ripped off. She alerted the police and entered the showroom along with a police team. Gokhale found that the money was missing from the cash counter. She later lodged an FIR with the Nigdi police. On examining the CCTV footage of the showroom, the police found that a masked man had entered the showroom. He was also wearing gloves and raincoat. Within minutes, he opened the locks of the cash counter and made off with the cash. “The owner has stated in her complaint that the showroom’s manager had kept Rs1.4 lakh collected from the business between August 1 and August 18,” an officer from the Nigdi police said. The Nigdi police have sent teams to trace the suspect. “We are collecting CCTV footage from other establishments in the area to ascertain identity of the thief,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/masked-man-steals-rs-1-4l-from-watch-showroom/articleshow/77664028.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Delhi||Cop kills man with service pistol after tiff in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A Delhi Police head constable allegedly shot a man using his service pistol after an argument over clicking a video of them drinking together. The incident took place near Rohini on Thursday. Police said that the accused head constable, Surender, was posted with the Shahbad Dairy police station. He was returning home after duty in the wee hours when he had met Deepak Gehlot (28), a gym owner from Dwarka. Gehlot was returning home from his maternal uncle’s house. Gehlot offered to drop the cop to a place near his house in Budh Vihar, but on the way they decided to have a drink together. Surender told the cops that while drinking, Gehlot had started clicking a video of him holding a glass while in uniform to which he objected. An argument broke out between the two leading to scuffle. Gehlot allegedly tried to attack him when Surender pulled out his pistol and shot Gehlot on his chest and shoulder. He then panicked and fled. In the meantime, a passerby took Gehlot to the Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital on his bike, but the latter was declared dead on arrival. Police were informed and the constable confessed to the murder. Police spokesperson Anil Mittal said that the head constable was suspended for unprofessional conduct and the dismissal process had been initiated. “We have registered a case of murder against him,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cop-kills-man-with-service-pistol-after-tiff/articleshow/77664048.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Rajkot||Three Covid hospital staffers threaten to kill doctor||RAJKOT: Three staffers including a woman receptionist and a woman sanitation worker created a ruckus at Saurashtra Covid Hospital on Dhebar Road in Rajkot on Wednesday night allegedly threatening to kill the doctor at the hospital. Police said Shabana Qadri, Nazma Qadri and Manav Qadri created a ruckus at the hospital and allegedly threatened to kill Dr Shantanu Jivani. “In his complaint, Dr Jivani (44) alleged that the accused started the ruckus after dismissal from their jobs. Jivani alleged that as the trio was misbehaving with the patients at the hospital which led him to sack them,” said an official from Bhaktinagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-covid-hospital-staffers-threaten-to-kill-doctor/articleshow/77662409.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cybercrime police ensure refund to 607 e-fraud victims||PUNE: As many as 607 victims of online frauds collectively got over Rs 8.4 crore refund from banks from January 1 to August 14 this year, thanks to the pro-activeness of the cybercrime branch of the Pune police. Deputy commissioner of police (cyber) Sambhaji Kadam said, “As per the Reserve Bank of India’s directives, any person who has never shared his/her debit/credit card details or one-time password or bank account details with anyone but still loses money to fraudulent transactions can get refund from the bank concerned.” Kadam told TOI, “Fraudsters have started hacking applications linked to bank accounts and siphoning off money into their bank accounts.” He said, “We ask victims to fill up the dispute forms for claiming the refund from the banks. We then pursue their complaints with the banks and if investigations reveal that the transactions are fraudulent and the victims are not at fault, the money is transferred from the fraudsters’ frozen bank accounts to the victims’ accounts in the shortest possible time.” He said, “Refund is possible if fraudulent transactions are reported instantly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cybercrime-police-ensure-refund-to-607-e-fraud-victims/articleshow/77664020.cms||Asseem Shaikh
August 21, 2020||Kanpur||Dist court closed todayas lawyer found infected||Kanpur: Kanpur Nagar district court will remain closed on Friday after a lawyer was found positive for coronavirus and as per government orders, the infected premises should be isolated. The court will now reopen on Monday. District judge Ashok Kumar Singh (IIIrd), in his order on Thursday said as per recommendation of the chief medical officer (CMO) and Covid protocol, the court would remain closed on Friday. The judicial officer further stated in his order that the CMO informed him over the phone that he was unable to attend the meeting and there might be delay in his report. But the premises should be closed for 24 hours and the persons who had come in contact with the infected advocate within one metre for 15 minutes should be quarantined for 14 days as per standing order. The order states that if any worker is found infected at a workplace and his report confirmed it, then the workplace must be closed for 24 hours and sanitized twice during the closure period. The Kanpur Bar Association had informed him that the lawyer was coming to the court daily and performing legal work. He had obtained his test report on August 19. The district judge in his order stated that in view of the government notification and an order of high court, he thinks it would be fit to close the civil court premises for 24 hours so that entire premises could be sanitized. It was also expected that the advocates and persons who had come in contact with the infected advocate should quarantine themselves for 14 days. He also stated in his order that sanitization of court premises would be the liability of the district magistrate and municipal commissioner/city health officer. Officer in-charge of ‘nazarat” will report him and ensure the effective execution of the CMO’s order. All the bail applications and cases listed for August 21 would be heard on August 24 while the remaining other cases would be heard on October 16. Copy of this order and a letter for sanitization will be sent to the district magistrate, CMO and municipal commissioner for sanitization of Kanpur court. The district judge in his order also mentioned that the Kanpur Bar Association had informed that the advocate was found infected in a sample test and was coming to the court daily. Therefore, all necessary steps should be taken in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dist-court-closed-todayas-lawyer-found-infected/articleshow/77663722.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
August 21, 2020||Varanasi||Farmer thanks CM Yogi for daughter’s heart surgery fund||Gorakhpur: A day after Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath sanctioned Rs 9.9 lakh from his discretionary fund for the heart valve replacement surgery of a girl from Campierganj area in Gorakhpur, her father, a farmer, profusely thanked Yogi and termed him a messiah of the poor. 23-year-old Madhulika Mishra, a resident of Machhli village in Campierganj area and BEd student, had been feeling breathlessness since two months and doctors said both valves of her heart were damaged and needed replacement. The doctors gave an estimate of Rs 9.9 lakh for the surgery. The family could not afford the surgery but Madhulika didn’t lose hope and wrote a letter to CM Yogi on August 9 seeking assistance and also sought help on twitter. Madhulika’s father, Rakesh Chandra Mishra said, “Few days ago, she felt a problem in breathing so we took her to a private hospital in Gorakhpur where the doctor said there was a problem in her heart valves. We took her to SGPGI and KGMU but they refused to take her due to the corona crisis. Somehow, took her to Medanta where doctors said both her valves need to be replaced and the surgery will cost around Rs 10 lakh.” “I am poor and don’t have so much money. My daughter wrote a letter to the chief minister and also posted tweets seeking help. I got a letter from CM Yogi on Wednesday evening informing that he has sanctioned the required Rs 9.90 lakh for her surgery,” he added. “I am very thankful to the chief minister and now my daughter will undergo surgery at Medanta hospital in Lucknow on August 24,” he said. “I can say CM Yogi is a real messiah of the poor,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/farmer-thanks-cm-yogi-for-daughters-heart-surgery-fund/articleshow/77663297.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Kanpur||3 SIs suspended for staying at Vikas aide’s house||Kanpur:Three sub-inspectors of police have been suspended for staying for free in the disputed Brahmanagar house of slain gangster Vikas Dubey's financier Jaikant Bajpai. Jaikant, who had been arrested recently, at present is in jail. "We have come to know from certain quarters that three SIs identified as Rajkumar posted at Colonelganj police station, Usman Ali at Anwarganj police station and Khalid at Raipurwa police station were putting up at Jaikant Bajpai's disputed house located in Brajmanagar locality of the City. Subsequently, a probe was conducted wherein three SIs were found to be guilty. With immediate effect, all three have been placed under suspension, besides a departmental inquiry has also been launched against them," said IG Range Mohit Agarwal. To recall, police had earlier suspended Vinay Tiwari, station officer at Chaubeypur station, sub-inspectors KK Sharma and Kunwarpal and constable Rajiv. Meanwhile, police have arrested two more aides of gangster Vikas Dubey on Thursday. "They have been identified as Dheeraj and Nanhu. The two had opened fire at police team on July 2 & 3 night," said SP Rural Brijesh Srivastava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/3-sis-suspended-for-staying-at-vikas-aides-house/articleshow/77663840.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Send Covid report to central government, BJP tells governor||HYDERABAD: Telangana BJP on Thursday urged governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to send a report to the Union government regarding the Covid-19 situation in the state. In a letter written to the governor, former state BJP chief Dr K Laxman alleged that Telangana government has been hiding facts about the pandemic. Laxman said that the governor should inform the Centre how the government had misled all the central teams that visited the sate.  “As the constitutional head of the state, you have the duty to protect the lives of people, which of course you have been doing. As the state government continues to be non-chalant and callous towards protecting the lives of people, your report to the Union government will facilitate the intervention of the union government by weighing appropriate options,” Laxman wrote in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/send-covid-report-to-central-govt-bjp-tells-governor/articleshow/77663932.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||As inflows increase, residents near Hasmathpet, Picket nalas fear worst||SECUNDERABAD: With heavy rains battering the city and more expected in the next few days, hundreds of families living along the Hasmathpet and Picket nalas are in a precarious situation. As inflows from upstream areas are increasing every hour, people are fearing that nalas may overflow any time and inundate their homes. The desiltation works taken up by the SCB as part of the annual exercise ahead of monsoon proved to be a mere hogwash as the nalas are expected to burst. About 250 to 300 residential colonies have come up in the cantonment and these British era nalas are unable to bear large amounts of drainage water during the rainy season. Sensing danger, the residents of Viman Nagar Colony, urged SCB officials to protect them from the impending danger. “Over 100 families living in Viman Nagar and other nearby residential colonies in Ward-II and III are panic-stricken,” said Viman Nagar Colony secretary, DLS Sreshti. “Following complaints from RWAs in 2019, SCB razed nearly 30 encroachments on the Picket and Hasmathpet nalas. We have taken up desiltation works ahead of this monsoon,” said a senior SCB official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/as-inflows-increase-residents-near-hasmathpet-picket-nalas-fear-worst/articleshow/77663960.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 21, 2020||Delhi||With AQI of 50, Delhi sees third ‘good’ air day of the year||NEW DELHI: After spells of heavy to very heavy rain in the last 24 hours, Delhi recorded its third “good” air day of this year on Thursday. The capital’s overall Air Quality Index (AQI) reading was 50 according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily bulletin. On August 13 too, heavy rain had brought down the capital’s AQI to 50.The first such “good”air day was recorded on March 28 — in the first week of the lockdown — with an AQI reading of 45. Track the pollution level in your cityWhile Delhi does record plenty of “satisfactory” days, where the AQI is between 51 and 100, ‘good’ air days are rare — when the AQI is 50 and lower. In fact, the city only recorded two good air days in all of last year, both in August, when incessant rain kept the AQI at 49 on August 18 and 19, respectively. In 2018, not a single day made the cut. In 2017 again, only two good air days were recorded, CPCB data shows — on July 30 and 31, when the AQI was 43 and 47. Experts said a consistent spell of rain generally helps bringing down pollutants in the air and settling dust, which allows for a ‘temporary’ good reading. “These are short term gains, however ,and for us to consistently see good air quality in Delhi, efforts need to be made to systematically improve pollution levels in each sector,” said Dipankar Saha, former head of CPCB’s air laboratory. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) — a body under the Union ministry of earth sciences — forecasts air quality to remain in a similar range for Friday as well. “Fairly widespread rain is likely to continue in Northwest India for the next 24 hours and the AQI is forecast to stay in the good category for Friday,” said a SAFAR bulletin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-aqi-of-50-city-sees-third-good-air-day-of-the-year/articleshow/77664032.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Pune||5 in net for murder, search on for PCMC corporator’s son||Pune: A dispute over payment for vada paav led to the murder of a 22-year-old man at a Kalewadi marriage hall late on Wednesday night, police said. The victim has been identified as Shubham Nakhate, a resident of Kalewadi, Thergaon. The hall is owned by the son of a Pimpri Chinchwad corporator. Police have arrested five suspects and are looking for the corporator’s son and another person in connection with the incident. Wakad police assistant inspector Harish Mane told TOI, “The corporator’s son had called Nakhate to the marriage hall on Wednesday for ‘settling’ an old dispute with the five men, who are said to have killed the victim.” Mane said, “We have arrested Dnyaneshwar Patil (23), Pravin Dhumal (21), Avinash Bhandari (23), Moreshwar Ashte (21) and Ajay Wakode (23), all from Kalewadi in connection with the murder. Patil and Wakode ran vada paav stalls near the marriage hall. Nakhate was involved in a dispute with them a few days ago over payment for vada paav he had at their stalls.He was since harassing, abusing and beating them.”  Patil, Wakodae and others hatched a plot to eliminate him. On Wednesday night, the corporator’s son asked Nakhate to come to the marriage hall to settle the dispute. On reaching the spot, they had a quarrel which led to the attack on the victim,” said Mane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5-in-net-for-murder-search-on-for-pcmc-corporators-son/articleshow/77664050.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Surat||Covid-19 cases in Rander cross 2,000-mark||Surat: Surat city reported 163 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday when 246 patients were discharged from different hospitals.According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), four persons succumbed to virus infection taking the death toll to 587 in the city.Out of the 163 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, highest were reported from Rander and Athwa with each reporting 33 cases, followed by 26 in Udhna, 25 in Katargam, 13 in Limbayat, 12 in Central zone, 11 in Varachha (B) and 10 cases in Varachha (A).On Thursday, case tally in Rander zone crossed 2,000-mark and reached 2,006. Moreover, Athwa zone was also inching closer to the 2,000-mark with tally reaching 1,901.Meanwhile, Surat rural reported 74 fresh cases taking the tally to 3,858 in the district. Three Covid-19 patients succumbed to the infection taking the death toll to 174. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-19-cases-in-rander-cross-2000-mark/articleshow/77661134.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Delhi||Parts of Delhi go down under again||NEW DELHI: The overnight rain spelled doom for commuters on their way to work during morning peak hours on Thursday as they found themselves stranded on waterlogged roads and stuck in traffic jams. Though Minto Bridge remained clear, vehicles were found stuck under the flooded Pul Prahladpur underpass and the area had to be cordoned off with barricades. Waterlogging was reported from arterial roads like Mathura Road, MB Road and Raja Garden flyover, among other places. The situation was especially chaotic on Rohtak Road between Punjabi Bagh and Mundka where heavy waterlogging and work being done by PWD had brought traffic to a grinding halt. A similar situation prevailed near Akshardham. Officials said water suction pumps of a higher capacity had been placed at several vulnerable spots. A PWD official said they were holding meetings with all civic agencies to find a solution to the problems at the earliest. A few of the main roads were found with cracks and potholes. As they got filled with rainwater, traffic slowed down, which ended in snarls. “We will deploy staff on clear days to fill up the potholes,” said an official. The monsoon report of the civic bodies showed that a large number of trees had fallen and parts of many buildings had collapsed. Waterlogging complaints were received by the three municipal corporations from 51 locations. The waterlogged sites included New Friends Colony, Munirka, near Kalkaji multilevel parking, Jangpura Road, Molarband, Tigri and Sangam Vihar. Falling of trees was reported from 47 locations, while weak portions of buildings collapsed at 15 places. In central zone, trees fell at 19 locations, including Defence Colony, Jangpura, New Friends Colony, Lajpat Nagar and Kalkaji. South Delhi witnessed building collapse in Dakshinpuri and Hauz Rani Village. The trans-Yamuna areas saw parts of buildings collapse in Trilokpuri, Govindpura, Mandawali and Jafrabad. A senior official from east corporation said that maintenance teams were sent to 11 locations where trees had fallen and buildings had been damaged. Earlier, experts had argued against conversion of parks and green spaces into concrete underground parking lots as it would deprive the area of a drainage outlet and seepage point. Rajesh Jain, a commuter heading to his office in Okhla, said that such situations expose the claims of development and progress in the city. Rahul Kukreja from Hastsal claimed that the elected representatives had abandoned them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/parts-of-city-go-down-under-again/articleshow/77664047.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Pune||Gold chain snatched at Erandwane||Pune: An unidentified man snatched a gold chain worth Rs 70,000 from a 78-year-old woman out on an evening walk near her bungalow at Erandwane on Wednesday. An officer from the Alankar police told TOI, “The elderly woman was left shaken after the incident but was able to tell us that the chain snatcher was in his mid-30s. She, could not tell us whether he was wearing a helmet or mask. The lane where the incident occurred has no CCTV.” A Pune crime branch officer said, “We are not ruling out the involvement of a biker who was involved in a similar incident of chain snatching at Vadgaon Budruk on Monday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gold-chain-snatched-at-erandwane/articleshow/77664046.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Illegal water connection: Rs 2 lakh fine paid||HYDERABAD: Tenants of an AP-based IPS officer have paid a penalty of Rs 2,24,320 to the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB). A report pertaining to the illegal water connection in the IPS officer’s house appeared in these columns. On August 18, the vigilance wing of HMWS&SB conducted a raid on the residence of IPS officer Tushar Aditya Tripathi at Prashasan Nagar, Jubilee Hills, and found an illegal water connection. An FIR was filed against tenants — Bhaskar Raju and Madhu Varma, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/illegal-water-connection-rs-2l-fine-paid/articleshow/77663986.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: East-West tunnel borer Urvi crosses BB Ganguly station||KOLKATA: East-West Metro’s tunnel boring machine Urvi has crossed over to the other side of BB Ganguly Street, digging past the Bank of India building and heading for Sealdah. On the last leg of tunnelling, Urvi ) digging the east-bound tunnel, will cover another 450m to reach its destination, Sealdah station. To ensure no harm comes to it, the Bank of India building on the BB Ganguly Street-Amherst Street intersection has been propped up from all sides for strengthening even though the TBM’s burrowing has been extremely slow. Urvi has made 1,490 rings and is due to complete around 300 more till Wednesday. Commissioned in January last year to build the last leg of East-West Metro, covering 2.45km between Esplanade and Sealdah, the machine has drilled around 2km from Esplanade so far. It operates in a circular fashion to bore through the soil by creating rings out of pre-cast concrete segments. But the journey has been saddled with challenges and fiascos what with a largescale land subsidence after another TBM hit an aquifer on August 31 last year and the work being suspended for several months. It finally resumed but again, had to be stopped for the pandemic. Subsequently, the boring resumed but engineers and workers contracted the novel coronavirus, leading to another break. After tunnelling was resumed earlier this month, officials of Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation, agency implementing the 16km Metro corridor between Howrah Maidan and Salt Lake’s Sector V, and contractors ITD ITD-Cementation hoped to complete the remaining distance by mid-September. After languishing below Bowbazar Girls’ School for a while, TBM Urvi took some time to cover the few yards till the Bank of India crossing because of a technical snag that made it take short breaks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/e-w-tunnel-borer-urvi-crosses-bb-ganguly-st/articleshow/77662588.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
August 21, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur takes a big leap in Swachh Survekshan 2020||Kanpur: Taking a big leap in Swachh Survekshan 2020 rankings, Kanpur rose to 25thall-India position, registering an improvement by 38 notches in a year. Concerted and sustained efforts to improve cleanliness over the last year helped Kanpur beat 38 cities to claim 25th rank, up from 63rd spot in 2019. Kanpur was on 68th position in the Swachh rankings of 2018. Union urban development minister Hardeep Singh Puri released the rankings of cities under Swachhta Survekshan on Thursday afternoon. Officials were curious to know the ranking of the city and were elated to know that Kanpur had bagged 25th rank with 3,783.88 points. Among the cities in UP, Kanpur got fifth place while Lucknow bagged the top position, while Agra, Ghaziabad and Prayagraj got second, third and fourth places respectively. Kanpur mayor Pramila Pandey expressed happiness over the rise in ranking and said it was a big achievement but still more improvement can be done. “Our hard work has borne fruits this is not all. My target is to make my city number one and I will make every effort to achieve that,” she said. Pandey told TOI, “We worked very hard and had launched several cleanliness drives including the 12 hours’ continuous cleaning. We are happy with the results. If the city is cleaned then the citizens too would be healthy.” Municipal commissinor Akshay Tripathi was also happy with Kanpur’s ranking and said, “There is still a lot of scope for improvement. We can do better. Door to door garbage collection and disposal of garbage will be channelized in a better way. We scored less in these two areas and can get more marks.” Kanpur Cantonment, however, could not retain its position and was placed 48th in overall ranking. Meerut, Varanasi, Jhansi and Lucknow cantonments have better rankings than Kanpur. The historical township of Bithoor got second place in the state. It was the world’s largest cleanliness survey under which 4,242 cities were covered. The Union urban development ministry said it was a time-bound nationwide survey spread over 28 days. The surveyors captured more than 24 lakhs geotagged photos from the field and around 1.9 crores citizens gave their feedback. The most interesting thing was that the survey was completely digitized and paperless. Indore created a record by winning the title of cleanest city for the fourth time in a row with 5,647.56 points. Surat and Navi Mumbai secured second and third positions respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kanpur-takes-a-big-leap-in-swachh-survekshan-2020/articleshow/77663756.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
August 21, 2020||Surat||Second phase of ‘Reva Arnaya’ begins at Bharuch||Bharuch: Mega plantation project of trees between Bharuch and Ankleshwar begins on Wednesday. In the second phase of ‘Reva Aranya’ project, around six thousand trees of select species will be planted in the land provided by the Forest department for reforestation. The plants have been selected in such a way that when these mature into trees they will provide shelter to the birds, said Jivrajbhai Patel, president of Bharuch Citizen Council which is taking the lead in this project. The first phase of plantation conducted last year has a survival rate of more than 96 percent and so, this year the council decided to expand plantation cover near Borbhatha beyt near Golden bridge towards Ankleshwar side. Roadside plantation of flowers will bring colour to the area next year, said Nitin Bhatt, agriculture expert and coordinator of ‘Reva Aranya’.Another experimental project, ‘Akira Miyawanki’, aiming for a dense forest cover with more than 1,800 plants in 900 square meter area is also under implementation. Deputy forest conservator of Bharuch region, Bhavnaben Desai, said that plants under Akira Miyawanki are internally competing among each other for faster growth which will soon be visible. Dushyant Patel, MLA, Bharuch appreciated the effort to plant 15,000 trees in the coming years to make the entire stretch of 4km between Bharuch Ankleshwar turn into green cover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/second-phase-of-reva-arnaya-begins-at-bharuch/articleshow/77661220.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Pune||After a tough run, tailors hopeful of biz picking up ahead of festive season||Pune: Some have taken to sewing masks, others are barely getting by with very few customers. Tailors who have had a tough run during the lockdown are hoping that the festival season will help turn the tide for them. “When the lockdown started, we had a couple of orders pending. We managed to finish those, but apart from that we have had no other work. We began stitching masks made with scrap cloth, but there was not much income,” said Shabbir Shaikh, who works in his family-run tailor shop. But just before Rakhshabandhan, tailors in the city are happy to have got some business. “A week earlier, I started getting calls from my clients asking if we are open. But since the space in our shop is not enough to implement social distancing norms, we went to their homes. We were careful to wear mask all the time because we had to take measurements,” said Rajesh Kandpal, a tailor who specialises in festive wear. Amidst the gloom, the tailoring community is looking forward to the upcoming festive season. “No matter what happens, people will always celebrate festivals. The situation is bad everywhere and everyone has financial problems, but come the festive season, people will order new clothes. We have received some orders already for making outfits,” said Adbul Murad, a tailor who works in a boutique. “This year I did not create any new collection, but I am guiding my clients to look fabulous even if they are attending a small celebration at home. Family get-togethers and dinners will probably be the highlight of the festive season. My tailors are more than eager to get back to full-fledged work,” said a city-based fashion designer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/after-a-tough-run-tailors-hopeful-of-biz-picking-up-ahead-of-festive-season/articleshow/77664042.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||100-year-old tree uprooted in Goa restored by Hyderabad translocator||HYDERABAD: A 100-year-old banyan tree that was uprooted in Goa was restored by a Hyderabad-based tree translocator this week. The tree, under whose canopy locals and foreign national have gathered for years, was uprooted by heavy rains. The iconic tree in Arambol has brought together hundreds of people for celebratory events, yoga, meditation, and dance parties. The sight of the fallen tree spurred a global effort with Britons, Russians, Brazilians, Germans and locals _ who are part of the Arambol community _ chipping in and raising Rs 2 lakh to restore it. Not only did they contribute, but gathered expertise on the best way to save the tree. Finally, Uday Krishna, founder of Hyderabad-based Vata Foundation was approached by Durrani of Goa Banyan Project. Krishna’s six-member team travelled to Goa and restored the giant tree. Four earthmovers had to be used to remove about 50 tonnes of the canopy. “The roots from the largest branch of the banyan, which is 60 feet, had been chopped a few years back. This was what made the tree unstable,” said Krishna, speaking to TOI. “The biggest surprise was that it was not one tree at all. Saplings from the host tree had germinated on branches and their roots were finding a way down. The entire jumble, comprising five to six trees, weighed 100 tonnes,” he said. Marc Francis of the Living Heritage Project said: “The restoration of this tree was a message that we could send to the government that such projects are possible. It is a message to try and save each tree and the local community rose to the occasion.” Krishna will soon start work for translocating 500 trees in Telangana. The trees in question will be translocated from Botanical Gardens to make way for an SRDP flyover as well as from Uppal for another flyover. These include peepal, bamboo and peltophorums.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/100-yr-old-tree-uprooted-in-goa-restored-by-translocator/articleshow/77664007.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Delhi||Corporations launch anti-mosquito mega drive in Delhi||NEW DELHI: With the city facing regular bouts of rain, increasing the risk of mosquito-borne diseases, the three municipal corporations launched a joint mega campaign to prevent dengue, malaria and chikungunya on Thursday. The mayors of North Delhi Municipal Corporation and the east corporation were present at the Civic Centre to launch the drive. Mayor of the north body, Jai Prakash, said that the drive will start on August 25 and culminate on September 30. “All members of parliament from Delhi, all councillors and officials will participate in it,” he said. EDMC mayor Nirmal Jain claimed that the Delhi government is spending funds on advertising anti-dengue drives while depriving the corporations. “We have only received Rs 16 cr against a requirement of Rs 32 cr,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpns-launch-anti-mosquito-mega-drive/articleshow/77664072.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Nagpur||Highest 56 Covid deaths in a day in Vidarbha, 46 in Nagpur dist alone||Nagpur: August 20 was a day of records for Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha, both in positive and negative way. The day saw 1,714 patients recovering from Covid-19 as against 1,619 new cases. This means for the first time in August the number of recoveries was higher than new cases. Alarmingly, the region reported highest 56 Covid-19 deaths in a day and surpassed 1,000 deaths in 162 days. Out of the 56 deaths, 46 came from Nagpur alone. These include 38 from Nagpur city, four from rural areas and four from other states/regions. Amravati reported three deaths, while Chandrapur registered three fatalities owing to reconciliation of two deaths from other districts into its tally. Washim reported two deaths followed by one each in Bhandara and Gondia. Vidarbha’s Covid-19 death toll reached 1,043, with 656 of them reported in August alone. The region’s caseload reached 38,305 on Thursday. Among the fresh cases, highest 1,142 came from Nagpur district — 1,021 from city and remaining from rural parts — followed by Yavatmal (115), Amravati (77), Chandrapur (54), Wardha (46), Washim (44), Buldhana (42), Gondia (35), Bhandara (30), Akola (24) and Gadchiroli (10). Nagpur district registered record 1,235 recoveries on Thursday, with 1,098 patients recovering in home isolation. It was followed by Amravati (167), Buldhana (77), Akola (63), Gondia (55), Chandrapur (35), Gadchiroli (24), Washim (22), Yavatmal (20), and Bhandara (16). With this total 21,674 patients have recovered in Vidarbha. The recovery rate increased to 56.6% but it is much less than state’s 70% and national average of over 72%. AMRAVATI: Three deaths and a spike of 77 new cases took the district’s toll to 103 and Covid count to 4,216. With 167 patients getting discharge on Thursday, the number of recovered patients has reached 3,015. There are 1,098 patients under treatment, including 27 admitted in Nagpur and 315 in home isolation. A civil surgeon office report said that a 40-year-old male from Deshpande Plot in Nawathe locality on Badnera Road, a 27-year-old youth of Karajgaon and a 63-year-old woman of Vilas Nagar Lane no. 5 locality died during treatment at the Covid hospital. The rural belt reported 16 cases taking its count to 1,131. Morshi reported five cases to take its count to 72 while Achalpur and Daryapur tehsils reported two cases each to take their count to 83 and 81. One case each came from Anjangaon Surji, Nandgaon Khandeshwar, Anjangaon Bari, Dharni, Nandgaon Peth, Bhatkuli and Satire Khurd. A patient from Karanja Lad in Washim district tested positive here. In city, Sarafa Bazar reported five cases to take its count to 17 while Chaparasipura and Brahman Sabhagriha reported four cases each to take their count to 10 and four respectively. CHANDRAPUR: District collector Ajay Gulhane went into two days of self isolation after his bodyguard was detected positive to Covid-19 infection on Thursday. Gulhane, being low risk contact of the patient, went into self quarantine. Officials said the collector will work from rest house for next two days, but district collectorate will not be closed. The district registered 54 new patients during the day, taking its caseload to 1,249. According to health officials, 35 patients were discharged during the day, taking the tally of cured patients to 851. A 52-year-old Covid patient admitted in hospital died on Thursday night. This is 12th Covid death in Chandrapur by coronavirus. Of them, 10 victims belonged to Chandrapur district while two were from other districts but admitted here. New patients on Thursday include 22 from Chandrapur city, 11 from Bramhapuri, eight from Ballarpur, four each from Mul and Bhadrawati, one each from Rajrua, Gadchandur, Korpana and Saoli and one other who travelled here from Assam. WASHIM: A 60-yr-old woman from Wara Jehangir village in Washim district and a 40-yr-old man from Karanja Laad tehsil died during treatment taking Covid-19 death toll of Washim district reached 23 including 1 suicide. Total 44 new cases were reported while 22 patients recovered from Washim on August 20. Now, the district has total 1317 cases, including 909 recovered and 385 under treatment. BHANDARA: The district reported death of a positive patient on August 20, which took total Covid-19 deaths to 10. With 30 new patients detected, the total number of cases reached 695. Positive patients are from Mohadi (9), Lakhni (7), Tumsar (6), Lakhandur (1) and Bhandara (4). Total 16 patients recovered and discharged taking their number to 421. Now, Bhandara has 264 patients under treatment. GONDIA: With the death of a 75-year-old patient, district’s Covid-19 toll increased to 12 while 44 patients were given discharge. 35 New cases included 11 from Gondia, 8 from Tirora, 1 from Amgaon and 15 from Arjuni-Morgaon tehsil. BULDHANA: The district registered 42 new cases, taking the Covid count to 2,437 cases. On the other hand, 77 patients recovered in a day. Now, 1,571 patients have recovered in Bhandara district. After 41 deaths, 825 patients are under treatment. AKOLA: The district registered 24 new cases on Thursday while 63 patients were discharged. Now, out of the 3,355 patients registered so far, 2,880 have recovered. With 141 deaths till date, Akola now has 334 patients under treatment. WARDHA: Wardha district recorded highest single day spike of 46 Covid-19 cases on Thursday. The highest 28 cases came from Wardha, 17 from Hinganghat and one case from Deoli. The new case included one-year-old boy from Dayal Nagar, Wardha, and 75-year-old woman from Dehankar Layout, Wardha. The district caseload increased to 512 and 143 patients under treatment. No patient was discharged on Thursday. YAVATMAL: The district registered 115 new cases in the last 24 hours. A total of 681 patients are admitted to various Covid care centres across the district while 141 are in home quarantine. The day also saw 25 patients getting discharge from after recovery. GADCHIROLI: Total 19 patients recovered from Covid-19 while 10 new patients were reported on August 20. Out of 19 recovered, 12 are SRPF jawans and one CRPF jawan. Vidarbha death toll @ 1,043 >60% | Covid victims were men 55-70 | Most vulnerable age-group >70% | Deaths due to late reporting of patients at Covid hospitals > 85% | Deceased had some or the other serious comorbidity or age factor 16 | days old boy from Nagpur youngest deceased 95 | years old woman from Amravati oldest deceased||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/highest-56-covid-deaths-in-a-day-in-vid-46-in-nagpur-dist-alone/articleshow/77664090.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 21, 2020||Pune||Daily wager arrested for son-in-law’s death||Pune: A daily wage worker was arrested on Thursday in connection with the death of his son-in-law after the two were involved in a physical fight over a wage dispute near Maruti Chowk in Talegaon Dabhade. “We have arrested Dattu Mohite for assaulting his son-in-law Sunil Jadhav with an axe after they had a dispute over wages,” an officer from the Talegaon Dabhade police told TOI. “Jadhav was taken to a private hospital near Talegaon Dabhade where he succumbed to his injuries during treatment,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-wager-arrested-for-son-in-laws-death/articleshow/77664056.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Pune||Board blames Covid-19 for answer sheet recheck delay||PUNE: Sagarika scored over 80% marks in her secondary school certificate (SSC, std X) board examination held in March 2020 but has been trying to call the board office every single day. She had requested for a photocopy of her answer sheets on July 30, but is yet to get any response from the state board. Admissions for first-year junior college are in the last leg and without the photocopy, she cannot apply for re-evaluation. The form-filling process for the first round of admissions for FYJC ends on August 22 and the final merit list is to be declared on August 30. Without the re-evaluation results, students will be forced to use whatever marks they have scored as the basis to apply, at least in the first round. As per the rules prescribed by the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary education, students need to first apply for a photocopy of the answer sheet, get it checked from their respective school teacher and then submit the feedback of the teacher to the board for further a re-evaluation process that is online. There have been delays in getting photocopies of the answer sheets as well as getting the re-evaluation done. When contacted, the state board officials in the Pune office said the unusual delay is due to a shortage of teachers due to the Covid-19 pandemic in the city. “I have scored 83.8% marks in SSC. The result of the SSC board exam, March 2020 was declared on July 29. I found my score in English and science papers less than what I had expected. The next day, I applied for photocopies of the answer sheets. It’s been 20 days since then but, I haven’t yet received anything. I am trying to contact the divisional board office in Pune but my call is never answered. I visited the board office, a week ago and was told that I would receive the photocopies within 2-4 days,” Sagarika said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/board-blames-covid-19-for-answer-sheet-recheck-delay/articleshow/77664093.cms||Ardhra Nair
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Come clean on maize import policy, says Telangana HC||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Thursday directed the Union ministry of commerce and industry and Director General of Foreign Trade to clearly convey their policies on the import of maize into the country. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a batch of pleas filed by importers on one side who do not want any conditions on the imports and another set of farmers and local traders who want these imports to be confined to those only who actually use them. Following an interim order issued by a single judge in 2014, only those importers who manufacture some new product with the help of imported maize are being allowed to import because they are the actual users. Importers’ counsel S Niranjan Reddy argued that there was no actual user condition in the Centre’s policy but it was brought in into this part of the country on account of the interim order issued six years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/come-clean-on-maize-import-policy-says-hc/articleshow/77664031.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Islamophobic hashtags removed: Twitter||HYDERABAD: Social networking giant Twitter on Thursday said offensive hashtags spreading hatred against Islam and seeking to project Muslims as spreaders of coronavirus had been removed. Appearing for Twitter in connection with a petition, Supreme Court senior counsel Sajan Poovayya told a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy that they had complied with the norms and urged the court to grant them two weeks’ time to file their counter. “We require the time because the counter has to come from San Francisco in US where Twitter has its headquarters,” he said. Advocate Khaja Aizajuddin, who filed the PIL as a party in person, said hatemongers had created several hate-filled hashtags against Islam and Muslims and Twitter allowed them to trend for a long time till the high court issued notices to Twitter and central government authorities. “Even now, neither the Centre nor Twitter has filed their counters,” he complained. In his plea, he mentioned about Twitter hashtags such as #Coronajihad, #Tablighijamat, #Tablighi Jamaat Virus, etc, which were created to spread hatred against Muslims. The judges also told the Twitter counsel to file their counter by September 6 and posted the case to September 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/twitter-islamophobic-hashtags-removed/articleshow/77664044.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Agra||Ex-chairman of District Cooperative bank, son killed in accident on Agra-Lucknow Expressway||Agra: Former chairman of District Cooperative bank in Mathura and his son were killed when their car collided with a divider and overturned on Agra-Lucknow Expressway on Thursday. Ramesh Chandra Chaudhary, 60, died on the spot and his son Rupendra Singh Chaudhary, 31, succumbed to injuries while being taken to nearby Saifai Medical University. Police said that Ramesh was on the wheels and lost control over the vehicle due to “over speeding” and crashed into the divider in Mathura district. Ramesh’s relative Hatim Singh told TOI, “They were going to Lucknow and had started their journey at 5am.” Meanwhile, in another accident on the expressway, 30 people were injured when a bus overturned on early Thursday morning in Etawah. All the passengers were rushed to Saifai medical university. Of them, 14 were discharged after first aid and 16 were admitted. “The bus, carrying 45 passengers, was heading to Madhubani in Bihar from Delhi when the mishap took place,” said SSP Etawah, Akash Tomar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ex-chairman-of-district-cooperative-bank-son-killed-in-accident-on-agra-lucknow-expressway/articleshow/77661307.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
August 21, 2020||Pune||Seven held for attacking duo & vandalizing five vehicles||Pune: Seven persons were arrested and a minor boy was detained on Wednesday night for attacking two men with sharp weapons and vandalizing five vehicles — three motorcycles and two autorickshaws — on Sinhagad Road on the night of August 17.Eight persons on four motorcycles had attacked the duo and vandalized the five vehicles parked on the stretch between Panmala and Dandekar bridge chowk. The suspects were arrested/detained in a joint action taken by the Pune police crime branch and the Dattawadi police.Deputy commissioner of police (Zone III), Pournima Gaikwad said, “One of the injured men identified a suspect, following which, we took him into custody. He revealed the names of some of his other accomplices during the questioning and we arrested them subsequently. Investigations revealed that the attack was triggered by a petty dispute.” Senior inspector Rajendra Mokashi from the crime branch (Unit III) said, “We have arrested two other suspects, jointly with the anti-extortion cell, based on CCTV camera footage and eyewitness accounts. We have transferred their custody to the Dattawadi police.”Suspects Tejas Shelar, Anand Shinde, Rahul Kadam, Datta Kamble, Tushar Bhosale, Rahul Kadam and Naresh Divte will be in custodial remand till August 23.Sub-inspector Swapnil Lohar from the Dattawadi police said, “The weapons and vehicles used to commit the crime will be recovered at the soonest.”An offence of rioting was registered under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, Arms Act and Maharashtra Police Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/seven-held-for-attacking-duo-vandalizing-five-vehicles/articleshow/77664095.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Surat||‘In-laws drove Surat woman to suicide’||SURAT: Five family members of the 30-year-old woman who had jumped to death taking along her three-year-old daughter on Tuesday, were booked for allegedly driving her to the drastic step. Puna police station sources said the woman Komal Somani’s husband Ashish, father-in-law Devendra, mother-in-law Rachna, Ashish’s elder brother Abhishek and his wife Nikita, were booked following a complaint lodged by the deceased’s father Prakash Agarwal. He alleged that the family members had started harassing Komal for dowry, a year after her love marriage with Ashish in June 2015. Agarwal alleged that Ashish’ family members also started beating Komal after which she had also left their house a couple of times. Komal had jumped from the terrace of their five storey Rudramani Residency in Magob with her daughter Mishti on Tuesday. Later, Komal also demanded to live separate from the family, but this was not accepted initially. After a few months when the family members agreed and wanted her to shift to an apartment owned by the family with Ashish, Komal did not like the locality. This created a dispute about which Komal had sent a message to her brother on Tuesday morning before committing suicide in afternoon. “We are registering statements of those connected to the case and the accused will be arrested after gathering evidence,” said an officer at Puna police station. All were booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code for abetting suicide, harassment, causing hurt and others and sections of Dowry Prohibition Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/in-laws-drove-surat-woman-to-suicide/articleshow/77661280.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Pune||ABVP protest over Pune varsity fees||Pune: Demands such as reduction in fees by 30%, returning the exam fee charged to students, a review of the the results of some courses announced and other demands were made by members of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parshad (ABVP) on Thursday at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). They halted vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar and pro vice-chancellor NS Umrani’s vehicle and shouted slogans. Following the protest, both varsity officials walked to their destinations. President of the university branch of ABVP Dayanand Shinde said the students are suffering because the state government and the higher and technical education department have been indecisive about the conduct of final year examinations. “The exams for the previous semester students were not conducted and yet the fees have been charged to students. They are being pressured to pay up the fees of the current academic year. There are many discrepancies in the results of some courses that the university has announced. Students are under tremendous stress,” Shinde added. The students also shouted slogans against minister of higher and technical education Uday Samant. A member of the ABVP handed over a letter of their demands to Karmalkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/abvp-protest-over-pune-varsity-fees/articleshow/77664094.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Nagpur||Covid deaths from same families on the rise||NAGPUR: Even as Nagpur district crossed 600 Covid deaths on Thursday, doctors and those conducting last rites have found that many of the deceased this month were relatives. The district had crossed 500 Covid fatalities on August 17 with the next hundred coming in just two days. With 137 deaths between Monday (24), Tuesday (37) Wednesday (30) and Thursday, the toll stands at 625 now. The city also recorded its highest single day Covid deaths of 46 on Thursday. The previous highest was 40 recorded on August 7. So far, August alone has witnessed 499 deaths. Similar addresses and surnames of Covid patients dying in August have caught the attention of doctors and volunteers. On Thursday when TOI asked, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials said they are yet to study this pattern as only initial deaths were analyzed on parameters like occupation, gender and age. Volunteers conducting last rites recalled a couple of cases which had striking similarities. Medical microbiologist Dr Sarfaraz Ahmed, who is coordinating with NMC in Covid burial, told TOI that initially he assumed it may have been a coincidence. “On verifying them, I was stunned to realize they all belonged to same families,” he said. The probability of this pattern seems to be high as this correspondent too traced a family witnessing two back to back Covid deaths. On Wednesday, TOI had interviewed the truck driver who’s 55-year-old father who passed away at GMCH early in the morning. The son had been waiting for over five hours for his father’s body. On August 16, the driver’s 50-year-old uncle, a government employee, died as a Covid patient at IGGMCH. The elder brother’s sample tested positive while he had been admitted in non-Covid ward at GMCH for over 10 days. The younger brother’s demise was sudden as per his son. The son told TOI that theirs is a joint family living in Itwari. The government employee had gone to IGGMCH riding on his two-wheeler and got admitted after doctors examined his condition as “serious”. Both the deceased brothers and their youngest sibling lived in different flats of the same building. The son said all of their family members were tested twice and found negative. Jogging his memory, Dr Ahmed said a 45-year-old Covid positive man from Zingabai Takli passed away following respiratory complications on July 31, while a week later, the latter’s brother-in-law also died of Covid. “Last week, an elderly woman from Jafar Nagar died soon after testing positive. Two days later, her husband too passed away,” he said. “On August 3, we conducted the last rites of a Covid positive man in his 40s. He lived in Pardi area and died in a private hospital in East Nagpur,” he added. On Thursday, the Pardi resident’s brother-in law was among the 46 deceased. He too lived in the same area. TOI had reported about two cases — a couple from Reshimbagh and father-son duo of Manish Nagar — before August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-deaths-from-same-families-on-the-rise/articleshow/77664196.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Bathinda retains top position in Punjab, ranks 79th in India||Bathinda: Bathinda City has topped in Punjab in Swachh Survekshan 2020 by getting the rank of 79 in the urban local bodies (ULB) having population from 1 lakh to 10 lakh. It has got the score of 3,526.68. Patiala (86) and Ferozepur (96) are the two other cities in India’s top 100 in the same category, getting 3,467.35 and 3,389.71 points. Jalandhar was ranked 119, Muktsar 135 and Moga 148. The nationwide survey was conducted by Union ministry of housing and urban affairs in 4,242 cities for 28 days. Earlier too Bathinda had been making waves and topping Punjab. In 2019, Bathinda was the 31st cleanest city in India and topped Punjab. In 2018, it was ranked 104, again topping Punjab. Incidentally, Swachh Gramin 2018 survey conducted by Union ministry of drinking water and sanitation, the city was ranked 87. Though this time Bathinda slipped by 48 ranks, but it improved score from 3,520 in 2019 to 3,526 now, said an official of Bathinda municipal corporation. In the zonal ranking for north zone, from towns with ULBs having population from 50,000 to 1 lakh, Fazilka got the fifth position and first in Punjab by getting 3,257.92 points. Fazilka was followed by Faridkot, which was ranked 12 with 2,932.14 points. Sangrur was ranked at 30 with 2,500.22 points, Mansa at 59 with 2,119.23 points, Malout at 75 rank with 1,917.60 points. In the north zone ULBs having population from 25,000 to 50,000, Zira was ranked 15 with 2,953.90 points, Giddarbaha ranked 16 with 2,908.97 points, Baghapurana 39 with 2,556.58 points and Jalalabad ranked 42 with 2,541.35 points. In north zone ULBs with up to 25,000 population, Moonak was placed 15 with 3,031.59 points and Lehragaga at 42 with 2,756.19 points. In states with more than 100 ULBs, Punjab was ranked fifth with 1,836.64 points. BOX Nawanshahr tops north zone ULBs with 25k-50k population Nawanshahr: Nawanshahr tops the north zone for ULBs with a population of 25,000-50,000. The town has retained its position for the second time, the survey for which was carried out in January. The Jalandhar Cantonment Board has topped among Cantonment Boards in ULBs with 25,000 to 50,000 population. In May, Nawanshahr got a three-star rating from the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs for being garbage-free city. The town owes the rating to the efforts of its former municipal committee president Lalit Mohan Pathak’s efforts who set up a solid waste management plant, before leaving the charge in March, as the term of the house ended. Amritsar ranked 39th Amritsar: Amritsar ranked 39th at the Swachh Survekshan 2020 of ULBs with a population less than 1 lakh. Out of four criteria, including collection and transportation of garbage, its processing and disposal, citizen participation and information, education and communication activities, the city lagged in processing and disposal and citizen participation. Amritsar municipal corporation health officer Yogesh Arora said they were hoping to improve their ranking in the next survey since they had begun composting and segregating waste. For citizen participation, he said they were trying to impress upon people to download ‘swachayata’ app on their mobile phones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bathinda-retains-top-position-in-punjab-ranks-79th-in-india/articleshow/77664838.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Aurangabad||SPI cancels entrance exam, says admissions on Class X basis||Aurangabad: The Services Preparatory Institute (SPI) in Aurangabad has cancelled the entrance examination for academic year 2020-21 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The one-of-its-kind state-run institution in Maharashtra that prepares students for admissions to defence courses in NDA and IMA, had received as many as 13,082 applications against the intake capacity of 60 seats for the entrance examination. SPI director colonel Amit Dalvi on Thursday said that the marks scored by candidates in mathematics, science and english would be considered for preparing merit list for admissions. “We have cancelled entrance examination and interviews this year due to the pandemic situation. The performance in Class X would be the criteria for selection. The necessary equivalence between the state board and other boards such as CBSE and ICSE would be decided,” he said. SPI authorities have appealed to aspirants who have enrolled for the entrance to register their names afresh with details of SSC examination on the official website of the institute. The necessary window is open Friday till the end of August. The further details about the new admission process are available on the official website. Citing official data, Dalvi said SPI has been sending average 25 to 30 cadets to various defence academies after every six months which is considered as the highest placement record from any single military school in Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/spi-cancels-entrance-exam-says-admissions-on-class-x-basis/articleshow/77661295.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Pune||Police action against pest control firm||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Thursday arrested the territory manager and booked the directors of a pest control company on the Hinjewadi-Marunje road on the charge dealing in insecticides without necessary permission from the state agriculture department. The agriculture department’s district quality control inspector, Ravishankar Kawale, had inspected the company’s godown nearly a month ago. “We found that the company had stored insecticides worth Rs28 lakh and was selling them statewide without a license or permission from our department. We then sealed the godown and had reported the matter to the police,” complainant Kawale told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-action-against-pest-control-firm/articleshow/77664101.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Vadodara||New VMC chief visits areas prone to waterlogging||Vadodara: Newly appointed Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) commissioner Swaroop P took charge on Thursday. On the first day in office, the civic chief visited areas prone to waterlogging and monsoon-related problems. Swaroop along with other officials visited the Gotri, Vasna Road and other areas in the western parts of the city. He discussed the problems faced by the areas with officials and gave instructions to officials. He also met functionaries of the elected wing on the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/new-vmc-chief-visits-areas-prone-to-waterlogging/articleshow/77661319.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: Homeschooling catches on with many parents||PUNE: The lockdown has been a blessing in disguise for Varad Walde (13), an avid chess player, and his mother Manjushree. For some years, Manushree had been contemplating homeschooling for her son who was finding it difficult to juggle his school and chess practice. With online education becoming the norm, Varad evinced interest in studying from home and his mother readily agreed. For many parents in the city, spending time with their children and helping them with their school assignments over the past few months have boosted their confidence to take the bold step towards homeschooling. “We don’t want a regimented school life for our daughter and want to nurture her talents.” said Vishwas Kulkarni, a resident of Karve Nagar. Homeschooling groups and associations in the city have been getting minimum of 8-10 enquiries daily from parents eager to discontinue schools for their kids and teach them at home. Amrutha Joshi Amdekar, a member of ‘Swashiksha, an informal association of homeschoolers in the country, said that she had received over 500 queries from parents who want their wards to study at home. Chetan Erande, an expert on homeschooling in the city, has been fielding calls from parents since April. “I know at least three couple who have taken this bold decision to to homeschool their children. Sarvesh Mhatre, who is on the member panel of School from Home, said, “Initially we thought that this is just a temporary thing but as the lockdown progressed, we started getting more and more queries from parents. That’s when we got our act together and formed an expert panel, created a forum and an FAQ section. Still, we receive 8-9 calls daily for guidance on homeschooling.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/homeschooling-catches-on-with-many-parents/articleshow/77664099.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
August 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: Restaurateurs plan ahead to adapt to contactless dining||PUNE: Restaurants which have reopened for take away and delivery services in the city are now planning to adapt to contactless operation to serve dine-in customers. “The concept of contactless dining has never been seen before in the hospitality industry. Adapting to smart dining experiences is the future of hospitality,” said Sunil Chandani, restaurant owner. “We will reduce the sitting capacity by half at each of our outlets and extend our operational hours. There will be strict safety procedures in place for our guests, our staff and everybody who walks in,” said restaurant owner Sagar Deshmukh. Some restaurant owners believe that they would be allowed to start dine-in operation only next year. “Dine in will resume its old course, but that may have to wait till 2021. Continuous sanitisation of high contact surfaces would be the key,” said restaurateur Karan Khilnani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/restaurateurs-plan-ahead-to-adapt-to-contactless-dining/articleshow/77664106.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Dehradun||Two friends commit suicide while playing PUBG in Haridwar||HARIDWAR: In what appears to be a case of a suicide pact, two friends allegedly consumed poison in Haridwar on Thursday. Police said both were playing PUBG game during the incident. According to police, one of them died on the spot while another died during treatment at the hospital. Police said reason for the extreme step are yet to be known. The deceased have been identified as Deepak Kumar, a resident of Yamuna Nagar district, Haryana, and Rishab, resident of Saharanpur district Uttar Pradesh. SHO of State Industrial Development Corporation of Uttarakhand police station Lakhpat Butola told TOI, “Both were workers in a local company in SIDCUL and lived in Mahadevpuram colony on rent. All we know is that they consumed poison while playing the game. We found poisonous substance from the room and have seized their mobiles phones for further investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-friends-commit-suicide-while-playing-pubg-in-haridwar/articleshow/77661304.cms||MS Nawaz
August 21, 2020||Surat||DIC clerk held for accepting Rs 1 lakh bribe||Surat: Anti-corruption sleuths nabbed a junior clerk of District Industries Centre (DIC) on Thursday for allegedly accepting bribe of Rs 1.4 lakh in cash in Valsad. The accused had demanded the money for giving clearance to a land that the complainant wanted to purchase. Police arrested Ashok Chavda, 52, a resident of Dharampur Road and native of Gandhinagar, for allegedly accepting the bribe. The accused was caught accepting the bribe outside Daman Ganga Bhavan, close to his office. Following the complaint, B J Sarvaiya, police inspector, anti-corruption bureau (ACB) laid a trap under supervision of N P Gohil, assistant director, ACB.The complainant wanted to purchase 23 acre land in Valsad district that involved nine different survey numbers. The complainant had submitted an application in Valsad district panchayat for clearance to purchase the land that was originally owned by tribal. District panchayat had sent the files to DIC for no objection certificate (NOC). Chavda cleared files for seven survey numbers and issued NOCs keeping two files in pending. For the cleared files Chavda demanded Rs 20,000 for each. The complainant tried to convince Chavda to clear the files without money but the accused refused.Not willing to pay the bribe the complainant approached ACB and lodged a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dic-clerk-held-for-accepting-rs-1-lakh-bribe/articleshow/77661337.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Fix FTL of lakes in Nirmal: Telangana HC||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Thursday directed the Nirmal collector to personally visit all lakes spread across the district to ensure fixation of full tank level area and buffer zones. “This is essential to protect the lakes from encroachments,” a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said. The district collector has to implement the order immediately, otherwise he has to appear before the court on September 10, the bench said while hearing a PIL filed by advocate K Anju Kumar Reddy seeking steps to protect Jafar Cheruvu and Kothaikotch tank on the outskirts of Nirmal town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fix-ftl-of-lakes-in-nirmal-hc/articleshow/77664061.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Jaipur||RBSE starts digital locker for marksheets, certificates||Ajmer: The Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education on Thursday went high-tech with the launching of digital locker to get marks sheets or any certificate related to the board online. This facility will help around 60 lakh students who had appeared in different board exams of 2018, 2019, and 2020. After launching the digital locker on Thursday, RBSE chairman D P Jalori said this is a step ahead towards technology revolution. He praised former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi and said it was his efforts that India is moving towards digitalization. He added that at present health, administration and other facilities are moving towards digitalization and therefore the board decided to move ahead. He added that with digital locker, students will get record of their certificates, marks sheet and other documents online. The data will be available online even if a student loses any mark sheet or certificate. To connect with the digital locker system, students will have to download ‘digital locker govt of India’ app and then register with their mobile or Aadhaar number. They will get an OTP after verification. Students can thereafter generate their password on the app. Previously, students had to approach to Rajasthan Education Board office in Ajmer to get their duplicate or other documents, but later Vidhyarti Seva Kendra were established at all district headquarters so that students do not have to rush to Ajmer. Now, the digital locker system will help students get their documents online. The board chairman said they are trying to make all documents online. The board has already initiated online payments to teachers and invigilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rbse-starts-digital-locker-for-marksheets-certificates/articleshow/77664100.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Amaravati||Deaths due to acute health conditions see rise amid pandemic||AMARAVATI: Deaths due to acute health conditions such as brain strokes and heart attacks are seeing a rise as both patients and doctors are apprehensive of handling such situations amid the Covid-19 outbreak across the globe, according to US-based medical professionals Dr Sreenath Meegada and Dr Vijayadershan Muppidi. Recent research shows that there is an urgent need to revamp healthcare infrastructure and educate patients in order to save lives, the doctors said. Dr Sreenath Meegada is an internal medicine hospitalist physician, an assistant clinical professor of internal medicine and researcher at University of Texas Health Sciences. Dr Vijayadershan Muppidi is an adjunct clinical professor of internal medicine at Indiana University Health Ball Memorial Hospital. The researchers said that people have turned extremely hesitant to visit hospitals and getting treatment despite suffering from serious illnesses due to worries about contracting Covid-19. “The situation in hospitals, particularly in India, is not that encouraging as patients are being made to wait long hours to undergo Covid-19 screening before the emergency is attended to. It is a difficult situation to handle for doctors too,” Dr Meegada has said in the study. The doctor noted that hospital employees, from reception to paramedical staff, need to be trained on war footing to handle emergencies so doctors can swing into action. “While the death rate due to Covid-19 is just around 3%, for strokes and heart attacks, the death rate could be around 10%,” Dr Meegada told TOI. He noted that shortfall in healthcare infrastructure and shortage of physicians is causing a lot of damage during the pandemic. “Although it is difficult to revamp healthcare infrastructure in countries like India due to the population demographics, serious attempts should be made to handle such crises. All hospitals should spare a few beds exclusively for patients in need of urgent care,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/deaths-due-to-acute-health-conditions-see-rise-amid-pandemic/articleshow/77661292.cms||Samdani MN
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Four held in loan fraud||HYDERABAD: Based on a complaint filed by a chief manager of Bank of Maharashtra, four persons were arrested by Central Crime Station (CCS) sleuths on Thursday for allegedly taking loan from the bank by using fraudulently obtained documents. CCS officials in a press note said the accused Gali Niranjan, Vodde Krishna, Vodde Laxminarayana and Vodde Prabhakar were arrested from different parts of the city. According to police, all the accused conspired and allegedly created fabricated deeds. The same documents were submitted in Bank of Maharashtra and they obtained a loan of Rs 1.8 crore in 2012. But the accused later defaulted in repayment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-held-in-loan-fraud/articleshow/77664088.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Agra||Agra dist TB officer tests Covid +ve, 107 more cases in Bareilly||Agra: A tuberculosis officer of Agra district, UB Singh, was tested Covid-19 positive on Thursday. He was placed under home isolation. The district TB office was sealed for 48 hours for sanitization. At least 26 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra district on Thursday, taking the district tally to 2,421. These included three patients suffering acute respiratory distress syndrome, two patents of influenza-like illness, two patients of severe acute respiratory infection, a patient of coronary artery infection and a kidney patient. Also, 37 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Thursday. Of the 2,421 cases reported in the district, 84.1% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 282 active Covid-19 cases in the district. In Bareilly, at least 107 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, said additional chief medical officer Dr Ashok Kumar. Officials said two people succumbed to the virus in Bareilly, taking the death toll to 102. At least 65 more Covid cases were reported from Meerut on Wednesday, taking the tally to 3,057. The positive cases included four health workers. One more death took the toll to 107, according to Meerut's chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-dist-tb-officer-tests-covid-ve-107-more-cases-in-bareilly/articleshow/77661340.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Seasonal diseases on the rise in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) plans to add another 10 health centres in addition to the existing 30 hospitals to tackle seasonal diseases. The number of cases of viral fever has shot up in the city following continuous rainfall and with private hospitals turning away patients on fears of Covid-19, government hospitals have seen a recent influx in patients. Patients have urged the government to direct private hospitals to treat fever and other illnesses. “At a corporate hospital I was asked to get a Covid-19 report to start treatment for typhoid. I got a Covid-19 test and waited for three days to get the report. Meanwhile, I got treatment at a government hospital,” said K Sekhar Babu from Gunadala. District health wing authorities said equal priority is being given to seasonal illnesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/seasonal-diseases-on-the-rise-in-vij/articleshow/77661323.cms||Venu Lanka
August 21, 2020||Nashik||Two held for assaulting policeman||Nashik: The city police have arrested two people on Wednesday for allegedly assaulting a policeman According to the police officials from Panchavati police station, two people were fighting with each other at Kumawat Nagar near the police station when a policeman attempted to disengage them. As the policeman asked them to either resolve their differences or come to the station to register a formal complaint, the two accused started abusing the cop. Subsequently, the accused were taken to the police station where they started physically assaulting the policeman. The hit him in the stomach, face and head. The accused also abused other police personnel and warned them of dire consequences if they were not released immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/two-held-for-assaulting-policeman/articleshow/77660182.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 21, 2020||Jaipur||RPSC releases provisional result for physics lecturers||Ajmer: The Rajasthan Public Service Commission on Thursday released provisional list of candidates for eligibility checking of lecturer (physics), secondary education department exam 2018. The exam was conducted in two sessions, first on January 6, 2020 of general knowledge and second on January 8, 2020 of physics subject. The cut-off marks for OBC category remained the highest, while for ST the cut-off marks remained lowest. According to RPSC, the cut-off for general remained 204.06 marks, EWS 238.52, SC 136.49, ST 104.73, OBC 220.27, for MBC 123.64 marks and for PH category the cut-off was 60.81.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rpsc-releases-provisional-result-for-physics-lecturers/articleshow/77664122.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Pune||State reports 291 DV cases so far this year, up from 138 in entire 2019||Pune: Domestic violence complaints from Maharashtra received by the National Commission for Women (NCW) till August were the highest since 2018 after the commission created a separate category under ‘protection of women against domestic violence’. Complaints from the state soared to 291 between January and August 20 this year in comparison with the 138 plaints received during the whole of 2019. The state also reported the third highest number of complaints in this category, after Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. The 3,039 complaints from across India till this August were higher than the 2,960 received in the entire last year, NCW data indicated. Under the law, any act, omission or commission or conduct constitutes domestic violence if the respondent “harms or injures or endangers the health, safety, life, limb or well-being, whether mental or physical, of the aggrieved person”. It also includes causing physical abuse, sexual abuse, verbal and emotional abuse and economic abuse, among others. Women activists and experts said domestic violence cases surged during the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown. Neeta Thakre, former member of the Maharashtra State Commission for Women, said work from home scenario, partners being more exposed to each other, and to some extent the free time due to job losses worked to contribute to more domestic violence cases. A working paper authored by Saravana Ravindran and Manisha Shah for US-based National Bureau of Economic Research called ‘Unintended Consequences of Lockdowns: Covid-19 and the Shadow Pandemic’ based on data from India, appears to second these views. The researchers, who sourced the domestic violence data from NCW from January till May 2018 to 2020, attributed the trend to economic insecurity and poverty-related stress, quarantines and social isolation during the pandemic. They noted that lockdowns increase women’s day-to-day exposure to potential perpetrators of violence. Using a combination of temporal and spatial variation in the government-mandated intensity of lockdowns, the authors of the paper quantified the impacts of lockdown using data from complaints made to the NCW. The authors found a 131% increase in domestic violence complaints in May 2020 in India’s districts that saw the strictest lockdown measures in comparison to those that saw the least strict measures. In Pune, domestic violence cases going to court dropped in 2020 in comparison to last year, as per the Bharosa cell of the Pune police. Sources in the Pune police said it was because filing of physical complaints at the cell in April and May had stopped due the lockdown. DCP (crime) Bachchan Singh of the Pune police told TOI, “The Bharosa cell received a total of 865 complaints on issues faced by women till July 2020. Of these, 210 reached compromises, while 29 went to court for filing of domestic violence cases, while 146 to police stations for filing of criminal cases. Due to the lockdown, the total complaints on issues faced by women reduced to 20 and 19 in April and May, respectively, as against 302 and 223 in January and February, respectively. We have now started taking complaints online as well as in-person counselling at the cell.” Assunta Pardhe, secretary of Chetana Mahila Vikas Kendra, quoted a 50% increase in such domestic violence complaints at her family council cell in the last few months. “The pressure on women in a household doubled in the pandemic and during lockdown. The number of members in a household increased during the pandemic with either relatives stuck or children returning to families. Financial burdens rose due to job losses, monetary issues, more members to feed, leading to fights and violence against the woman of the house,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-reports-291-dv-cases-so-far-this-year-up-from-138-in-entire-2019/articleshow/77664152.cms||Neha Madaan
August 21, 2020||Nashik||Land acquisition process for rail network expansion begins||Nashik: The Nashik district administration has begun the process to acquire 285 hectare for the Indian Railways to expand the rail network between Igatpuri and Manmad.The Railways plans to expand its network by increasing the number of tracks between Manmad and Igatpuri, which is a busy section in the Mumbai-Nagpur railway route of the Central Railway. The plan is to lay third and fourth tracks between the two railway stations that fall in the Bhusawal Division of the Central Railway.The new infrastructure will expedite passenger and freight movement between various destinations of the country in the north and eastern regions and Mumbai.It may be noted that the Railways has already started the construction of third and fourth lines between Bhusawal, Jalgaon and Manmad to improve the network there. There is also a good network being developed from Mumbai till Kasara, and the section between Kasara and Igatpuri is also likely to have another set of tracks at the earliest. The expansion at the Igatgpuri-Manmad link will complete the entire route.The administration has issued notices to farmers of the Nandgaon, Chandwad, Niphad, Nashik, Igatpuri talukas to register their objections to the land acquisition process so that they can be heard and disposed of in a specific time period.District officials said the process of buying the land has begun. The land acquisition would be done through direct negotiation between the farmers and the Railways with a condition that farmers will not be able to challenge the deal in any court.“Most of the farmers are ready for direct settlement. Only issues that have to be resolved are the claims on the land. They can be settled by the courts or amicably by the family members,” the farmers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/land-acquisition-process-for-rail-network-expansion-begins/articleshow/77660218.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 21, 2020||Delhi||Uneven spread: Sero variation from 16% to 33% in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Compared with the first serological survey conducted in Delhi between June 27 and July 10, in the second survey conducted between August 1 and 10, the overall rise in the number of people with presence of antibodies went up by 27.6%. The increase, however, varies from one district to another and is, in some cases, extreme. While the average prevalence of Covid-19 antibodies in Delhi’s population is 29.1%, the spread of the infection varies from 33.2% in South-East district to 16.3% in South-West. South-East district had a seroprevalence of 22.1% earlier, ranking it eighth among the districts, but has now, according to the second survey, the highest in Delhi with 33.2%. The other districts with a higher seroprevalence than the city’s average of 29.1% are North (31.6%), Central (31.4%), Shahdara (29.9%), North-West, (29.6%) and North-East (29.6%). Interestingly, North-East (6.8% increase since July), Shahdara (8.3%) and Central (12.9%) districts have seen the least rise in seroprevalence since the last survey. The presence of antibodies in South-West district is 16.3%, the lowest, while New Delhi has 24.6% and West district, 26.5%. Health minister Satyendar Jain said there were huge variations in all the districts the last time ranging from 18% in one district to 12% in another. This variation has now reduced. “This means that we may be able to achieve herd immunity in the coming months because scientists say herd immunity is achieved between 40 and 60% prevalence and we are at 29%,” Jain said. “The high jump by 50% in seroprevalence in South-East district is because the areas that had a low prevalence average have now recorded a higher rate,” the minister added. District magistrate (South-West) Rahul Singh said the reasons behind the lowest spread of coronavirus in his district was active surveillance, aggressive testing and contact tracing and follow up of all positive cases. Dr Neeraj Roy, district surveillance officer for West district, said effective containment strategy and early identification and isolation of cases with the early implementation of rapid testing had helped his district contain the spread of Covid-19. The increase in seroprevalence is lowest in the North-East district, rising 6.8% from 27.7% in July to 29.6% now. District officials said they had managed to contain the spread of infection despite severe challenges. An official said, “The population of the North-East district is very big and there are very few open areas, making the district susceptible to faster spread of infection.” The official added, “However, we have been able to contain the disease through a lot of containment and efficient management of containment zones. We have done testing aggressively and have diligently targeted residents who are part of high-risk groups, apart from more testing of special surveillance groups.” The death rate of the district, the official noted, had come down substantially. Sanjeev Kumar, district magistrate (Shahdara), said that containment zones in his area were properly managed as per guidelines and perimeter control was strictly maintained to ensure no one got out of the sealed zone. The district saw an increase of 8.3% in seroprevalence, the second lowest in the city, from the figure in the first survey “We have carried out large scale testing and positive cases have been segregated from the community through home isolation or institutional quarantine and in severe cases, hospitalisation. This is the reason why the spread has stopped,” he said. Watch Covid-19 in Delhi: Nearly 60 lakh people have developed corona antibodies, reveals second sero survey||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/second-sero-survey-results-show-uneven-spread-sero-variation-from-16-to-33/articleshow/77664200.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid claims 37 more lives in Punjab, 1,741 test positive||CHANDIGARH: Continuing with the high surge in Covid-19 cases, Punjab on Thursday recorded another 1,741 cases and 37 more succumbed to the disease. Overall tally of the positive cases in the state now stands at 37,824, while the virus has claimed 957 lives so far. One duplicate death entry in the August 19 tally was deleted. The trend of high mortality rate is expected to continue as 39 patients in critical condition are on ventilator and 345 on oxygen support. In the last 24 hours, the health department teams collected 20,290 samples, of which 8.58% were tested positive. In all, 10 persons died due to the virus in Ludhiana and five each in Mohali, Sangrur and Patiala. Three persons died in Jalandhar, two each in Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Nawanshahr, and one death each was reported in Kapurthala, Muktsar and Gurdaspur. Ludhiana contributed the highest of 398 cases, followed by Jalandhar district, which added 242 fresh cases to the state’s tally. In Mohali, 169 persons were tested positive, 148 in Bathinda and 133 in Ferozepur. As many as 81 persons got infected in Patiala, 75 in Amritsar, 46 in Fazilka, 41 in Faridkot, 33 each in Fatehgarh Sahib and Ropar, 32 in Tarn Taran, 22 in Pathankot, 20 each in Gurdaspur and Muktsar, 19 in Kapurthala, 18 each in Hoshiarpur and Mansa, and 13 in Nawanshahr. A total of 334 people were discharged after recovery during the day, taking the tally of patients discharged so far to 23,037.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-claims-37-more-lives-in-punjab-1741-test-ve/articleshow/77664158.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid claims 37 more lives in Punjab, 1,741 test positive||CHANDIGARH: Continuing with the high surge in Covid-19 cases, Punjab on Thursday recorded another 1,741 cases and 37 more succumbed to the disease. Overall tally of the positive cases in the state now stands at 37,824, while the virus has claimed 957 lives so far. One duplicate death entry in the August 19 tally was deleted. The trend of high mortality rate is expected to continue as 39 patients in critical condition are on ventilator and 345 on oxygen support. In the last 24 hours, the health department teams collected 20,290 samples, of which 8.58% were tested positive. In all, 10 persons died due to the virus in Ludhiana and five each in Mohali, Sangrur and Patiala. Three persons died in Jalandhar, two each in Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Nawanshahr, and one death each was reported in Kapurthala, Muktsar and Gurdaspur. Ludhiana contributed the highest of 398 cases, followed by Jalandhar district, which added 242 fresh cases to the state’s tally. In Mohali, 169 persons were tested positive, 148 in Bathinda and 133 in Ferozepur. As many as 81 persons got infected in Patiala, 75 in Amritsar, 46 in Fazilka, 41 in Faridkot, 33 each in Fatehgarh Sahib and Ropar, 32 in Tarn Taran, 22 in Pathankot, 20 each in Gurdaspur and Muktsar, 19 in Kapurthala, 18 each in Hoshiarpur and Mansa, and 13 in Nawanshahr. A total of 334 people were discharged after recovery during the day, taking the tally of patients discharged so far to 23,037.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-claims-37-more-lives-in-punjab-1741-test-ve/articleshow/77666124.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Region fared better than previous years||Chandigarh/Shimla: While Punjab ranks 5th in India (states with 100 urban local bodies), after Chattisgarh, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, in states with less 100 urban local bodies, Haryana bags second place and Himachal pradesh sixth. In 2019, Haryana was ranked ninth and Himachal 20th. The Swachh Survekshan 2020 survey results were announced by the central government on Thursday. Haryana’s Charkhi Dadri, awarded first rank in the fastest mover city in north zone (with population 50,000 to 1,00,000), played an important role in getting Haryana the second place this year as it has improved its previous rank astonishingly from 850 to 11 in one year. Also, in Haryana, 15 cities have been declared as ODF+ and 13 as ODF++. State’s urban local bodies minister, Anil Vij gave the credit for its success to the outstanding work done by the department with regard to hygiene and sanitation. As for Punjab, in more than 1 lakh category cities, seven cities found place. Bathinda placed at 79, Patiala at 86, Ferozepur at 96, Jalandhar at 119, Muktsar at 135 and Moga at 148th position. Similarly, cities with less than 1 lakh population, Ludhiana is placed at 34th and Amritsar at 39th position. Chandigarh is placed at 8th position. In Himachal Pradesh, in ULBs less than 1 lakh population, Shimla City has got 65th rank, which was 128th in the previous year. Similarly, in first 200 cities with population of 25,000 to 50,000, five cities Nahan, Solan, Mandi, Baddi and Paonta Sahib have been included. Urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj said 48 cities of Himachal Pradesh have also succeeded in achieving good ranks in the ranking of urban local bodies with population up to 25,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/region-fared-better-than-previous-years/articleshow/77664899.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Surat||Special committee set up to resolve issues of gems & jewellery sector||Surat: A special committee has been set up by the ministry of finance, government of India to resolve the issues related to the gems and jewellery sector on Wednesday.In a virtual review meeting held with the finance ministry and the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC), union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman called for the formation of a special committee including customs and banking officials to resolve all issues related to the gems and jewellery sector.Chairman of GJEPC, Colin Shah said, “The exports of gem and jewellery sector is witnessing some signs of recovery. We are hopeful that market will recover soon as exports to USA, Europe and China have commenced. We are thankful for setting up of a special committee to resolve our pending issues. It’s an important step towards attaining ease of doing business.”Shah stated that the GJEPC had represented various issues including direct sale of rough diamonds in the Special Economic Zone (SNZ) in Mumbai and Surat by the diamond mining companies, reduction of polished import duty from 7.5% to 2.5%; clarification on online equalisation levy for B2B International diamond auctions; Reverse Job work in SEZ; GST issues, etc.With regards to direct sale of rough in the Special Notified Zone in Mumbai by miners, the officials informed that the issue is under examination and in the upcoming budget there will be some provision in the Finance Act. Transfer Pricing Committee is examining the matter and will come up with some solution.Shah said, “Reverse job work in SEZ is not allowed currently. The officials have assured that discussions are on between customs and revenue department for the same. A final view on this will be taken, as the Ministry is looking at a larger framework and assessing the Baba Kalyani report.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/special-committee-set-up-to-resolve-issues-of-gems-jewellery-sector/articleshow/77661363.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: Tribals set the tone with virtual music contest||SHIMLA: Even as politicians cutting across party lines fail to maintain social distancing, tribals from Spiti and Hangrang valley of Kinnaur district are setting an example. Outsiders’ entry is strictly banned in Spiti while in Hangrang valley, the tribal community organised a virtual singing programme for the first time during the Covid-19 pandemic to spread the message of social distancing. Residents of Kaza town in Spiti shot to the limelight when they refused to let tribal affairs minister and local MLA Ram Lal Markanda enter the area. Markanda had arrived there from Shimla on an official visit. “Strict enforcement of social distancing has kept Covid-19 at bay in Spiti. Not a single case of Coronavirus infection has been reported so far,” said Kaza resident Chhering Dorje. Hangrang valley of Kinnaur shares its boundary with Spiti. Here too, people are following social distancing norms strictly. On the eve of Independence Day, the finale of the virtual singing programme, “Voice of Hangrang” was held on social media platforms for the first time. Hangrang valley comprises Sumra, Shalkhar, Chango, Malling, Nako, Leo, Hango and Chuling villages. In a bid to provide people an online platform to discuss issues and showcase their talent from home, village residents joined hands to form the “Hangrang Samvad Manch” on May 5. Shanta Kumar Negi a resident of Nako village and member of Hangrang Samvad Manch said people in this remote valley located close to the China border have been confined to their homes and the virtual singing contest was held to keep them engaged. An independent jury selected 12 contestants after three rounds of audience poll on social media. The finale was live streamed on Facebook. Religious leaders Lochen Tulku Rinpoche and Somang Tulku Rinpoche were the chief guests. They also joined the event online. Performances were judged real time by four jury members, all renowned folk singers, including Kedar Negi from Rarang in Kinnaur; Furbu Negi from Leo in Kinnaur, Nawang Negi from Nako in Kinnaur and Kalzang Chhunit from Spiti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/tribals-set-the-tone-with-virtual-music-contest/articleshow/77664145.cms||Anand Bodh
August 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19 toll in AP breaches 3,000-mark||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Covid-19 toll in the state crossed the 3,000-mark on Thursday, with the disease claiming another 95 lives. The toll now stands at 3,001. The state also reported 9,393 Covid-19 cases, taking the cumulative tally to 3,25,396. Andhra Pradesh breached the 2,000 Covid-19 deaths mark on August 9. It has taken just 11 days to breach the 3,000-mark. On Thursday, 55,551 samples were tested, taking the number of samples tested so far to 30,74,847. The Covid-19 positivity rate has increased to 10.58%. As many as 8,846 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the virus and been discharged since Wednesday. Total recoveries in the state increased to 2,35,218, a recovery rate of 72.28%. East Godavari district continues to register over 1,000 Covid-19 cases. The district reported 1,357 Covid-19 cases, the highest in the state, while West Godavari and Visakhapatnam districts came second and third with 995 and 985 cases, respectively, since Wednesday. Krishna district has reported the lowest number of cases (195). Of the 95 casualties reported on Thursday, Chittoor district accounted for 16 deaths, Prakasam 11, Nellore 9, eight deaths each were reported from Anantapur, East Godavari and West Godavari districts. While Kadapa registered seven deaths, six deaths each were reported from Guntur, Kurnool and Visakhapatnam districts. Srikakulam district reported five deaths while Vizianagaram and Krishna districts reported three deaths each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-19-toll-in-state-breaches-3000-mark/articleshow/77661362.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 21, 2020||Jaipur||Only 81 get employment through Raj Kaushal||JAIPUR: So far, only 81 people have got jobs through Raj Kaushal portal – Rajasthan Labour Employment Exchange (as on August 19) – which was launched by the state government on June 5 to ensure providing employment to migrants, who had returned to Rajasthan from other states, and the ones who were rendered jobless due to Covid-19 pandemic. While 62 jobs have been provided in Jhunjhunu district, 12 people were given employment in Jaipur and four in Jodhpur, as per the data made available by the labour department. Of the 13.13 lakh migrants registered on the Raj Kaushal portal, over 7 lakh migrants have stated they don’t require jobs or skill development training in the state, it stated. According to the data, of the total 11.18 lakh registered employers, 212 have updated their data on the portal. It also pointed out that 4,373 jobs were available (as per requirement stated by the employers). The data further revealed that the employers showed interest in the services of 252 migrants and got in touch with them. The data also revealed that skill updating of 1.85 lakh migrants has been completed so far, and skill mapping of around 4.28 lakh workers is yet to be done by the government. Also, over 50,000 migrants have shown interest in getting trained in a new set of skills. An official said, “We have written to the collectors several times to complete skill mapping of the migrants at the earliest. We will write to them again to expedite the process. In some districts, the process has been slow (for example: Udaipur, Churu, Jodhpur etc).” “Moreover, whatever issues the employers/industries have with regard to accessing data on the portal will be resolved by holding meetings with them.” “Also, over 7 lakh migrants have stated that they don’t require jobs or skill development training through the portal,” the official added. Labour Commissioner Prateek Jhajharia said, “There are already more than 18 lakh visits to the portal. But, unless the employer or the employee flags it that the person concerned has got the job, it will not reflect on the portal. I have told the employment department officials to reconfirm with the employers if they have offered jobs to the fresh job seekers or not. It will help us update the portal on the number of jobs offered to people.” “We have told the collectors, employers’ associations and trade unions to promote the portal through word of mouth. We have also written to DIPR to run a campaign to popularize the portal so that job seekers could register themselves on the portal. I was told a YouTube video has also been created to promote it,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/only-81-get-employment-through-raj-kaushal/articleshow/77664178.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
August 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Heavy rain damages crops, water discharge from dams stopped||Kolhapur: The recent heavy rainfall has caused crop damage in about 506 villages in the Kolhapur district. Officials from the agriculture department said sugar cane, soyabean, groundnut and paddy crops have been affected. Officials added that crops grown near the banks of the Panchaganga river bore the brunt. They said sugar cane fields were submerged at several places. There are chances of the crop rotting if it remains under water for a long time. Similarly, milk collection was partially affected because of lack of cattle fodder and closure of roads in several parts of the district. According to an initial estimate, crops on 22,000 hectare are feared to be damaged. Officials said around 40,000 families may be affected. Crops in 105 villages of Radhanagari taluka, 97 villages in Karveer taluka and Panhala tehsil have been affected. A final assessment is expected later this month. Meanwhile, water discharge from the Radhanagari dam has been stopped after the rainfall subsided in the catchment area. The Panchaganga was also flowing below the warning mark. In Sangli, the Krishna river water level had come down to 34.6feet near Irwin bridge, while danger level is 45 feet. Water discharge from Chandoli dam was brought down from Wednesday's 9,000 cusec to 4,000 cusec on Thursday. Water release from Koyna too has been reduced from 56,000 cusec on Monday to only 2,100 cusec on Thursday. Almatti dam in Karnataka, however, continues to release water at 2.50 lakh cusec for the third consecutive day||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/heavy-rain-damages-crops-water-discharge-from-dams-stopped/articleshow/77661366.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana tally crosses 50k mark with 999 new cases||Chandigarh: Haryana’s Covid-19 cases went past the 50,000 thousand mark with a spike of 999 infections on Thursday, while the toll rose to 578 after 11 patients succumbed. The state now has 50,926 total cases of coronavirus infections, of which 33,629 are male, 17,286 female and 11 transgender. However, there are only 7,555 active cases and 42,793 persons have been discharged after treatment. The highest numbers of cases were reported from Panchkula (114), followed by Gurgaon (111), Panipat (98), Ambala (92), Faridabad (88), Rohtak (72), Karnal (58), Sonipat (50), Rewari (50), Yamunanagar (50), Hisar (44), Kurukshetra (33), Sirsa (25), Palwal (23), Kaithal (20), Charkhi Dadri (17), Bhiwani (16), Mahendragarh (13), Fatehabad (11), Jhajjar (6) and Jind (5). With new cases, Gurgaon tally has reached 10,636. The health department said 92 people recovered on Thursday and the total recoveries in the city stands at 9,749. No one succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours, officials there said. Till date, 131 people have died of Covid in the city. So far, 9,10,877 people have been tested in the state while 66,088 are still under surveillance at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-tally-crosses-50k-mark-with-999-new-cases/articleshow/77664159.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Amritsar||Covid claims 37 more lives in Punjab, 1,741 test positive||CHANDIGARH: Continuing with the high surge in Covid-19 cases, Punjab on Thursday recorded another 1,741 cases and 37 more succumbed to the disease. Overall tally of the positive cases in the state now stands at 37,824, while the virus has claimed 957 lives so far. One duplicate death entry in the August 19 tally was deleted. The trend of high mortality rate is expected to continue as 39 patients in critical condition are on ventilator and 345 on oxygen support. In the last 24 hours, the health department teams collected 20,290 samples, of which 8.58% were tested positive. In all, 10 persons died due to the virus in Ludhiana and five each in Mohali, Sangrur and Patiala. Three persons died in Jalandhar, two each in Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Nawanshahr, and one death each was reported in Kapurthala, Muktsar and Gurdaspur. Ludhiana contributed the highest of 398 cases, followed by Jalandhar district, which added 242 fresh cases to the state’s tally. In Mohali, 169 persons were tested positive, 148 in Bathinda and 133 in Ferozepur. As many as 81 persons got infected in Patiala, 75 in Amritsar, 46 in Fazilka, 41 in Faridkot, 33 each in Fatehgarh Sahib and Ropar, 32 in Tarn Taran, 22 in Pathankot, 20 each in Gurdaspur and Muktsar, 19 in Kapurthala, 18 each in Hoshiarpur and Mansa, and 13 in Nawanshahr. A total of 334 people were discharged after recovery during the day, taking the tally of patients discharged so far to 23,037.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/covid-claims-37-more-lives-in-punjab-1741-test-ve/articleshow/77666127.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Jaipur||‘Efforts to topple Rajasthan govt tried to kill democracy’||JAISALMER: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot's son and RCA president Vaibhav Gehlot said the way it was conspired to topple the Congress government, tried to kill democracy, but with the people of Rajasthan, everything failed and now Congress in its remaining tenure will not leave any stone unturned in working for the common man, farmers, labourers etc. All possible efforts would be taken for the development of Rajasthan. He said this while dedicating the newly built Ambedkar Bhawan to public at Pokhran in Jaisalmer district. He said Dr Ambedkar will be remembered for eras, as he worked for country's unity and integrity. Speaking about the political situation in Rajasthan, he said all efforts were made to topple the government but with the help of everyone, they failed. With the cooperation and blessings of all, truth has won. He said efforts would be made to take the benefit of government schemes to the general public. He said efforts would also be made for development of Pokhran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/efforts-to-topple-raj-govt-tried-to-kill-democracy/articleshow/77664138.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Amaravati||Covid-19 toll in AP breaches 3,000-mark||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Covid-19 toll in the state crossed the 3,000-mark on Thursday, with the disease claiming another 95 lives. The toll now stands at 3,001. The state also reported 9,393 Covid-19 cases, taking the cumulative tally to 3,25,396. Andhra Pradesh breached the 2,000 Covid-19 deaths mark on August 9. It has taken just 11 days to breach the 3,000-mark. On Thursday, 55,551 samples were tested, taking the number of samples tested so far to 30,74,847. The Covid-19 positivity rate has increased to 10.58%. As many as 8,846 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the virus and been discharged since Wednesday. Total recoveries in the state increased to 2,35,218, a recovery rate of 72.28%. East Godavari district continues to register over 1,000 Covid-19 cases. The district reported 1,357 Covid-19 cases, the highest in the state, while West Godavari and Visakhapatnam districts came second and third with 995 and 985 cases, respectively, since Wednesday. Krishna district has reported the lowest number of cases (195). Of the 95 casualties reported on Thursday, Chittoor district accounted for 16 deaths, Prakasam 11, Nellore 9, eight deaths each were reported from Anantapur, East Godavari and West Godavari districts. While Kadapa registered seven deaths, six deaths each were reported from Guntur, Kurnool and Visakhapatnam districts. Srikakulam district reported five deaths while Vizianagaram and Krishna districts reported three deaths each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/covid-19-toll-in-state-breaches-3000-mark/articleshow/77669544.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid-19 toll in AP breaches 3,000-mark||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Covid-19 toll in the state crossed the 3,000-mark on Thursday, with the disease claiming another 95 lives. The toll now stands at 3,001. The state also reported 9,393 Covid-19 cases, taking the cumulative tally to 3,25,396. Andhra Pradesh breached the 2,000 Covid-19 deaths mark on August 9. It has taken just 11 days to breach the 3,000-mark. On Thursday, 55,551 samples were tested, taking the number of samples tested so far to 30,74,847. The Covid-19 positivity rate has increased to 10.58%. As many as 8,846 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the virus and been discharged since Wednesday. Total recoveries in the state increased to 2,35,218, a recovery rate of 72.28%. East Godavari district continues to register over 1,000 Covid-19 cases. The district reported 1,357 Covid-19 cases, the highest in the state, while West Godavari and Visakhapatnam districts came second and third with 995 and 985 cases, respectively, since Wednesday. Krishna district has reported the lowest number of cases (195). Of the 95 casualties reported on Thursday, Chittoor district accounted for 16 deaths, Prakasam 11, Nellore 9, eight deaths each were reported from Anantapur, East Godavari and West Godavari districts. While Kadapa registered seven deaths, six deaths each were reported from Guntur, Kurnool and Visakhapatnam districts. Srikakulam district reported five deaths while Vizianagaram and Krishna districts reported three deaths each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-19-toll-in-state-breaches-3000-mark/articleshow/77666606.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 21, 2020||Shimla||2 patients succumb to virus, 127 test positive in hill state||Shimla: Two Covid-19 positive persons died in Himachal Pradesh on Thursday. One person died in Kangra district and another died in Solan. This took the death toll in the state to 21. Two Covid-19 positive patients died on Wednesday. On Thursday, the state reported 127 positive cases and 93 patients recovered. The total number of positive patients has reached 4,538, of which 1,390 cases are active, 3,085 patients have recovered, 21 have died and 40 persons have migrated out of the state. CMO, Kangra, Dr Gurdarshan Gupta said a 41-year-old man, an advocate and resident of Shahpur in Kangra district was brought to the emergency ward of Dharamshala zonal hospital, which is being used as a Covid Care hospital, around midnight. He was declared dead on arrival. Dr Gupta said the deceased had recent travel history to Shimla and had symptoms of influenza-like illness and shortness of breath. He said that a sample were taken after his death and tested positive for Covid-19. CMO, Solan, Dr Rajan Uppal said a 45-year-old man from Makhnumajra village of Baddi tehsil of Solan district arrived at Community Health Centre Nalagarh at around 11.50pm on Wednesday and complained of breathing difficulty. The patient was treated in accordance with protocol and stabilised, but his condition deteriorated and he collapsed around 2.15am on Thursday. His samples taken after death tested positive for Covid-19. Total positive cases reported on Thursday include three each from Chamba and Kangra districts, seven from Hamirpur, one from Kullu, 19 from Mandi, 24 from Sirmaur, 64 from Solan and six from Una. A total of 21 patients recovered in Chamba, three in Hamirpur, nine from Kangra, 11 from Kullu, 23 from Sirmaur, 22 from Solan and four from Una district. A total of 1,88,344 persons have been tested till Thursday of which 1,82,586 persons have tested negative while results of 1,220 samples are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/2-patients-succumb-to-virus-127-test-positive-in-hill-state/articleshow/77664166.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Business||Pune Inc’s market value surges 35% since first lockdown||Pune: The push from foreign investors and hopes of successful vaccine trials propelled the market capitalisation (m-cap) of top listed Pune-based firms by 35% from March 27 to August 14 this year.Market analysts said the rise in m-cap can also be attributed to the progressive unlocking of the Indian economy. They said the gain was more significant when compared to the first trading week after the first nationwide lockdown was announced on March 25.In the week that the first major lockdown was announced, the traded value (m-cap) of top 28 firms in Pune was at a cumulative Rs 3,87,765 crore as on March 27. This rose to Rs 5,25,115 crore as on August 14. These 28 firms represent over 95% of the m-cap of Pune-based firms. The m-cap of all firms listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) grew by 34% to Rs 151 lakh crore over the same period. In an investors’ note, HDFC mutual fund attributed the increase to foreign portfolio investments, hope of a vaccine and progressive turnaround of the economy.Compared to March 27, the 28 Pune-based firms gained between 3% and 156% in market value. The m-cap of three Bajaj Group firms (Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Finserv and Bajaj Auto), representing about 70% of the m-cap of Pune-based listed entities, grew by 35%. Bajaj Auto, which said it managed to sell in June and July this year 68% of the number of vehicles it had sold in the same months last year, gained 45% in stock value since March 27. Half of the 28 firms outperformed the average gain of 35% as per the traded value of these stocks as on August 14. “We cannot say that it is all a gain of fundamentals. There are issues like moratorium, bad loans, falling demand due to job losses and salary cuts. However, consumers with money have little to invest in other asset classes. Gold is at an all-time high and so people are investing in stocks directly,” a Mumbai-based analyst closely watching some of the top Pune firms said. The registered investor base has also increased to 5.29 crore from about 4.5 crore a year ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pune-incs-market-value-surges-35-since-first-lockdown/articleshow/77664192.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD chief says MGNREGA funds worth Rs 1,000 crore siphoned off||Chandigarh: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal accused the Congress of siphoning off Rs 1,000 crore under the Mahatama Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) in connivance with state government officials. He has demanded an independent probe in the case. Expressing indignation at the misuse of funds meant for the poor, the SAD president said an inquiry by a central team detected gross irregularities in two districts of Punjab. He urged Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar to forward the case to CBI for a probe into misappropriation of MGNREGA funds. Sukhbir alleged that material component was billed to companies owned by cronies of Congress MLAs and material worth crores was shown to be purchased from the firms on paper. “Work which has not even started on the ground has been shown to be completed and even payments have been made on the basis of rough estimates,” he alleged. The SAD president alleged that Congress legislators opened tile making and bench making factories to siphon off central funds. “Even culverts, pavements and sheds have been constructed on personal premises and funds have been utilised beyond jurisdiction for political benefits in connivance with raw material suppliers and gram panchayats,” he said. Job cards had been issued to ineligible people and even deceased persons had been put on the MGNREGA job list, alleged Sukhbir. He added that this scam had had been effected in connivance with the state government, which was why no action had been taken against those running it when a central team detected huge regularities like fake labour force, inflated bills and sub-standard quality of works. He alleged that the Congress government in Punjab was trying to put a lid on the scam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-chief-says-mgnrega-funds-worth-rs-1000-crore-siphoned-off/articleshow/77664919.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Nashik||APMCs to remain closed for 3 days||Nashik: The Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs) across the Nashik district will remain closed on Friday in response to a statewide strike called given by the federation of APMCs. The markets will also be closed for Ganesh Chaturthi on Saturday and Sunday will be a regular holiday, meaning, there will be a three-day closure. The federation is protesting against the Union government's decision allowing anyone to purchase and sell agricultural produce. The APMCs are upset with the three ordinances that the Union government passed in June. They feel the ordinances are against the farmers and in the interest of few traders and big companies. “All of the 307 APMCs across the state, including 17 in Nashik district, will be on a day’s strike on Friday,” Jaydutta Holkar of Lasalgaon APMC said. The three ordinances are the Amendment of the Essential Commodities Act to remove the existing restrictions on stopping of food produce, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) ordinance that ends the monopoly of APMCs by allowing anyone to purchase and sell agricultural produce to anybody and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services ordinance which legalizes contract farming so that big business and companies can enter the agricultural business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/apmcs-to-remain-closed-for-3-days/articleshow/77660235.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 21, 2020||Kolhapur||490 cases take Kolhapur’s Covid-19 count to 16,772||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district on Thursday registered 490 fresh Covid-19 cases, including 151 from the city, along with 22 casualties. With this, the total number of coronavirus cases in the district jumped to 16,772, including 5,185 from the city. Of the 22 deaths, eight were from Kolhapur city while the remaining were reported from Ichalkaranji, Hatkanangale and other parts of the district. Hatknangale tehsil registered 82 new cases while Karveer reported 44 patients. Shirol tehsil traced out 36 patients. Kolhapur city constitute the highest number of patients, followed by Hatkanangale tehsil which has registered 1,835 cases so far. Karveer tehsil has reported 1,804 positive cases till date. At present, the district has registered 7,170 active patients while 9,117 have been discharged after successful recovery. The district has recorded 485 deaths so far. Of the recent cases, Gaganbawda tehsil has reported the lowest number of cases – 39. Six tehsils, including Bhudaragad, Chandgad, Gadhinglaj, Gaganbawda, Radhanagari and Shahuwadi, recorded single digit patients on Thursday. Meawnhile, Solapur city on Thursday recorded 29 news cases, taking the total number of positive cases to 6,188. The city also registered one Covid-related death. A 72-year-old resident of Nehru Nagar succumbed to the contagion on Thursday. At present, Solapur city has registered 1,171 active patients. It has recorded 395 deaths so far while 4,622 people have been discharged. Solapur rural, on the other hand, added 281 new cases, including 99 from Pandharpur tehsil. Solapur rural also recorded six deaths on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/490-cases-take-kolhapurs-covid-19-count-to-16772/articleshow/77661382.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD says failure to act against liquor mafia caused 5 more deaths||Chandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) said that the Punjab government’s failure to act against the liquor mafia led by politicians and distilleries supplying spirit to them has resulted in the death of five more people in the state. SAD leader and former minister Bikram Singh Majithia said claims of the Congress government in Punjab of taking action to stop the illicit liquor trade had proved to be hollow with Wednesday’s deaths. “This also shows that far from dismantling the mafia, it continues to flourish. Even the families of the two persons who died in Tarn Taran on Wednesday and three who died in Bholath have given a statement saying spurious liquor is freely available in their villages,” said Majithia. He added that the tentacles of the hooch traders were spreading by the day and had now reached the Doaba region after Majha and Patiala-Khanna-Ludhiana belt. Majithia said people continued to die after consuming spurious liquor because the government had not taken any action against distilleries accused of supplying spirit to the liquor mafia. Until distilleries involved in smuggling denatured spirit to mafia elements were sealed and exemplary action was taken against their managements for abetting murder, such tragedies would continue, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-says-failure-to-act-against-liquor-mafia-caused-5-more-deaths/articleshow/77664927.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Staff crunch at VIMS, as 110 doctors await joining order||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Visakhapatnam Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) is reeling under an acute shortage of specialists such as pulmonologists, anesthesiologists, as well as other healthcare staff. The regional Covid-19 state hospital is making do with less than 50 doctors, most of whom hold an MBBS degree. At present, around 500 patients are receiving treatment at VIMS. In 2019, the state government had selected on a contract basis more than 110 doctors for various specialties at the hospital. However, the doctors are yet to receive their joining orders. “We have already been selected and are waiting for the orders. We are ready to join but there is no green signal from the government. VIMS needs specialised doctors in this coronavirus pandemic. We request the chief minister to focus on the matter,” a doctor who had been selected told TOI. Following the government notification in 2019 for recruiting specialists, selected candidates were intimated by the office of director of medical education on September 26, 2019 for the posts of medical superintendent, professors and associate professors. Anesthesiologists, doctors of general surgery, orthopedics, pediatrics, urology, neurology , pulmonary medicine, general medicine, nephrology, neurosurgery and ENT were selected. In terms of numbers, 10 heads of departments, 16 associate professors, 44 assistant professors and 46 senior resident doctors, apart from 20 candidates for office administration, were selected. “If the government appoints these doctors, it can save the lives of patients in critical condition,” CPI(M) functionary K Lokanatham said. When contacted, district collector V Vinay Chand told TOI he had brought the matter to the notice of concerned authorities in Amaravati. “I have enquired about the issue. The file was already in circulation in the finance department and a decision will come at any time,” the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/staff-crunch-at-vims-as-110-doctors-await-joining-order/articleshow/77661385.cms||Siva G
August 21, 2020||Chennai||Park for non-polluting companies near Chennai||CHENNAI: The State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu plans to set up a park for non-polluting industries like automobile and electronic manufacturing at Manallur on the outskirts of Chennai. The decision comes months after the Union environment ministry refused clearance for chemical industries at the spot. The upcoming industrial park near Gummidipoondi, about 57km north of Chennai, had already been identified for establishing e-vehicle park over 300 acres of the 690 acres under possession of the State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu (SIPCOT). It has invited consultants to prepare a master plan and Detailed Project Report (DPR) for the purpose. About 10% of the total land in the facility will be earmarked for red industries to produce ancillary components for larger companies on the campus. SIPCOT has approached the Centre for approval to put Manallur, a much-delayed industrial park that has not taken shape for more than a decade since it was conceived, into operation. The industrial park will emerge as the largest of SIPCOT’s facilities in Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts. Currently, Oragadam in Kancheepuram district, spread over 2,730 acres, is the single largest among the 12 industrial parks and special economic zones (SEZs) in the three neighbouring districts. The Tiruvallur district administration is in the process of transferring about 1,250 acres of land at Manallur to SIPCOT, according to industries department officials said. “This is phase one and we are expecting the land transfer in a couple of months from the district administration. In fact, the entire 5,000 acres that are to be given to SIPCOT are available with the district authorities,” a senior official said. Priority is being given for automobile and electronics production on the lines of Sri City multiproduct Special Economic Zone and electronics manufacturing cluster in neighbouring AP. “Whatever can be manufactured there (Sri City) can also done in our industrial park,” the official added. Early this year, the expert appraisal committee of the Union environment ministry had refused to permit chemical industries at Manallur since the proposal included accommodating units manufacturing synthetic organic chemicals and integrated paint industries. Pointing out that the Pulicat lake wildlife sanctuary was located in the vicinity and emphasising on protection of ground and surface water, the committee concluded that the site was not suitable for chemical industries. According to industries department sources, the ministry has been approached again. “We are confident of obtaining their approval soon,” the official said. It may be recalled that the industrial park at Manallur began in 2009, but remained idle till last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/park-for-non-polluting-cos-near-city/articleshow/77662663.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||STPI starts contest, to check challenges during & after Covid||Chandigarh: The Software Technology Park of India (STPI) has started the start-up challenge contest, CHUNAUTI (Challenge Hunt Under NGIS for Advanced Uninhibited Technology Intervention), to address challenges faced during and after the Covid-19 pandemic situation. STPI Mohali, on Thursday, organised a webinar for the promotion of Next Generation Incubation Scheme (NGIS) for information technology (IT)/information technology enabled services (ITES) start-ups engaged in the development of software products. CHUNAUTI is trying to identify and support solutions which can support the government, industry and the public at large for their seamless operations and enable them to face the varied difficulties and bottlenecks during and post-pandemic situation. Key domains of the NGIS include medical healthcare, diagnostic, preventive and psychological care; business continuity and work from home (WFH) tools; crisis or disaster management, supply chain and transportation management, infrastructure and monitoring; simulation and modelling; education and employment. During the webinar, in which over 200 start-ups and IT companies participated, director-general of the STPI, Omkar Rai said both soft and hard features of NGIS and STPI centres of excellence will be instrumental in building the country. He said NGIS is a futuristic incubation scheme aimed at supporting up to 300 start-ups or entrepreneurs with incubation, finance or seed funding, mentorship support through pan-India mentor pool and entrepreneur platforms to enable networking, knowledge-sharing, co-learning, as well as internship grants to promising start-ups. Registration is open for participation in open challenge programme - CHUNAUTI - and the last date for submission of applications is September 7. A detailed to-do list is available on https://ngis.stpi.in/. Start-up Punjab Hub at STPI Mohali will soon have a dedicated 500-seat co-working space and dedicated laboratories for artificial intelligence, data analytics etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/stpi-starts-contest-to-check-challenges-during-after-covid/articleshow/77664185.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara records 396 new cases||Kolhapur: Satara district registered a surge in Covid-19 cases since late night on Wednesday with the addition of 396 patients. With this, the total number of cases in the district swelled to 8,671, of which, 3,776 are currently active. The district also reported eight Covid-related deaths, taking the toll to 277. Of the recent casualties, five are from Satara tehsil, two from Karad and one from Koregaon tehsil. Of the recent patients reported from Karad, ten are police personnel while two are bank employees. According to the official information, Satara tehsil reported 122 new cases, including 50 from Karad town. In addition, villages from Karad tehsil continue to register new patients every day. Wathar and Yelgaon registered 11 and 14 new cases respectively. So far, Satara tehsil has registered more than 1,600 positive cases. Among other places which recorded fresh Covid-19 cases are Bharatgao (18) and Khatav and Koregaon tehsils registering 16 and six cases respectively. Phaltan tehsil identified 40 new patients, including eight from Gorkhi village. Wai khandala traced out 18 patients while Khandala reported 13 new cases. As far as the recoveries are concerned, the district has witnessed 4,658 people getting discharged after successful treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-records-396-new-cases/articleshow/77661374.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Jaipur||Cheers: Black Horse to return, keep Rajasthan ‘spirits’ high||JAIPUR: When liquor was in short supply and production regulated, Rajasthan used to make nearly two dozen brands of whiskey, rum, gin, brandy and heritage liquor. By 1986, the production of these brands had to be stopped due to the popularity of grain-based alcohol from private distilleries. But now the state excise department is trying to bring back the old brands and revive the heritage. Black Horse whisky and Black Jack rum, which kept the Army and BSF in the 70s and 80s in high spirits, will soon be seen on the shelves of the government’s liquor outlets. According to a senior official, the department is initially making 5,000 cases of Black Horse, which will be launched in the next 15 days. While the rate has not been finalised, it will be in the mid-segment, ranging between Rs 500-600 per 750ml bottle. “These liquor beverages are part of our history. By producing some brands of the yore, we want to revive our heritage. They will be made in our Jhotwara distillery and the products will be available at government shops,” said Prithvi Raj, finance secretary (revenue). Previously, alcohol was made from sugarcane molasses, unlike food grains like wheat, bajra, and rice. Before the green revolution, food grains were in short supply and molasses was preferred for making alcohol. Now, while the grain production in the country has increased, it is also considered better than molasses. Black Horse will be a grain-based alcohol. Many of these brands were produced in a distillery in Ganganagar Sugar Mill (GSM) before the operations closed due to competition from new private distilleries. “GSM’s history goes back to over hundred years and much of the credit is given to the erstwhile king of Bikaner, Maharaja Ganga Singh, who was instrumental in bringing Ganga canal to the area and making it a fertile field for sugarcane cultivation. With the availability of molasses, a distillery was also set up to make alcohol beverages,” said Anil Kumar Singh, who retired from Rajasthan State Ganganagar Sugar Mill (RSGSM) as deputy general manager and now works as a consultant. Recently, the department made another attempt to produce heritage liquors which served the royalty of various princely states. It introduced Kesar Kasturi and Chandr Hass, while work is on to relaunch Jagmohan and Saunf. The heritage liquor is made of spices, herbs and roots with alcohol content in varying degrees. For example, Chandr Hass, a brew of ex-royals of Kanota, uses 78 varieties of herbs and spices. Similarly, Kesar Kasturi is made of 10-12 herbs. These are also produced at RSGSM’s Jhotwara located Royal Heritage Liquor Distillery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/black-horse-to-return-keep-raj-spirits-high/articleshow/77664187.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Supporters urge Trump to allow Afghan Hindus, Sikhs into US||Amritsar: After the introduction of a resolution by Congresswoman Jackie Speier in the House of Representatives, seeking to resettle Afghanistan’s persecuted Hindu and Sikh communities in the US, NGO United Sikhs has now called upon President Donald Trump to issue an executive order to grant them permanent entry into the country. Gundeep Singh of United Sikhs said on Thursday, “At this juncture, we and others are calling upon President Donald Trump to issue an executive order that grants permanent entry into the US to all remaining Afghan Sikhs and Hindus. Due to the imminent danger they are in, it is vital that they be allowed immediate safe passage into the US without delay. They urgently need to be granted Temporary Protected Status (TPS) refugee or asylum status and immediately placed in safe zones outside of Afghanistan.” The resolution of Jackie Speier condemned the targeted terrorist attacks against members of the Sikh, Hindu and other religious minority communities in Afghanistan. Gundeep Singh further said, “We are grateful to her (Jackie) for supporting refugee protection and recognising systematic religious persecution, discrimination, and the danger faced by the members of these communities.” Harpreet Singh Sandhu, executive director at the American Sikh Congressional Caucus, urged all Caucus Chairs, members of Congress and the Senators to step in on urgent humanitarian grounds. “America has a moral obligation to preserve the sanctity of life and give Afghan Sikhs and Hindus a real chance for religious equality, safety, freedom and the pursuit of happiness.” Notably, the department of state and the US Commission on International Religious Freedom have documented systemic discrimination against Sikhs and Hindus in Afghanistan, including restrictions on their religious practices, illegal seizure of properties, their inability to send their children to public schools due to harassment, judicial bias against religious minorities and the implementation of constitutional limits on the political rights of religious minorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/supporters-urge-trump-to-allow-afghan-hindus-sikhs-into-us/articleshow/77664932.cms||Yudhvir Rana
August 21, 2020||Kolhapur||2 held for demanding Rs 8L extortion||Kolhapur: Sangli police have arrested two people for allegedly demanding Rs 8 lakh extortion from a government official by posing as RTI activists. Police said that the suspects — Suyog Gajanan Aundhkar (33) of Kasegaon and Krishna Vishwanath Jangam (60) of Walva — sought information by filing and RTI application on the alleged financial irregularities in the agriculture department. Thereafter, they contacted the government official and based on the information gathered, they demanded money from him. While agriculture department is conducting an independent inquiry into the matter, Aundhkar and Jangam demanded money from the official. According to police, agriculture department is conducting an inquiry into the purchasing of thermal scanner and bags from a company, in which, the wives of two officers were the directors. Aundhkar has said that such purchase was a classic case of corruption. Agriculture minister Dada Bhuse had ordered an inquiry after receipt of the complaint. The complainant told police that Aundhkar and Jangam demanded Rs 8 lakh and monthly amount of Rs 20,000 from him to withdraw the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-held-for-demanding-rs-8l-extortion/articleshow/77661403.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Nashik||Special flight to Mumbai on August 22||Nashik: Alliance Air, a subsidiary of Air India, will operate a special Mumbai-Nashik-Mumbai flight on August 22 as a second trial to check the passenger load in this sector. Alliance Air sources said they may start regular flights in this sector in future if the airline gets a good response for this trial flight. On July 22, Alliance Air had started a special Mumbai-Nashik-Mumbai flight for a day to check the response from passengers. It had received very poor response as the flight operated without any passenger. The sources said as the nation is in the unlocking phase post the Covid-related lockdown and all the sectors are opening gradually, the airline has decided to run a special flight on this route for another day on August 22, on the occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi. On August 22, the flight will take off from the Mumbai airport at 4.30 pm and land at Nashik airport at 5.15 pm. From Nashik, it will depart at 6.15 pm and will land in Mumbai at 7 pm. The airfare will be Rs 3,000 and the airline has already started taking bookings for it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/special-flight-to-mumbai-on-august-22/articleshow/77660252.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Nankana Sahib Sikh girl’s family keen to leave Pakistan||Amritsar: Claiming that they are being humiliated by people of ‘other community’, the family members of Nankana Sahib Sikh girl Jagjit Kaur alias Ayesha Bibi have appealed to their government to send them out of Pakistan so they could live with dignity. “We are unable to send our young daughters to schools or to the market places alone, people of other community humiliate us whenever they get a chance to do so,” said Manmohan Singh, brother of Jagjit, while talking to TOI over phone from Nankana Sahib on Thursday. He said on Thursday his family comprising nine members, including women of the house, gave a letter to deputy commissioner of Nankana Sahib urging him to arrange them passports so they could live in some other country without fear. After living for nearly a year in Dar ul Alam in Lahore, Lahore high court had directed police to send Jagjit with her husband Mohammad Hassan on August 12. However, her family members resented that the court didn’t even give them five minutes to meet Jagjit. They also accused Pakistan government as well as Pakistan Punjab governor Muhammad Sarwar Chaudhary of keeping them in dark and making them false promises. “The most surprising fact is that none of the mainstream Sikh leader of Pakistan came forward to help us,” said Manmohan. He said the family had also sent a copy of their letter to all the Sikh political as well as religious leaders of Pakistan. “We are knocking at every door for help,” he said. Intelligence sources here said Jagjit’s family is also willing to migrate to India . “It is better for us to leave Pakistan to stay anywhere in the world, life here has become very difficult for us, especially after being ditched by our own leadership,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nankana-sahib-sikh-girls-family-keen-to-leave-pakistan/articleshow/77664935.cms||Yudhvir Rana
August 21, 2020||Jaipur||Illegal mining: 4 killed, 3 minors hurt in Baran as earth caves in||KOTA: Four of seven labourers, engaged in illegal mining on Parvati river under Atru police station of Baran district, were killed after a large portion of the soil caved in and buried them on Thursday afternoon. While the four, two women and two men, were killed on the spot, the three injured have been rushed to the Baran district hospital and are undergoing treatment. The labourers were digging soil for personal use from the deep riverbed of Parvati river when a large portion of the soil fell over them, burying them under the soil, said ASP Baran Vijay Swarnkar. The mishap occurred around 2pm on Thursday. Local residents immediately started the rescue operation and were later joined by the police and administration. The labourers were pulled out of the soil with the help of JCB machines and rushed to a local hospital where the doctors on duty declared four of them dead, he said, adding that the other three injured, two minor boys and a minor girl, were taken to the Baran hospital for treatment. The deceased labourers have been identified as Ravi Sahariya (20), Bacchan Sahariya (28), Seema Ohde (17) and Phoolabai (43), all residents of Atru town, while the injured labourers are Priya alias Pari Ohde (16), Badal Sahariya (17) and Sourabh Sahariya (15) , also of Atru. The autopsy of the four deceased is being done at the government hospital in Atru, the ASP said. Further investigation into the mishap is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/illegal-mining-4-killed-3-minorshurt-in-baran-as-earth-caves-in/articleshow/77664204.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Amritsar||Minor’s rape: Protesters seek arrest of accused||BATHINDA: A group of people held a protest demonstration outside a police station on Thursday, demanding the arrest of persons accused of raping a minor girl and making a video of the act. The minor girl has accused a man of rape, saying he apprehended her when she was on her way to school on August 1. She said she escaped when some people opened the shutter after she raised an alarm, but another person prepared a video clip of her in a state of undress and uploaded it on social media. A police complaint was made on August 3, after the girl’s parents, who were out of town, returned home. A social activist said police added charges under Section 376 (rape) of IPC and SC/ST (prevention of atrocities) Act in the complaint later. The protest was held against the failure of police to make any arrest even after 17 days of the registration of complaint. However, Lambi police station SHO Jatinder Singh said the main accused has been arrested and efforts are being made to arrest others. Meanwhile, Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union state general secretary Lachman Sewewala, who was arrested by the RPF on Wednesday in a five-year-old rail traffic disruption case, was released on bail on Thursday. He also reached the protest site and addressed the protesters. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/protest-outside-police-station-for-arrest-of-2-accused-of-raping-minor/articleshow/77664940.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Jaipur||‘No job, forced to return to old workplace’||JAIPUR: While the labour department does not have any data with regard to the number of migrant workers who have returned to their previous workplaces, it is believed that at least 30-40% workers have gone back. As some migrants say they had to return to their previous workplaces since there were no jobs available in the state, others were still looking for a job in Rajasthan. However, many were not aware of the existence of the Raj Kaushal portal of the government. “I work as a typist here (Pune) in a private company. I had to return because there was no job available in Jaipur. I earn around Rs 7,000-8,000 here. I went to Jaipur on July 12 and came back on August 3,” said Anil, who is a resident of Bassi in Jaipur district. He said, he didn’t register himself through Raj Kaushal portal seeking a job in his home town. “I have a tea stall in Hubli, Karnataka. I was approached by the administration and got me registered on the Raj Kaushal portal. However, I didn’t get any job yet. I will go back to Hubli in 10-15 days…What to do? There’s no job here,” said Achla Ram who returned to Sirohi district in the month of Maỵ “I used to earn around Rs 10,000-15,000 per month by selling tea,” he added. Amit Jain, who was engaged in a marketing job in Mumbai, said, “I lost my job, so I came back to my hometown. I am not planning to go back any more. I was not aware of the job portal earlier. I will register myself now.” Raja Ram of Sanganer said, “I will not go back to Siwan (Bihar) anymore. There’s no job there. That’s why I came to Rajasthan. I will look for a job here.” Asked about Raj Kaushal portal, he said he was not aware of the portal. “I am not an educated person to register myself (through the portal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-job-forced-to-return-to-old-workplace/articleshow/77664199.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
August 21, 2020||Jodhpur||Over 50k recover from coronavirus in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Recoveries from Covid-19 in the state crossed the 50,000 mark, with 1,227 patients being cured of the virus on Thursday. This took the tally of recovered persons to 51,190 till now as the recovery rate once again rose to 77% of the total cases. Currently, Jodhpur has the highest number of recovered cases (7,694), followed by Jaipur (5,592) and Alwar (5,006). The state government, meanwhile, completed 20 lakh Covid tests in the state on Thursday. Some 1,330 persons were found infected, taking the tally of such persons to 66,619. Across the state, 11 persons lost their lives, taking the state’s toll to 921. Reacting to the mortality rate due to Covid, health minister Raghu Sharma said they have taken measures to prevent fatalities due to the pandemic. “We have launched a special screening campaign of vulnerable groups, including people with comorbidities to prevent more deaths,” he said. Sharma said that they were taking measures to reduce the mortality rate and increase the recovery rate in the state. The mortality rate in the state has reduced to 1.4%. Active cases touched a new high of 14,508. This was 14,416 on Wednesday. As in the past five days, Jaipur has the highest number of active cases (2,327). The city has reported 953 new infections bringing its tally to 8,164. On Thursday too, 51 different places in Jaipur reported 202 new infections. For the first time, six districts of the state reported over 100 cases. Out of these, two have reported more than 200 new infections. The districts which reported new cases are Ajmer (233), Jaipur (202), Alwar (180), Jodhpur (139), Bikaner (117), Bhilwara (106), Udaipur (82), Kota (70), Dholpur (58), Nagaur (50), Bundi (38), Chittorgarh (22), Pratapgarh (19) and Dausa (14). Three persons died in Jaipur, taking its toll to 245, while Bikaner reported its 65th death and Ajmer its 63rd Covid fatality. Bhilwara reported its 11th death, Dungarpur its eighth fatality and Kota its 58th death. Two persons died in Pali, taking its toll to 39, and Tonk reported its sixth Covid fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/over-50k-recoverfrom-virus-in-state/articleshow/77666128.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Vadodara||Govt-owned insurance co denies claim on Ayurvedic hospital bill||Vadodara: In times of Covid-19, when the central government through AYUSH ministry is pushing Ayurveda as an alternative treatment, its own insurance company has rejected a claim of Rs 31,000 made by a man for treatment at an Ayurvedic hospital in Nadiad.The central government-owned National Insurance Company Ltd had to face consumer court’s wrath as it was ordered to pay the entire treatment expenses to the man along with interest. Complainant Rajeshkumar Gohil, who lives on Waghodiya-Dabhoi Ring Road, had undergone treatment for anal fistula at Sushrut Hospital in Nadiad in March last year. Gohil had then submitted the claim with the insurance company. But the insurance company rejected it on basis of it being an Ayurvedic hospital which has less than 15 beds thereby refusing to process the claim. Gohil then approached the Vadodara District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum seeking the claim amount along with a compensation amount of Rs 20,000 for mental harassment.While the case was being heard, the insurance company reiterated its reasons and also argued that the hospital is not government registered. In response, Gohil submitted the registration details of the hospital with the Nadiad municipality and gave his case papers.The forum presided by D Y Malik upheld Gohil’s evidence. “The registration of the hospital with municipality and complainant’s case papers prove the treatment done by hospital as genuine. The insurance company has lacked in its service by misinterpreting the complainant’s claim and rejecting it,” the forum stated. Along with the claim amount, National Insurance Company was also asked to pay Rs 2,000 as compensation to Gohil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/govt-owned-insurance-co-denies-claim-on-ayurvedic-hospital-bill/articleshow/77661268.cms||Jay Pachchigar
August 21, 2020||Patna||Eye on polls, CM launches rural road projects worth Rs 15k crore||PATNA: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Thursday launched a total of 14,405 rural road projects, worth over Rs 15,192 crore, through video-conferencing at a programme held at ‘Nek Samvad’ hall at his official residence here. While launching the projects, the CM asked the officials to complete all remaining 182 rural road projects under the Mukhya Mantri Tola Sampark Yojana by October as the schedule for the assembly elections may be announced in September. The state assembly polls are due in the October-November period. While addressing the programme, the CM sought an assurance from the rural works department (RWD) secretary Pankaj Kumar Pal and the department’s engineers that they would complete all remaining rural roads by coming October. As minister Shailesh Kumar intervened and tried to give an assurance to the CM, Nitish retorted, “Mantri Ji, you will not be in a position to execute the works as a minister till October as the schedule for the assembly polls will be in September. And after that, there will be a model code of conduct...Let the officers give assurance.” Later, the RWD secretary gave a categorical assurance to the CM for completing the remaining projects by October. The CM also said his government would bring more village-to-village road projects, village roads linking national highways and village roads linking state highways. “if people of the state give me one more opportunity to serve the state after the coming assembly polls I will bring all this. I have several projects in mind. I will bring more new road projects in the rural sector if voted to power once again,” Nitish said. The CM also said he had already announced plans to provide irrigation water to all farmland across the state if voted to power in the coming assembly polls. Nitish further asked the RWD engineers to conduct a realistic survey of all rural roads to find out which roads need to be connected to the nearby national or state highways so that maximum villages of that area could be connected. “Also find out which rural road needs to be connected to other rural roads to shorten the distance between villages of a particular region,” the CM said. He also called the RWD engineers to maintain the quality in the construction of the roads and ensure their proper and timely maintenance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/eye-on-polls-cm-launches-rural-road-projects-worth-rs-15k-crore/articleshow/77661554.cms||Madan Kumar
August 21, 2020||Nashik||Nashik rural cop dies of Covid-19||Nashik: An 55-year-old assistant police sub-inspector attached to the Nashik rural police headquarters succumbed to Covid-19 on Thursday. The officer is the the fourth cop of the rural police to succumb to the contagion so far. Senior police officials, including superintendent of police Arti Singh, offered condolences to the policemans family. “He was not posted on any Covid-related duty. He must have contracted the disease from the city area as his residence is over there,” said Singh. Around 200 Nashik rural police personnel have been infected with Covid-19, and eight are undergoing treatment. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-rural-cop-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/77660267.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Chennai||Madras high court OKs online classes, but says no tests & homework||CHENNAI: Asserting that the health of children is more important than anything else, the Madras high court has said schools conducting online classes must refrain from conducting tests and exams and doling out assignments and homework at least till resumption of physical classes. A division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha made the observations on Thursday when hearing a batch of public interest writ petitions to regulate online classes. When the pleas came up for hearing, advocate J Ravindran, representing a petitioner, submitted that even precautions taken before opening of Tasmac shops were not taken to regulate online classes to safeguard the health of children. “The very concept of Samacheer Kalvi brought in by the government has been defeated by such online classes,” Ravindran said. Earlier, representing the petitioners, senior advocate S Prabakaran contended that exposure to screens for long hours would have an adverse impact on the health of children. This apart, they are exposed to adult content via unrestricted pop up links that come up during such classes. While the country has managed to ban almost all Chinese applications in the country, it has failed to ban online porn sites, Prabakaran added. Tamil Nadu additional advocate-general Narmadha Sampath said pop ups that appear on scree are based on prior use and searches made in the particular device. Schools had no role in it, Sampath added. Ravindran, however, said the issue could be looked at from mental, physical and financial aspects. “While even adults like us (advocates and judges) are stressed due to longer exposure to screens in virtual hearings, children suffer more. As to the physical aspect, institutions like WHO have recommended certain postures to be followed while using such gadgets for longer hours. But we cannot expect children to follow the same,” Ravindran said. As to the financial aspect, not all the parents can afford proper electronics, tables, chairs and printers which are basic requirements for online classes. Gadgets with wider screens are recommended, but most children use their parents’ smart phones as they cannot afford for a new gadget, he added. He further suggested that the Union government should step in and conduct classes through TV channels as done by the Tamil Nadu government. Rejecting the suggestion as not practical, the bench wondered then what would be the role of schools and teachers. The judges then adjourned the hearing to August 24 for the Centre and the state to make their submissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/court-oks-online-classes-but-says-no-tests-homework/articleshow/77662673.cms||Suresh Kumar
August 21, 2020||Jaipur||Over 50k recover from coronavirus in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Recoveries from Covid-19 in the state crossed the 50,000 mark, with 1,227 patients being cured of the virus on Thursday. This took the tally of recovered persons to 51,190 till now as the recovery rate once again rose to 77% of the total cases. Currently, Jodhpur has the highest number of recovered cases (7,694), followed by Jaipur (5,592) and Alwar (5,006). The state government, meanwhile, completed 20 lakh Covid tests in the state on Thursday. Some 1,330 persons were found infected, taking the tally of such persons to 66,619. Across the state, 11 persons lost their lives, taking the state’s toll to 921. Reacting to the mortality rate due to Covid, health minister Raghu Sharma said they have taken measures to prevent fatalities due to the pandemic. “We have launched a special screening campaign of vulnerable groups, including people with comorbidities to prevent more deaths,” he said. Sharma said that they were taking measures to reduce the mortality rate and increase the recovery rate in the state. The mortality rate in the state has reduced to 1.4%. Active cases touched a new high of 14,508. This was 14,416 on Wednesday. As in the past five days, Jaipur has the highest number of active cases (2,327). The city has reported 953 new infections bringing its tally to 8,164. On Thursday too, 51 different places in Jaipur reported 202 new infections. For the first time, six districts of the state reported over 100 cases. Out of these, two have reported more than 200 new infections. The districts which reported new cases are Ajmer (233), Jaipur (202), Alwar (180), Jodhpur (139), Bikaner (117), Bhilwara (106), Udaipur (82), Kota (70), Dholpur (58), Nagaur (50), Bundi (38), Chittorgarh (22), Pratapgarh (19) and Dausa (14). Three persons died in Jaipur, taking its toll to 245, while Bikaner reported its 65th death and Ajmer its 63rd Covid fatality. Bhilwara reported its 11th death, Dungarpur its eighth fatality and Kota its 58th death. Two persons died in Pali, taking its toll to 39, and Tonk reported its sixth Covid fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-50k-recoverfrom-virus-in-state/articleshow/77664208.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Jaipur||Workers returning, industry feels no need to train, absorb||Jaipur: In a bid to create job opportunities for Rajasthani workers who had returned to the state after the outbreak of coronavirus and to help the industry meet their labour needs in the wake of workers leaving the state, Rajasthan government created a data base - RajKaushal, which was inaugurated by chief minister Ashok Gehlot on June 5. After two-and-half months, the objective of the web portal RajKaushal, which was to bring together the workers and employers together for matchmaking of industry needs and skillsets on offer or for training and then hiring, remains an unfulfilled promise.Though there have been a couple of MoUs signed between the RSLDC and industry bodies in Jaipur, the larger objective of creating a skilled or semi-skilled labour pool of Rajasthanis for the state’s industry does not seem to be making any headway.“The easiest thing to do is signing MoUs. But taking it to the desired end requires meticulous planning and hard work which the industry thinks is missing,” said N K Jain, president of Employers Association of Rajasthan.In fact, Sitapura Gems and Jewellery Industry Association on August 4 signed a MoU with Rajasthan Skill & Livelihoods Development Corporation (RSLDC) for training and employing unskilled or semi-skilled youths. As per sources, so far only one company has started training of 50 people and the duration will be for 40 days. RSLDC also inked an agreement with Federation of Rajasthan Trade and Industry (FORTI) for training purposes.In the meantime, many companies in the jewellery sector started getting back their workers. “Some workers are coming on their own, whereas the needy companies are sending buses or cars to places like West Bengal to bring back because train services are still not operational fully. They are now willing to come and started are coming from Eid festival onwards. There is a requirement of 25% of workers in the industry as of now,” said a jeweler, preferring anonymity.However, he said that the industry prefers their old workers who know what and how to do things. “Training diverts the focus of the management on production. So, companies prefer those who were already working with them,” the source added. In the garment industry, the capacity utilization has gone past 50% and employers said there is no shortage of workers now. Aseem Singla, general secretary of Garments Exporters Association of Rajasthan said, “Many workers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand have come back and more are willing to join back but we don’t have as much orders to make now.”Many said if a worker is partly skilled in a particular field, most likely he will prefer a job in that trade unless there is an incentive or handicap for him to shift.The situation is similar in other industries like handicrafts, tourism and hospitality. Demand is not increasing, while workers are ready to join back work, said industry representatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/workers-returning-industry-feels-no-need-to-train-absorb/articleshow/77664206.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Newborn stolen from Jalandhar civil hospital||Jalandhar: A baby boy was stolen from Jalandhar civil hospital soon after his birth. It is learnt that Khusboo Devi, a resident of Kabir Nagar in Basti Bawa Khel, was brought to the hospital in the morning and she delivered a boy at around 12.50pm. The child was shifted to the observation ward and hospital staff asked her mother-in-law to get the patient’s file prepared. However, she found the child missing when she returned. ACP Central Harsimrat Singh, who rushed to the hospital after receiving information said when Khushboo Devi’s mother-in-law returned to the observation ward, a paediatrician was also there. The doctor asked her what she was doing and she said she was attending to her new-born grandson. “When he asked about the baby, the woman found the infant missing and raised an alarm. The hospital shift had also changed during this time,” the ACP said, adding that the family came to know about it at around 2.30pm. He said there was a CCTV camera nearby which was not functioning and they were getting footage from other cameras in the complex to get a clue about the identity of the accused. “We shall question the hospital staff also,” he said. The baby is Khusboo Devi’s second child. The family originally hails from Patna and has been living in Punjab for around two decades. Police have registered a case of kidnapping under Section 363 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/newborn-stolen-from-jalandhar-civil-hospital/articleshow/77664943.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Couple booked for hurting religious sentiments||Abohar: Fazilka police booked a couple on Thursday for hurting religious sentiments. In his complaint to the police, Gurdwara sangatsar president Davinder Singh alleged that one Darshan Singh and his wife Vimla Rani, residents of Gidranwali village in Abohar sub-division of Fazilka, were involved in the illegal liquor trade. On August 18, a team of the excise department and police raided their house in search of illicit liquor following which the couple, to cover up their act, reportedly tore off pages of Sikh prayer book Gutka Sahib. Davinder said the couple alleged the raiding party had desecrated the prayer book while searching their house. He said the couple also posted a video of the torn Gutka Sahib pages on social media to blame the raiding party. The incident attracted strong condemnation as it hurt the religious sentiments of the people, said Davinder. The police registered a case under sections deliberate acts to outrage religious feelings and punishment of criminal conspiracy at the Khuian Sarvar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/couple-booked-for-hurting-religious-sentiments/articleshow/77664945.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Demand surges for e-books to prepare for competitive exams||Mangaluru: During these times of Covid and job losses, competitive and entrance exam e-books are the most sought after and accessed content on the Karnataka Digital Public Library portal, which has more than 3.7 lakh people registered on it from across the state. Quoting the Karnataka Digital Public Library e-content usage report, Dr Sathishkumar S Hosamani, director, department of public libraries, told TOI that interestingly most content viewed was related to competitive exams. About 7,70,850 e-books and 5,30,008 videos were accessed till Monday, he said. Out of the top 10 e-books accessed, seven books were from the competitive and entrance exams category, which was accessed more than 50,000 times. In the classics & literature category on the site, ‘Chidambara Rahasya’ and ‘Tejaswi Nanage Nimittha’ made it to the top five list, and was accessed 14, 852 times. Raghavendra K V, deputy director, City Central Library, Mangaluru, said that traditionally the demand for Kannada books for competitive and entrance exams has always been high, especially among students and the youth. “Before the Covid-19 outbreak, at least 50 students used to spend the entire day at the library preparing for competitive exams, as the library has a huge collection of books, starting from dictionaries to self-help books. The trend of opting for competitive exams is more in Bengaluru and North Karnataka, where the number of coaching centres is also high. Since it is difficult to get hard copies of the books, as most libraries have remained closed and the KAS preliminary exams are likely to be held next week, many aspirants may have logged on to the portal,” he said, adding that the uncertainty in the private sector with regard to jobs since the Covid outbreak, may have inspired more youth to opt for government jobs. Reethesh Amin, executive director, Royale Academy, said that due to the pandemic, the number of aspirants taking competitive exams has increased by 30%-35%. With uncertainty in the private sector, many youths are now looking to secure government jobs, mainly from a security point of view.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/demand-surges-for-e-books-to-prepare-for-competitive-exams/articleshow/77663268.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
August 21, 2020||Patna||Bihar Covid tally crosses 1.15 lakh with 2,451 new cases||PATNA: The state health department on Thursday reported 2,451 Covid cases in Bihar, taking the tally to 1,15,210 in the state. The daily bulletin issued by the health department also confirmed six Covid deaths in the state, taking the toll to 574. Two deaths reported from Patna and one each from Darbhanga, Katihar, Sitamarhi and Vaishali. As many as 88,163 patients have recovered so far, while the active cases stood at 26,473 in the state on Thursday. Altogether 3,585 people were discharged from the hospitals and isolation centres in the past 24 hours. Bihar’s recovery rate has now climbed to 76.5%. Health minister Mangal Pandey said on Thursday that the state government is following the 4T formula- tracing, testing, tracking and treatment— to contain the virus. “Covid testing has increased by up to 153% after August 1. Now, the state is conducting over one lakh tests per day. The cumulative figure for testing has exceeded 21 lakh,” he said. “More than 88,000 people have recovered and the recovery rate has reached 76% in the past few days. The NDA government is providing better health care to every citizen of the state during the pandemic. Operation theatre GOT-1 has been reserved for corona infected pregnant women at PMCH after the facilities have been made available at AIIMS- Patna (sic),” the minister stated in a tweet posted on Thursday. On Thursday, Patna crossed the 18,000-mark with 367 new Covid cases, taking the total of those infected to 18,089. With 14,673 recoveries in the district so far, the active cases stood at 3,300. The death toll in the district reached 116, with two more deaths on Thursday. Other districts, which reported a large number of Covid-19 cases are Muzaffarpur (174), Madhubani (141), Katihar (102), Saran (99), Begusarai (97), East Champaran (90), Aurangabad (78), Purnia (77) and Bhagalpur (76). Five deaths were reported at AIIMS-Patna on Thursday, including that of a 52-year-old woman from Bhagwatnagar in Patna. Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid at AIIMS- Patna, said the other deceased were from Nalanda, Katihar, Madhubani and Dehri respectively. At NMCH-Patna, two persons succumbed to Covid on Thursday. Dr Mukul Singh, epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer for Covid confirmed the deaths and said a 52-year-old man from Kidwaipuri and a 36-year-old man from Rohtas were among the dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-covid-tally-crosses-1-15l-with-2451-new-cases/articleshow/77661510.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 21, 2020||Hubballi||Survey to assess damage in flood-hit North Karnataka districts||BELAGAVI: Although hundreds of victims of the flood that ravaged North Karnataka in 2019 are still awaiting one or more instalments of the compensation they are entitled to from the government, officials from various departments have embarked on a survey to assess the damage wrought by the heavy showers in the region this year. The preliminary observations made by the officials will be compiled into a report and submitted to the state government. Given that victims of the 2019 flood in Bagalkot, Raichur, Belagavi, Gadag and Yadgir districts are still waiting for the disbursal of a portion of the compensation, many North Karnataka activists have dubbed the current survey an ‘eye wash’ meant to give those in distress a sense of false hope. Belagavi deputy commissioner MG Hiremath said that nearly 43,000 hectares of agricultural land across the district, in addition to 3,000 hectares under cultivation of horticulture crops, had been destroyed in the flood. He said that the government team would, in the course of the survey, arrive at an exact estimation of the losses that the farmers have sustained as a consequence of the natural calamity. The team comprises officials from the departments of agriculture, horticulture and revenue. The team will be assisted by personnel from the zilla panachayat and staff from the local tahsildar’s office. Officials from the revenue department will take stock of the damage to the houses. Captain K Rajendra, Bagalkot DC, said that the government would decide on the quantum of compensation to be paid to the victims of the disaster following the submission of the preliminary report. “The state will take a call on disbursing money from the corpus of the National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF). The survey is being carried out at an accelerated pace, and we will have an estimate on the losses sustained soon,” Rajendra told TOI. Raichur DC Venkatesh Kumar said that, although farmers had not reported destruction of washing away of standing crops in the district, seven to eight houses had been damaged owing to heavy rain. He said that victims would be paid a sum of Rs 50,000 from the ‘calamity funds’ in the coffers of the district administration. Ashok Chandaragi, a political activist, said that there were nearly 10,000 applications seeking compensation for losses sustained during the 2019 floods in Belagavi alone awaiting clearance. “The state government does not have sufficient funds, as was indicated by chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s request for financial assistance from the central government. When will the state government compensate victims that the current survey will identify? How long will the people have to suffer?” asked Chandaragi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/survey-to-assess-damage-in-flood-hit-north-karnataka-districts/articleshow/77663094.cms||Shreyas HS
August 21, 2020||Ajmer||Over 50k recover from coronavirus in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Recoveries from Covid-19 in the state crossed the 50,000 mark, with 1,227 patients being cured of the virus on Thursday. This took the tally of recovered persons to 51,190 till now as the recovery rate once again rose to 77% of the total cases. Currently, Jodhpur has the highest number of recovered cases (7,694), followed by Jaipur (5,592) and Alwar (5,006). The state government, meanwhile, completed 20 lakh Covid tests in the state on Thursday. Some 1,330 persons were found infected, taking the tally of such persons to 66,619. Across the state, 11 persons lost their lives, taking the state’s toll to 921. Reacting to the mortality rate due to Covid, health minister Raghu Sharma said they have taken measures to prevent fatalities due to the pandemic. “We have launched a special screening campaign of vulnerable groups, including people with comorbidities to prevent more deaths,” he said. Sharma said that they were taking measures to reduce the mortality rate and increase the recovery rate in the state. The mortality rate in the state has reduced to 1.4%. Active cases touched a new high of 14,508. This was 14,416 on Wednesday. As in the past five days, Jaipur has the highest number of active cases (2,327). The city has reported 953 new infections bringing its tally to 8,164. On Thursday too, 51 different places in Jaipur reported 202 new infections. For the first time, six districts of the state reported over 100 cases. Out of these, two have reported more than 200 new infections. The districts which reported new cases are Ajmer (233), Jaipur (202), Alwar (180), Jodhpur (139), Bikaner (117), Bhilwara (106), Udaipur (82), Kota (70), Dholpur (58), Nagaur (50), Bundi (38), Chittorgarh (22), Pratapgarh (19) and Dausa (14). Three persons died in Jaipur, taking its toll to 245, while Bikaner reported its 65th death and Ajmer its 63rd Covid fatality. Bhilwara reported its 11th death, Dungarpur its eighth fatality and Kota its 58th death. Two persons died in Pali, taking its toll to 39, and Tonk reported its sixth Covid fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/over-50k-recoverfrom-virus-in-state/articleshow/77666130.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Udaipur||Over 50k recover from coronavirus in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Recoveries from Covid-19 in the state crossed the 50,000 mark, with 1,227 patients being cured of the virus on Thursday. This took the tally of recovered persons to 51,190 till now as the recovery rate once again rose to 77% of the total cases. Currently, Jodhpur has the highest number of recovered cases (7,694), followed by Jaipur (5,592) and Alwar (5,006). The state government, meanwhile, completed 20 lakh Covid tests in the state on Thursday. Some 1,330 persons were found infected, taking the tally of such persons to 66,619. Across the state, 11 persons lost their lives, taking the state’s toll to 921. Reacting to the mortality rate due to Covid, health minister Raghu Sharma said they have taken measures to prevent fatalities due to the pandemic. “We have launched a special screening campaign of vulnerable groups, including people with comorbidities to prevent more deaths,” he said. Sharma said that they were taking measures to reduce the mortality rate and increase the recovery rate in the state. The mortality rate in the state has reduced to 1.4%. Active cases touched a new high of 14,508. This was 14,416 on Wednesday. As in the past five days, Jaipur has the highest number of active cases (2,327). The city has reported 953 new infections bringing its tally to 8,164. On Thursday too, 51 different places in Jaipur reported 202 new infections. For the first time, six districts of the state reported over 100 cases. Out of these, two have reported more than 200 new infections. The districts which reported new cases are Ajmer (233), Jaipur (202), Alwar (180), Jodhpur (139), Bikaner (117), Bhilwara (106), Udaipur (82), Kota (70), Dholpur (58), Nagaur (50), Bundi (38), Chittorgarh (22), Pratapgarh (19) and Dausa (14). Three persons died in Jaipur, taking its toll to 245, while Bikaner reported its 65th death and Ajmer its 63rd Covid fatality. Bhilwara reported its 11th death, Dungarpur its eighth fatality and Kota its 58th death. Two persons died in Pali, taking its toll to 39, and Tonk reported its sixth Covid fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/over-50k-recoverfrom-virus-in-state/articleshow/77666126.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Patna||Jitan Ram Manjhi dumps Mahagathbandhan, party denies JD (U) merger reports||PATNA: In a setback for the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan, former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi announced on Thursday that his Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) would break away from the opposition alliance and look for an alternative ahead of the assembly polls in the state. Party sources, however, denied its merger with the JD(U). The party decided to part ways with the Magathbandhan at a meeting of the HAM(S) core group held in Patna on Thursday. Party chief Manjhi, a Mahadalit leader, was also authorized at the meeting to decide the future course of action such as reaching an alliance with another political group. Soon after the meeting, HAM(S) spokesperson Danish Rizwan said, “It was decided at the meeting of the core group not to stay any longer with the Mahagathbandhan as it ignored our main demands. The Mahaganthbandhan constituents deliberately ignored our top leaders. Hence we decided to snap ties with it.” He added that the HAM(S) would decide on allying with another political group in the next few days. “Our party’s national president Jitan Ram Manjhi has been authorized to take a final call on the issue. A formal announcement will come later,” he said and denied reports of the merger of the party with the JD(U). Speculation was rife over Manjhi switching over to the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) ever since his relations with the Mahagathbandhan, especially the RJD, got strained over its repeated demand for setting up of a coordination committee to decide seat sharing and CM candidate of the Mahagathbandhan. Manjhi had contested the 2015 assembly election as part of the NDA and got 20 seats. However, it won only one of them and forfeited sureties on many of the seats. The JD(U) led by CM Nitish Kumar was then part of the Mahagathbandhan, which consisted of the RJD, JD(U) and the Congress. In 2017, Nitish left the Mahagathbandhan and formed the government with the BJP and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party (LJP). The NDA will get another Mahadalit face ahead of the assembly election in the form of Manjhi if the latter joins the alliance. The development comes in the wake of LJP chief Chirag Paswan’s frequent attacks on the Nitish Kumar government. Sources said Chirag was not happy with Nitish over the number of seats to be allotted to the LJP ahead of the polls. “It was CM Nitish Kumar who had honoured the Mahadalit leader Manjhi by leaving his post for him. The two leaders parted ways ahead of the 2015 polls. In due course, many important leaders of HAM(S) like Narendra Singh, Nitish Mishra, Brishin Patel and Mahachandra Prasad Singh left the party, which made Manjhi politically a weak force,” said a senior JD(U) leader on the condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/manjhi-dumps-mgb-party-denies-jd-u-merger-reports/articleshow/77661480.cms||Ramashankar
August 21, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: ACB arrests engineer for accepting Rs 9k bribe||JAIPUR: An ACB team on Thursday arrested a junior engineer (JE) working at Jaipur Municipal Corporation(JMC) for accepting a bribe of Rs 9,000 near a private hospital on Sikar Road. The accused demanded the bribe from the complainant for giving a positive report to get land patta (land deed) that belonged to him. According to ACB officials, complainant Kamlesh Soni approached the bureau and narrated his plight on Wednesday. “He stated that Ankur Mishra, who is working as a JE at the JMC and was officiating at the revenue branch demanded Rs 30,000 in lieu of a survey to give a positive report of the land survey for the issuance of land deed. Soni had applied to get the deed of his land near Kanwatia Hospital in Shastri Nagar,” said Pushpendra Singh, ASP, ACB, who led the operation. Soni’s maternal grandmother was the owner of this plot and she wished to get the land deed. “For getting a land deed, a survey by an officer of JMC’s revenue wing is needed. To make things favourable, the JE demanded the bribe out of which the accused had already been paid Rs 21,000,” Singh added. After the complainant approached the ACB, his compliant was verified. “After the verification on Thursday, Mishra asked the complainant to first visit his office at JMC. Thereafter he asked him to bring money on a road situated near a private hospital on Sikar road. Uur team arrested the accused while he was accepting the bribe of Rs 9000,” said an officer. ACB have registered a case under Prevention of Corruption Act and further investigations were on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-arrests-engineer-for-accepting-rs-9k-bribe/articleshow/77664221.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Nashik||Nashik city bags 11th rank in Swachh Survekshan ’20||Nashik: The Nashik city has been ranked the 11th cleanest city (with a population of over 10 lakh) in the country in this year’s Swachh Survekshan Survey conducted by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs.This is a massive improvement from last year’s rank of 67. The year before that, Nashik city had bagged the 63rd position. This year, Nashik’s has even outperformed cities like Pune and Nagpur. It is positioned second in Maharashtra after Navi Mumbai, which has bagged the overall 2nd rank in the 2020 edition. Indore has claimed the top cleanliness spot.The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has thanked the residents of the city for their support. “I am very happy with the result. We could not implement the construction debris recycling project on time. Otherwise, Nashik city would have been among the top five clean cities in the country,” said NMC commissioner Radhakrishna Game. “The project for recycling and management of construction debris is in the final tendering stage and it will start soon. My priority will be to help Nashik make it to the top five in 2021,” he said.NMC’s director of the solid waste management department Kalpana Kute credited the hard work and dedication of the department.NMC officials said last year, the city did not fare well. “Citizens’ feedback and documentation of activities were the areas where we faltered. We focussed on these areas this time,” said the officials.Aurangabad city climbs from 220th spot to 26thMeanwhile, Aurangabad city also improved its ranking by climbing to the 26th spot. This is the city’s best performance to date. In 2019, Aurangabad was ranked 220. The year before, it was ranked 128th. Aurangabad municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey said the city has achieved it’s highest ever ranking in Swachh Survekshan, but it still has a long way to go. “I believe with more active support, participation and involvement of citizens, we will be able to get better ranking and star rating,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-city-bags-11th-rank-in-swachh-survekshan-20/articleshow/77660307.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 21, 2020||Pune||Mayor Mohol faces questions over delay in payment of insurance amount||Pune: Opposition parties in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) have sought an inquiry in the delay of insurance payment to the families of 13 civic employees, who died while performing their duty during the pandemic.The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has written a letter to mayor Muralidhar Mohol asking for the status of disbursement of the insurance amount. They have also demanding to know the reasons that caused the delay.The civic body has announced insurance cover of Rs1 crore to the staff members, including contractual employees, working to curtail the spread of Covid-19. “The PMC has promised to provide financial aid to the family members of the deceased staffers. The promise should be kept. Even after repeated demands, the insurance amount has not been disbursed. The issue was raised in the general body meeting as well,” said opposition leader Deepali Dhumal.She added that the civic body should undertake efforts to hand over the money as early as possible. “Some of the deceased have lost their lives months ago but their family members are still waiting for the relief. It is very tough for them to make both the ends meet,” she said.“The civic administration is completing the process of paying the insurance amount. We will do the disbursement soon,” said Mohol.The mayor had declared the scheme in April. As per the scheme, if any family member of the deceased opts for a job in the PMC, the family was to get Rs75 lakh as compensation. In case, they don’t seek a job, PMC would pay the family Rs1 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mayor-mohol-faces-questions-over-delay-in-payment-of-insurance-amount/articleshow/77664194.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Kochi||Pettimudy: Three more bodies found, toll at 65||Idukki: Pettimudy landslide toll rose to 65 after three bodies were recovered from Poothakkuzhi, 14km away from the mishap site. The bodies of Kaushika (15), Sivaranjini (15) and a pregnant Muthulakshmi (26) were recovered,said officials, adding that five persons are still missing. Ground penetrating radar were used in searches on Thursday and four members of the department of geography from Bharathidasan University in Tiruchirappalli assisted in radar-based search operation. Devikulam sub-collector S Prem Krishan said rescue workers recovered bodies from the deep terrain of the river. “Poothakkuzhi is located deep inside the forest. We suspect more bodies are trapped in the area. The search will continue here on Friday. Residents, adventure tourism volunteers and trained fire force officials from Idukki led the search in uneven terrain. Moreover the presence of wild animals is a threat for rescue workers. Collector will visit Pettimudy on Saturday and take a decision on continuation of search,” he said. Child rights panel chairman KV Manoj Kumar visited the site .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pettimudy-three-more-bodies-found-toll-at-65/articleshow/77661412.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Proper waste management was secret behind Vijayawada’s Swachh feat||VIJAYAWADA: Segregated door-to-door garbage collection, proper management of solid waste, green open spaces and measures to prevent public urination have made Vijayawada rank as the ‘cleanest big city’ among cities with a population of over one million. Civic authorities and officials of the municipal administration were in a celebratory mood after news came in that Vijayawada has ranked fourth in India in the clean city awards of Swachh Survekshan 2020. The rankings were announced by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs on Thursday. In 2018, Vijayawada had been called the cleanest big city and ranked seventh all-India in Swachh Survekshan. However, the city’s ranking took a dip in 2019 due to poor citizen feedback and lapses in solid waste management and Vijayawada slipped to the 12th spot. But this year, civic authorities took up the challenge to improve the rank and started taking measures six months ahead of Swachh Survekshan, 2020. The health and sanitation wing of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) initiated door-to-door collection of segregated garbage. A collective effort of various wings in the VMC and citizens’ feedback helped the city achieve the fourth rank. VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh said on Thursday that collective efforts of the staff and sanitation workers have helped the city achieve the rank. “Factors like bio-mining of garbage, sewage treatment plants, drain cleaning and most importantly the participation of citizens played a key role,” Venkatesh said. VMC officials distributed sweets among sweepers and other ground-level staff on the occasion and felicitated them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/proper-waste-management-was-secret-behind-vijs-swachh-feat/articleshow/77661440.cms||Venu Lanka
August 21, 2020||Pune||Covid-19-linked brain stroke cases prompt doctors to prescribe blood thinners long after discharge||PUNE: Some Covid-19 patients, city doctors said, have suffered neurological complications — primarily brain strokes — even after making a full recovery. The new virus mainly impacts the lungs, but specialists said it has been causing blood clots that have triggered brain strokes. Doctors said renewed concern over these strokes has now prompted them to prescribe blood thinners for a considerable period after discharge. Patients with other viral infections, including seasonal flu and even bacterial diseases such as TB, can also develop risks of brain strokes due to inflammation of blood vessels, but those numbers are lower than in Covid-19. Experts said this is because ‘excessive clotting’ due to blood vessel inflammation has been a characteristic of Covid-19. Neurologist Rajas Deshpande, with Jupiter hospital, said, “Covid-19 causes changes in blood that trigger clotting. And when these clots block blood circulation in the brain, it is called brain stroke. I have treated a few patients for the problem.” Strokes have two main causes: a blocked artery (ischemic stroke) or a burst blood vessel (hemorrhagic stroke). “We have had 12 cases of brain stroke so far in Covid-19 patients,” said Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital's intensivists Prasad Rajhans and Balasaheb Pawar. “The brain stroke events are of the ischemic type. None of our patients had hemorrhagic brain strokes. Most had some risk factors, but we've had young patients with no known conditions.” Rajhans said, “We are seeing both brain and cardiac events — but brain strokes have been slightly higher in number. We are prescribing blood thinners to these patients for about one month or more after discharge.” The doctor added that these are young patients whose blood can have a high tendency to thrombose or clot (hypercoagulabilty). “These patients are relatively younger and do not have any other known risk factors that can cause strokes,” Rajhans said. A simultaneous attack of Covid-19 pneumonia and organ trouble can complicate stroke management. Low oxygen levels can also worsen severity of brain damage. Doctor said a few patients suffered strokes after making full recoveries. “This is because the damage caused to the inner linings of blood vessels during Covid infection set off blood clotting, which is completed only after a few days. That can lead to brain strokes,” said Deshpande He added, “Even abnormal heart rhythms generated by myocarditis — inflammation of the heart muscle — can cause clots for weeks after the infection has subsided. Such clots then cause post-Covid brain strokes." But doctors said blood thinners should be used carefully. “Blood thinners can be dangerous and must be used cautiously. If required, they may be used for a few months after discharge depending on pre-exisiting medical conditions,” Deshpande said. The problem of asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients developing clots remains unstudied at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-19-linked-brain-stroke-cases-prompt-doctors-to-prescribe-blood-thinners-long-after-discharge/articleshow/77664191.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 21, 2020||Surat||Alert TTE saves two-year-old fallen on track near platform||Surat: Had he not shown exemplary presence of mind, this would have been Surat railway station’s worst-ever tragedy. However, thankfully, the alertness and alacrity shown by ticket examiner (TTE) KS Solanki, helped a two-year-old get a second chance at life, literally. Unmindful of their trailing toddler daughter, a young couple who alighted from the Mumbai Central-Jaipur special train, started walking on the platform No. 1 on Wednesday. According to an official communique by the chief public relations officer (CPRO) of Western Railway, the couple identified as Mohammed only, travelling from Vapi to Surat in the second class coach, failed to notice that their two-year-old daughter, trying to keep pace with the parents, accidentally fell on the railway tracks near S-5 coach on the platform. As luck would have it, TTE Solanki was manning the coaches of the train that was about to leave the platform. He suddenly saw the girl fall at the same time when the train got a green signal to leave. Solanki didn’t pause to think but jumped to the first cabin near him of S-4 coach and immediately pulled the alarm chain. This stopped the train from moving ahead and he quickly returned to the S-5 coach where the child had fallen. With the help of other passengers, Solanki rescued the child and brought her out to safety over the platform. CPRO, WR, Sumit Thakur said, “The TTE’s alertness and presence of mind saved the life of the little girl. While the parents were highly grateful at the exemplary service, WR employees have always gone beyond their call of duty to help passengers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/alert-tte-saves-two-year-old-fallen-on-track-near-platform/articleshow/77661448.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Chennai||50% of Chennai’s elderly taking more than 5 pills at a time||CHENNAI: At least 50% of senior citizens in the city are popping too many pills, doctors said. Health professionals added that despite its negative effects, polypharmacy — which refers to consumption of not less than five tablets at one go — does not get enough attention. “Most often people start overusing medicines post-retirement when they grow anxious about contracting any disease. Many take medicines recommended by their pharmacists, neighbours or some relative,” said Dr Lakshmipathy Ramesh, senior consultant geriatrician at Kauvery Hospital. He said he recently met a patient who took 18 pills for a mild condition. “When they add more medicines to the ones they take for chronic conditions, it can lead to serious side effects,” he said. Nausea, body pain, obesity and gastric problems are the most common side effects reported. A few even experience dizziness and faint. “A fall during old age is a potential life threat. We have found that a significant number of elderly patients have fallen due to multiple medicine consumption,” Dr Anupreethi Dorai of Apollo Hospitals, said, adding that the interaction of multiple drugs also causes problems in diagnosing the disease. Geriatricians said doctors often prescribe different drugs without checking the patient’s history or contacting their previous specialist. And the patient ends up taking the new medicines along with the old ones Retired banker S Narayanaswamy, 72, said host of new medicines were added to his prescription over the old ones after he was discharged following a surgery. “I was taking around 20 medicines every day. I went to see another doctor and he brought it down to four. I feel a lot healthier than before, and it is also pocket friendly,” he said. Ramesh said educating caretakers or children about the patient’s condition and about the harmful effects of too many pills is important. “We also request them to visit a doctor before checking Google or buying pills over the counter,” he said. If over-the-counter sale of medicines, especially antibiotics, without prescriptions is regulated, the prevalence of polypharmacy will also reduce, Dorai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/50-of-citys-elderly-taking-more-than-5-pills-at-a-time/articleshow/77662718.cms||Aditi R
August 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt to hire vans to distribute free medicines to needy in remote villages||Jaipur: The health department will hire vans for distributing medicines in remote villages under the free medicine scheme that was launched in 2011. The department took the decision after observing that patients were not coming to hospitals fearing Covid-19. A health department official said the government was planning to provide all medicines for free in villages through rented vans and those owned by the department. “We provide more than 500 medicines from district hospitals and we are planning to provide those in the villages,” he said. The official said that a route map of each van will be planned so that the vehicles can reach the village and distribute medicines for three months. Patients suffering from diabetes, hypertension and other chronic illnesses have to take the medicines for long time, which is why they require it for a long duration. A doctor, pharmacist, lab techincians and nurse will be deployed at the vans. “We are planning to take more than 100 such vehicles on rent. We also have more than 300 vans owned by the health department,” he said. Health minister Raghu Sharma said medicines were being delivered to people though mobile vans so that increased number of patients in the state get the benefit of the free medicine scheme. “Doctors, paramedical staff are doing the checkup of patients suffering from tuberculosis, diabetes, heart diseases and other diseases through mobile OPD vans,” said Sharma. The free medicine scheme launched by the state government in 2011 was praised by other states. Teams of different states had visited the state and took lessons from free medicine scheme of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-govt-to-hire-vans-to-distribute-free-meds-to-needy-in-remote-villages/articleshow/77664225.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Pune||PMPML buses to resume services from September 3||Pune: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) will operate buses from September 3 on 190 routes in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits.“The commissioners of both the corporations stressed that commencing the services from August 22 during the Ganapati festival, as announced earlier by the PMPML, could be a risky affair. Hence, it was decided to reschedule it to September 3,” Shankar Pawar, PMC corporator and one of the directors of the transport body, told TOI.The city transport authorities said that a total of 421 buses would be pressed into service on 190 routes. “Altogether 756 drivers and 819 conductors will be back on duty. The number of buses from each of the 13 depots has been reduced. For example, the Swargate depot, which earlier used to operate 155 buses, will run 39 buses. Similarly, the Narveer Tanajiwadi depot, which earlier operated 202 buses, will now run 51 buses,” a senior PMPML official said.“The buses will not ply in containment zones. The number of buses will be increased based on the Covid situation and passenger response. Instructions have been given to the depot managers to follow all standard operating procedures regarding safety and cleanliness,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-buses-to-resume-services-from-september-3/articleshow/77664207.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Close to herd immunity? There’s no consensus yet||NEW DELHI: Is Delhi headed towards herd immunity against Covid-19? The scientific community is divided on the subject. While some of them feel we are nearly there, as 29% of the city’s population is exposed to the virus that causes the disease already, others say more than 70% of the population has to be exposed before herd immunity can be achieved against the viral infection. Herd immunity refers to a stage in the epidemic when the virus cannot spread widely because there are not enough vulnerable people. The first serological survey, which was conducted between June 27 and July 10 in Delhi, showed 22.8% people had Covid antibodies. The latest study, based on tests carried out in the first week of August, shows around six percentage points more people have been exposed to the virus. Dr S K Sarin, the director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences , said at this rate it may take a few more months before to achieve herd immunity. “The survey results show that the pick-up rate of infection is very low and those silently affected by it is high. We need to increase testing,” he said. Serological surveys have also been carried out in cities like Mumbai, Pune and Ahmedabad to assess the presence of Covid antibodies in the local population. In Mumbai, the survey carried out in the first half of July in three wards showed 57% people living in slums and 16% people living in non-slums have Covid antibodies. The sample size of the study was 6,936, which experts point out is very low . In Pune, the local authorities carried out Covid testing on 1,664 people in high-incidence areas, and found more than half of the study population had antibodies against the coronavirus. Antibodies are proteins produced by the body’s immune system to fight external organisms like viruses. In Punjab, a study conducted on a sample size of 1,250 people showed 28% of the population had Covid antibodies. In Ahmedabad, 17.6% people have been found to have Covid antibodies. “It is difficult to compare serological surveys conducted in different cities or states. This is because the sample size or timing of the study isn’t the same. The Pune study, for example, is based on a very small sample size and it has been conducted in areas with high incidence of the disease where the likelihood of high exposure is expected to be more than normal population,” Dr Jugal Kishore, director professor and head of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital said. According to Dr Navin Dang, microbiologist and director of Dr Dang’s Lab, the presence of Covid antibodies may not mean protection against re-infection. “The disease is new. We are still learning about it,” he said. The director of Lok Nayak hospital Dr Suresh Kumar, on the other hand, sounded more positive. “There is no evidence of re-infection as yet. So we can safely assume that one-third of the population is protected. More people may achieve immunity in the coming days and we may well achieve herd immunity sooner than expected,” he said. Watch Covid-19: Delhi close to herd immunity? Scientific community divided||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/close-to-herd-immunity-theres-no-consensus-yet/articleshow/77664266.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
August 21, 2020||Vijayawada||DA case filed against treasury accountant||VIJAYAWADA: Two days after unearthing a huge treasure trove of gold and silver, Anantapur ACB officials have confirmed that it does belong to treasury accountant Manoj Kumar on Thursday. Kumar has been arrested and a disproportionate assets case has been booked against him. The total movable properties that were seized from inside eight boxes, hidden at his driver Nagalingam’s place and uncle Balappa’s house, include 2.4 kgs of gold ornaments, 24 kgs of silver, Rs 15.5 lakh cash, Rs 27 lakh worth of promissory notes and Rs 49 lakh worth of fixed deposit documents. Officials also found three pistols of nine mm category, an air gun with 18 blank rounds. Officials stated that all the properties are disproportionate to Kumar’s income and that they are continuing searches at various other locations as well. Officials launched a probe to check the veracity of complaints against the treasury officials headed by a task force constituted with ACB DSP Veera Raghava Reddy and central crime station DSP Sreenivasuslu and Tadipatri DSP Sreenivasulu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/da-case-filed-against-treasury-accountant/articleshow/77661476.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur takes a 40-place leap, ranks 18th in Swachh Survekshan 2020||NAGPUR: The city jumped 40 places in central government’s Swachh Survekshan 2020, the result of which was announced by the ministry of housing and urban affairs on Thursday. Nagpur scored 4,283 marks out of 6,000 to rank 18th. Last year, the city was placed at 58th position. Chandrapur city is placed 4th in the country in the category of cities with 1 lakh to 10 lakh population with a score of 5,179, while Amravati ranked 37th. Maharashtra’s second capital scored highest marks in the observation category (1,354 out of 1,500) and also in citizens’ feedback (1,283 marks out of 1,500). The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had scored poorly in garbage-free city (GFC) rankings released in April this year which affected the city’s overall Swachh ranking, said a senior official from solid waste management department. Due to zero score in GFC, the NMC had scored only 500 marks out of 1,500 in the certification category. The 500 marks scored by the civic body were due to ODF++ certification, the official said. In 2017, Nagpur was ranked 137th among 434 cities with a population of over 1 lakh and 55th among 100 cities in 2018. TOI has been regularly highlighting poor sanitation management by the NMC. Though the appointment of new door-to-door garbage collection contractors — AG Enviro and BVG India — by replacing Kanak Resources Management Ltd had made the task challenging for the NMC, the civic body and the new appointees overcame initial hurdles to improve the city’s ranking on that front. Both the new firms and NMC faced hardships in the initial days in November which had made things worse. But with better management by the then municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar, additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi and deputy municipal commissioner (solid waste management) Dr Pradip Dasarwar helped city overcome the situation resulting in improving door-to-door garbage collection to a great extent. Mayor Sandip Joshi expressed happiness and gave the credit to sanitary workers and NMC officials including Bangar. The mayor had launched awareness programme ‘Mummy-Papa You Too’ in schools which too played a vital role in improving city’s ranking. Swachhata ambassador and green activist Kaustav Chatterjee said, “Nagpur has done very well in service-level progress as compared to last year. Citizens too gave positive feedback resulting in a good score.” However, certification is the area where we need to concentrate. Had the city scored 5-star rating in that, the rank would have been in the single digit, he pointed out. “Though we are good at solid waste collection and transportation, we need to install proper solid waste treatment system, which has a significant weightage in Swachh Survekshan,” he said. Leena Budhe of NGO Centre for Sustainable Development said, “Nagpur deserves to be among the top 10 cities and we are definitely reaching close as we stand 18th now.” The star rating for a garbage-free city is where we scored less. Although door-to-door garbage collection has been achieved, we still struggle with waste segregation and processing, Budhe pointed out. “Our city needs to buck-up,” she said, adding citizens need to cooperate by segregating waste and not dumping garbage on the streets. Improved Scorecard Year---Ranking 2017---137th 2018---55th 2019---58th 2020 18th 2020 SCORE Categories----Score (out of 1,500) Documentations---1,208 Certifications---500 Observations----1,354 Citizen feedback ---1,283 Overall total score 4,283 (out of 6,000) Parameters---2020----2019 Nagpur’s score Service level progress----1,208/1,500----538/1,250 Certification----500/1,500----550/1,250 Direct observation---1,354/1,500----1,138/1,250 Citizen feedback---1,283/1,500---935/1,250 Total---4,345/6,000---3,161/5,000 Scoring percentage---72.4%---63.2% Nagpur performed better than following cities of Maharashtra Greater Mumbai---rank 35----rank 49 Pimpri Chinchwad---rank 24---rank 52 Vashi Virar---rank 32----rank 36||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-takes-a-40-place-leap-ranks-18th-in-swachh-survekshan-2020/articleshow/77664229.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 21, 2020||Pune||MSRTC buses rekindle hopes to bounce back||PUNE: Govind Shinde of Thane was ecstatic on Thursday morning after boarding a bus of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation at Swargate with his son. “For five months, we were stuck in Pune after coming here to visit a relative. I am a vegetable seller and cannot afford a private vehicle to go back to Thane. So, I have been waiting for the bus service to begin,” Shinde told TOI. Not just Shinde, the resumption of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) bus service came as a relief to many. For some, it revived the hope of resuming business. It marked the end of a long wait to go home for a few, while the MSRTC officials felt it would help them get full salary. A driver of the MSRTC on way to Kolhapur said, “We have been sitting at home for four months. Our last month’s salary is yet to be paid. With the buses starting to ply, I am hopeful that things will slowly get back to normal. It feels good wearing the uniform again and getting behind the wheel.” Before Thursday, the MSRTC buses last plied on March 21. “The ‘Janata Curfew’ was on March 22. Since then, the service stopped completely. On March 21, we plied 1,500 buses carrying close to 40,000 passengers,” recalled an official of the MSRTC’s Pune division. The MSRTC buses of the Pune division made 164 trips on 35 routes on Thursday. Most of them plied to Dadar, Borivli, Thane, Aurangabad, Nashik, Kolhapur, Solapur, Sangli, Shirdi, and Pandharpur, among others. Mannu Sahni (28), waiting for a bus to Kolhapur, said, “I work for a company that makes interiors of ATM kiosks. My employer called me, but it was impossible for me to travel in the absence of the bus service. I am happy to go back now.” Shivajinagar’s Adarsh Gade, who works in Navi Mumbai, said, “I could not go to work in the absence of transport. I am lucky that my company paid me half of my salary. Now that the buses have started plying, I just want to start working.” Passengers would have to wait for the online ticket booking to resume, though. “As the seating plan has been changed, we need to modify the system accordingly,” another MSRTC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-bus-service-resumption-rekindles-bounce-back-hopes/articleshow/77664202.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 21, 2020||Nashik||FDA to boost O2 supply in Nashik rural||Nashik: The Nashik division of Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has started the process to strengthen the availability of medical oxygen cylinders in rural parts of the district to meet the rising demand at Covid Care Centres (CCC) and private residences. “We plan to have a network of medical oxygen distributors in each taluka. The local residents can apply for distributorship. In fact, we have already given distribution licences in Satana and Yeola. The process to give licence at Niphad is under way,” sources in the FDA told TOI. The new distributors will handle the medical oxygen requirement among Covid-19 patients at places like Manmad and Lasalgaon. So far, only Malegaon taluka had a medical oxygen distributor, who ensured a steady supply amid the rising number of coronavirus patients. The FDA sources, the process of getting a medical oxygen distributor licence is not complex. “One needs to pay a nominal fee and purchase cylinders. Once empty, the cylinder can be refilled from the plant in Nashik city. The distributor has to ensure that the staff is trained to handle the cylinders efficiently,” added the sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fda-to-boost-o2-supply-in-nashik-rural/articleshow/77660319.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
August 21, 2020||Pune||One side of road from Jehangir hosp to RTO shut for Metro work||Pune: The RTO-bound lane of the Raja Bahadur Mills road will be shut for at least a month to accommodate Metro viaduct and station work. Vehicles will be allowed to drive from RTO towards Jehangir Hospital during this period. The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) on Thursday said that it has received all the necessary clearances from the traffic police to take up the work. Those looking to travel from Jehangir Hospital to the RTO will now have to take an alternative route — via Alankar bridge, turn left towards Pune railway station, then right at Maldhakka Chowk and cross Shahir Amar Shaikh Chowk to rejoin the road near the RTO. MahaMetro said it would use this window to expedite the launching of girders and work on two Metro stations on this stretch — Pune railway station and RTO. The work of installing spans is well underway on the stretch, which is a part of the Ramwadi-Civil Court section of the elevated Vanaz-Ramwadi corridor. “We plan to take up the concourse and the platform level work at both the station sites. The required machinery and workforce has already been pressed into service. The work will gain momentum from Friday. The work on this particular stretch is delicate and challenging, as the road curves in two places,” a MahaMetro official said. The official further said traffic headed from the RTO towards Jehangir Chowk will not be affected. “Adequate personnel will be deployed on the roads to guide traffic. We have instructed the contractors to put up barricades where needed. The road closure is also not expected to hamper the traffic from Jehangir to RTO, as alternative routes are available to commuters,” the official said.Meanwhile, railway employees have asked that they be allowed to travel on the closed side of the road to the staff quarters, which are located on this stretch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-side-of-road-from-jehangir-hosp-to-rto-shut-for-metro-work/articleshow/77664219.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad woman violates quarantine||Aurangabad: A 66-year-old woman, who had returned arrived Singapore, was among the 28 people booked by the police on Wednesday for violating safety protocols that have been prescribed by the authorities to curb the spread of Covid-19. Police said the woman in question had landed at the Mumbai airport from Singapore on August 18. She obtained the requisite travel pass and was on her way to Aurangabad. She was told by the authorities on Wednesday morning to quarantine herself at a hotel or at a Covid facility run by the civic administration Instead of following the instructions, the woman headed straight towards her residence, which is in the jurisdiction of the Satara police station. Subsequently, police booked the woman under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC late on Wednesday evening. Inspector Surendra Malale, incharge of Satara police station, told TOI on Thursday that the woman has been admitted to a hospital. Meanwhile, Cantonment police booked as many as 24 people for violating safety protocols like not observing social distancing, triple-seating on two-wheelers and not wearing a mask. Waluj MIDC police booked a man for possessing as well as selling illicit liquor. Police have seized 48 liquor bottles from his possession. Jinsi police have registered an offence against a caterer for allegedly running his business in the Times Colony without due permission and, therefore, violating pandemic norms. Another man was booked by Pundliknagar police for not wearing a mask.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-woman-violates-quarantine/articleshow/77662733.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: PMR tally above 1.35 lakh, active cases near 30,000||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday reported 3,544 Covid-19 cases, its second highest single-day tally, pushing its total caseload above 1.35 lakh. Among the fresh cases, the Pune municipal limits accounted for 1,669, the Pimpri Chinchwad areas added 1,105 and rural as well as Cantonment areas together reported 770 positive cases. As per the data provided by the district health office, as many as 2,139 patients were discharged in PMR in the last 24 hours after they were declared cured. A total of 1,588 patients were discharged on Wednesday. With this, the total recoveries in PMR have surged to 1.02 lakh. Besides, 71 more patients succumbed to the contagion in PMR, taking the region’s toll to 3,361. Health officials said the active cases had reached to 29,757 in PMR on Thursday night, of whom 17,631 patients were admitted in various hospitals, while 12,126 were in home isolation. A PMC report stated that 6,747 samples were collected on Thursday. As many as 802 patients were at critical stage in PMC limits till Thursday evening, of whom 486 were on ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-tally-above-1-35l-active-cases-near-30k/articleshow/77664226.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 21, 2020||Nagpur||Form special cell for pensioners, pay pension at homes: Bombay HC to govt||NAGPUR: Expressing deep concern over plight of pensioners and ill-treatment meted out to them by banks, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Wednesday directed Maharashtra government to constitute a separate cell for them. It was also told to devise a method to provide personal service through men of confidence, at the doorstep of aged, disabled and sick senior citizens. “We direct registry to forward judgment copies to Centralized Processing Pension Centres of all nationalized banks along with Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and chief secretary to constitute separate cell and release of appropriate guidelines to attain the constitutional goal of providing respect, dignity, care, sensitivity, assistance and security to all pension account holders,” a division bench of Justices Ravi Deshpande and Nitin Suryawanshi said. While slapping Rs50,000 cost on State Bank of India (SBI) for illegally deducting pension from 85-year-old petitioner’s account, the bench blasted its authorities for showing “arrogance” and forcing petitioner to run from pillar to post, instead of showing sensitivity. “The bank is the trustee of pensioners’ accounts. It has no authority in eyes of law to dispute pension payable to employees, other than its own. To tamper with such an account and effect recovery of pension without any authority is nothing but a breach of trust by the bank,” the judges said. The judges warned SBI to pay fine within eight days towards expenses of petition, mental agony and harassment, else cost of Rs1,000/day would be saddled on it. Petitioner Naini Gopal Roy knocked court’s doors after his pension was reduced from Rs9,974 to Rs9,102/month, as SBI claimed that Rs872/month was paid in excess due to technical glitch. The bank recovered Rs3,26,045 by deducting Rs11,040/month from August last year and claimed that Rs42,042 were yet to be recovered. “The bank has failed to demonstrate any technical error in calculations. We hold that its action to reduce pension is illegal. We direct it to refund Rs3,26,045 to petitioner with 18% interest from date of deduction till it is credited in his account. We have to restrain the bank from recovering the balance amount,” the court ruled. Terming the bank’s move as “unauthorized and illegal”, judges added, “The 85-year-old bears a big liability of mentally disabled daughter, aged about 45 years. She has to be looked after mentally and physically, and costly medical treatment is required to be administered.” #What HC said: * Devise method to provide personal service to disabled and sick senior citizens * It should be done through men of confidence and at their doorstep * Issue guidelines to attain constitutional goal of providing respect and care to all pensioners * Forward judgment copy to all nationalized banks along with RBI and chief secretary * SBI authorities showed arrogance and forced petitioner to run from pillar to post * Bank is trustee of pensioners’ accounts, no authority to dispute employees’ pension||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/form-special-cell-for-pensioners-pay-pension-at-homes-hc-to-govt/articleshow/77664240.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali further slips to 157th slot||MOHALI: Despite hiring four experts from the Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company (PMIDC) to assist municipal corporation in conducting the Swachh Survekshan Survey-2020, Mohali has once again failed to make it to the top 100 clean cities of the country and slipped four notches to reach 157th rank this year. According to the Swachh Survekshan-2020 rankings, Mohali scored 2,790.72 points out of 5,000 at 55.8%. The district has been gradually falling for the past three years; it was at 153rd rank in 2019, 109th in 2018 and 121st in 2017. Mohali has also slipped in the state rankings. It is ranked 7th cleanest city in Punjab, while it was 4th in 2019, second in 2018 and first in 2017. This year, Nawanshahr is the cleanest city in north India zone and Bathinda with national position of 79 has topped the state in overall ranking. The parameters on which Mohali MC has faltered are open defecation-free (ODF) status declaration, solid waste management system, door-to-door garbage collection and garbage segregation at source. The MC has failed to attain ODF++ status. MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said, “The two most important components are solid waste management project, door-to-door garbage collection and its segregation at source on which Mohali MC has failed to score. But this year we will pick up and do whatever is required to attain a good position next year.” Last year, MC got the final nod from Punjab government, but is yet to start the solid waste management plant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-further-slips-to-157th-rank/articleshow/77662741.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
August 21, 2020||Madurai||Madurai’s poor show in survey reaffirms city’s cleanliness woes||Madurai: Madurai has secured the 42nd rank out of 47 cities in the country with a population of more than 10 lakh in Swachh Survekshan 2020. The city’s poor show in Swachh rankings continues with a string of poor rankings. The city had in 2019 secured the 201st spot among 4,237 local bodies, while in 2018 it secured the 123rd rank.Madurai city secured 2,256 marks out of 6,000 this year. Madurai has been recertified ODF (open defecation-free) city, but it did not get ODF plus or ODF plus plus status, which could have improved its prospectus in the ranking. Similarly, the city did not get any star rating for garbage-free city.Madurai corporation’s score on direction observation was slightly better than national average and state average. Although it had secured much higher score in citizen feedback compared to national average, it is lesser compared with the state average. A total of 85,687 people had taken part in citizen feedback. In service level progress, Madurai has scored better than national and state average. S P Jeyaprakasam, president of Tamil Nadu foodgrain merchants association said that unavailability of water in a many of the public toilets make them stink. “I have seen remarkable development in public sanitation in New Delhi in recent years. They have not only increased toilets, but ensured cleanliness by providing adequate water,” he said.S Malaisamy of Royal Garden residents’ welfare association said overflowing garbage bins and littering in public places are common in Madurai. The Vaigai river in particular is in bad shape due to garbage disposal on its banks.Corporation commissioner S Visakan said the difference between Madurai and Coimbatore is only 81 marks. In citizen feedback alone, Coimbatore has scored 131 marks more than Madurai corporation. Positive feedback from residents would have given a better position in the rankings for Madurai.“We will work on some of the areas such as door-to-door garbage collection, bringing more micro composting centres to function, improve ODF and garbage free status to improve rankings next year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurais-poor-show-in-survey-reaffirms-citys-cleanliness-woes/articleshow/77664236.cms||V Devanathan
August 21, 2020||Madurai||Min says Vaigai river bank road widening to be over by next yr||Madurai: The 8km stretch road widening project carried out by the Madurai Corporation and highways department on Vaigai river bank between Kamarajar bridge and Viraganoor Ring Road is taking shape quickly and the projects are expected to be completed by next year, said minister for cooperation, Sellur K Raju on Thursday.He conducted inspection at the site of the construction work for convention centre coming up at Rs 45 crore in Thamukkam Ground. Talking to reporters, Raju said that the road widening project will reduce traffic congestion in arterial roads and bring down accidents. Highways department is carrying out the work between Kamarajar Bridge and Rajamill Road and Kuruvikkaran Salai Bridge and Viraganoor Ring Road for a total 5km strecth. The remaining work between Rajamill Road and Kuruvikkaran salai bridge is carried out by the corporation, Raju added. Highways has completed retaining wall on both sides of Vaigai river for about 8.2km stretch, while the corporation has completed for about 3.2km. Storm water drains, pedestrian pathway and ghats at 10 places in order to get into the river are part of the project, the minister said. The corporation is also carrying out Vaigai River Front development works at Rs 60.41 crore.He said the convention centre too is taking shape quickly and is expected to be completed by March 2021. The centre can house 3,500 people at a same time and facility to park 250 cars and 215 two-wheelers. Madurai will not have water shortage problem in the next 60 years with a mega water project being implemented, Raju said.He also said that 11 lakh masks have been distributed to the public through ration shops so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/min-says-vaigai-river-bank-road-widening-to-be-over-by-next-yr/articleshow/77664233.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Man gets life for raping 70-year-old||VIJAYAWADA: The fifth additional district sessions mahila court in Vijayawada on Thursday sentenced a man to life imprisonment for raping a 70-year-old woman in 2016. The crime was committed on the night of November 29 in 2016 when Piliboyina Koteswara Rao (36) assaulted the woman while she was drawing rangoli outside her house under AS Nagar police station limits. The trial began in September 2018. City police commissioner B Srinivasulu said Koteswara Rao has 22 other cases registered against him, which include 18 thefts, a dowry harassment case, two harassment cases and escaping from police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-gets-life-for-raping-70-year-old/articleshow/77661487.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh needs to fix its garbage||CHANDIGARH: To better its performance in future, Chandigarh needs to pay special attention to proper disposal of garbage, its collection and segregation at source. Besides, change in behaviour of the public, who drive the survey, is a key takeaway here. The authorities need to collaborate with people in large numbers to garner their support in this exercise. Proper functioning of the city’s only garbage processing plant is the immediate challenge for the civic body. Though the MC had recently taken over the plant, improvement in the machinery, hiring of expert staff and use of the best technology are some of the major factors it needs to work upon. Earlier, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had also raised these points for proper management of the solid waste in the city and asked the civic body authority to bring about improvement. The NGT had also set a deadline for waste segregation at source, but due to the pandemic, work took a back seat. “Though IIT-Roorkee team has already visited the plant, we are waiting for its report on technical components for improvements. Moreover, as an arbitration case is still going on, making major changes by spending huge amount of money will be risky for us,” sources in the civic body said. Segregation of waste at source is a major component that has not yet started in the city. Though the exercise has begun in the villages, core city areas, which are the bulk generators of trash, are yet to be covered, so mixed waste is going for disposal. Sources in the MC said due to Covid-19, they could not give orders for vehicles, but now the process has started and waste would be segregated at source in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/to-perform-better-next-time-city-needs-to-fix-its-garbage/articleshow/77662744.cms||Deepak Yadav
August 21, 2020||Vadodara||Kanpur transporter accused GST evasion denied bail||Vadodara: A transporter from Kanpur, who was arrested, for evading goods and service tax (GST) amounting to Rs 9.4 crore, was denied bail by a sessions court on Wednesday The transporter Neeraj Tiwari, who is in currently in Vadodara Central Jail, had sought bail on August 6 claiming that the GST department had arrested him instead of another person in the same business as his. He also told the court that he is not responsible to pay the GST amount and the department is not arresting others whose names he had revealed. The court of additional sessions judge M K Chauhan did not consider Tiwari’s argument and rejected his application. “The accused has floated eight companies in Halol, Ahmedabad, Mehsana and Mumbai, but everything is on paper. He used to transport plastic from Halol to Kanpur but forge the e-way bill and invoices to show the lesser amount of goods,” said district government pleader Anil Desai. He added that the tax department has also found evidence that Tiwari has a huge turnover from his fake firms, but he did not pay GST. The court also upheld the argument that the investigation is in the preliminary stage so Tiwari cannot be granted bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/kanpur-transporter-accused-gst-evasion-denied-bail/articleshow/77661373.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Godavari water level starts rising again||RAJAHMUNDRY: Water began receding in Godavari and people in shelters began returning home on Thursday. However, flood levels have started increasing once again due to heavy rainfall in the catchment area of river Godavari. A second warning has been issued at Bhadrachalam once again and a third warning is expected by late night Thursday. Around 14 lakh cusecs water is being discharged into the sea from Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage and a second warning is in force. People of 200 villages in East and West Godavari districts have been facing the fury of the flood over the last few days. Hundreds of villages are still in the dark as power has been cut. Over 15,000 families living under Chinturu ITDA are confined to shelter homes and hundreds of trucks are stranded on the highway. Two National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams which have arrived here have been asked to stay on for a few more days. People living in 33 habitations of Devipatnam mandal are staying on hillocks as 20 villages are submerged and there is no electricity for the last one week. Praveen Aditya, project in-charge officer of Rampa Chodavaram ITDA has imposed Section 144. The situation in Konaseema’s island villages continues to be grim as people are complaining of a lack of drinking water. In West Godavari district, health minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas and district minister in-charge Perni Nani visited flood-affected villages of Velurupadu mandal. They went to the remote village of Rudramakota and inspected facilities provided to flood victims. Speaking on the occasion, the health minister said that 40,000 people living in 102 villages have been affected by the floods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/godavari-water-level-starts-rising-again/articleshow/77661523.cms||Samson Raj
August 21, 2020||Madurai||Covid positive woman with heart ailment gives birth to healthy baby||MADURAI: A 26-year-old Covid-19 patient suffering from heart ailment gave birth to a baby at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai. Doctors at GRH ensured a safe and painless delivery. In a statement, the hospital said that the woman, who was suffering from mitral valve stenosis, had undergone a surgery 12 years ago. When she was close to her due date, her heart ailment worsened. On August 13, the woman was referred by a private hospital to GRH as she experienced breathlessness. Following this, she was admitted to GRH. Since a C-section delivery may put the mother’s life in danger, GRH doctors decided on a natural delivery. “Since intense labour pain may cause heart failure, doctors conducted a painless natural delivery by injecting a limited amount of local anaesthesia in the spine. A healthy baby girl was born. Both the mother and the child were kept under observation in the intensive care for two days,” GRH dean Dr J Sangumani stated. Meanwhile, deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam on Thursday lauded the efforts of the GRH doctors in ensuring the safe delivery. “It is heartening to hear the news of a Covid-19 positive pregnant woman with heart disease and her child saved by the efforts of the GRH doctors, after a private hospital gave up on her. Hearty wishes to the doctors who did not give up till the end and gave a new lease of life to the woman,” Panneerselvam tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-positive-woman-with-heart-ailment-gives-birth-to-healthy-baby/articleshow/77664246.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Car hits lockdown cop; student, executive arrested||KOLKATA: The first day of the 48-hour lockdown was by and large successful, courtesy the rain that kept most people indoors. However, some rule violations were reported across the city on Thursday, including one in which a traffic sergeant was hit by a speeding car. In certain pockets of the southern and northern fringes, cops had to shut down milk booths and tea stalls as well. The accident was reported between 6.20am and 6.45am at the Kankurgachhi crossing. A senior executive of a consultancy firm in Sector V and his friend, a student from Behala, broke through two nakas and hit a sergeant when he tried to stop them. Akash Halder, 24, a resident of Diamond City West condo, was driving the car owned by Titash Mitra, 33, a resident of Basudevpur in Behala Shakuntala Park. The sergeant, Biswajit Saha, sustained injuries on his forehead, shoulder and other parts of the body and was taken to Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals. He was later discharged. The accused were nabbed from the Shakuntala Park and Sarsuna areas in the next couple of hours and their car was seized. Cops said the two were returning from Kolaghat when the accident happened. “We are ascertaining whether they had been under the influence of alcohol. A case of attempt to murder, voluntarily causing grievous hurt to deter a public serv-ant from duty and rash driving has been registered against the two,” said DC (ESD) Ajoy Prasad. The Toyota Corolla Altis, driven in a rash and negligent manner, crossed Hudco at high speed around 6.20am. The traffic police tried to stop it, but failed. “The driver did not pay any heed to cops and sped towards Kankurgachhi crossing. Saha was informed about the car on wireless and decided to stop it at the intersection,” said Prasad. Police sources said it was raining intensely at that time and Saha took a few steps to the middle of the road, asking his colleagues to continue putting up the guard rail so that the accused could not escape. “But the accused intentionally hit the officer, crashed into the guard rail and fled,” an officer said. In two other separate incidents — on the Baguiati flyover and VIP Road — five persons were injured when they tried to speed on the wet roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/car-hits-lockdown-cop-student-exec-arrested/articleshow/77662796.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 21, 2020||Madurai||Vigil tightened in Madurai as inter-dist movement increases||Madurai: As many as 35,218 e-passes were approved for those coming into Madurai district, ever since the e-pass norms were relaxed four days ago. With inter-district movement set to rise further in the coming weeks, health department officials are hoping to prevent any possible rise in Covid-19 cases by tightening vigil.With around 13,149 Covid-19 cases in Madurai district, including 1,054 active cases, the spread of the virus had just begun to stabilize. “We were able to keep the spread under control when lockdown was removed. Now, with inter-district movement having been relaxed, it will be challenging,” said a local health official.Vigilance has been stepped up at check-posts and more personnel have been posted. As per protocol, those who are symptomatic are only being tested for Covid-19. “It is impossible to test everyone entering the district. We are collecting samples from all those who are symptomatic and from hotspot areas. If they test positive, they should accordingly take treatment or if negative they must undergo home quarantine,” said health department sources.With people arriving in huge numbers and some managing to enter even without e-passes, proper monitoring of those entering and leaving the district would be difficult. There is also lack of clarity on monitoring those who may come to the district and leave in a couple of days. “We have to wait and see how this inter-district movement affects the district. Many asymptomatic carriers are also bound to be moving within the district. Fever clinics will still be effective in identifying possible spread and hotspots in the district quickly and ensuring measures,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/vigil-tightened-in-madurai-as-inter-dist-movement-increases/articleshow/77664242.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Business||6.5 lakh net new enrollments in EPFO this June||NEW DELHI: Net new enrolments with retirement fund body EPFO rose to 6.5 lakh in June from 1.7 lakh during May 2020, according to its latest payroll data, providing a perspective on employment in the formal sector amid the pandemic. Provisional payroll data released by EPFO last month had shown that net new enrollments stood at 3.2 lakh in May this year. The figure has now been revised to 1,72,174. Data released on Thursday showed that net new enrollments in April were just 20,164 compared to the provisional figure of 1 lakh released in July. The net new enrollments hover around 7 lakh every month on an average.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/6-5-lakh-net-new-enrollments-in-epfo-this-june/articleshow/77665501.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Nashik||56 more beds at 2 hospitals in Nashik Road division||Nashik: With an aim to relieve citizens from the hassle of travelling to hospitals in the central part of the city, the civic administration has planned to increase the capacity in two hospitals involved in treating Covid-19 patients in the Nashik division by adding 56 more beds Moreover, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has also given permission to another private hospital in the city to run a Covid care centre (CCC) with a capacity of 45 beds at one of the major hotels in the Nashik Road division. Patients in the recovery stage are to be shifted from the hospital to this CCC.The Covid-19 cases are increasing in Nashik Road division. Of the 18,030 confirmed cases registered in the city, 2,900 patients are from Nashik Road division.“We are planning to increase the number of beds in two private hospitals. We are increasing the number of beds so that Covid patients from Nashik Road division get the beds here itself,” said civic officials. Around a month-and-a-half ago, Covid-19 patients were being reported from only Nashik East and Panchavati divisions. However, cases started emerging from the other four divisions also. Hence, NMC started planning dedicated Covid hospitals and Covid care centres in all the divisions so that patients get treatment at hospitals in their respective division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/56-more-beds-at-2-hospitals-in-nashik-road-division/articleshow/77660366.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Metal screw removed from boy’s wind pipe||MADURAI: A metal screw, measuring 5mm, was successfully removed from the wind pipe of a 10-year-old boy through a minimally invasive procedure at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai recently. The boy has since made full recovery and discharged. T Gowtham from Nilakottai in Dindigul district had told his parents that he had accidentally aspirated a screw on July 29. When he was taken to the nearest government hospital, doctors assured that he will recover as he did not show any symptoms. However, a week later, Gowtham suffered from fever and cough and taken to another hospital in Dindigul on August 11. A CT scan revealed the presence of a 5mm screw in the boy’s wind pipe. “On being referred to the GRH on August 14, a team of doctors from the department of paediatrics, ENT, thoracic medicine and anaesthesia carried out a bronchoscopy procedure to remove the screw. The boy was under observation for three more days to ensure full recovery,” said GRH dean, Dr J Sangumani, in a statement. Gowtham was discharged on August 18, after making a full recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/metal-screw-removed-from-boys-wind-pipe/articleshow/77664267.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||32mm of rain lashes Ahmedabad in just three hours||AHMEDABAD: Several city areas received heavy rain on Thursday night. The downpour began from 7pm and in the next few hours, the city received 32mm of rainfall. Heavy rain was reported from Jodhpur, Bopal-Ghuma, Vejalpur, Maktampura and Sarkhej. Ranip received the highest 68mm of rainfall in three hours. Dudheshwar got 50mm and Sarkhej received 43mm of rains. In the last three days, the city has received nearly 16% of its annual rain. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation areas have so far received 84% of its seasonal rainfall of 798mm. AMC control room said that between 7pm and 8pm, the city on an average received 5mm rain, followed by 21mm in the next one hour, and between 9pm and 10pm, the city got 6mm of rain. In all, the city received 671mm till 10pm on Thursday. According to IMD department, the city is likely to receive light to moderate rain or thundershowers on Friday. AMC officials said that cases of waterlogging were reported from Shivranjani, Vejalpur, near Manav Mandir, Ghatlodia, Naranpura and Sola. The eastern parts of the city, including Odhav and Viratnagar, also received heavy rain from 7pm to 8pm. The AMC control room said all underpasses were functioning without any waterlogging till 9.30pm. “AMC teams are in the field to clear waterlogging in some areas,” said an official. The officials said that there was no incident of cave-in or tree uprooting from any part of the city. The state has so far received 86% of its seasonal 831mm rainfall. Of the 225 talukas in the state, four have received rain between 125mm and 250mm. The remaining 221 have received more than 251mm of rain. In all, 52 talukas have received more than 1,000mm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/32mm-of-rain-lashes-city-in-just-three-hours/articleshow/77662802.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Madurai||Pandemic effect: Govt schools see surge in admissions to classes VI-IX||MADURAI: Government school teachers have said that the ongoing lockdown is boosting school admissions this year, with more families evincing interest in government schools over private. With the livelihood of many families hit, affordability of private school education has become a concern. Admissions for Classes I, VI and IX began this Monday. “We are seeing good numbers already. Between Class VI to IX, we saw 70 new admissions. There are students from feeder as well as matriculation schools,” said S Christober Jeyaseelan, headmaster of A Vallalapatti government higher secondary school. “It is extremely difficult to send both our children to a private school since our small business suffered,” said A Srilatha, a parent, who is planning to enrol her children in a government school. Another headmaster of a government middle school said that apart from financial distress, transport and travel are also making parents prefer government schools. “This year, government school teachers are expecting at least 10% increase in admissions,” said M Thennavan, headmaster, Kondapethan government middle school. At the same time, he said that the onus was also on government teachers to create awareness about their schools in the neighbourhood. “Today, with small kits filled with necessities worth around Rs 33,000, we went around to meet families in the neighbourhood. Giving away kits to poor families, we also inquired about their children and encouraged them to join the school,” said Thennavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pandemic-effect-govt-schools-see-surge-in-admissions-to-classes-vi-ix/articleshow/77664261.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Record 98 +ve in Pkl||tnn Panchkula: In the highest single-day Covid-19 case surge, 98 tested positive in Panchkula district on Thursday. The case tally has now risen to 1,427, with 459 active cases.Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Jasjeet Kaur said the 98 cases included five from ITBP area. Besides, nine cases were reported from outside the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/record-98-ve-in-pkl/articleshow/77662789.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Ludhiana||92 new cases in Ambala||TNNAmbala: Ninety-two people tested positive for Covid-19 in Ambala on Thursday, taking the case tally up to 2,863, including 382 active cases, said civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh.“Of the 92 new cases, 49 are from Ambala City, 18 from Ambala Cantt, 12 from Chourmastpur, six from Mullana, five from Barara and one each from Naraingarh and Shahzadpur,” Dr Singh added.As many as 55 patients were discharged on the day, taking the recovery count to 2,457.Ambala additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Preeti on Thursday held a meeting with the civil surgeon and district survey officer regarding Covid-19 arrangements. It was decided to randomly call up all the senior citizens in the district to inquire about their health and the patients with comorbidities would be called up every day. The focus would be on pregnant women, too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/92-new-cases-in-ambala/articleshow/77662792.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||UT DSP tests positive||Chandigarh: A UT Police DSP tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday.Dilsher Singh Chandel, DSP (East division), is admitted to GMH-16, where his condition is stated to be stable. Chandel had developed symptoms around four days ago. His office in Sector 26 is being sanitized. Cops who came in his contact are being tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-dsp-tests-positive/articleshow/77662794.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Nagpur||Dancers’ association holds silent protest in city||Nagpur: Members of Elite Dancers and Choreographers Association, Nagpur demanded that dance classes be allowed to re-open in Maharashtra in a silent protest at Samvidhan Square on Thursday. Priya Bahute, joint president of the association, said they held this protest to highlight the difficulties that around five lakh dancers are facing in the state. She added that the government had various schemes for various sectors and professionals, but hardly anything for artists. Lucky Chandurkar, another joint president of the association, along with three of his colleagues, staged the protest wearing masks and maintaining Covid distancing. Lucky said classes were closed since four months, and artists from Vidarbha were facing a lot of financial difficulties. “Hence, the association requests the state government to look into the issue and start the classes and cultural events as soon as possible,” he added. Pawan Giripunje, a member, said they would abide by all the regulations of Covid-19 like wearing masks, sanitization and maintaining Covid distancing if given permission. Dancers would be compelled to take severe steps as their financial condition has gone from bad to worse, he added. Later, a few dancers performed some dance steps to attract the attention of state government towards the dancers’ dire condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dancers-assn-holds-silent-protest-in-city/articleshow/77657192.cms||Ranjit Deshmukh
August 21, 2020||Nagpur||UP govt stops Nitin Raut from meeting slain Dalit sarpanch’s family||NAGPUR: After being detained at Azamgarh border in Uttar Pradesh while on way to meet family of a slain Dalit sarpanch, Maharashtra cabinet minister Nitin Raut would be meeting President of India Ramnath Kovind in this regard. “I have told local Congress committee members to seek time of the President and we would meet and explain to him about today’s incident and situation in UP,” Raut told TOI. Sarpanch Pappu Ram, popularly called Satyamev Jayate, was shot dead at Azamgarh’s Bansgaon village by three people on a motorcycle. Dalit organizations have condemned the killing and demanded arrest of culprits. Calling the incident gruesome, Raut, who is also the All India Congress Committee (AICC) chairman for Scheduled Castes cell, had voiced concern over deteriorating law and order situation in UP under chief minister Yogi Adityanath. On Thursday, he was on his way to join another Congress delegation when he was stopped at Gaura-Badshahpur village. “They didn’t allow us to proceed and forcibly took us to a rest house. I was going there as AICC’s SC wing chief and not as Maharashtra minister to meet the aggrieved family members. The cops stopped me on orders of the district magistrate,” he told TOI while taking flight back to Nagpur. Raut held demonstrations after being prohibited from proceeding. “When they stopped our convoy, we started our journey on foot and walked 2.5 kms. But, the police detained us on Gaura-Badshahpur village border after which we sat on a dharna and protested the high-handedness of UP administration,” he said. Another delegation led by Rajya Sabha MP PL Punia was also detained when it was proceeding to meet the slain village head’s family in Bansgaon village, where the situation is believed to be tense. Raut took to Twitter and posted videos of UP police stopping and detaining him. UP Congress unit also tweeted slamming the Yogi government forfailing to prevent atrocities on Dalits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/up-govt-stops-raut-from-meeting-slain-dalit-sarpanchs-family/articleshow/77664275.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gold prices fall for second straight day||AHMEDABAD: After hitting a record high price earlier this month, Rs 58,000 per 10g, gold prices have turned volatile riding on global factors. Gold prices continued to fall for the second consecutive day on Thursday, settling at Rs 53,800, a Rs 1,470 fall from Wednesday’s price of Rs 55,270. Analysts attribute the volatility to global factors. “Gold prices turned volatile after the indication of US Federal Reserve continuing the stimulus for economic revival with the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. However, with economic uncertainty, the overall price trend for gold seems to be upwards,” said a city-based bullion trader. Gold prices in the domestic market have risen sharply for a month, since July 20, and touched a peak of Rs 58,000, after which there was a price correction. Since then, prices have remained volatile. As prices were on an upward trend, investors poured funds into the yellow metal, anticipating better returns. Industry sources say they are in wait and watch mode as prices have been showing sharp fluctuations. Retail demand for gold however, continues to remain low. At this time of the year, around the festive season, purchase of wedding jewellery typically begins. However, due to the pandemic, weddings are also getting deferred, say jewellers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-prices-fall-for-second-straight-day/articleshow/77662801.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad cops device corroborative evidence gathering system to ensure more convictions||Aurangabad: To upgrade the investigative skills of the personnel and ensure convictions in serious body and property offences, the Aurangabad city police have devised a specific mechanism focussed on the gathering of corroborative evidence. The mechanism will help the police present a 3-dimensional view of every case before the court of law. Moreover, all case-related data, including the chargesheet, would be additionally prepared in soft copy version and it will be made admissible in the court, before the trial of each case. To get the desired results, the Aurangabad city’s cyber police have already imparted training on “Geographical Information System for Crime Investigation, Prosecution and Conviction” to 50 investigation officers (IOs) in the city. “In the absence of an eyewitness to a crime, the possibility of an accused getting the benefit of the doubt is very high. To rule out such possibilities in future cases, corroborative evidence will play a greater role,” Aurangabad police commissioner Chiranjeev Prasad told TOI. The officer said the new system will make it easier for the IOs to recall a case even years after its investigation. The idea to devise a standard operating procedure (SOP) had come up after cyber police assistant inspector Rahul Khatavkar bagged the Union government’s prestigious e-Raksha national award for devising the technology earlier this year. Khatavkar said, “Through this system, the IO will collect all the geographical data, including the spot from where the accused and co-accused (if any) started, the spot panchanama and complete chronology of events using latitude and longitude of every key location in the case.” The officer said even the photographs of the crime scene, the forensic reports and visuals if any, would be attached in the system to make it fool-proof. The city police are already using this technology in four serious offences — including the murder of two siblings by their relatives within the limits of the Satara area police station, and three other murders committed within the jurisdictions of the Pundalikanagar, Kranti Chowk and Cidco police stations. Cyber police inspector Geeta Bagvade said: “Submitting the chargesheet in this innovative format would display the entire case in a 3D format, giving an upper hand to the prosecution in explaining as well as contesting the case in the court of law.” To make it effective, a combination of the latest technology and traditional investigation techniques, a list of open source applications like Google Map, Google Earth and a few others would be used along with technical details. Eyewitness accounts would be used to prepare a 3D analysis of the entire case, including crime scene. To get the desired results, it will be binding on the law officers to clear the chargesheet for filing in the court of law only after it meets the conditions of corroborative evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-cops-device-corroborative-evidence-gathering-system-to-ensure-more-convictions/articleshow/77661574.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 21, 2020||Nashik||CBD appeals to residents to make online payment of bills||Nashik: The cantonment board officials have appealed to the residents of Deolali Camp to make online payment of their tax and non-tax bills instead of coming to the Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD) amid the outbreak of Covid-19.Officials said this year they have bifurcated the tax and non-tax bills. Residents of CBD can make an online payment with the same customer ID.Non-tax bills include interest, notice fee and garbage fee. The bills can be viewed directly on CBD website—cbdeolali.org—by entering customer ID.Though the bills have been generated, due to the current crisis, there is no guarantee whether the residents have received the printed bills. Hence, they are encouraged to check their bill online and make an online payment.The garbage fee has been revised from Rs 200 to Rs 400 per annum for residential properties. It has also been increased for commercial properties.The cantonment board officials said it is mandatory for all residents to give their mobile number and email ID, as CBD plans to do away with the physical delivery of property tax and water charges bills and shift to online mode of payment||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cbd-appeals-to-residents-to-make-online-payment-of-bills/articleshow/77660371.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Kolkata||Patient’s kin forced to pay ambulance Rs 9,000 for 8km trip in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Family members of an elderly Covid patient levelled allegations of extortion against a private ambulance operator on Thursday, claiming they were forced to shell out Rs 9,000 for an 8km ride between AMRI Hospitals in Salt Lake and Medical College Hospital in central Kolkata. The amount is more than the Rs 7,987 fare to Delhi on a GoAir flight on Saturday. “The ambulance operators made us pay Rs 9,000 for the 15-minute ride. Since we were helpless on a lockdown day, we had to pay. But is this justifiable?” wondered an exasperated Mamata Agarwal, daughter of the patient who was transported from one hospital to another on Thursday afternoon. The 80-year-old patient from Shibpur in Howrah had suffered a stroke and had been rushed to AMRI Salt Lake on August 12. He was put on ventilation while his swab samples were sent for Covid test. As the report came positive, the patient was shifted to the Covid isolation ICU. As his condition did not improve, the family had reportedly signed the ‘do not resuscitate’ form asking the hospital not to put the patient on life support system. Family members said they found it difficult to manage the cost of treatment at the hospital and were relieved when they managed to get a bed at Medical College. On Thursday, they had to transfer the patient when they were asked to cough up the amount by the ambulance driver.  The ambulance driver said, “The family booked the ambulance after agreeing to the fare demanded by the owner. The patient needed ventilation support and not just oxygen that accounts for the higher fee. The family had been creating trouble ever since they boarded. They didn’t even pay for the two N95 masks we gave to them.” In the last few months, the state has witnessed multiple instances of extortion and non cooperation from ambulance drivers. While the state government-run ambulances are free, other ambulances attached with private hospitals charge Rs 1,250 to Rs 1,500 for 5-km, with no regulations on private ambulance operators accused of fleecing patients. “There should be vigilance on private ambulances during this pandemic so that people are not fleeced,” said Amitava Basu, secretary St John’s Ambulance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/patients-kin-forced-to-pay-ambulance-rs-9k-for-8km-trip/articleshow/77662822.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Nashik||903 cases, 17 deaths in Nashik dist||Nashik: The district has reported 903 fresh Covid-19 patients in the last 24 hours, including 560 from Nashik city, taking the total number of cases to 27,677. As many as 17 people succumbed to the infection in the district on Thursday, including seven from Nashik city. With this, the death toll stands at 745 including 419 in the city. A total of 882 patients have been discharged in the district on Thursday, of which 693 patients are from the city. The district has 4,007 active cases, of which 1,816 are in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/903-cases-17-deaths-in-nashik-dist/articleshow/77660381.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Nagpur||Chanda collector isolates self as guard tests +ve||CHANDRAPUR: District collector Ajay Gulhane went into two days of self-isolation after his bodyguard was detected positive to Covid-19 infection on Thursday. Meanwhile, a Covid death was reported from the district, while 54 new patients were reported taking the total number of cases to 1,249 on Thursday. Health officials informed that 35 persons were discharged during the day taking the tally of cured patients to 851. A 52-year-old person admitted to Covid Hospital died of infection on Thursday night. This is 12th Covid casualty in Chandrapur district. Ten of the deceased belong to Chandrapur district, while two are outsiders being treated here. Officials informed that after the collector’s bodyguard was detected Covid positive, Gulhane, being low risk contact of the patient, went into self-quarantine. He will work from rest house for the next two days, said the officials, adding the collectorate will not be closed. Thursday’s newfound patients include 22 from Chandrapur city, 11 from Bramhapuri, eight from Ballarpur, four each from Mul and Bhadrawati, one each from Rajura, Gadchandur, Korpana and Saoli and one who has travelled here from Assam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chanda-collector-isolates-self-as-guard-tests-ve/articleshow/77664279.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Paleo-channel of Sabarmati makes Ahmedabad’s western areas vulnerable||AHMEDABAD: The 2001 earthquake killed 752 people and destroyed 130 concrete structures in Ahmedabad. It was a wake-up call for residents of the city. It showed how messing with the geophysical aspects of construction could prove deadly for a city. The latest integrated seismic hazard map by the Institute of Seismological Research (ISR) explains why buildings in certain areas of Ahmedabad are more vulnerable to future events. The entire city is located on a 300-metre-thick quaternary sediments. Most of the city is the flood plain of the Sabarmati river. The west-central part of Ahmedabad comprising of Satellite, Memnagar, and Jodhpur has the greatest seismic hazard, according to the ISR map, with a high liquefaction potential — where saturated sand and silt take on the characteristics of a liquid with the consistency of cake batter during an intense earthquake, leading to the collapse of buildings and infrastructure above ground. This area in particular has a paleochannel of the Sabarmati river due to which the unconsolidated sediments are present at the top, the study states. The east-central areas consisting of portions of Rakhial, Lal Darwaja, and Isanpur has moderate to high hazard. This region has lakes and ponds, most of which have been reclaimed in recent years. Apart from the local site-effect which played a role in damage, poor construction practices is also one of the reason for earthquake damage. An ISR rapid visual survey (RVS) which was shared by an Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) official revealed that of the 77 buildings which collapsed in the 2001 quake, new buildings had come up at 67 sites at the same sites with the very same mistakes. Close to 90% of these buildings had soft storeys (hollow plinth) with no shear walls, 60% had overhanging structures like balconies jutting out, while vertical irregularity existed in nearly 40% of buildings. Also, more than 35% of buildings required moderate repairs and 5% buildings had issues of poor maintenance, the official revealed.  In another study, a team of researchers from Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University’s civil engineering department led by professor Tejas Thaker had prepared a seismic risk index for the city which showed Bodakdev, Thaltej, Gota,Vejalpur and Jodhpur in high-risk zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/paleo-channel-of-sabarmati-makes-citys-western-areas-vulnerable/articleshow/77662819.cms||Paul John
August 21, 2020||India||Puri: Kerala govt’s bid didn’t qualify||The Kerala government did not qualify in Thiruvananthapuram airport’s bidding process that was carried out in a transparent manner, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Thursday. Before the bidding, the Centre and Kerala had agreed that if Kerala State Industrial Transport Corporation’s bid comes within the 10% range of the winning bid, it would be awarded the airport, Puri said. However, the difference between Adani’s bid and KSIDC's bid was 19.6%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/puri-kerala-govts-bid-didnt-qualify/articleshow/77665513.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Collector assures help to GMCH||Aurangabad: District collector Sunil Chavan has assured the government medical college and hospital (GMCH) officials that he would address various issues such as infrastructure and manpower problems to ease the burden on the hospital. He visited the hospital on Wednesday evening to take stock of the situation. Chavan also addressed a meeting of officials, including hospital dean Kanan Yelikar, additional collector Anant Gavhane and deputy divisional commissioner Varshan Thakur as well as other health officials and doctors. He said that he was aware of the burden on GMCH and that there are vacancies in almost every section of the hospital which faces a variety of issues ranging from water supply to the issues involving the public works department and availability of medicines. The collector directed the officials to increase the hospital capacity to 607 beds for treating Covid-19 patients and make rope in senior doctors aged 50 and above to treat patients. He also informed the dean and other authorities that an MRI machine would additionally be installed at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/collector-assures-help-to-gmch/articleshow/77662823.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Nashik||Fewer Ganesh mandals seek nod for celebrations||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has given permission to 49 Ganesh mandals so far, while the applications of 87 are being processed. The 10-day Ganesh festival will start on August 22. The NMC has received 290 applications from Ganesh mandals, of which, 154 applications were rejected as they were not as per the norms. Some of these applications were on private places, while others were out of the NMC jurisdiction, said officials. Last year, 397 Ganesh mandals had applied for permission, but NMC had given permissions to 374. There has been a drop in the number of applications because of the Covid-19 pandemic. For the first time this year, NMC started online submission of applications and permission to Ganesh mandals for the celebrations of Ganesh festival. This year, NMC has already issued guidelines for the celebrations of Ganesh festival. This year, Ganesh Mandals are allowed to install Ganesh idols up to 4 feet height only and 2 feet height for household installations for the citizens. Moreover, the immersion procession of Ganesh idols by Ganesh Mandals is not allowed due to Covid-19 pandemic. Moreover, NMC has also appealed to people to immerse Ganesh idols at their homes or at the artificial ponds set up by the NMC administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fewer-ganesh-mandals-seek-nod-for-celebrations/articleshow/77661584.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 21, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot 6th cleanest; alsobest self-sustainable city||SLUG: Swachh Survekshan 2020 The Diamond City saw a sparkling improvement in its cleanliness ranking, becoming India’s second cleanest city after Indore, in the latest Swachh Survekshan (sanitation survey) released by the Union housing and urban affairs ministry on Friday. Surat improved from a distant 14 last year to number 2 and officials attributed this boost maintly to capping of Khajod landfill site which has now been converted into sprawling green land mass. Rajkot not just improved its cleanliness ranking from nine to six, but also got the national award for '10 best self-sustainable cities' in the population of 10 lakh to 40 lakh. Municipal commissioner Udit Agarwal said the award is a recognition of several green initiatives that were taken to reduce the carbon footprint. “The green initiatives are particularly important for Rajkot as it is the commercial capital of Saurashtra,” added Agarwal. RMC has achieved 100% in solid waste disposal through house-to-house collection and building as many as 102 public and community toilets. Ahmedabad has ranked as the cleanest city in India for the second consecutive time among 40 lakh plus cities beating the country’s four metros and other megacities. The city, however, got just a three-star rating in the category of 'garbage-free city', while Surat and Rajkot were both rated as five stars. However, when in the cities with a population of 10 lakh or above, Ahmedabad ranks fifth. Between 1 lakh and 10 lakh population, Gandhinagar ranks eighth cleanest city in the country. Vadodara too showed a remarkable improvement from a miserable 78th place last year to the 10th place now . After being ranked 13 in 2016, there was a continuous downslide. Officials attributed the bad performance in 2019 to documentation issues by the civic body, which was systematically ironed out this year as well as novel recycling projects that have been taken up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-6th-cleanest-alsobest-self-sustainable-city/articleshow/77661634.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Kolkata||Platinum Basusree nears curtain call. Can’t run biz on nostalgia, says owner||Kolkata: The 74-year-old Basusree Cinema is on the verge of closure. The owners of this hall, which had hosted the premiere of ‘Pather Panchali’ and ‘Ajantrik’, are now making a last attempt to find someone to go for a joint venture. If that doesn’t happen, chances of this cinema opening its doors when the government allows other theatres to resume business are bleak. Satyajit Ray and Pt Ravi Shankar at the 'Pather Panchali' premiereThe management of another landmark theatre, Paradise, has recently submitted to all stakeholders a “suspension of operations” notice from August 1 till further notice. Sourav Bose, one of the six owners of Basusree, said “We haven’t given such a notice yet. But the situation is grave. We are proud of our heritage, but nostalgia can’t run a business.” Bidhan Chandra Ray with Satyajit Ray, Pt Ravi Shankar and the unit of 'Pather Panchali' during its premiereEstablished on December 19, 1947, under the aegis of Satyabhushan Basu, the hall opened its doors with the screening of MS Subhalakshmi’s ‘Meera’, followed by Uday Shankar’s ‘Kalpana’. ‘Pather Panchali’ was screened here on August 26, 1955, following Satyajit Ray’s felicitation in the presence of then chief minister Bidhan Chandra Roy. Two other Ray films, ‘Aparajito’ and ‘Sonar Kella’, had premiered here as well. This is also the cinema where the car used for Ritwik Ghatak’s ‘Ajantrik’ was pulled up to the balcony for the premier of the film. Pt Ravi Shankar in performance at the same premiereMantu Bose, a descendant of the founder, took interest in hosting cultural programmes with stalwarts like Lata Mangeshkar, Hemanta Mukherjee, Shyamal Mitra, S D Burman, Kishore Kumar and Sandhya Mukherjee. The Poila Boisakh addas were popular and had the august presence of Uttam Kumar, Soumitro Chatterjee, Bikash Roy, Pahari Sanyal, Bhanu Banerjee, Jahar Roy and Robi Ghosh. In December, night-long Indian classical concerts with the likes of Pandit Ravi Shankar and Ustad Alla Rakha ran to a packed house. Lata Mangeshkar, Sandhya Mukherjee, Hemanta Mukherjee, Bhanu Bandopadhyay and others at a Poila Boishakh eventYet, the sales figures in recent times have been dismal. According to Bose, “People will lament the closure of an iconic single-screen theatre but won’t buy tickets to watch movies there. Forget electricity and other maintenance costs, our corporation tax slab makes it mandatory for us to pay Rs 6,75,000 yearly irrespective of footfall.” SD Burman, Kanan Devi, Uttam Kumar and RD Burman at BasusreeEven before the pandemic, a maximum of 200 tickets were being sold per show at the theatre that has a seating capacity of 1,030. With tickets priced at Rs 80 and Rs 110, this wasn’t even enough to pay the recurring costs of electricity bills and corporation taxes. Uttam Kumar, Soumitra Chatterjee with Montu Bose at BasusreeRevival events, including the French film cycle with French consulate and Alliance Française du Bengale, German Goethe Institute/Pratay Gender Trust/Sapho’s LGBT Film Festival and festival of independent films, did get footfalls. But the revenue to run the show wasn’t there. The lockdown was the last nail in the coffin. “During the pandemic, we used our income from other rentals to pay half the monthly salaries of the staff. But this can’t go on indefinitely,” Bose added. From the initial 50, the number of staff members has come down to 25. “Instead of 12 sweepers, we now have just one to look after the entire premises. Because of the reduced salary, the second sweeper has taken up cleaning jobs elsewhere. An usher who has been with us for 30 years has started working as a part-time electrician,” Bose said. The management is now looking for someone to come forward to get into a joint venture. “We are bleeding badly and are looking for people to come on board for a joint venture,” Bose explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/platinum-basusree-nears-curtain-call-cant-run-biz-on-nostalgia-says-owner/articleshow/77662837.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
August 21, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara springs back, grabs Swachhata top 10 rank||Vadodara: From its miserable 78th rank in 2019, Banyan City jumped up to clinch the 10th position in place in Swachh Survekshan rankings this year, leaving most contenders surprised. The rankings had been a major embarrassment so far, even as the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) officials kept insisting that the dismal show for the past two years was a technical hitch, while the ground situation was not that bad. The city had earlier ranked 13 in 2016 Swachh Survekshan and improved its place further in 2017. But after that it kept slipping down uncontrollably till it reached the 44th position in 2018 and then the biggest blot with 78th rank last year. Officials take refuge in “issues in documentation by the civic body” to be the sole reason behind 2018 and 2019’s no show. “We gained this time as documentation was improved. Also, our steps to improve the solid waste management facilities in the city like clearing legacy waste at the Atladara site and making it a flat land again got us points,” said in-charge additional city engineer Shailesh Naik. The stress being laid on recycling solid waste can be gauged from the fact that the civic body today ensures that it processes 772 tonnes per day (TPD) of waste out of around 1,100 TPD that it generates. A variety of projects have been taken up in this regard. VMC’s environment engineer Kashyap Shah said that a variety of projects like making compost and combustible gas as well as that of making refuse-derived fuel (RDF). “The waste to energy project at Jambuva landfill itself treats 700TPD waste. We are looking to scale it up in the coming days. Waste collected at Jambuva too will be cleared using modern techniques,” Shah added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-springs-back-grabs-swachhata-top-10-rank/articleshow/77661389.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Appointment of exam dept head questioned||Aurangabad: An inquiry has been sought into the appointment of Yogesh Patil, who recently assumed the charge as the director of the Board of Examinations and Evaluation at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu). In a memorandum submitted to the state government and Bamu administration, president of Swabhimani Maharashtra Underprivileged Teachers Association Shankar Ambhore stated, “Patil does not have the mandatory teaching experience of 15 years as shown during his appointment. He holds only eight-years experience after post-graduation as his earlier teaching experience was on the basis of graduation and that too at a polytechnic institute. Patil has still not completed PhD.” Alleging violation of norms laid down by UGC and AICTE, Ambhore said an inquiry must be ordered into Patil’s appointment. The association has also raised questions over the credibility of the selection panel which appointed Patil. “A section of members from the management council and some faculties have already lodged a written complaint about the appointment with the Bamu administration. As no action has been taken yet, we have been forced to approach the government,” Ambhore said. When contacted, Patil said he would not like to respond to any allegation levelled against him. “I will speak before the inquiry panel, if it gets constituted at all,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/appointment-of-exam-dept-head-questioned/articleshow/77662859.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Three aides of gangster Sukha Kahlon nabbed||Panchkula: Three persons associated with the Sukha Kahlon gang were arrested by the Panchkula Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) on Wednesday. Cops recovered six country-made pistols with 10 live cartridges from the accused, who were roaming in the city with a motive of carjacking.CIA in-charge inspector Aman Kumar said the accused have been identified as Harvinder, 37, and Gurpreet, 38, both residents of Gulmohar City, Derabassi, Mohali, and Sukhraj, 20, who was living in Ludhiana but belongs to Patiala.On Wednesday at 5.30pm, the CIA team started patrol on receiving a tip-off about three armed men entering Panchkula. A team of cops, headed by inspector Aman, nabbed the accused near Hafed in Sector 5 around 6pm. They were in a Hyundai i10 car (PB-01-C-2685) of one of their friends. Aman said, “During preliminary investigation, the accused confessed that they came to Panchkula to commit a carjacking. They also said they belong to the Sukha Kahlon gang, a claim which will be verified.”Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Raj Kumar Kaushik said, “The accused brought the weapons from Indore. On Thursday, all three were produced before a district court, which sent them to six days’ police remand.”Accused were booked under the Arms Act and relevant sections of the IPC at the Sector 5 police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/three-aides-of-gangster-sukha-kahlon-nabbed/articleshow/77662872.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
August 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Bamu sets 2-week deadline for viva of PhD candidates||Aurangabad: Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (BAMU) has set a deadline of two weeks for conducting viva voce for PhD candidates after the research guide and two external referees submit their reports and remarks. As per the latest order, in case external guides are not available for the viva voce, the internal guide can preside over the oral examination with the consent of the vice-chancellor. A formal order to this effect has been issued following an incident where a PhD candidate was made to wait for months for the oral examination for alleged want of money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bamu-sets-2-week-deadline-for-viva-of-phd-candidates/articleshow/77662885.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Kolkata||2 labourers working in zoo die of electrocution on lockdown day||Kolkata: Two labourers were killed and another is on ventilation after being allegedly electrocuted while setting up iron framework of a billboard for a private advertising agency on the Alipore zoo premises amidst torrential rain on Thursday morning — the first of the two back-to-back lockdown days of the week. “It’s a tragic incident and we have ordered a high level inquiry,” said Asis Samanta, the zoo director. State forest minister Rajib Banerjee and chief wildlife warden Ravi Kant Sinha, too, reiterated the same. “The labourers were engaged by a contractor putting up advertising hoardings. A probe has been ordered by West Bengal Zoo Authority,” Sinha said. Police said the incident happened around 11.30am when the labourers were working with some iron poles beside the boundary wall opposite elephant enclosure. Tarini Ghosh (31) was the first to have been electrocuted. Pradip Das (45) was also electrocuted trying to save him. None of them were wearing slippers when they had possibly touched a live wire on the ground. The third labourer, Litan Das, too, tried to save them and got electrocuted. Tarini and Pradip — residents of Murshidabad and Bhadrak in Odisha, respectively — were declared dead on arrival at a private hospital. Litan, a resident of Chingrighata, is fighting for life. “They were only stacking up iron poles. Tarini and Pradip had joined work two days ago. Both of them have kids and elderly parents at home,” said Hridoy Dey, one of the labour contractors. “The zoo authorities are investigating the circumstances and their engineers will file a report,” said an officer of Watgunge PS. Officials of the advertising firm said the labourers working for a contractor had been camping inside the zoo since August 4. “80 per cent of the job was over. I have been told that the men were only stacking up iron rods,” said Sanjiv Lal, CEO of the firm in Delhi. Cops said till late on Thursday, no case of negligence was registered. “Lockdown clause allows labourers to continue work at construction or allied sites if no movement is involved. This group had been working here for close to two weeks and residing in tents on zoo campus. So, there was no violation of rules,” said DC (Port) Syed Waqar Raza.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-labourers-working-in-zoo-die-of-electrocution-on-lockdown-day/articleshow/77662896.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat records its highest one-day tally of 1,175 cases||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Thursday added 1,175 positive cases, taking the total to 83,262. It is the highest daily tally for the state – earlier highest was 1,159 recorded on July 29. The state also recorded deaths of 16 positive patients, taking the death toll to 2,855. The deaths include seven from Surat, four from Ahmedabad, two from Rajkot, and one each from Gandhinagar, Mehsana and Vadodara. The new cases include 237 from Surat, 172 from Ahmedabad, 118 from Vadodara, and 98 from Rajkot. The case tallies for Ahmedabad and Surat are 29,747 and 17,799 respectively. Cumulative deaths for the two districts are 1,674 and 575. Share of Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot in the highest tally of 1,175 was 53% as nearly half the cases were from smaller towns. A total of 1,123 patients were discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 65,953. The discharges include 301 from Surat, 167 from Ahmedabad, 82 from Amreli, and 75 from Vadodara. There are now 14,454 active cases in the state, which is 17.4% of total cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-records-its-highest-one-day-tally-of-1175-cases/articleshow/77662894.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Crying 5-year-old holds on to hanging mother||NAGPUR: A five-year-old boy whose mother Jyoti Kalbande had hanged herself to death at their residence in Savitribai Phule Nagar early on Thursday, started crying, holding her legs after waking up from sleep, as rest of the family was unaware of the incident till then. It was the son’s howling that had startled his father Prafulla, a driver, who too was stunned by the sight. Police said the family is clueless so far over Jyoti’s decision to end her life. Jyoti’s parents, who are in Delhi, were also taken aback by the incident. Police said no suicide note was found. Jyoti had cooked food for the family and also offered them sweet dish as part of the dinner. It’s not yet clear as to what drove her to end life as rest of the family slept. Ajni police have registered a case of accidental death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/crying-5-year-old-holds-on-to-hanging-mother/articleshow/77664298.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Ambala jumps 26 ranks nationally||AMBALA: In the Swachh Survekshan-2020, the Ambala municipal corporation (MC), in the category of civic bodies with 1-10 lakh population, improved 26 ranks nationally as it was placed at 120th position with a score of 3,095.96 this year, while it was 146th in 2019. Ambala ranked 308th in 2017 and 159 in 2018. However, Ambala MC has lost three ranks in Haryana as it fell to 8th position; it was 5th in 2019. On the other side, the Cantonment Board Ambala has also improved position by 23 ranks, as it was placed 27th in 62 cantonments in India. The rank was 50th in 2019 and 54th in 2018. The report also gave ODF (open defecation free) ‘++’ status to Ambala. However, like last year, the door-to-door garbage collection services remained suspended in Ambala MC this year too. The solid waste management plant at Patvi village in Ambala district has been non-operational for years and unprocessed garbage is being dumped in the open against the norms laid by the National Green Tribunal (NGT). MC commissioner Parth Gupta said, “I joined in January this year, and the door-to-door services were already suspended and their tender allotment is still pending. The solid waste management plant at Patvi is also lying defunct and policies are in pipeline to improve its condition.” About other problems, he said, “There is a shortage of sanitation workers and we are working with 60% strength.” ‘Thumps up for workers’Ambala MC commissioner Parth Gupta told the TOI, “The improved ranking is a motivation for the employees who remained active even in the pandemic. We ensured timely services, including sweeping, sanitization and garbage lifting. It was ensured that employees get their salaries on time to boost their confidence and we adopted a transfer policy to break the monopoly of some staffers at inspector level.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ambala-jumps-26-ranks-nationally-slips-in-state/articleshow/77662899.cms||Jaskaran Singh
August 21, 2020||Chennai||Can you relax curbs in artisans’ interest, asks HC||Chennai: Citing the predicament of artisans making Ganesha idols, the Madras high court has asked Tamil Nadu government if restrictions imposed against public celebrations of Ganesha Chaturthi could be relaxed in their interest. A division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha made the suggestion to advocate-general Vijay Narayan on Thursday while hearing a plea challenging the ban. When the plea moved by E L A Ganapathi came up for hearing, Vijay Narayan submitted that the state government has already passed a GO prohibiting public celebrations of Ganesha Chathurthi in view of the pandemic. The bench said idol-makers had been working for several months on the idols. Besides, the pandemic would have also hit them hard it said, urging the state to consider relaxing restrictions in the interest of such artisans. As the advocate-general submitted that he would get instructions from the state and report the court on Friday, the bench adjourned the hearing. "The state cannot completely ignore the conscience or religious beliefs or customs of its citizens,” the petitioner said. On August 19, the first bench of the court headed by the chief justice A P Sahi refused to direct the state to take actions against persons and organisations such as Hindu Munnai if they defy the prohibition and install Ganesha idols in public places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/can-you-relax-curbs-in-artisans-interest-asks-hc/articleshow/77662905.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: 107-year-old woman defeats Covid||AURANGABAD: A 107-year-old woman from Jalna, who tested positive for Covid-19 on August 11, was discharged from the state-run Covid care facility on Thursday evening after successfully recovering from the viral infection. The woman’s daughter (78), son (65), grand daughter (27) and great grandson (17) had also contracted the viral infection but have now recovered. Jalna district collector Ravindra Binwade, who along with superintendent of police S Chaitanya personally greeted the woman during her discharge, said her recovery was a message for society that Covid-19 could be defeated at any age with organised efforts. “More importantly, it is strong will power that plays a crucial role in the battle against Covid-19. The woman kept a positive mindset that helped her defeat the deadly disease,” said Binwade appealing to citizens to turn up for testing incase they have any symptoms. Binwade also hailed the efforts of the doctors and the paramedical staff who took care of the woman and her other elderly family members who tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/107-yr-old-woman-defeats-covid/articleshow/77662902.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Nashik||MSRTC operates 80 inter-district buses from Aurangabad||Aurangabad: With the state government giving permission for resuming inter-district travel, the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) resumed its service on Thursday by plying around 80 buses from Auranagabad to different cities.MSRTC’s divisional controller for Aurangabad Arun Siya said that there was around 40% occupancy in the buses. “Buses plied to Pune, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon and Akola among other cities. As per official directives, every bus is plying with only 50% of the total capacity to ensure social distancing,” said Siya.Shaikh Tayyaf Nasiruddin, a 30-year old-vegetable vendor, took a state bus on Thursday to meet his sister in Ahmednagar. “Two Eid festivals passed by but we could not meet due to the travel restrictions that were imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19. I am happy that I am travelling again by observing all the necessary precautions,” said Nasiruddin who sprayed sanitiser before taking his seat on the bus. Siya said MSRTC was planning to increase the total number of trips to over 200 in a phased manner over the next few days. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msrtc-operates-80-inter-district-buses-from-aurangabad/articleshow/77660478.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad jail superintendent faces probe over ‘calls by inmate’||Aurangabad: Additional director general (prisons) Sunil Ramanand has ordered a probe against the Aurangabad central prison officials, including the superintendent, after a couple of audio call recordings of a murder accused demanding money from the family of another murder undertrial went viral. “An inquiry has been ordered against Aurangabad jail superintendent Hiralal Jadhav. It is related to an audio clip of a junior jail officer allegedly demanding money going viral on social networking site,” Ramanand told TOI on Friday. A senior officer said tha in one of the recordings, the inmate, Yogesh Sangle, can be heard demanding Rs 2 lakh for helping the other murder accused — Shaikh Akbar, who is behind bars for the past one year — get an emergency bail in view of Covid-19 from a high-powered committee. Sangle was arrested in August 2014 for allegedly murdering a man with the help of three accomplices. He allegedly used the mobile phone of a prison staffer to call Akbar’s son, Sohel, and seek the money. A photograph of a hand-written chit by Akbar was also allegedly shared with Sohel on WhatsApp. “In the second call, Sohel can be heard negotiating with Sangle,” said the officer. “The audio clips were recorded sometime after the state government started granting emergency bail or parole to jail inmates to ease out situation in the over-populated prisons,” said the officer. The officer said that two audio clips of 30 seconds and one minute, respectively, reached the higher-ups in the prison, following which Ramanand ordered DIG Dilip Zalke to carry out a deatiled probe into the incident. When contacted, Zalke said, “On the instructions of ADG (prisons) a high-level inquiry is under way.” Zalke, however, refused to elaborate on the issue. Sources in the prisons department said that after the inquiry was ordered, Salne has been moved to Jalna district jail, while Akbar continues to remain in the Aurangabad central prison. Prison superintendent Jadhav could not be reached for commen despite repeated attempts. (Inputs by Asseem Shaikh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-jail-superintendent-faces-probe-over-calls-by-inmate/articleshow/77693445.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 21, 2020||Kolkata||Two die in Kolkata's Shibpur after touching lamp post||HOWRAH: Two youths were electrocuted after they touched a lamp post while walking along the road beside Botanic Garden, Shibpur on Thursday afternoon. The duo was taken to Howrah State General Hospital where doctors declared them “dead on arrival”. They were identified as Suman Sharma and Srikanta Das. Witnesses said the road was waterlogged. Just outside a government housing complex, both touched a lamppost. After that, the two suddenly fell on the road. Cops and a team from CESC reached the spot after being informed by locals. A senior officer said there was a possible short circuit in the lamppost amid heavy rain. Botanic Garden Morning Walkers’ Associaton secretary Taposh Das said, “We demand stern action against the CESC employees responsible for the deaths.” CESC officials said they were investigating it. “There have been two unfortunate deaths. An electricity pole was involved. The street where the incident happened was waterlogged. We have switched off supply to other poles in streets that are similarly waterlogged,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-die-in-shibpur-after-touching-lamp-post/articleshow/77662909.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Vadodara||Clay Ganesha idol demand shoots up||Vadodara: Lord Ganesha will go completely green in the city this year. Within days of the government announcing a ban on celebrating Ganesh festival in public, the demand for clay idols shot up considerably in the city. Ganesh idol makers said that most of the devotees placed orders for eco-friendly clay idols over the last one month and the demand is increasing. “Over last few years, the trend of installing clay idols has been rising steadily. But this time, the majority of our customers have placed orders for only clay Ganesh idols and the demand has gone up by 30 to 40 per cent. In fact, 90 per cent of the idols we sold were made of clay. This is unprecedented,” said Ghanshyam Kahar, one of the prominent idol makers in the city. He said that many people, who had placed orders for Plaster of Paris (PoP) idols, cancelled it after the government banned public celebration of Ganesh festival. “I am still getting inquiries and last moment orders for clay idols. This year, the city will hardly see any Ganesh idol made of PoP,” Kahar told TOI. The idol makers hadn’t anticipated such rush for the clay idols and hence many are facing tough time meeting the orders. “There is a ban on taking out Ganesh immersion processions so the devotees would have to immerse the idols at their home. A clay idol immerses easily and quickly. So most citizens are preferring small clay idols this time,” said Mangesh Chavan, whose three generations have been in Ganesh idol making. Even the Ganesh pandal organizers, who have been installing tall PoP idols since decades, have gone for clay ones this year. “It wasn’t possible to erect a pandal in public so we decided to install the Ganesh idol in a small shop in our area. We bought a clay idol as it would be easier to immerse it,” said Mahendra Sonavne of Ganesh Bal Yuvak Mandal that has been organizing the festival since the last 50 years in Baranpura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/clay-ganesha-idol-demand-shoots-up/articleshow/77661353.cms||Tushar Tere
August 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Get state’s nod for agriculture courses, deemed varsities told||Coimbatore: The agriculture department has directed all deemed universities that offer agriculture and allied courses to get its approval by obtaining a no-objection certificate.A government order issued on July 28 said that as per the existing norms, deemed universities can apply for accreditation from the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) only after the first batch of students graduate, which would take four years. This process, which comprises of the submission of the letter of intent, institutional eligibility of accreditation and self-study report, would take eight months to a year. The institutions apply for the state’s no-objection certificate (NOC)only after five years. Because of this, students face uncertainty.The registrar of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) had sent letters to the state, raising concern. Subsequently, the state issued a fresh order, which states, ‘All deemed to be universities in the state intending to open a new department on its campus or an off-campus centre/institution in agriculture and allied subjects, namely agriculture, horticulture, agricultural engineering, forestry, food technology, agricultural biotechnology, sericulture, home/community science, food nutrition and diabetics, should obtain a no-objection certificate from the state government before starting the agriculture and allied programmes in Tamil Nadu’.Deemed universities which are already offering agriculture and allied courses should submit proof of having obtained approval from the state government for establishment of department or off-campus centres offering agriculture or allied courses, and if not obtained, the institutions should get the approval within six months of the government order. Deemed universities starting the courses anew should also get ICAR accreditation as per norms and those which are already offering the courses should admit students only after they comply with the UGC norms.TNAU registrar A S Krishnamoorthy said deemed universities should approach the state for getting the NOC, and the state may redirect them to TNAU for follow up. “The 14 constituent colleges of TNAU and the 28 private colleges in the state which offer agriculture and allied courses would be monitored by us,” he said.As per the government order , the nine deemed universities in the state which offer agriculture and allied courses are Karunya University, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, Sri Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya Institute of Agri and Rural Development, all in Coimbatore, SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Bharath University, and Saveetha University, all in Chennai, Vellore Institute of Technology, Vellore; Kalasalingam University, Srivilliputhur and Prist University, Thanjavur.Representatives of deemed universities in Coimbatore that offer agriculture courses said they were working towards fulfilling the directions in the government order. Prashant R Nair, a representative of Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, said, “By virtue of our university’s autonomy status, UGC has permitted Amrita to start agriculture programme and our programme commenced in the academic year 2019-2020. Since our programme has already commenced, we are now working towards ratification of the programme by the government of Tamil Nadu.”Vice-chancellor of Karunya Institute of Technology and Sciences P Mannar Jawahar said the institution received a communication in this regard. “When verified with the UGC, we were told the accreditation procedures, as existing, would be done after the first batch of students graduate. We have communicated it to the state in writing,” he said.Other deemed universities are also working towards getting their agri and allied courses ratified by the state, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/get-states-nod-for-agriculture-courses-deemed-varsities-told/articleshow/77662925.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘WHO lauded our Covid-19 efforts’||Ahmedabad: Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), on Thursday said that the World Health Organization (WHO) has lauded the steps taken by Government of Gujarat to contain Covid. “Dr Roderico Ofrin, WHO’s representative in India, said that the way Gujarat fought against Covid-19 under leadership of CM Vijay Rupani is commendable, and good practices should be documented,” said Ravi. A video conference took place on Thursday to appraise WHO officials of steps taken by the state, which was once third in India in terms of total positive cases. Ravi made a presentation on five months of the epidemic in Gujarat and how a multi-pronged approach was employed from the start.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/who-lauded-our-covid-19-efforts/articleshow/77662924.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Online classes helping Hyderabad’s elderly with technology||HYDERABAD: It isn’t just school children alone who seem to be taking online classes these days. Also logging into their computers for weekly ‘lectures’ are Hyderabad’s senior citizens — either learning to pay bills at the click of a button or turning on their camera for a video chat with friends, in such times of social distancing. “It feels like being independent again,” said an ecstatic 72-year-old Narayana Rao, who’s now become tech-savvy enough to not only pay his bills but also book his cab online. Turning to his teenage grandson, each time he had to get one of these chores done, is no longer a necessity. And this is courtesy the digital literacy progamme started by HelpAge India in collaboration with Google, exclusive for the elderly. So far, the retired textile engineer has taken six such classes. “As part of this programme, we conduct a free class every week to teach them how to use various applications starting from net banking, using e-wallets, cab booking and shopping apps,” said Shyam Kumar, advocacy officer, HelpAge India. Across Telangana, these classes have so far benefitted over 200 senior citizens, each of whom, much like Rao, had little or no exposure to internet during their years as a professional. With the Covid-19 outbreak they were forced to depend on younger family members even for routine work — like recharging phones or transferring money — that they otherwise managed by physically stepping out of their homes. For S Janardhan Rao, a retired government employee, the classes have helped him reconnect with friends he hadn’t met since the lockdown was imposed. “Prior to that, I would meet them regularly. Even though we all live in the same city, we couldn’t meet since lockdown was imposed,” said the 75-year-old who now uses Zoom and WhatsApp calls to socialise. “During the first zoom class, when we all saw each other, our happiness knew no bounds,” an elated Janardhan said. Apart from instilling a sense empowerment, these classes have also given the elderly something to look forward to every week, say those managing the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/online-classes-helping-hyds-elderly-with-tech/articleshow/77662934.cms||Aditi Mallick
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Paediatrician beats Covid-19 after 12 days on Ecmo||HYDERABAD: A 35-year-old pediatrician from Warangal recovered from Covid-19 after being on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (Ecmo) support for 12 days. According to doctors treating him, this is only the fourth such case in the country and first from south India. The Ecmo machine, which replaces the function of heart and lungs, is usually used for patients whose lungs cannot get rid of carbon dioxide even with the help of a ventilator and the heart is unable to pump enough blood. Dr Dayanand Sagar, who was brought to a city hospital on August 9 was initially on high flow nasal cannula device for adequate oxygen supply and anti-virals. However, he was later put on a ventilator for 18 days as his condition worsened. “We decided to put him on Ecmo after his condition did not improve even despite ventilator support. With the help of the cardiothoracic surgical team, the ICU room was converted into a mini-operation room and Ecmo was instituted,” said Dr Pavan Kumar Reddy, chief intensivist at Care Hospital, Banjara Hills. “After 12 days of being on Ecmo, Dayanand’s lungs started to improve. He was taken off Ecmo after we saw improvement in oxygen levels. He will be discharged on Friday,” doctors said. So far, two patients in Kolkata and one patient in Mumbai were saved using Ecmo therapy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/paediatrician-beats-covid-after-12-days-on-ecmo/articleshow/77663059.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||VFS to offer doorstep sample collection for RT-PCR testing||HYDERABAD: With Covid-19 tests becoming a prerequisite for most international travellers, visa outsourcing company VFS Global on Thursday launched an online sample collection service for RT-PCR tests in the city. They will also provide an ‘At Your Door’ service at a cost of up to Rs 2,800. “This service will be offered in association with a network of certified medical laboratories approved by the Government of India that have all due accreditations for swab collection for Covid-19,” VFS said in its statement. It added that the service is being launched at a time when some countries are making pre-departure Covid-19 tests mandatory while others were considering implementing them for all incoming travellers. However, the sample collection service is not limited to travellers alone. It can be availed by anyone willing to take a RT-PCR test. The reports are delivered confidentially to the person’s registered email address. “All customers need to do is book an appointment on VFS Global’s website and provide samples at designated associate medical laboratories...Sample collection procedures are approved by the ICMR and the ministry of health and family welfare,” the VFS said. “We believe a convenient and reliable pre-departure Covid-19 sample collection can become a catalyst in the recovery process of international travel by providing an assurance to destination countries, airlines and travellers and by becoming a major risk-mitigator. Countries might even consider making this mandatory for incoming travellers to ease pressure of testing upon arrival,” said Vinay Malhotra, regional group COO – South Asia, Middle East & North Africa, and Americas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vfs-to-offer-doorstep-sample-collection-for-rt-pcr-testing/articleshow/77663035.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana government to scale up testing to reach 40,000 daily tests mark||HYDERABAD: After criticism from various quarters that 40,000 Covid-19 tests are not being carried out daily as decided, the state government is gearing up to scale up the testing. Even though antigen testing is being taken up at Primary Health Care Centres (PHC), not more than 20 tests are being conducted at each centre on a daily basis. To enhance the testing, the number of antigen tests at PHCs will be increased. The state government has also increased the number of antigen centers from just 300 to more than 1,000. Officials were given instructions to conduct more RT-PCR tests than before. As per the plan, all the teaching hospitals will carry out more RT-PCR tests and district hospitals will do Truenat and CB-NAAT tests. PHCs will do only antigen tests. The government has given permission to acquire more antigen kits and the health department is acquiring the required number of antigen tests. However, the state government has no plans to give permissions to more private labs or hospitals to do testing. “It is not possible to do more RT-PCR tests even at the PHC level as it takes time and not many staff and labs are available,” a senior official said. The state government has increased testing since Thursday, after lowering the number of tests below 10,000 daily. It will take about one week to reach the capacity of 40,000 daily tests, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-to-scale-up-testing-to-reach-40k-daily-tests-mark/articleshow/77663196.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Elderly Covid-19 patients abandoned at old-age homes by families after recovery||HYDERABAD: While several patients who have recovered from Covid-19 continue to require medical care, post-Covid care has been used in several instances to abandon the elderly at old-age homes. There are at least five patients at the state-run Gandhi Hospital currently, who are still awaiting their families to take them back, who have citied various reasons for their inability to take them back. While hospital authorities are still counselling them, the hospital authorities had taken the help of the police in case of around 50 patients, whose families had previously refused to take them home. Many of them have been abandoned by families now. Last week, a 38 year-old-man refused to let his adoptive mother home after he had recovered and the mother contracted the virus. He cited inability to take care of the mother as he was still weak and said that she was not even his own mother. In another case, a woman was abandoned by her nephews after she recovered from the virus. She is currently housed at the post-Covid care run by an NGO. “A small number of patients require long term care due to post-Covid complications, necessitating oxygen support due to low saturations, generalised weakness. They need nutritional rehabilitation along with physiotherapy. Few of them are even having mental disorders triggered by the family’s refusal to accept them and require professional counselling. It is particularly seen in the elderly due to fear and stigma and such cases need basic shelter and care,” said Mujtaba Hasan Askari, founder, Helping Hand Foundation, which has set up a post-Covid care centre. In fact, many among the 50 patients who were sent back to their homes with the help of police have been abandoned. “We now have five such patients and are still counselling their families to take them back. They are delaying, saying they need another week or two. Previously, we had to involve police and send the 50 patients back but in many cases the families went and left them at old-age homes,” said Dr Prabhakar Rao, nodal officer for Covid-19 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/elderly-covid-19-patients-abandoned-at-old-age-homes-by-families-after-recovery/articleshow/77663177.cms||Amrita Didyala
August 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Hoax call probe will look into all possible angles: Mangaluru top cop||MANGALURU: The Ongoing police investigation in to the alleged hoax call that Vasanth, a 33-year-old agricultural labourer, resident of Mudradi in Karkala taluk of Udupi district made about bomb being planted at Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) will cover all possible angles, Vikash Kumar, city police chief, said. City police, with help from their counterparts in Udupi, had nabbed Vasanth, hours after he sent SMSes and called former airport director (APD) M R Vasudeva about the ‘threat’. Assuring to provide details once the investigation is complete, Vikash Kumar told TOI that a team of police officials led by T Kodandaram, in-charge assistant commissioner of police, Mangaluru north sub-division and Kamalakar Nayak, police inspector, Bajpe PS are probing the matter. With the custodial period ending, the immediate priority is to subject the accused to a Covid-19 test and produce him before the jurisdictional magistrate, he said. Playing cards of the investigation close to this chest, Vikash Kumar said, “We will probe even the seemingly smallest of angles and strive to come to exact reasons that prompted Vasanth to make the call and send out those SMSes, which turned out to be a hoax.” The probe will also deal with reasons that prompted him to call Vasudeva, how he sourced former APDs number and if he had any ulterior motive in going ahead with an apparent prank. Sources privy to ongoing investigation, but not authorised to speak to the media, said Vasanth, worked in various hotels including Bengaluru and had returned to Karkala after the lockdown ended. “He has studied up to Class 8 and was helping out the family in the agricultural land that his father owns,” the sources said, adding Vasanth did not return to his old job due to the prevalent economic situation with hotels not opting for its old staffing pattern. “The accused apparently found Vasudeva’s number from Facebook using a basic smartphone that he owned and sent the SMS and called him assuming he was the APD,” the sources said, adding he appeared mentally disturbed due to the prevalent situation. Vasanth has been charged under sections 505 (1) (B) and 507 of IPC and section 3(1)(d) of Suppression of Unlawful acts against safety of Civil Aviation Act, 1982 in a case registered in Bajpe PS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/hoax-call-probe-will-look-into-all-possible-angles-mangaluru-top-cop/articleshow/77663420.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Rain to intensify with low pressure on Sunday, likely to wipe out deficit, says Met||KOLKATA: The city received several spells of rain on Thursday even as a low-pressure — that has been triggering the showers — moved towards Odisha. While Kolkata and the rest of south Bengal will continue to receive sporadic showers over the next two days, the volume of rain could lessen before picking up again on August 23 when another low-pressure system is expected to form over northwest Bay of Bengal. Kolkata has so far received 205 mm rain in August which is 12% less than normal. On Thursday, the city received 32.9 mm rain. Even though the low pressure has moved away, the city and several districts of south Bengal will receive light to moderate rain, according to Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director GK Das. “There could be a spell or two of moderate rain, but we don’t expect heavy showers in Kolkata on Friday and Saturday. On Sunday, another low pressure will form and that will lead to further rain which could be heavy in the coastal areas. Kolkata could receive light to moderate rain till at least August 25,” said Das. The rain deficit for the month could be wiped off by next week, felt meteorologists. “There is a minor shortfall due to the relatively inactive monsoon during the first half of the month. But we have had three low pressures since then and another is in the offing. We expect at least 50-70 mm rain over the next 4-5 days which would be enough to neutralize the deficit,” said a meteorologist. In August 2019, the city had a surplus of 61%, thanks to a mid-month deluge that triggered nearly 200 mm in just two days. While August is the second wettest of the monsoon months with a normal rain count of 344.5 mm, Kolkata had received a phenomenal 430.9 mm till August 18 last year which is more than double the normal count (till August 18). But almost half of this was received in just two days. This year, too, the wet period began during the second half of the month, which has left weather scientists worried about ‘unusually intense’ spells which have been frequent in recent years. “Rainfall distribution has been getting uneven, raising the chances of flooding and prolonging dry periods in monsoon. There have been extended dry periods this season resulting in huge monthly deficits. This is linked to a changing global weather pattern that now sees intense spells of rain interspersed with long dry periods,” said a weather scientist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rain-to-intensify-with-low-pressure-on-sunday-likely-to-wipe-out-deficit-met/articleshow/77662932.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Trash in open hits Hyderabad's Swachh rank||HYDERABAD: The Swachh Survekshan rankings for 2020 released on Thursday put Hyderabad at the 23rd spot among 47 cities. While the city lost out to Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam, both in the top 10 at ranks, it fared better than major municipal corporations such of north and south Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Chennai. It had ranked 35th among 100 cities in last year’s survey. As per the survey, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) lagged behind in setting up litter bins, waste processing and divergence redressal systems while door-to-door garbage collection, segregation at source, sweeping of public, commercial and residential spaces were marked as areas that need improvement. Lack of bulk waste generators and garbage near drains also hindered the city’s score. “Low scores in certification can be attributed to inspections in slums and unplanned localities that lack proper roads and drains,” said a GHMC official hailing the ranking as an improvement. In this year’s survey, Hyderabad was up against cities with a population of over 10 lakh. While it scored over 1,000 marks (out of 1,500) in three categories it could muster up only 500 in the certification category. While the GHMC commissioner could not be reached for comments despite attempts by TOI, the additional commissioner said the survey was conducted before his tenure began. Speaking on the rankings, Hyderabad mayor Bonthu Rammohan said, “We won best mega city for citizen feedback (for population over 40 lakh). For smaller cities, maintaining sanitation is easy. We secured a good rank despite competing with them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trash-in-open-hits-hyds-swachh-rank/articleshow/77663409.cms||Nabinder Bommala
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Districts lack beds as Telangana sees 1,700 new Covid cases||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Thursday recorded 1,724 new Covid-19 cases and another 10 deaths. The state tally has now risen to 97,424 while the death toll now stands at 729. According to health authorities, over 75,000 patients have recovered so far while 21,509 are undergoing treatment. Officials said 23,841 samples were collected taking the total number of samples analysed so far in the state to 8.2 lakh. The case fatality rate in the state dropped to 0.74% from 0.75%. The country’s average fatality rate is currently 1.91%. The recovery rate was reported to be 77.17% as against the country average of 73.64%. Among districts, Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri continued to record the highest number of cases after GHMC limits where 395 new cases were recorded on Thursday. With cases mounting, district hospitals in Kothagudem, Gadwal, Nagarkurnool, and general hospital in Suryapet had no beds available. “There is no need for the public to panic. Please report to the hospital early as early treatment prevents complications,” the state health department advised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dists-lack-beds-as-t-sees-1-7k-new-cases/articleshow/77663070.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid-19 count continues to vary on coast as tally dips||MANGALURU: The number of Covid-19 cases being reported in the coastal districts of Udupi and Dakshina Kannada continued to vary wildly, with the tally witnessing a marked dip on Thursday, wherein the combined tally came up to 526, significantly lower than Wednesday (609 cases) and Tuesday (700 cases). Of the fresh cases reported on the coast, Udupi accounted for more than two-thirds of the tally – 349 cases. Although fewer cases were reported in Dakshina Kannada, it accounted for six of the eight Covid-19 fatalities on Thursday. Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said that 137 of the people confirmed infected on Thursday had a history of influenza like illness (ILI), while 130 had been identified as primary contacts of previously infected patients and 12 had reported severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). “The source of infection among 63 patients is still being probed,” said Jagadeesha, adding that six patients had travelled to Udupi from other parts of India, while one of them had returned from a foreign country. Of the 349 fresh cases, 190 patients were asymptomatic, the district bulletin stated. Udupi taluk accounted for the bulk of the district’s cases, with 162, trailed by Kundapura (100), Karkala (76), while 11 cases were outside Udupi. On the other hand, 184 patients who recovered at hospitals were discharged on Thursday, while 176 who were quarantined at home, were declared fit and recovered. Consequently, the number of active cases in Udupi now stands at 2,818, while the two fatalities took its death toll to 80. The two women who succumbed to Covid-19 in Udupi were from Karkala and had co-morbidities. In Dakshina Kannada, patients with ILI accounted for 88 of the 177 cases. Dakshina Kannada DC KV Rajendra said that officials were tracing the source of infection among 43 patients, while 29 of those confirmed with Covid-19 on Thursday had been identified as primary contacts, and 17 had SARI. As many as 85 of the patients who tested positive for the novel coronavirus were asymptomatic. Mangaluru taluk accounted for 107 of the new cases, followed by Puttur (16), bantwal (14), Sullia and Belthangady (12 cases each), while 16 were outside Dakshina Kannada. The six fatalities pushed the district’s death toll to four short of 300. While three of those who succumbed were from Mangaluru, one was from Bantwal taluk and the two others from outside Dakshina Kannada. All the six patients had co-morbidities. On Thursday, 187 patients were discharged, bringing the tally of active cases down to 2,287.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-19-count-continues-to-vary-on-coast-as-tally-dips/articleshow/77663492.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: SI becomes 1st woman cop to donate plasma||HYDERABAD: A woman sub-inspector (WSI) of Chaitanyapuri police station has donated plasma to a Covid-19 patient. She is the first woman cop to do so. G Sandhya, a WSI, of the Rachakonda police commissionerate on Wednesday donated plasma to a B+ve Covid-19 woman patient at Sunshine Hospital, Secunderabad. The officer broke down while narrating her experience, saying when she tested positive, she did not inform her parents, who stay in a village. Only after she tested negative, she informed them about the illness. Sandhya donated plasma after Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat posted about the requirement to Covid-19 Control Room. After Cyberabad and Rachakonda, Hyderabad City Security Council (HCSC) in association with Hyderabad police launched a plasma donation campaign on Thursday. Over 150 officers from Hyderabad commissionerate have already donated plasma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/si-becomes-1st-woman-cop-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/77663114.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Prepare for other diseases||HYDERABAD: Even as the state is reeling under Covid-19, state health authorities on Thursday directed officials to focus on preparing for seasonal diseases and keeping Fever Hospital ready. Health minister Eatala Rajender asked health officials to work with Panchayati Raj and Tribal Welfare Department for preventive measures. During a review meeting on Thursday, it was decided that out-patient timings at all PHCs will be increased from 12 noon to 4pm and evening clinics will be started at basti dawakhanas in GHMC limits. GHMC, Bhadrachalam and Asifabad were pointed as likely to be affected with dengue, malaria, chicken pox and viral fevers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-prepare-for-other-diseases/articleshow/77663209.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Mysuru||UoM to hold final semester exams for PG, UG courses in Sept||Mysuru: The University of Mysore (UoM) has decided to hold the final examination for both undergraduate and postgraduate final semester students in September. The university has announced a new timetable to complete the pending academic activities for final semester students studying both in UG and PG classes. For even semester students of both UG and PG courses, online classes will resume from September 1. “The final semester examinations will be held only in offline mode like previous years. All the precautions will be taken,” said registrar R Shivappa. According to the revised timetable, UoM has asked students to meet their teachers online starting from Friday, August 21. Consultative meetings between final semester students and teachers will start from September 1 which includes practical tests if required. Sixth semester final examinations for the UG students will start from September 7 and results will be announced on October 6. The 4th semester examination for PG students will begin from September 14 and results will be out by October 5. Online classes for I, III and IV semester students of UG courses and III semester students of PG courses will start from September 1. UoM has scheduled PG admission tests for various courses in October. It will be held in offline mode. “Students from the rural areas are not in a position to write admission tests online. So, we are going ahead with the offline exam,” said Shivappa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/uom-to-hold-final-semester-exams-for-pg-ug-courses-in-sept/articleshow/77662970.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Open up tourism sector, govt told||Udhagamandalam: Close on the heels of Kerala government deciding to reopen its tourism sector from September, hoteliers in the Nilgiris have requested the state government to follow suit and allow them to open for business.The sector has taken a body blow owing to the pandemic-induced lockdown, said a collective comprising hoteliers, restaurants, taxi operators and private cottage owners in the district. According to N Chandrasekar, secretary, Nilgiris Hotels and Restaurants Association, tourism in the Nilgiris should be urgently opened up in a phased manner by encouraging tourists only from the state. April, May and June are months when tourism business in the Nilgiris is at its full flow. This year, that entire period was wiped off due to the lockdown, hoteliers said. There are around 500 hotels in the Nilgiris district, apart from over 1,000 small hotels.“We are the only sector with zero income in the hill district for the past five months. In some of the states in the north, tourism business has already begun,” said Chandrasekar. Goa, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand have opened their tourist destinations for domestic travellers.Chandrasekar explained that there should be a cap on visitors so that tourist spots will not get crowded. All visitors could be asked by the administration to carry a Covid-negative certificate to enter the Nilgiris, he said.Private taxi operators in the district are also on the same boat. Govardhan, president of Ooty taxi owners’ association, said their plight is no different than the hoteliers due to no business. “Around 5,000 taxi operators solely depend on tourism here... we have nowhere to go than this business,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/open-up-tourism-sector-govt-told/articleshow/77662936.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana officials demand answers from hospitals||HYDERABAD: A day after the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) ordered three private hospitals in the city — Yashoda Hospital, Care Hospitals and Medicover Hospitals — to clarify pricing of drugs administered to three different Covid-19 patients, the Telangana Drug Control Authority (DCA) has also sought an explanation from the three hospitals on various bill components. Of the three, two have filed their response with concerned documents with the DCA and claimed that they had not violated any protocols. Substantiating its gravitas in implementing drug prices as per protocol, the NPPA on Thursday through its official Twitter handle revealed that a price monitoring and resource unit is currently under process for Telangana. Meanwhile, hospital sources confirmed that they had been forwarded the NPPA’s order issued on Wednesday. All three claimed they were not guilty of overcharging. The national authority had sought information over alleged overcharging and had asked the DCA director to examine overcharging in other components of hospital bills. “Overcharging in the drugs administered is being examined by the NPPA. Regarding overbilling in remaining components of the invoices/bills like investigation charges, service charges, ICU charges etc, matter is being referred to you as the hospital comes within the jurisdiction of the state government,” read the NPPA’s letter to the Telangana DCA. In response, Medicover Hospitals in its statement said, “With reference to the allegations by a patient about high pricing on pharmacy at Medicover to NPPA , we would like to clarify that we charge as per MRP only and we strictly adhere to govt pricing in treating patients . The same has been conveyed to NPPA too with proof. The allegations are baseless.” Care hospitals claimed that it had reviewed the patient’s bill and found no deviations. Care Hospitals is fully compliant to all the regulatory norms or protocols of Statutory nature,” the hospital said in its statement. Meanwhile, a senior official from Yashoda Hospital also maintained there were no deviations and all necessary documents and explanations had been sent to DCA and NPPA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-officials-demand-answers-from-hosps/articleshow/77663000.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Chennai||Madras HC refuses to reconsider ban on festivities, says it’s well-intended||MADURAI: Tamil Nadu government’s decision to ban public installation of idols and celebration Ganesha Chathurthi has been taken in larger public interest, and it can neither be faulted nor be interfered with, ruled the Madras high court on Thursday. Rejecting the arguments of religious practices and sentiments, the court said such sentiments should yield before the practical difficulties of Covid-19 pandemic. Taking judicial notice of the fact that the spread of Covid-19 has been fast and its potency to affect people with comorbid conditions has been high, a division bench of Justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam said unless the decision taken by the state government was malafide, the court is not inclined to interfere with it. Concurring with the submissions of Tamil Nadu advocate-general Vijay Narayan and reiterating that the decision taken by the government is purely in public interest on account of Covid-19 pandemic, the bench then dismissed a public interest writ petition for a direction to the state government to permit Ganesha Chathurthi celebrations with restrictions in the state. The PIL was filed by B Ramaswamy of Tuticorin district. Earlier, during arguments, advocate-general Vijay Narayan pointed out that the state had not banned the Chathurthi celebrations at households, and added that the August 14 order disallowed only installation of idols in public places and processions or immersion of idols in water bodies due to Covid-19 pandemic. Vijay Narayan said the government has urged people to celebrate the festival indoors. It was the petitioner’s contention that instead of banning the celebrations, the government could have laid rules and guidelines to ensure social distancing to prevent the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-ban-on-chathurthi-festivities-in-public-interest-wont-interfere-with-it-hc/articleshow/77662927.cms||Kaushik Kannan
August 21, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu firm on idol procession ban, HC sends mixed signals||CHENNAI: While Tamil Nadu government stood firm against making Ganesha Chathurthi a public spectacle during the pandemic, the Madras high court has sent mixed signals. While a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice P Rajamanickam of the high court in Madurai declined to interfere with the state’s decision, another bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha at the principal seat in Chennai asked the state government whether if it could relax the restrictions keeping the idol-making artisans’ predicament in mind. “The state can consider relaxing the restriction in the interest of such artisans,” the judges said, giving advocate-general Vijay Narayan time till Friday to convey the government’s response to the court. The state sought full support from “all sections” to prevent the spread of Covid-19 by adhering to the orders and guidelines of the central and state governments. An official statement cited the guidelines issued by the Union home ministry on July 29 that banned religious functions and other large congregations across the country. Following the Centre’s guidelines and considering the prevailing situation, the state had banned installation of idols, public worship, procession and immersion of idols for the welfare of people. It advised people to celebrate Chathurthi indoors. A division bench comprising Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice P Rajamanickam was forthright and said religious practices and sentiments were subservient to practical difficulties of Covid-19 pandemic. It also pointed out the public health scare the pandemic has created and how it had adverse impact on people with comorbid conditions. However, another bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha empathised with the pitiable condition of artisans who make Ganesha idols for a living, and said they had been making idols for several months and were hit hard by the pandemic and lockdown. “Therefore, the state can consider relaxing the restriction in the interest of such artisans,” the judges said, giving advocate-general Vijay Narayan to convey the government’s response by Friday. BJP supports Hindu Munnani, slamsThe BJP on Thursday attacked the AIADMK government for disallowing celebration of Ganesh Chaturthi in public places and asked when liquor shops can be opened why Ganesha idols should not be put up. The BJP’s stand aligns with that of Hindu Munnani on this issue, the state unit said on its official twitter handle and attributed the posts to party chief L Murugan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/state-firm-on-idol-procession-ban-hc-sends-mixed-signals/articleshow/77671812.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu firm on idol procession ban, HC sends mixed signals||CHENNAI: While Tamil Nadu government stood firm against making Ganesha Chathurthi a public spectacle during the pandemic, the Madras high court has sent mixed signals. While a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice P Rajamanickam of the high court in Madurai declined to interfere with the state’s decision, another bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha at the principal seat in Chennai asked the state government whether if it could relax the restrictions keeping the idol-making artisans’ predicament in mind. “The state can consider relaxing the restriction in the interest of such artisans,” the judges said, giving advocate-general Vijay Narayan time till Friday to convey the government’s response to the court. The state sought full support from “all sections” to prevent the spread of Covid-19 by adhering to the orders and guidelines of the central and state governments. An official statement cited the guidelines issued by the Union home ministry on July 29 that banned religious functions and other large congregations across the country. Following the Centre’s guidelines and considering the prevailing situation, the state had banned installation of idols, public worship, procession and immersion of idols for the welfare of people. It advised people to celebrate Chathurthi indoors. A division bench comprising Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice P Rajamanickam was forthright and said religious practices and sentiments were subservient to practical difficulties of Covid-19 pandemic. It also pointed out the public health scare the pandemic has created and how it had adverse impact on people with comorbid conditions. However, another bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha empathised with the pitiable condition of artisans who make Ganesha idols for a living, and said they had been making idols for several months and were hit hard by the pandemic and lockdown. “Therefore, the state can consider relaxing the restriction in the interest of such artisans,” the judges said, giving advocate-general Vijay Narayan to convey the government’s response by Friday. BJP supports Hindu Munnani, slamsThe BJP on Thursday attacked the AIADMK government for disallowing celebration of Ganesh Chaturthi in public places and asked when liquor shops can be opened why Ganesha idols should not be put up. The BJP’s stand aligns with that of Hindu Munnani on this issue, the state unit said on its official twitter handle and attributed the posts to party chief L Murugan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-firm-on-idol-procession-ban-hc-sends-mixed-signals/articleshow/77662938.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Coimbatore||397 new cases take dist’s tally to 10,558||Coimbatore: The district recorded 397 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the tally to 10,558, of which 2,928 are active cases. Hospital beds are filling up fast because of the influx of new patients. The district has been seeing a steady spike in cases for more than a week now. The toll, meanwhile, shot up to 228 officially, with the state including 11 more Covid-19 deaths that occurred in the district in its bulletin.At least 181 patients were cured and discharged from the facilities they were undergoing treatment in the day. With this, 7,402 patients have recovered from the virus attack in the district so far. The recovery rate stands at 70%.According to the media bulletin, all the 11 people, who died of the virus, had comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension. Eight of them were senior citizens. The remaining were aged 43, 39 and 49 years.Pollachi recorded 18 new cases of Covid-19, of which 16 were from AR Garden at Makkinampatti. Selvapuram cluster continued to swell with seven cases. The remaining cases were spread across Venkitapuram, GN Mills, Thudiyalur, RS Puram, Rathinapuri and Ganapathy, among other areas.The daily spike in cases coupled with the increasing number of patients coming from other districts for treatment is likely to lead to shortage of beds in hospitals in the district soon. The ESI Hospital and the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital together have 1,115 beds and of them 549 were occupied as on Tuesday. In the PSG Hospitals, 400 of the 520 beds were occupied.There are reports that other hospitals, which treat Covid-19 patients, are not taking critical cases. “The first question most private hospitals ask is if the patient has breathing difficulty. If the answer is yes, they turn them away stating they don’t have any high-flow oxygen beds left,” says a senior gastroenterologist in the city who struggled to find beds for his patients, who were tested positive for the virus.Dr M Doraikannan, a representative of Indian Medical Association in the district, also said most hospitals were only willing to accept mildly symptomatic or asymptomatic patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/397-new-cases-take-dists-tally-to-10558/articleshow/77662975.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Meerut||3 sisters go missing in UP’s Baghpat, family alleges kidnapping||MEERUT: Twin girls aged 21 years and their younger sister, 18, went suspiciously missing from their home in a village in UP’s Baghpat district. They went out to collect fodder for cattle on Monday night and didn’t come back, said the family, which believes that they have been kidnapped. But local police are not convinced. Newly-appointed superintendent of police (SP) of Baghpat Sabhishek Singh said, “We have definite clues of their whereabouts and very soon they will be recovered.” When asked about the family’s apprehension that the girls might have been kidnapped, the SP said, “Kidnap angle is certainly not there. We cannot reveal further details now.” The family members searched for the girl the entire Monday night and approached police on Tuesday morning. The SP said that two police teams have been formed to trace the sisters. Munender Pal, station house officer of Baghpat Kotwali, said, “We are on the verge of cracking the case on the basis of call detail report and other evidence. We will recover the girls soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/3-sisters-go-missing-in-ups-baghpat-family-alleges-kidnapping/articleshow/77660492.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Insurance frauds rise during Covid, Hyderabad lab gets 50 complaints||HYDERABAD: Notwithstanding the pandemic, instances of insurance claim frauds have gone up in the last four months. A private forensic science laboratory in Hyderabad alone received as many as 50 claims of insurance fraud, a majority of cases pertaining to fire accidents in manufacturing firms, godowns and shopping establishments. Truth Labs founder-chairman Dr KPC Gandhi said the fraud cases did not see any decline despite the lockdown and post-lockdown situation. “We have received fraud cases involving Rs 350 crore from various parts of the country. Fire accident claims in commercial establishments and motor vehicle cases have increased and a forensic analysis has established the fraud,” he said. In one of such cases, a fire mishap was reported in N Yash Fans, Kukatpally on May 28 this year. Gandhi said it was a stage-managed fire to claim insurance. “When workers and staff members were coming to the premises, one of them saw smoke billowing out of the first floor where packing material was stored. They started vacating the premises and assembled all workers at the assembly point. At around 9:30 am, the fire services department was alerted and their personnel arrived at the premises at about 10:30 am. The fire was brought under control after a day. The fire damaged two rooms on the ground floor, one room on the first floor and parts of the terrace,” he recalled. The remaining rooms were unaffected. “Our experts found that the fire travel patterns were disconnected and affected rooms mainly contained packing materials and some finished goods. Discreet enquiries with neighbours and local authorities had revealed that the fire was suspicious,” said Gandhi. The version of factory witnesses and neighbours regarding the fire differed. It is suspected insured party could have resorted to unfair means as business was affected due to closure during peak season of summer, he said. The investigation had revealed that it was a stage-managed fire, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/insurance-frauds-rise-during-covid/articleshow/77662977.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 21, 2020||Kolkata||Three engines douse Park Mansion fire in 100 mins||KOLKATA: A fire broke out around 7.10am at Park Mansion on Thursday. Three fire engines managed to douse the flames at 8.50am in a 100-minute operation. The incident was reported from the top floor of the four-storey building. Cops said the fire originated from sector 2 of the building. Two employees, who work at the corporate office of a tea company and are believed to be at the spot from where the fire originated, were brought down to safety by the security guards on duty even before the firemen arrived. Though the exact cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, firemen believe a short-circuit may have triggered the flames. “Among other things, an AC in the server room is also being tested as the likely cause of fire,” said an officer. According to police, it was the security guards of the building, who had informed the fire brigade after noticing the flames near the windows of the top floor. “We initially saw the fire through the window when we arrived. Inside, though, we had to manage a 2,000 square feet office space. There was a lot of smoke initially. There were wooden furniture stacked around but we successfully controlled the flames and didn’t allow it to spread,” said Raja Bhattacharya, a firefighter. Park Mansion houses some very crucial offices and it is one among the iconic buildings in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/three-engines-douse-park-mansion-fire-in-100-mins/articleshow/77662974.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Meerut||35-year-old man trespasses into neighbour’s house at night, beaten to death||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A 35-year-old man who entered his neighbour’s house was allegedly beaten to death. A source who did not want to be names said Sanjay was inebriated at the time, and alleged that he had harassed a girl after trespassing. A probe has been set up in the matter. According to police, the incident happened in village Anantwada in Khatauli police station area of Muzaffarnagar, in the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. According to sources, Sanjay entered his neighbour Mangaram’s house sometime after midnight by climbing over their common boundary wall, and hid under a bed, where he was spotted by a member of Mangaram’s family. When the latter screamed, he fled the spot. Without informing police of the matter, Mangaram launched a search drive to find Sanjay with some other villagers. A while later, they captured Sanjay in front of the latter’s house and beat him mercilessly with an iron rod. Sanjay died on the spot from the injuries to his head. After being alerted, a team from Khatauli police station rushed to the spot, launched an investigation and sent the body for postmortem. They also arrested Mangaram and his associates after a case was registered against them on the basis of the complaint filed by a family member of the deceased. Superintendent of police (city) Satpal Antil said, “Deceased was inebriated when he trespassed. We’re trying to probe why he had entered Mangaram’s house. Meanwhile, the accused were arrested and have confessed.” A villager who did not want to be named, said, “The deceased was living alone and was not a good person. He had entered Mangaram’s house with dishonourable intent.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/35-year-old-man-trespasses-into-neighbours-house-at-night-beaten-to-death/articleshow/77660496.cms||Mohd Dilshad
August 21, 2020||Coimbatore||As e-pass norms ease, tourists flock to Nilgiris||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Following relaxation in norms to issue e-passes, borders of the Nilgiris district, a tourist destination, have been witnessing heavy flow of vehicles for the past four days. While 577 passenger/private vehicles entered the district via two check posts during the 24 hours ending at 6am last Tuesday, after the relaxation of the e-pass, 854 vehicles entered on Wednesday. However, 104 vehicles on Tuesday and 168 vehicles on Wednesday were stopped and returned at the check posts as they did not carry e-passes, according to police. Thursday morning’s report showed 877 passenger vehicles entered the district while 221 vehicles were asked to return. In other words, at least 3,500 people have entered the district in the past four days. Besides these private/passenger vehicles, goods vehicles ranging between 600 and 1,100 enter the district daily. However, check posts at Kakkanallah, Nadugani and Pattavayal on the Kerala and Karnataka borders witnessed an average of around 50-60 vehicles entering the district. L Sekar, a local taxi operator says, “At least 50% of the people are tourists who had come on a leisure trip. In the guise of relatives, they must be staying in private staying facilities located at the fringe areas of the district.” M Shivakumar, a resident of Coonoor said, “People from the district, who are staying in other districts for work, are taking this leniency in e-pass issuance as an advantage and visiting home.” T Saravanan, Ooty town DSP, said, “Till date, we haven’t received any complaint such as illegal occupancy taking place in private facilities in Ooty. We are checking the fringe areas of the town.” According to health officials, thermal scanning is strictly conducted at the check posts. Samples of swab are drawn from the incoming people for tests for Covid. At least, 1,500 samples were lifted from the commuters based on vulnerability in the past three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/post-e-pass-norm-relaxation-hill-retreat-sees-heavy-vehicle-flow/articleshow/77662962.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad forensic experts unravel insurance fraud||HYDERABAD: Forensic scientists of Hyderabad-based Truth Labs successfully solved the case of national powerlifting player Deepak Dabas, who resorted to insurance fraud by faking a car accident. According to reports, Dabas’s car had caught fire while he was returning to his home at Chandpur from Delhi. A passer-by saw the fire and informed the police, who called the fire brigade. To avoid attention, Dabas abandoned his car and walked to Haridwar, Uttarakhand on foot. He stayed there for the next 10 days. Meanwhile, his family had got information about him being kidnapped. They lodged a complaint at the police station and police started an investigation into his disappearance. Subsequently, the police discovered that he had withdrawn money from an ATM, based on which his return via train from Haridwar was traced and he was intercepted at Meerut. Dr KPC Gandhi, founder-chairman, Truth Labs, said, “The case was concluded as a man-made fire, caused mostly by igniting readily flammable and combustible materials inside the car cabin using some incandescent material to make it appear like an accidental fire for pecuniary gain from the insurance company.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-forensic-experts-unravel-insurance-fraud/articleshow/77663023.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 21, 2020||Mumbai||MMRDA may take over operations of ‘bleeding’ Metro One||MUMBAI: The city’s only operational Metro corridor—Metro One—built on public private partnership (PPP) with Anil Ambani’s Reliance Infrastructure may be taken over by MMRDA, according to sources in government. The state has asked the agency to undertake due diligence before moving ahead with it. MMRDA has 26% stake in Mumbai Metro One Pvt Ltd (MMOPL), which runs the Metro, while Reliance Infra holds 69%. It has operated the 12-km Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar corridor since 2014. TOI’s queries to MMOPL remained unanswered, but it has been bleeding ever since the project was commissioned due to cost escalations. A source said, “The state has asked MMRDA to come up with the terms and conditions and also ascertain the liabilities before the negotiations can begin or proposal discussed with MMOPL.” Confirming the plan to take over the ownership of the Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar Metro, MMRDA officials said there have been some discussions, but talks are at “an initial stage”. Metro One carries a ridership of around 4.5 lakh per day and has average revenue of Rs 1 crore per day. But losses are weighing heavily on the operator, MMOPL. MMOPL had said in a plea seeking a revision in fare that the increase was necessary to absorb the escalation in project costs. The company said it is “bleeding financially” and was suffering a loss of Rs 90 lakh every day of its operations. It is estimated the losses could be Rs 250-Rs 300 crore. MMOPL’s justification for a fare hike has been what it claims an escalation of project costs to Rs 4,321 crore from Rs 2,356 crore. The operator had said that its demand for a viability gap fund of Rs 1,252 crore from the government was reduced to Rs 650 crore. In 2017, MMOPL claimed before the Bombay high court that it was suffering a loss of Rs 90 lakh per day during a hearing on a petition against raising tariffs. MMRDA is executing around 10 Metro corridors across the city, but none on the PPP model. As of now, the corridor has interconnectivity with Western Railway at Andheri and Central Railway at Ghatkopar. Once the Metro 2A and 7 are commissioned in June 2021, it will have connectivity at D N Nagar on Link Road and Western Express Highway station in Andheri east.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mmrda-may-take-over-ops-of-bleeding-metro-one/articleshow/77664321.cms||Manthan K Mehta
August 21, 2020||Coimbatore||60 test positive in Nilgiris dist, 16 discharged||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district logged 60 new cases of Covid-19, taking its count to 1,178, even as 16 patients were cured and discharged from the facilities they were undergoing treatment. Presently, there are 202 active cases in the district, where 972 patients have recovered so far. The recovery rate, meanwhile, dipped to 82.5% from 85% on Wednesday. The new cases were spread across Ooty, Coonoor, Kotagiri, Gudalur. Several Badaga villages in Ooty, Coonoor and Kotagiri taluks also reported fresh cases.Kappachi village reported 13 cases, Kannerimukku village nine and Kookalthorai village eight cases.Among the new cases were a 24-year-old man and a 23-year-old woman from Tirupur who visited the Nilgiris. According to health officials, these two cases would be cross-notified to that district.An official said three of the positive cases had visited Coimbatore and another one Mettupalayam.He said the active cases were undergoing treatment at government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Coimbatore. Some patients are admitted to Covid care centres also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/60-test-positive-in-nilgiris-dist-16-discharged/articleshow/77663018.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Meerut||A road which turned into a 'curse' for 25 villages||MEERUT: This road has seen it all. Women delivering premature babies-- at times stillborn-- after constant spells of jerks. Hundreds of muggings as criminals easily outpace vehicles busy finding their way between carters, some as deep as 3 feet. Tractors and other heavy vehicles losing their axles after defying the 10km/hour speed limit. And the “worst affected” are the bachelors of the 25 villages on UP border through which this road passes and claims to “connect”. People of the neighbouring villages don’t want to marry their daughters there. Even their relatives seldom visit them. They call it “curse”, not a road. This 7-km throughway joins the border villages of UP and links Meerut-Karnal road with Saharanpur’s Gangoh region. Innumerable petitions to district administrations failed to evoke response, villagers claim. Now, some of them have resorted to indefinite hunger strike to stir the administration into action. The villages fall in a bunch of districts including Shamli and Baghpat. Speaking to TOI, a resident of Khodsama village, Sachin Kumar, said, “If you want to spoil a region, destroy its roads. This holds true for our region too which comprises at least 25 villages linked by the non-motorable road. It was last repaired 15 years ago. It has doomed us. No one seems to understand our plight. Relatives seldom visit us and suitable bachelors have little to offer to prospective brides. Who would like to come to such villages?” In 2005, a two-lane road was proposed to be built replacing this stretch as it was a shortcut to reach Saharanpur and saved almost 40km for travellers coming from Haryana’s Karnal. The road was built, but this 8km stretch was left. Ashwani Sharma who is one of the villagers sitting on hunger strike said, “We are farmers. Due to this non-existent road, carrying sugarcane harvest to mills is a Herculean task. Accidents are common. Forget about night, travellers are not safe even during the day. We will not relent unless this road is built.” At least 50 residents have decided to sit on an indefinite hunger strike by turns. “We are left with no option. It is a challenge to take our sick to the hospital and several women have suffered immature deliveries and many families have faced tragedies also,” said another protester, Sachin Kumar. When contacted, Shamli’s district magistrate Jasjeet Kaur said, “There are two demands, broadening of the road and its restoration. The restoration part is already sanctioned and the tendering process is already in the finishing stage. At present, incessant rains are going on. Once it stops, we will certainly renew the road. Regarding the broadening part, it will take time as the proposal has been sent to the state government and only after their approval we can proceed further."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/a-7km-stretch-which-connects-25-villages-of-up-border-is-no-less-than-a-road-to-perdition-for-residents/articleshow/77660502.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 21, 2020||Meerut||Graft case: Ghaziabad sub-inspector with Rs 25 lakh reward 'surrenders'||MEERUT: Naveen Pachauri, a sub-inspector who was posted with Link Road police station in Ghaziabad and currently under suspension, tried to surrender in an anti-corruption court in Meerut on Wednesday. But, he was asked to return with a Covid-19 certificate. According to additional district government counsel (ADGC) Sirajuddin Alvi, this was done in accordance with Allahabad high court's directive which now mandates a Covid-19 certificate with surrender application in court. "The accused sub-inspector Naveen Pachauri tried to surrender in the anti-corruption court of Prabhu Narayan Pandey. But, based on the directive of Allahabad HC which requires a Covid-19 certificate with surrender application, the accused could not surrender in the court," ADGC Alvi said. Pachauri along with six other policemen, including Laxmi Chauhan, the then SHO of Link Road, were booked for embezzling money recovered from ATM thieves last year. As of now, six of the cops who are accused in the case have surrendered or were arrested, though SI Pachauri is still at large. The scam unfolded in April last year when a private firm, hired by banks to deposit cash in ATMs, lodged a complaint claiming one of their employees, Rajeev Sachan, had embezzled over Rs 78 lakh in cash. That amount later turned out to be Rs 1.2 crore. An FIR was registered at Link Road police station in Ghaziabad and inspector Chauhan began the probe. On the night of September 24, Chauhan and his team claimed to have arrested the main accused, Sachan, and his aide Aamir, and claimed to have recovered Rs 45 lakh from them. However, later, DSP Santosh Kumar Mishra blew the lid off the scam. A departmental probe was launched, and it was found that the team, led by inspector Chauhan, had actually recovered Rs 1.2 crore from the duo, but siphoned off over Rs 70 lakh. On September 25, an FIR was registered against Chauhan and six other policemen at Ghaziabad’s Link Road police station. Soon after, all the accused went missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/gzb-cop-with-rs-25k-reward-surrenders-in-graftcase-court-asks-him-to-return-with-covid-status/articleshow/77660509.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Meerut||UP to identify, bring back 5 lakh out-of-school students||MEERUT: To ensure that no student misses out on getting an education, Uttar Pradesh education department has fixed a target of identifying five lakh out-of-school students under Sharda (School har din aayein) initiative. The authorities have asked all the districts to focus more on children in the 7-14 years age group as the 5-6 years age group has been identified. The Sharda programme includes identification of the out-of-school students, their registration, assessment, enrolment in class on the basis of age, training according to the class they are admitted in and retention in school. “Upon inspecting the data that has been provided under the Sharda initiative so far, it has come to the fore that maximum of identified students are in the age group of 5 to 6 years. On the contrary, hardly any students has been identified from the age group of 7 to 14 years, thereby the need to focus more on this age group,” read the order issued by Vijay Kiran Anand, state project director, Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan. In this backdrop, all the districts have been given targets on the basis of various age groups. A total target of 5 lakh students has been given to the state, comprising all age groups. For 7-14 years age group, a target of 4.24 lakh students has been set.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-to-identify-bring-back-5l-out-of-school-students/articleshow/77660513.cms||Ishita Bhatia
August 21, 2020||Kolkata||Hidco to add three e-buses to its fleet||KOLKATA: The Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) plans to procure three more electric or battery-run AC buses in New Town. They will be added to its existing fleet of three such buses. Last Tuesday, the West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC), a state transport undertaking, finalized the plan to introduce 50 more electric AC buses to its fleet. WBTC already has 80 such buses. Hidco has floated e-tenders to select a firm. The tender includes a five-year annual maintenance contract. On May 2018, Hidco introduced three 32-seat electric AC buses for New Town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hidco-to-add-three-e-buses-to-its-fleet/articleshow/77663026.cms||Suman Chakraborti
August 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore pips Chennai in death rate||Coimbatore: The Covid-19 death rate in the district has jumped to 2.13% from 1.9% in the past one week. It has the second highest death rate in the state, after Madurai, bypassing Chennai in the process. Worryingly, the deceased include patients in their 30s and 40s who despite awareness campaigns continue to seek medical help late and die within 24 to 48 hours of hospitalization. At least 26.8% of the deceased didn’t have any comorbidities.The district administration has conducted an audit into the deaths that occur within 24 hours of hospitalization and those who were brought dead.District collector K Rajamani said, “Though we don’t test brought-dead cases anymore, government hospitals, especially the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) and the ESI Hospital, do inquire with family members of patients, who are brought in critical conditions, about their earlier symptoms, when breathlessness began and why they came late to the hospital.”Data available with the district administration shows 63.6% of the 138 patients who succumbed to the virus in government hospitals was in the age group of 51 to 70 years. Of them, 31% was in the age group of 51 to 60 years and 32.6% was aged between 61 and 70 years. While 72% of the deceased was male, the remaining 28% was female.“Doctors say the two main reasons for the deaths are comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and heart disease, and transfer of patients to government hospitals from private hospitals when their chances of survival are very less,” the collector said.The district administration had conducted two meetings with the health department last week to explore ways to bring down the death rate. However, the district has recorded 62 deaths in the past six days alone, at a ratio of more than 10 deaths a day. On Wednesday, the Covid-19 toll list had a 36-year-old woman with just diabetes and a 30-year-old police constable with no comorbidities. Four of the 16 patients who died on Wednesday had no comorbidities.“Our doctors are constantly in touch with the state health department to update themselves on new life-saving protocols,” the collector said.While 73.2% of the deceased in the district had comorbidities, the remaining 26.8% had severe pneumonia. “We request people with any flu-like symptoms to immediately undergo Covid-19 testing at the nearest primary health centre and get admitted to a government hospital without waiting for the result, if the symptoms persist,” a communication from the collectorate said.The district administration has also decided to increase the strength of doctors on critical Covid care duty, to see if more attention could bring down the toll. “The process to divert more doctors from rural areas to the ESI Hospital and CMCH has begun. We are also planning to recruit more doctors with a specialization in handling the disease and its complications,” Rajamani said.Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said they have begun the process to recruit four doctors to CMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/coimbatore-pips-chennai-in-death-rate/articleshow/77662985.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Parents protest at DEO office over fees||HYDERABAD: Alleging that the education department officials failed to respond to their complaint over school fees, parents of students studying in a group of schools in the city staged a protest in front of District Education Officer (DEO) office in Hyderabad on Thursday. Parents alleged that despite submitting documentary evidence - the fee receipts, the officials failed to take any action, except for issuing a show-cause notice. “The school is charging five kinds of fee. When we raised the issue, they exempted us from paying one of these fees, which is hardly 12% of the total fees. But, as per the norms, the tuition fee can’t be more than 50% of the total fees. So, we want the officials to ensure that school collects only the tuition fee,” said a parent, whose child is studying in nursery at a school in Begumpet. Venkata Narassama B, DEO, Hyderabad, meanwhile, said that they are following the due procedure while dealing with the issue. “The entire process is transparent. We have issued a notice, they submitted their response. Our officials have conducted a detailed enquiry and we are waiting for the report to initiate actions,” said the DEO, adding that the same thing has been communicated to the parents who filed the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parents-protest-at-deo-office-over-fees/articleshow/77663036.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: SUV crashes into divider, turns turtle; no casualties||HYDERABAD: An SUV overturned after hitting a road divider on Road No. 82 in Jubilee Hills. The two persons travelling in the SUV escaped without any injury. The accident occurred in the wee hours of Thursday when the two IT professionals, who hail from West Bengal and work in Kondapur, were on their way to Kolkata. “They were going from Kondapur to their home town by road. The vehicle skidded as the road was wet due to rain. The person on the wheel lost control and rammed into the road divider. Neither of the victims suffered any injuries. No case was registered,” said Jubilee Hills inspector Sattiah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/suv-crashes-into-divider-turns-turtle-no-casualties/articleshow/77663046.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Pune||Pune jumps 22 spots in Swachh survey, 15th cleanest city in India||PUNE: The city was ranked 15th in the country in the Swachh Survekshan 2020 rankings, released on Thursday by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs. This was a significant improvement over last year’s 37th rank, which was a drop of 27 places, after Pune Municipal Corporation bagged the 10th rank in 2018. The city had claimed the 13th rank in 2017, and stood 11th in 2016. Pimpri Chinchwad secured the 24th rank this year, an improvement from last year’s 52nd position. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation officials said the coordination among the staff members and direct communication with the citizens helped improve the ranking this year. “The ranking is a step up compared to last year, but we could have done better with increased public participation,” Dnyaneshwar Molak, head of PMC’s solid waste management department, said. Along with the PMC officials, help was also sought from private players for improving the performance. The civic administration had appointed an agency to conduct a survey for Swachh Bharat Mission in a bid to make Pune the cleanest city. The civic body had organized multiple awareness drives to increase its ranking. The authorities held initiatives such as murals bearing messages of the importance of cleanliness, human chains, and a ‘plog-a-thon’ in which where 19 tonnes of garbage was collected, among others. PMC’s elected members also went on a study tour of Indore, which retained its position as the cleanest city in India for the fourth consecutive year. “The citizens felt PMC was doing everything just for show. The actual groundwork for better solid waste management and public sanitation was not seen. Garbage processing continues to be very poor. If people saw genuine efforts, they would have come forward in large numbers and participated in the survey,” Vivek Velankar of the citizens’ group, Sajag Nagrik Manch, said. Meanwhile, PCMC’s chief health officer Anil Roy said that they could have scored better, but failed to get the star rating, which cost them 600 marks. “We need to work on the citizens’ feedback, segregation of the garbage, composting in big societies and timely compilation of the data and reports,” Roy said. Maruti Bhapkar, a social activist, told TOI that the interior part of Pimpri Chinchwad and slum areas still require attention. “The level of cleanliness has certainly gone up, but it still needs to match the top cities and for that, we would require top effort and citizenry participation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-jumps-22-spots-in-swachh-survey-15th-cleanest-city-in-india/articleshow/77662976.cms||Piyush Bhusari
August 21, 2020||Dehradun||2 elephants found dead in 24 hours||DEHRADUN: Two elephants, aged around 15 years, were found dead in Laldhang area of Lansdowne forest division in 24 hours. Officials said that while one of the elephants, a male, fell from a cliff on Thursday, another one, a female, died of electrocution after touching a high-tension wire on Wednesday. Providing details, Lansdowne DFO Santram said, “The male tusker had marks of a mutual fight on its body and the spot where its carcass has been found indicates that it fell off from the cliff. The area becomes slippery during monsoons and such unfortunate incidents occur. The female elephant meanwhile died of electric shock.” Authorities ruled out the possibility of poaching in both the cases. Chief wildlife warden JS Suhag said, “The carcasses of both animals are intact and poaching angle has been completely ruled out. We will conduct postmortem and burial as per protocol.” According to forest officials, the state has lost over 21 elephants to various causes since January. Of these, eight died of natural causes, four in road accidents, two were run over by trains, three succumbed to electrocution, three due to infighting and one died of an unknown cause. The state is home to around 2026 elephants as per the latest estimate released by the state government in June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-elephants-found-dead-in-24-hrs/articleshow/77660546.cms||Shivani Azad
August 21, 2020||India||Bar ‘outsiders’ who gave communal speeches: Cong to EC||NEW DELHI: Congress has urged the EC to bar from the Bihar campaign ‘outsiders” who were held guilty of violation of code of conduct for giving communal or casteist speeches in 2019 polls, arguing that penalties imposed for violation during the poll process are not adequate deterrent, reports Subodh Ghildiyal. While Congress did not name any party, its plea appears directed at BJP. The party has further told the election watchdog that EC’s punishment of barring a campaigner for 48 hours for code violation is not enough as “star campaigners” who come from outside campaign for maximum two days at a stretch. Referring to such campaigners being used strategically, Congress said parties that benefit from “vitiated atmosphere” created by communal speeches are ready to attract the penalty of 48-hour ban. Congress also wants a complete ban on advertisements in traditional media and social media after the campaign ends 48 hours before polling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bar-outsiders-who-gave-communal-speeches-cong-to-ec/articleshow/77665552.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
August 21, 2020||Pune||Stress on screening comorbid patients to reduce mortality||PUNE: Health experts want the Maharashtra government to focus on identification, screening and early hospitalization of comorbid patients with Covid-19 symptoms with the state continuing to report a 3.35% mortality rate, the second highest in the country after Gujarat. The Centre has directed the Maharashtra government to take specific measures to address the mortality rate in the state with special focus on 10 districts, including Mumbai and Pune, Health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said while all the collectors of these 10 districts have been alerted, there was special focus on the districts surpassing the state’s average mortality rate. “There has to be a special focus on Mumbai (5.54%), Nandurbar (4.48%), Solapur (4.35%), Akola (4.24%), Latur (3.83%), Jalgaon (3.78%) and Ratnagiri (3.59%) to reduce the mortality rates. Though the number of cases in Pune district has been high, the administration has managed to reduce the mortality rate t0 2.38 %. However, the contact tracing has to improve,” the minister said in a statement. The Pune district administration has been conducting a survey of comorbid patients with an cellphone-based app. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said the administration’s absolute focus was on the screening of comorbid patients. “We have a robust team for the purpose. The case fatality rate (CFR) is the real indicator of the situation and we are making all efforts to bring it down,” he said. State public health expert Subhash Salunkhe said though sero surveys could assess the spread, the administration should focus on identifying the comorbid patients with symptoms and immediately isolate them for necessary treatment. “There’s also the need to immediately ramp up the tertiary care treatment, particularly for patients with comorbidities. Random testing and immediate admission of the comorbid patients would lead to reduction in the mortality rate,” he said. State health minister Rajesh Tope had also said on Tuesday that though cases were on a rise in Pune, testing has also been ramped up. “The administration is conducting around 5,000 antigen tests a day. Efforts are on to reduce the mortality rate below 1%,” he said. Tope also said the government has on principle accepted the Indian Medical Association’s demand for medical insurance cover for doctors practising in their own clinics. “The cover is Rs50 lakh, as it is for the other doctors practising in government establishments. The private doctors should get certified from the collectors and district health authorities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stress-on-screening-comorbid-patients-to-reduce-mortality/articleshow/77663014.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 21, 2020||Dehradun||411 new Covid cases in Uttarakhand, 9 deaths||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand reported 411 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Thursday taking the tally of novel coronavirus cases in the state to 13,636. Among the infected persons is chief minister's OSD (officer on special duty) Gopal Rawat and six staffers of the National Health Mission. With the NHM staffers testing positive, the third floor of the state health directorate, where the NHM office is situated, has been sealed for 48 hours. The directorate is the epicentre of state’s fight against Covid-19. Meanwhile, Darshan Rawat, another OSD to the CM, confirmed that Gopal Rawat has tested positive for Covid-19. He said, “His daughter had come from an outstation destination and one of her colleagues had tested positive. He is under home isolation and stable,” adding that Gopal Rawat hasn’t met the chief minister for a long time as his family was under isolation. The state also reported nine more deaths, taking the total toll to 187. Among the 411 new cases, 125 were reported from Udham Singh Nagar followed by 115 from Haridwar. Dehradun reported 87 cases, Nainital 47, Tehri Garhwal 17, Chamoli 9, Pauri 6, Almora 2 and Bageshwar 1. Also, 301 Covid patients recovered on Thursday. With this, a total of 9433 patients have recovered so far in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/411-new-covid-cases-in-state-9-deaths/articleshow/77660555.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 21, 2020||Dehradun||Geared up to bring ‘Delhi model of development’ to Uttarakhand, says AAP||DEHRADUN: Reacting to the recent declaration by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal that the party will be contesting all 70 seats in the Uttarakhand assembly polls in 2022, the party’s state leaders said they were geared up for the fight ahead and were hopeful of bringing the ‘Delhi model of development’ to the Himalayan state. Speaking to TOI, Uttarakhand AAP chief, SS Kaler, said, “The party has decided to contest all 70 seats in Uttarakhand in next assembly polls. We have already started the preparations and our focus is to strengthen the party’s organisation at the booth level.” Kaler added that if voted to power in the 2022 assembly polls, AAP will “introduce the Delhi development model in Uttarakhand and transform the lives of people living in the hill state.” AAP state spokesperson and member of party’s core committee in the state, Ravindra Singh Anand, added, “Both BJP and Congress have failed to live up to the expectations of the people of Uttarakhand in the past 20 years. We are confident that AAP is going to emerge as the third alternative in Uttarakhand.” He added that AAP will have a separate manifesto for each constituency in Uttarakhand and “all the promises will be fulfilled in a time-bound manner.” “On the lines of Delhi, we are going to introduce the successful model of ‘mohalla clinics’ in Uttarakhand, especially in the villages, which are grappling with lack of healthcare facilities. Besides, the party aims to provide free electricity up to 200 unites in the hill state,” Anand said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/geared-up-to-bring-delhi-model-of-development-to-ukhand-says-aap/articleshow/77660564.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 21, 2020||Meerut||Murder of ITI student: Police to resume efforts to recover body from borewell||MEERUT: After several failed attempts, the local police here could resume the operation soon to recover the body of murdered ITI student who had gone missing on June 25 this year. Now, a tunnel boring machine (TBM), normally used for installing pillars for rail and road projects, has been brought to the spot to aid the police's effort in recovering the body. Rupak, 20, was murdered by his four friends who later dismembered the body and dumped it into the borewell at a field in Jatola village within the limits of Rohta police station. Several JCB work were deployed for days to recover the body, but the effort did not meet the desired results as only a portion of flesh, believed to be from the body of the deceased student, was recovered and was sent for DNA. Police are now hopeful that the TBM will help recover the body though getting the gigantic machine to the spot has been a challenge till now. "The mud road that leads to the tubewell in a field can't withstand the weight of the machine. The road is being rebuilt and the work has been hampered by incessant rains," a cop at Rohta police station said. Rupak, the student of industrial training institute and resident of Kankerkhera area in Meerut, had gone missing on June 25 when he left home to attend a party. A missing persons complaint was registered by the family members the following day as the whereabout of Rupak who went mysteriously missing could not be traced. As police began its probe, it rounded up suspects who he was known to be with. During the course of interrogation, four detained suspects had claimed to have confessed of the murder of Rupak and his body being thrown into a borewell after cutting it into pieces. The main accused in the case, Vikas, with whom Rupak had an altercation which later turned violent, is yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/murder-of-iti-student-police-to-resumeefforts-to-recover-body-from-borewell/articleshow/77660571.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Kudos for Kharar||MOHALI: Kharar in Mohali district has achieved the Best Citizen Feedback Score in the north zone for a second consecutive year in the Swachh Survekshan 2020, results of which were announced on Thursday. According to the survey data, under the Citizen Feedback category, Kharar scored 1,009 points out of a total 1,250. The feedback was sought in four modes — face to face interviews, through web portal using OTP, Swachhta App-based feedback, and IVRS and outbound calling. CleanlinessOf 3,009 plaints, 1,857 resolvedIn direct observation, the Kharar municipal council scored 1,082 points out of 1,250, but it faltered once again in Open Defecation Certification Score, getting only 150 points out of 1,250. In the Swachhta App component of the Citizen Feedback, which assesses the number downloads of the Mo-HUA app, the number of issues resolved and the usage by citizens, the city scored 202.55 points. The municipal council had a total of 5,278 registrations on the app as of January 2019. A total of 3,009 complaints were filed during the last one year and out of these, approximately 1,857 were resolved within the service level agreement (SLA) timeframe. Parameters on which Mohali MC falteredThe parameters on which Mohali MC has faltered are open defecation-free (ODF) status declaration, solid waste management system, door-to-door garbage collection and garbage segregation at source. The MC has failed to attain ODF++ status. MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said, “The two most important components are solid waste management project, door-to-door garbage collection and its segregation at source on which Mohali MC has failed to score. But this year we will pick up and do whatever is required to attain a good position next year.” Last year, the municipal corporation got the final nod from Punjab government, but is yet to start the solid waste management plant. ‘Thumps up for workers’MC commissioner Parth Gupta said, “I joined in January this year, and the door-todoor services were already suspended and their tender allotment is still pending. The solid waste management plant at Patvi is also lying defunct and policies are in pipeline to improve its condition.” Gupta told the TOI, “The improved ranking is a motivation for the employees who remained active even in the pandemic. We ensured timely services, including sweeping, sanitization and garbage lifting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kharar-gets-best-citizen-feedback-score-in-north-again/articleshow/77663063.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Swachh Survekshan: Chandigarh climbs up 4 notches, takes 16th rank in country||CHANDIGARH: Making a marginal improvement, Chandigarh bagged 16th position in the country in Swachh Survekshan-2020 announced by the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MOHUA) on Thursday. The city got 8th rank in the category of the cities that have over 10 lakh population. In the survey in which 4,242 cities participated, Indore bagged the first position in the country. During the last Swachh Survekshan, the city had registered 20th position in the country and had received 10th rank in the category of over 10 lakh population. Chandigarh bagged first position in Best UT in Citizens’ Feedback in the national or state capital/UT category. This shows that the city residents gave maximum feedback for Swachh Survekshan in 2020. As per report, the City Beautiful got 4,970.07 marks out of 6,000 under different categories. The indicator-wise scores revealed that it got minimum marks in processing and disposal of garbage, which has remained one of the weakest points for the past many years. Chandigarh got 409 marks in this category out of total 700. In other components, like collection and transportation of garbage, sustainable sanitation, among others, it got 80% to 90% marks. These 6,000 marks were divided into four main categories of 1,500 points each, namely service-level progress score, certification score, direct observation score and citizen feedback score, in which the UT got 1,144.99, 1,100, 1,452.76 and 1,272.32 marks, respectively. Municipal commissioner KK Yadav said, “Chandigarh has improved as compared to the previous year. This could become possible due to the active support and participation of citizens. There are some gaps and we will try to improve our position next year.”  Mayor Rajbala Malik said, “The ranking has improved, but we will work harder to fill the gaps to better it further. We are trying our best to manage solid waste, improve cleanliness and other sanitation works. Taking over the garbage processing plant from JP Company is our major achievement. With this, we can manage things on our own for proper disposal of waste.” Cong calls it unfortunate The Chandigarh Congress has termed the 16th rank as unfortunate. Former Union minister and MP Pawan Kumar Bansal said, “The ranking has steadily dropped due to bad governance and inefficient administration.” Congress president Pradeep Chhabra said, “Chandigarh is plagued by mounds of garbage, potholed roads and sewerage blockages. Therefore, it has fallen by many ranks. It shows that city MP Kirron Kher, BJP municipal councillors and the mayor have no vision.” Patiala is Punjab’s 2nd cleanest cityPatiala is the second cleanest city in Punjab in the below 10 lakh population category. It has ranked 86th in the country. Patiala municipal corporation commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said, “During the survey, work on toilets, underground semi-bins, twin-bins and material recovery facility centres was under way. Consequently, the city could not make it to the top in the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-climbs-up-four-ranks-stands-16th-in-country/articleshow/77663108.cms||Deepak Yadav
August 21, 2020||Surat||Gujarat govt’s fee cut proposal rejected by pvt schools||AHMEDABAD: The first round of meeting between state education department and representatives of self-financed schools remained inconclusive. The government’s proposal of offering 15-25% fee waiver to all school students was turned down by the trustees of self-financed schools. The school authorities said they would consider on a case-to-case basic rather than giving a fee cut to all, said sources. The representatives of self-financed schools suggested the government to form a committee for offering respite in school tuition fees. They even suggested that the Fee Regulation Committee look into the cases where parents are in financial distress due to Covid-19 and suggest relief measures for them. President of Ahmedabad Progressive School Management Association Archit Bhatt said the meeting with the government remained inconclusive and that they will give their proposal to the Gujarat high court. State education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said this was only the first round of meeting and the government will continue to make efforts to offer respite to parents. The minister said that they will meet again soon. “There are 16,000 self-financed schools in the state. Many of these are small schools who will suffer the most if the government proposal to cut fees across board was accepted. Hence, we have rejected the government’s proposal,” said Bharat Gajipara, president Gujarat Self-Financed School Management Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/govts-fee-cut-proposal-rejected-by-pvt-schools/articleshow/77672017.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat govt’s fee cut proposal rejected by pvt schools||AHMEDABAD: The first round of meeting between state education department and representatives of self-financed schools remained inconclusive. The government’s proposal of offering 15-25% fee waiver to all school students was turned down by the trustees of self-financed schools. The school authorities said they would consider on a case-to-case basic rather than giving a fee cut to all, said sources. The representatives of self-financed schools suggested the government to form a committee for offering respite in school tuition fees. They even suggested that the Fee Regulation Committee look into the cases where parents are in financial distress due to Covid-19 and suggest relief measures for them. President of Ahmedabad Progressive School Management Association Archit Bhatt said the meeting with the government remained inconclusive and that they will give their proposal to the Gujarat high court. State education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said this was only the first round of meeting and the government will continue to make efforts to offer respite to parents. The minister said that they will meet again soon. “There are 16,000 self-financed schools in the state. Many of these are small schools who will suffer the most if the government proposal to cut fees across board was accepted. Hence, we have rejected the government’s proposal,” said Bharat Gajipara, president Gujarat Self-Financed School Management Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govts-fee-cut-proposal-rejected-by-pvt-schools/articleshow/77664342.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat govt’s fee cut proposal rejected by pvt schools||AHMEDABAD: The first round of meeting between state education department and representatives of self-financed schools remained inconclusive. The government’s proposal of offering 15-25% fee waiver to all school students was turned down by the trustees of self-financed schools. The school authorities said they would consider on a case-to-case basic rather than giving a fee cut to all, said sources. The representatives of self-financed schools suggested the government to form a committee for offering respite in school tuition fees. They even suggested that the Fee Regulation Committee look into the cases where parents are in financial distress due to Covid-19 and suggest relief measures for them. President of Ahmedabad Progressive School Management Association Archit Bhatt said the meeting with the government remained inconclusive and that they will give their proposal to the Gujarat high court. State education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said this was only the first round of meeting and the government will continue to make efforts to offer respite to parents. The minister said that they will meet again soon. “There are 16,000 self-financed schools in the state. Many of these are small schools who will suffer the most if the government proposal to cut fees across board was accepted. Hence, we have rejected the government’s proposal,” said Bharat Gajipara, president Gujarat Self-Financed School Management Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/govts-fee-cut-proposal-rejected-by-pvt-schools/articleshow/77672015.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Ganesha Chathurthi puts AIADMK, BJP on collision course||CHENNAI: The ruling AIADMK and the BJP continued their belligerent posturing on Thursday with BJP state president L Murugan lashing out at the government for not relenting on its decision to ban Ganesha Chathurthi celebrations in Tamil Nadu. The state government, however, cited the Union home ministry’s guidelines issued on July 29 banning religious functions and other large congregations. On a request from the Madras high court to take into consideration the plight of artisans who make Ganesha idols, the Edappadi K Palaniswami government said it would take a call keeping in mind public safety. In a meeting on August 5, chaired by the chief secretary with Hindu outfits, there were appeals to permit pujas for a day. Most of the participants at the meeting agreed not to take out processions and abide by the decision of the government. It was later decided to do away with the celebrations as idol installation would lead to processions and immersions. CM Palaniswami said the government was only following the Union government’s guidelines and tweeted, requesting everyone to celebrate at home. In recent days, the AIADMK and the BJP have been on a confrontational course on the language policy, OBC creamy layer and the denigration of ‘kanda sashti kavasam’, the Hindu devotional song by a YouTube group. “The Karnataka and Maharashtra governments granted permission (for puja pandals). I don’t understand why Tamil Nadu is not permitting it when they opened up Tasmac outlets in Chennai,” Murugan said. The BJP leadership has decided to stand by the Hindu Munnani, which has threatened to go ahead with the celebrations. Senior government officials pointed out that the Covid guidelines were strictly enforced in the state irrespective of religions. If it is not possible to enforce discipline, the state will not risk safety of the public, especially since issuing of e-passes has been relaxed, they said. Hindu Munnani state president Kadeswara C Subramaniam warned the EPS government that it would “lose the support” of the Hindus. “It was conveyed to the CM a few days ago. Since we have one more day, we hope to get some good word from him tomorrow. We want installation of idols to be allowed for a day and our men will do the immersion in groups. There will be strict adherence to social distancing norms,” Subramaniam told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ganesha-chathurthi-celebrations-aiadmk-bjp-on-collision-course/articleshow/77663188.cms||Julie Mariappan
August 21, 2020||Dehradun||Fines upto Rs 1,000 for not wearing masks||DEHRADUN: In an attempt to tackle the rampant flouting of norms mandating masks in public places, the Uttarakhand government has now notified revised fines of upto Rs 1,000 for violators. Earlier, the fine was Rs 100 for the first and second violations and Rs 200 for the subsequent ones. The revised guidelines provide for a fine of Rs 100 the first time, Rs 500 the second time and Rs 1,000 the subsequent times. An official notification in this regard was issued by secretary Amit Singh Negi on Thursday. Besides, the government would give the violators four masks free of cost. The move was taken after the state witnessed widespread violations despite the fines. Till date, over Rs 2 lakh has been levied as fines for not wearing a mask in public places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/fines-upto-rs-1k-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/77660580.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 21, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat govt’s fee cut proposal rejected by pvt schools||AHMEDABAD: The first round of meeting between state education department and representatives of self-financed schools remained inconclusive. The government’s proposal of offering 15-25% fee waiver to all school students was turned down by the trustees of self-financed schools. The school authorities said they would consider on a case-to-case basic rather than giving a fee cut to all, said sources. The representatives of self-financed schools suggested the government to form a committee for offering respite in school tuition fees. They even suggested that the Fee Regulation Committee look into the cases where parents are in financial distress due to Covid-19 and suggest relief measures for them. President of Ahmedabad Progressive School Management Association Archit Bhatt said the meeting with the government remained inconclusive and that they will give their proposal to the Gujarat high court. State education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said this was only the first round of meeting and the government will continue to make efforts to offer respite to parents. The minister said that they will meet again soon. “There are 16,000 self-financed schools in the state. Many of these are small schools who will suffer the most if the government proposal to cut fees across board was accepted. Hence, we have rejected the government’s proposal,” said Bharat Gajipara, president Gujarat Self-Financed School Management Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/govts-fee-cut-proposal-rejected-by-pvt-schools/articleshow/77672013.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: They beat mental illness, now help revive native rice||CHENNAI: It has been a stressful year for India’s hospitality industry and an uphill climb for young food entrepreneurs. As for those of us who thrived on those hole-in-the-wall eateries for our evening paniyaram fix or the neighbourhood bhai kadai for late night biriyani, it’s going to be a while before we can get ourselves a plate without a mask and an unsettling second thought. In these times, 26-year-old Rennee Saradha’s new social enterprise, Pidi, drives home several happy thoughts; primarily, that your food comes from a team of women whose exceptional culinary skills outshine their history with mental illness, and also, that you’ll be part of revival movement of native rice varieties. To be launched on August 21, Pidi’s first offering will be batches of kozhukattais made out of forgotten indigenous rice varieties from the south Indian delta region, in recipes from Rennee’s grandmother’s kitchen. Mallika*, 41, and Jasmine*, 60, who were rehabilitated by city NGO Better Chances after a prolonged battle with schizophrenia, had found a renewed purpose in cooking while at home. To them, the job is an opportunity to take this passion to newer heights and make a living out of it. “I feel energised to cook with a group of people and be appreciated for it. I feel like I’m contributing something personal,” says Mallika. Founder of Better Chances, Porkodi Palaniappan, has been making a conscious effort to find jobs for the women that match their interest. “It’s important to us that our women have a choice in the kind of work they do, and aren’t just sent to any job available to them. At Pidi, what they do requires handwork and a lot of passion, as they knead and fold the dough and wrap them up in leaves. It’s therapeutic.” Mallika and Jasmine will soon be training more women with mental health issues that Pidi plans to employ in the coming months. But most importantly, they play an important role in promoting the knowledge and health benefits of traditional rice varieties like karungurivai, poongar, navara and kaatuyanam that lost ground following the Green Revolution. The kozhukkatais will also be steamed in traditional leaves such as vilva, banana, peepal and mango, that lend them flavour and also medicinal properties, says Rennee. “The rice varieties are organically grown by farmers, are less water intensive and hence need to be promoted. Our aim is to make every part of this process mindful, from the farm to the table.” (*Names changed)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/they-beat-mental-illness-now-help-revive-native-rice/articleshow/77663136.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun jumps to 124th spot from 384 last year in Swachh survey||DEHRADUN: One of the bright spots for Uttarakhand in the Swachh Survekshan 2020 rankings released on Thursday was that Dehradun took a big leap in the rankings—from 384th rank achieved last year to 124th rank this year. Civic officials in the city claimed that “no other city has seen a jump of 260 spots ever in the annual survey.” Incidentally, in 2018, Dehradun had got 257th rank in the survey. Talking to TOI, Dehradun municipal commissioner Vinay Shankar Pandey said “We have been able to achieve the 124th rank with best efforts made to secure ODF++ rankings and the participation from people which played a crucial role. Over 80,000 people participated in the citizen feedback section. I thank the entire team of Dehradun Municipal Corporation for making this happen. We are working on plans to achieve the under 50-mark in the Swachh Survekshan 2021.” City mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama lauded the sanitation workers for their effort. “The process of rankings took place around the same time when the nationwide lockdown was implemented, but still the sanitation workers and municipal health officials worked day and night to ensure better performance than the last time,” the mayor said. Welcoming the improvement in rankings, Mahesh Bhandari, president, Doon Residents Welfare Front, said the focus should now be on maintaining the cleanliness in the city. “The overall rankings can be improved further once the Smart City works are completed and most of the plans are operational,” he added. Meanwhile, Landsdowne Cantonment secured 4th position in the country and was adjudged 1st in the state in the cantonment boards category, with a score of 3,210. The cantonment boards are analysed on parameters like direct observation, citizen feedback, service level progress and certification. In the service level progress category, the Landsdowne Cantonment got 616 marks, 200 in certification, 1,430 in direct observation and 963 in citizen feedback category. Ranikhet Cantt secured 17th rank in the country and 2nd position in the state. The other cantonment boards which performed well include Roorkee (20th), Nainital (24th), Landour (32th) Clement Town (34th), Almora (40th), Dehradun (41st) and Chakrata Cantt (54th).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-jumps-to-124th-spot-from-384-last-year-in-swachh-survey/articleshow/77660574.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||CPCC moves court against 118 polluting units||CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) has filed cases against 118 polluting units in various courts of Chandigarh, according to a UT administration report submitted to the National Green Tribunal (NGT). Confirming the move, CPCC member secretary Debendra Dalai, who also holds the charge of environment department director, said now the department has become more stringent in action against the violators and has started sealing the polluting units. The department has also started withdrawing the consent to operate from such units, he added. The CPCC is a regulatory body granting consent for operating industrial units after ensuring adherence to the provisions of the Water (Prevention and Control of pollution) Act, 1974, Air (Prevention and Control of pollution) Act, 1981, and the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. But, the committee’s inspection revealed that many units are not complying with the terms and conditions mentioned in their consent orders. In some cases, the CPCC even directed the electricity department to disconnect power supply to the errant units. A senior UT official said besides these industrial units, the CPCC is also checking automobile service stations, as the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) recently further tightened the norms for the handling of oil and grease by service stations, bus depots or workshops. The ministry in its latest notification has reduced standard value for oil and grease in these service stations from 20mg/l to 10mg/l. With these norms for water pollution in place, the service stations will now have to install effluent treatment plants (ETP) to achieve standard value.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cpcc-moves-court-against-118-polluting-units/articleshow/77663116.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
August 21, 2020||Goa||New NIT Goa campus to get green cover with 100 mancurad, 500 cashew trees||PANAJI: Getting land to develop its own campus was a struggle for the National Institute of Technology (NIT) Goa. Now, that the institute is finally starting construction buildings for its new campus in Cuncolim, the NIT has decided that its students coming from different parts of the country should get an opportunity to truly immerse themselves in the Goa experience. Though the plans were delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, NIT Goa marked the beginning of construction work on its new campus by planting 100 mancurad tree saplings. NIT Goa director Gopal Mugeraya said that a plantation of 500 cashew trees will also be developed on campus. The fruits from the trees will be made available to the students on campus, he said. “We have planted a hybrid variety of the mancurad, which will yield fruit in three years. The first fruiting will coincide with the time when the campus buildings will be ready for use. The trees have been planted not to make a profit. But we want our students to know the taste of Goa’s mancurad mangoes. Another 500 cashew trees will also be on campus,” the director said. He said that initially there had been apprehensions in some quarters that developing a NIT campus may lead to lose of tree cover. Mugeraya said that contrary to this belief, the institute is consciously ensuring that the tree cover on campus will be more than the number of person on campus at any given point of time. “The purpose of having mancurad and cashew trees on campus is that we want to preserve the original mango and cashew variety in Goa. We have made sure that the saplings acquired are of genuine quality. We will have more oxygen on campus. And we want that students enjoy the taste of local fruits before they leave Goa,” he said. He said that along the boundary of the campus, a walking track is being developed. The trees will be lining this track, increasing the aesthetic value of the campus as well. “We want double the number of trees than students on the campus,” said Mugeraya. Work for constructing the new campus of NIT Goa, at Cuncolim, has been awarded to a Pune-based company B G Shirke Construction Technology. He said that the buildings are expected to be ready within 21 months. NIT Goa became operational in 2010 and has since been functioning from a temporary campus within the Goa Engineering College premises at Ponda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-nit-goa-campus-to-get-green-cover-with-100-mancurad-500-cashew-trees/articleshow/77664355.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
August 21, 2020||Delhi||Eateries, hotels may serve liquor soon in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Restaurants, hotels and clubs will soon start serving liquor on the directions given by Delhi government’s excise department. The direction comes a day after Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) allowed hotels to resume operations. Bars, however, will continue to remain closed. In a note sent to commissioner (excise) on Thursday, deputy CM Manish Sisodia stated that several state governments, including Assam, Punjab and Rajasthan, had permitted serving of liquor by licence holders under excise rules at tables in restaurants and clubs and in hotel rooms. “Under the Unlock guidelines, Delhi government has allowed operation of restaurants, subject to social distancing norms. In the DDMA meeting held on August 19, the government also allowed opening of hotels. Bars will remain closed under guidelines issued by Union ministry of home affairs,” the note stated. A Delhi government official said that the excise department would have to prepare a proposal and DDMA would have to approve it before permission to serve liquor could be given. However, another senior official said that the permission was within the ambit of unlock guidelines and Delhi government could take a decision on it. Restaurateur and investor Ashish Begwani said the approval to serve alcohol should be given quickly so that outlets could plan their reopening. Currently, he is renovating his outlet “Ophelia” and getting ready to reopen within a week to 10 days of being given official permission to serve alcohol. “Alcohol sales will allow restaurants to at least cover their operating cost and stabilise before the festive season starts,” he added. “With permission to serve alcohol, we hope to achieve 60-70% of last year’s sales. If we have stable policies for the next three months, we should be back to pre-Covid business,” said Deepak Tandon of “Wok in the Clouds”. Zorawar Kalra of Massive Restaurants, too, welcomed the move. “Currently, sales remain at a paltry 10-15% of the pre-Covid levels. This move will enable more restaurants to open, which will subsequently lead to a significant increase in employment,” he said. AD Singh of Olive Group of Restaurants said, “This was a much-needed step as it completes the experience of customers wanting a beer with their pizza or a glass of wine with their pasta. Social distancing rules are anyway in place. In Punjab, this is already in place and there have been no incidents.” Watch Delhi eateries, hotels may serve liquor soon||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/eateries-hotels-may-serve-liquor-soon/articleshow/77663381.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Patiala is Punjab’s 2nd cleanest city||Times News NetworkPatiala: Patiala is the second cleanest city in Punjab in the below 10 lakh population category. It has ranked 86th in the country.Patiala municipal corporation commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said, “During the survey, work on toilets, underground semi-bins, twin-bins and material recovery facility (MRF) centres was under way. Consequently, the city could not make it to the top in the state. Besides, the dumping ground project also could not be completed and some issues remained unresolved. In ODF ++ ranking, Patiala has got full 500 marks. In garbage-free status evaluation, we have lagged behind as some of the projects were under way.”Mayor Sanjeev Sharma said Patiala could not improve its ranking at the national level due to non-completion of necessary work during the first phase of ranking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/patiala-is-punjabs-2nd-cleanest-city/articleshow/77663152.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Nagpur||In a 1st, India to celebrate Big Butterfly Month in Sept||Nagpur: While nature lovers are aware about wildlife and animal week celebrations, for the first time a Big Butterfly Month will be observed in the country during which their estimation will also be done apart from sensitizing people about the winged insects. For the first time in the country, over 14 organizations, NGOs and experts have joined hands on a national scale for the month-long event from September 5. Various activities such as big butterfly count, online workshops, butterfly gardening workshop and contests on butterfly photography, journaling, quiz, videography and butterfly life cycle will be conducted. Butterfly origami and webinars for school and college students will also be conducted on a virtual platform in keeping in mind Covid-19 scenario. “These events will be conducted in all major cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Kolkata, Dehradun, Ahmedabad, Guwahati, Jammu, Chennai, Vidarbha region as well as areas around wildlife parks in Central India, Himalaya and the northeastern states,” said Ashish Tiple, head, department of zoology, Vidyabharti College, Selu in Wardha. The big butterfly count would be held on all-India level from September 14 to 20 during which participants will be encouraged to log in their submissions into our well-established and preferred citizen science digital platforms — Butterflies of India, iNaturalist, and India Biodiversity portal. “Butterflies play a vital role in the ecosystem. They act as a food source for various other organisms such as spiders, wasps, dragonflies, birds and lizards. They also help in plant pollination and, importantly for us, act as very good indicators of the health of environment and ecosystems. So, studying butterflies is imperative to understand our surroundings,” said Sohail Madan from Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS). “The aim of the Big Butterfly Month is to bring citizens together under an umbrella of butterfly lovers to preserve current habitat and to build new ones for the winged insects. In the process, diverse ecosystems may get improved which is very much needed,” said Madan. Krushnamegh Kunte of National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS) says: “Our combined effort so far to survey butterflies in India’s biodiversity hotspots and to monitor their populations need to be scaled up across the country. Along with this, outreach initiatives such as the ‘Big Butterfly Month’ will produce a citizenry well-educated in the matters of nature and environment.” Vijay Barve from Diversity India says, “Over the last few years, watching butterflies as a hobby has gained momentum, which was fuelled by virtual communities on social media and new field guides on butterflies. It’s for the first time pan-India efforts are being mobilized on this scale, and with collaboration of many organizations. Highlight of the event is the data going to be posted on open platforms like iNaturalist.” “We are excited to roll out the butterfly count on a countrywide basis. We are sure, this will help in the study of butterflies in India. The data collected would also help in research purposes too”, said Shantanu Dey of The Delight Factory, one of the co-organizers of the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-a-1st-india-to-celebrate-big-butterfly-month-in-sept/articleshow/77663157.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 21, 2020||Dehradun||Soldier found buried in snow near LoC cremated||DEHRADUN: The mortal remains of Indian Army soldier Rajendra Singh Negi, whose body was found buried in snow almost eight months after he went missing during patrolling along the Line of Control (LoC) in Gulmarg area of Kashmir, was cremated with full honours in Haridwar on Thursday. Chief minister TS Rawat and senior Army officers paid tributes to the soldier at his residence in Dehradun and assured all assistance to the family, including a government job to his wife. Negi, who was with 11 Garhwal Rifles, was stationed near the LoC in Kashmir and died after slipping in snow in early January. After searching for him for months and not being able to locate his body, the Army had declared him a ‘battle casualty’ in May. However, on Independence Day, his body was found buried in snow, almost eight months after he went missing. Dinesh Negi, a relative of Rajendra Negi, said that the body was brought to Dehradun from Srinagar late on Wednesday by a special aircraft and was taken to his residence in Ambiwala in the city on Thursday morning, where hundreds of people paid their last respects. CM Rawat said, “I am deeply saddened by the turn of events but the courage and perseverance of the family is remarkable. I have met Negi’s father many times and he always had faith that his son will return. So was it with his wife. It’s painful to see their grief now. The government will not let Negi’s sacrifice go in vain and all possible help will be extended to his family, including a government job to his wife as per her educational qualifications.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/soldier-found-buried-in-snow-near-loc-cremated/articleshow/77660592.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||80-year-old woman assaulted in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: An 80-year-old woman from the Jamalpur area of the city on Wednesday filed a complaint with Gaekwad Haveli police alleging that she was attacked by her landlord and four members of his family over the renovation of the house where she has lived for some 70 years. Hajarbibi Mewati, who lives on first floor of the dilapidated house, said that her landlord, Samsuddin Shaikh, had three months ago sought permission to demolish the house from the estate department of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). She said AMC officials told Shaikh and Mewati that they can repair or renovate the house but cannot build a new one by demolishing the old structure. After this, Mewati started renovation of her house, which did not go well with Shaikh who allegedly abused her and then with four family members thrashed her on Wednesday. Mewati called the police control room and then filed a complaint for causing hurt, using abusive words and criminal intimidation against Shaikh and his four family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/80-year-old-woman-assaulted/articleshow/77664350.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Tattoo artist, manager get bail||tnnChandigarh: A local court on Thursday granted bail to the tattoo artist and his manager who were arrested for keeping a rhesus macaque monkey, a protected species.“Though tattoo artist Kamaljit Singh and his manager Deepak Vohra have been granted bail, the case trial will continue,” said UT chief wildlife warden Debendra Dalai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tattoo-artist-manager-get-bail/articleshow/77663182.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula secures 56th position||PANCHKULA: In the Swachh Survekshan Rankings-2020 declared on Thursday, Panchkula has secured 56th position in the country — an improvement of 15 ranks from the previous year. The city is third in the state. Residents say even as the city has made some improvements, it has a long way to go in terms of ensuring better sanitation and beautification. From plans on solid waste management, segregation of garbage, construction of collection centres to maintenance of existing infrastructure — there is much that needs to be done, they add.  In March 2019, Panchkula had bagged 71st position in the country and third in the state. In 2018, it stood 142nd in the country and fourth in the state. In 2017, it ranked 211 of 4,041 cities and the last in Tricity.  The city MC team working on the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan focused on segregation of garbage, providing e-carts to waste collectors, uniform and ID cards to waste pickers, street vending zone and garbage disposal compost pits.  The MC, however, failed to shift dumping ground from residential area and provide a solid waste management plant for the district. The MC had also made improvement in its Swachhta League rank (released in January) by securing 54th rank in the country and fourth in Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pkl-jumps-15-slots-to-rank-56th/articleshow/77663159.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: ‘Give space data for installing solar plants’||CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh administration has written a letter to all the departments, corporations and boards, to provide details of spaces available with them in official buildings and other projects for installation of solar power plants to meet the solar energy targets set by the Union government. A senior official of the UT administration said some of the departments had provided them with a list of open spaces, which were under the control of respective departments. Accordingly, the UT administration would install solar plants in those vacant spaces too. They have now again written to the departments, boards and corporations to provide the list. The ministry of new and renewable energy had enhanced the city’s solar power generation target from 50 megawatt (MW) to 69 MW, to be achieved by 2022. Till date, the UT has achieved generation of 35 MW. If the UT officials are to be believed, the solar power generation figures will touch 100 MW in Chandigarh. Recently, the UT administrator, V P Singh Badnore, had even approved the Renewable Energy Service Company (RESCO) model for installation of solar plants on the rooftop of residential houses in the city. The administration has also moved a petition before the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) seeking the commission’s approval for the UT’s ambitious project. As residents were not coming forward for installation of solar plants because of initial capital investment, the Chandigarh Renewable Energy and Science & Technology Promotion Society (Crest), the nodal agency for installation of solar plants in the city, had decided to install solar plants under the RESCO model. Under the RESCO model, the UT will rope in private companies where they will install solar plants on private properties. In return, the building owner will be charged a much lesser tariff (Rs 3.44 per unit) for the solar-produced electricity in the tariff bills as compared to normal electricity tariffs (Rs 2.75 to Rs 5.20 per unit). The plant will be installed for around a period of 15 years (the details of exact years will be finalised after the tender process), and after that the house owner will be given the power plant. The building owner and the private company will sign an agreement. The plant will be installed under net metering mode, whereby a solar power system is connected to the electrical connection of a building owner and solar energy exported to the grid is adjusted in terms of units imported from the electricity department during a billing cycle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-asks-depts-to-provide-details-of-spaces-for-installing-solar-plants/articleshow/77663203.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
August 21, 2020||Goa||Covid peak near, be cautious during festivities: Goa government||PANAJI: The pandemic is near its peak in Goa and people will have to be careful during the Ganesh Chaturthi festival which kicks starts on Friday, state epidemiologist Dr Utkarsh Betodkar said on Thursday. “People must avoid crowds and follow social distancing norms, otherwise trouble is not far,” Betodkar said. Since August 1, the state’s daily average of Covid-19 cases has been 356, and on two days — August 9 and 13 — it breached the 500 mark. August 13 saw Goa’s biggest single-day spike. Betodkar said the infection has dipped in Mangor Hill and Zuarinagar in Vasco as well as in other places such as Morlem in Sattari that witnessed a major spike in June and July and was declared a containment zone. Even cases in Verna have gone down, he said. The same holds true for Shirin in Chimbel that reported a sizeable number of cases. On Thursday, Chimbel’s tally stood at 222. Cases that get reported from Vasco now are spread all over with a daily average of 20 to 25, the state epidemiologist said. As of Thursday, the Vasco urban health centre had 354 active cases. Betodkar said that though Margao, Mapusa, Porvorim and Ponda saw a spike post mid-July, no outbreak was reported from any of these areas like that seen in Mangor Hill and Zuarinagar. Health officers attached to the Ponda, Margao, Panaji, Mapusa and Colvale health centres have been saying that cases are being found all over in their respective jurisdictions. Most of these places witnessed a spike after the infection was detected in industrial workers. Majority of the cases under the Colvale primary health centre were detected in Tivim. Quite a few people working in the pharma unit at Colvale were also found positive. As of Thursday, the Colvale primary health centre had an active tally of 105. In Ponda too, many industrial workers — both from Verna and other manufacturing units residing in and around Ponda — tested positive. Ponda’s tally has reached 223.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-peak-near-be-cautious-during-festivities-govtor-covid-peak-is-near-warns-govt-take-care-during-festivities-state-epidemiologist/articleshow/77664368.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Two dead, 132 infected in Mohali||MOHALI: Covid-19 claimed two lives and left 132 infected in Mohali on Thursday. With this, the district toll tally has increased to 45 and the case count to 2,270. The day also saw 33 patients recovering from the disease, said civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh. The casualties include an 82-year-old man of Phase VII, who died at Indus Hospital, Mohali; and a 50-year-old man of Kharar, who breathed his last at Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur. Both had diabetes. Of the 132 cases, 38 are from Mohali city, 31 from Baltana, Lohgarh, Bhabat, Dhakoli in Zirakpur, 24 from Kharar, eight from Dera Jagadri, Mubarakpur, Dappar and Derabassi, eight from Banur, six from Lalru, 10 from Gharuan block, seven from Kurali, two from Nayagaon and Kishanpura, and one each from Dhanauli, Badmajra, Barauli, Manauli, Jandali, Dera Jagadri and Narangarh. Two sub-inspectors and four constables, including two women, posted at Phase I police station have also tested positive. The station has been sealed and its public dealing work suspended. Zirakpur MLA home quarantined Zirakpur MLA N K Sharma has been put under home isolation after he tested positive for Covid19. He had mild symptoms, said the civil surgeon. Kharar DSP Pall Singh has been shifted from Grecian Hospital to Fortis Hospital after his condition deteriorated on Thursday. He is on ventilator support. The managing director of Bajwa Developers, Jarnail Singh Bajwa, is also admitted to a local hospital, where his condition is stated to be serious.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-19-snatches-2-lives-and-leaves-132-infected-in-mohali/articleshow/77663201.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Swachh rankings: AP leads south India, 3 cities in top 10||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh scripted a success story in Swachh Survekshan 2020 rankings announced on Thursday as three major cities in the state Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam and Tirupati made it to the top 10 list. While Vijayawada was adjudged as the fourth cleanest city in the country among cities with more than 10 lakh population, Vizag bagged ninth rank in the same category. Tirupati secured a well-deserved sixth rank among the cities with less than 10 lakh population. Andhra Pradesh is the only south Indian state to have three cities in the top 10 list. In fact, all these three cities bettered their performances compared to their 2019’s rankings – Tirupati (8), Vijayawada (12) and Vizag (23). The other cities/towns of Andhra Pradesh, which outscored other Indian cities to find a place in the top 100 list included Rajahmundry (51), Ongole (57), Kakinada (58), Tenali (75), Kadapa (76), Chittoor (81), Hindupur (93) and Tadipatri (99). When it comes to the overall national rankings of the urban local bodies with more than one lakh population, Vijayawada stood in the sixth place in the country, while Tirupati and Visakhapatnam were ranked 12th and 17th respectively. Dr P Sampath Kumar, managing director, Swachha Andhra Corporation, said that Andhra Pradesh has been ranked sixth in SS-2020 in the state-wise rankings. GVMC Commissioner G Srijana said that the credit goes to all the officers and staff of the corporation, especially the public health team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/swachh-rankings-ap-leads-south-india-3-cities-in-top-10/articleshow/77663251.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 21, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow's Covid toll rises, 150 perish in 20 days||LUCKNOW: The Covid-19 death count in city increased by 10 in past 24 hours till Thursday as casualties climbed to 150 in last 20 days, accounting for 60% of the total 247 deaths so far since the outbreak. The spike in fatalities in August continued on Thursday as three patients died at TSM Medical College and Hospital, two each at KGMU and Era’s Lucknow Medical College and Hospital (ELMH), and one each at Integral Institute of Medical Sciences(IIMS) and two private hospitals in Niralanagar and Rae Bareli Road. Seven of the 10 patients died due to respiratory failure, two of cardiac arrest while one succumbed because of septic shock. A 42-year-old woman from Dubagga, 67-year-old from Alambagh and a 63-year-old man from Rajajipuram died because of respiratory failure at TSM Medical College and Hospital. “All three were on ventilator due to severely damaged lungs,” said medical superintendent Dr S C Rai. A 50-year-old woman from Alambagh who was admitted to KGMU with breathing difficulty succumbed due to lung failure within 13 hours of admission. A 69-year-old diabetic man from Rajabazar also collapsed in KGMU. “Both the patients came in an advanced stage,” said KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh. A 59-year-old man, a resident of Aliganj, and a 58-year-old woman from Muftiganj succumbed at ELMH. The man was admitted on August 7 and the woman on August 13. “The oxygen levels of both patients kept falling and lungs failed eventually, They didn’t respond to treatment,” said ELMH principal Prof. M M Fardi. A 61-year-old man from Gomatinagar succumbed at IIMS. “He suffered a sudden cardiac arrest,” said IIMS nodal officer Dr Sudhir Singh. Besides, a 65-year-old woman from Daliganj died at a private hospital on Rae Bareli Road due to septic shock, while a patient from Alamnagar died at a private hospital in Niralanagar, said district health department officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/city-covid-toll-rises-150-perish-in-20-days/articleshow/77664376.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 21, 2020||Bengaluru||As death toll rises in Bengaluru, bodies pile up in front of crematoria||BENGALURU: Queues are getting longer in front of the four electric crematoria earmarked for Covid-19 victims in the city. At least 10 hearse vans can be seen outside the crematoria at any time, with the waiting period going up to 7-8 hours. While more than 100 deaths are being reported every day in Karnataka, Bengaluru accounts for most of them. But the daily tally released by the state government is not reflective of the day’s toll as fatalities are being consistently reported late. In some cases, the delay has even stretched beyond a month. On average, 39 deaths have been reported in Bengaluru over the past week. BBMP workers, ambulance drivers and family members of the dead are spending most of the day in front of one of the creamtoria, waiting for their turn. Covid-19 bodies are presently being cremated only in Kengeri, Hebbal, Mahadevapura and Bommanahalli electric crematoria. There are 12 such facilities in Bengaluru. Mohammed Ismail of Mercy Mission, an NGO involved in ferrying the dead on their last journey, confirmed that the waiting period has increased to 6-7 hours since one week. “On average, it takes 45 minutes to one hour to cremate a body and only four crematoria in the city are taking Covid-19 bodies. As we wait for hours on end, our vehicles can’t to rush to ferry other bodies. This apart, the bodies also start to stink,” he explained. “There are days when we have had to take back bodies to mortuaries as we were unable to get them cremated till midnight,” he added. A BBMP official said that previously Covid-19 bodies were being cremated in many crematoria. But later there was a demand for designated ones, given the risk of infection. “We earmarked four crematoria for the same on the outskirts,” he added. Suresh, an employee at Hebbal crematorium, said though their facility is designated for Covid-19 deaths, they are forced to take non-Covid bodies as well. “At least 10-15 non-Covid bodies are brought here,” he added. Ismail said BBMP must allow Covid-19 bodies to be cremated in any facility in the city. BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad told TOI: “About 120 non-Covid bodies are cremated in the eight crematoria every day. We have designated four for covid bodies. I am aware of the delay ambulances are facing. We are buying freezers which will be kept at the crematoria. The ambulances can come and drop the body, which can be cremated later. Each freezer will have the capacity to store four dead bodies. Three freezers are required at each crematoria. Each freezer is expected to cost around Rs 50,000.”  Bodies of Covid-19 patients continue to bear social stigma, with family members in many cases declining to join the final journey. While such incidents are being reported across the state, Tumakuru district health officer Nagendrappa said in at least in 15-20 of the more than 100 fatalities in the district, families of the dead did not join the final rites and didn’t even pick up phone calls from health officials. “The last rites of Covid-19 deceased are performed according to the state government guidelines and we provide four PPE kits for family members willing to attend. Our intention is to provide the deceased a dignified final rite,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/as-death-toll-rises-in-bengaluru-bodies-pile-up-in-front-of-crematoria/articleshow/77661090.cms||Kiran Parashar
August 21, 2020||Dehradun||New Education Policy 2020: Proposal for formaation of 15-member task force sent to CM||DEHRADUN: State education minister Arvind Pandey has sent a proposal to chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat for his approval regarding the appointment of 15-member task force which will be charting out a map for the implementation of the New Education Policy 2020 across the state. The members of the task force will hold discussions and taking feedback from various educational institution, academicians, teachers associations and others. State education minister Arvind Pandey said feedback and suggestions will be taken from every stakeholder and a draft will be sent to them before it is presented in the cabinet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/new-education-policy-2020-proposal-for-formaation-of-15-member-task-force-sent-to-cm/articleshow/77660649.cms||Mohammad Anab
August 21, 2020||Goa||It’s parole paradise for privileged jailbirds in Goa||PANAJI: Some convicts face hardship in getting parole and have to knock on the doors of courts to get their application accepted, some others face no such difficulty. Of 34 convicts serving life terms, 16 managed to be out on parole for more than 100 days in a year, and 25 for more than 50 days a year, information accessed through the Right to Information (RTI) Act for a period between 2015 and 2020 revealed. All these applications were cleared by parole authorities. Since the start of the pandemic, over 50 convicts have gone on an extended parole. Aware that some inmates have been able to obtain parole on a regular basis, six months ago the inspector general of prison (IGP) started the process to modify prisons rules, but the work was delayed due to the pandemic. “We are modifying the prison rules so that inmates are not able to avail parole and as easily as they can now under the existing prison rules. We hope to bring in changes in the rules in a few months,” IGP Gurudas Pilarnkar said. The RTI information also revealed that two convicts linked to two different high-profile murder cases stayed out of jail for about 200 days in a year. At least 25 of them were out on parole for a minimum 30 days a year for the last five years. In 2015, one convict served only 87 days in jail. He was granted parole five times that particular year with his longest out of jail stay — parole — being 74 days. He remained on parole between September 24 and December 6, 2015. One murder accused, serving a life term along with his friend in the sensational abduction and murder of a young boy, has succeeded in getting parole every year since 2015. He has been out on parole for a continuous stretch of more than 100 days in 2016 and 2019. He was allowed 104 days — January 1 to April 13 in 2016 and November 5 to February 2 in 2019 — accounting for another 135 days. He was again granted parole of another 24 days in 2019. The parole condition states that it can be granted in the event of an emergent situation such as death or serious illness of a family member, which can be a father, a mother, a brother, a sister, a spouse or children. Convicts are also entitled for parole to attend a marriage in the family, such as that of a brother, sister or children. The prison rules do not list any other reason for granting parole application of jail inmates. Interestingly, some lifers in Colvale Central jail have even got parole in December, coinciding with New Year’s Eve. There are three such instances where two convicts linked to high profile cases got paroles for three consecutive years during December-end and they returned to jail only in the new year. It could not be independently confirmed what were the compelling reasons for the authorities to grant the parole applications of the three lifers and also to grant them repeated extensions in parole in the last five years. Former district and session judge Pramod Kamat said that this was “unjust” and prison rules need to be tightened to ensure that the system is not manoeuvred by some to their advantage. “There is a need for clarity in prison rules,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/its-parole-paradise-for-privileged-jailbirds-in-goa/articleshow/77664387.cms||Bindiya Chari
August 21, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Covid-19 cases surge, but contact tracing and sampling falter||LUCKNOW: Several families in the city are waiting for ‘contact tracing’ and ‘sampling’ even a week after their kin tested positive, though ideally both should be done within 24 hours to ensure that spread of infection is curbed. As per guidelines, Ivermectin is started instantly in patients, and given to their primary and secondary contacts who are tested two days later, but not to pregnant women and kids up to two years. However, when TOI did a reality check, it found contact tracing and sampling was not done in several cases, neither was Ivermectin given. R K Bharti of Aishbagh tested positive on August 13 and was taken to Lokbandhu hospital. A week has passed, but the family is still not tested. “An Asha worker came on August 16 and gave Ivermectin tablets. She said we will be tested, but nobody came,” said patient’s brother Rajesh. Similarly, Roopa Rajpoot of Raniganj was found infected on August 14. Her son Shubham said, “No one came, nor were we given any medicine. The health department should have at least given us Ivermectin.” Anas Mahroof of Jawai Tola had also tested positive on August 14. “Five members in my family have still not been tested. We were not given Ivermectin, so we bought it ourselves.” Mohd Salman’s uncle was found infected on August 13, but no one came for sampling. “We got a call that we would be tested, but no one came.” CMO Dr Rajendra Prasad Singh said, “There was some delay in Ivermectin distribution, but now it has been supplied to all CHCs and PHCs. In sampling, critical and symptomatic patients are priority. We are increasing teams.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cases-surge-but-contact-tracing-sampling-falter/articleshow/77664392.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||JNTU to hold TS-ECET from August 31||HYDERABAD: Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad, is all set to conduct the Telangana engineering common entrance test (TS-ECET) on August 31, according a press release issued by the university on Thursday. Of the seven key common entrance tests, TS-ECET will be the first test to be conducted in the state. The university will conduct the online exam in two sessions at 56 exam centres in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. “Arrangements for conducting TS-ECET 2020 are being made with required facilities for the candidates fully following the Covid-19 guidelines,” reads the release. Candidates have to download new hall tickets from August 25 (tentatively). “From TS-ECET 2020, training and awareness programs will be conducted virtually for the rural area candidate. Mock test is made available on website for candidates willing to practice computer based test,” the release further stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jntu-to-hold-ts-ecet-from-august-31/articleshow/77663299.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Salem logs 359 cases, tally crosses 7K-mark||Salem: Covid-19 cases in Salem district crossed the 7,000-mark on Thursday when it recorded its highest ever single-day spike of 359 new cases. The district has reported 7,123 novel coronavirus cases so far, of which 2,165 are active. At least 218 new cases were reported from the Salem Municipal Corporation limits. The remaining were spread across Gangavalli (43), Attur (36), Thalaivasal (8), Pethanaickenpalayam (6), Belur (7), Omalur (7), Veerapandi (5), Ayothiyapattinam (5), Edappadi (3), Kolathur (3), Panamarathupatty (3), Magudanchavadi (3), Kadayampatty (2), Mecheri (2), Sankari (2) and Tharamangalam (2). The toll, meanwhile, rose to 92 as seven patients succumbed to the virus at the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital. Dr R Balajinathan, hospital dean, said 26 patients were cured and discharged from the hospital in the day. Neighbouring Erode district recorded 86 new cases of Covid-19, Namakkal district 46, Dharmapuri district six and Krishnagiri district five.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/salem-logs-359-cases-tally-crosses-7k-mark/articleshow/77663271.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC shelved, then resurrected bicycle track plans||Ahmedabad: Since 2014, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has been systematically taking apart the 22-km bicycle corridor along BRTS track in the name of traffic congestion, bridge and metro construction and encroachments.In 2018, when just a fraction of the original award-winning Bogota model bicycle corridors was left, the AMC realised it was running out of space for vehicles and parking and began a plan to bring back the bicycle corridor. The new plan proposed consisted of 16.88km of cycle track. This time the cycle track project was proposed under the central government’s AMRUT urban rejuvenation fund. It involves construction of tracks on five different stretches —8.13km between Usmanpura and Gujarat University passing through Sardar Patel Colony and Vijay Crossroads, 3.2km between Shyamal Junction and Prahladnagar Garden, 0.35km between Panchvati Junction and Parimal Crossroads, 2.9km stretch between the Vastrapur Railway Crossing and Star Bazaar BRTS Crossing, and 2.3km between Shalby Hospital and Corporate Road.Though work on these stretches began in early 2019, it was stopped abruptly. “A clear local area plan had to be formulated for these areas under which these bicycle corridors were to be constructed. The process has been slow,” revealed a senior AMC official in the engineering department. The official added that the ‘safe route to school’ plan which figured first in the 2013 development plan for Ahmedabad was yet to be implemented. “With the new funding and the recently conducted survey, one hopes that bicycle corridors will become a reality for Ahmedabad city,” added the AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-shelved-then-resurrected-bicycle-track-plans/articleshow/77663369.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Dehradun||Strategically important Uttarakhand with China, Nepal borders boosts defence preparedness||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand, which has a strategic location among the northern Himalayan states, shares a 350-km-long border with China and an almost 275-km-long border with Nepal. With both these border areas currently on high alert, a number of steps have been put in place to ensure that border areas are safeguarded and strengthened. These include ramping up the number of helipads near border areas and setting up airstrips to facilitate ease of movement to these areas, besides earmarking funds for border area development. The state government has also drawn up plans to encourage reverse migration to border villages that had in the past few years become empty due to migration of people of these villages to cities in search of employment. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat told TOI: “In the last few years, the perception of the government and people alike has changed towards the border and far-flung areas. Unlike the past, they are not left neglected but have become priority sectors.” He added that the number of helipads in the state have gone up from 20 to 50 and the Army has set up a walnut nursery in Malari area of Chamoli district with the intent to check migration. “Besides all these developments, the Chinyalisaur air strip in the Garhwal hills has been made active. The state has now three active airstrips and has got in-principle approval for another airstrip at Chaukhutiya in Almora,” the CM said. Retired Army officer Colonel Pradeep Goyal said in the long run Uttarakhand's efforts to build more helipads and airstrips will help the armed forces inemergency and crisis situations. "Advanced landing grounds and extension of airports help in landing and take-off of big flights and also intransporting forces, weapons and ammunition. We need to remain prepared and in such circumstances, the groundwork that is being done will prove extremely useful." In addition to air connectivity, Uttarakhand has also been working on ramping up road connectivity to border areas. The ambitious Rs 12,000-crore Char Dham all-weather project, which aims to widen the highways leading to the four shrines towns of Gangotri, Yamunotri, Badrinath and Kedarnath in the Garhwal Himalayas, will also provide ease of access to border areas. According to Rawat, Border Roads Organisation (BRO), the arm of the Indian Army mandated to build and maintain roads near the borders, has either completed or is on track to complete most of its projects in the state. “Due to the road made by BRO, it now takes less than three hours to reach Rimkhim from Joshimath, which two years ago used to take almost 8 to 10 hours,” the CM said. Rimkhim incidentally is a strategic location close to the Barahoti area which had seen repeated incursions by Chinese soldiers a few years ago. Local shepherds had at the time alerted security officials regarding their presence. Defence analysts meanwhile said that while the state’s efforts to safeguard border areas are ‘in the right direction’, it was important that “people-to-people relations that are existing in border areas especially those with Nepal are retained.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/strategically-important-ukhand-with-china-nepal-borders-boosts-defence-preparedness/articleshow/77660685.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 21, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand bags 3 awards in Swachh Survekshan||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand received three awards and was adjudged the third best cleanest state in the category of states with less than 100 urban local bodies (ULBs) in the Centre’s annual cleanliness survey—Swachh Survekshan. The first and second rank holders in the category of states with less than 100 ULBs were Jharkhand and Haryana respectively. The category comprised of 17 states and seven Union Territories (UTs). Nandprayag nagar panchayat secured the first position and Almora Cantonment was placed third in the “Citizen Feedback” category for ULBs with less than 1 lakh population across the country. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and urban development minister Madan Kaushik, who attended the awards function, organised on a virtual platform, received the awards on behalf of the state. Overall, the state urban areas have witnessed a significant jump in this year’s rankings. Dehradun, which was on the 384th position in 2019, ranked 124th this time. Similarly, Roorkee improved its ranking from 281 in 2019 to 131 in 2020, Kashipur secured 139th rank from 304 last year, Haldwani jumped to 229th rank from 350, Haridwar rose to 244 from 376 and Rudrapur secured 316th position from 403 last year. In other categories, too, the state fared well. Among 98 cities which have a population between 50,000 and 1 lakh in the north zone, Ramnagar was ranked 18th, Jaspur 56th and Pithoragarh stood at 58th rank. Among cities with a population between 20,000 and 50,000 in the north zone, Nainital was ranked 18th while Sitarganj was 106th. Among the 720 cities with a population of less than 25,000 in the north zone, Muni-Ki-Reti came 12th, Ukhimath was 41st, Bhimtal secured 50th rank and Narendra Nagar stood at 58th. Among the 92 towns lying near the banks of Ganga, Gauchar was ranked 3rd, slipping two positions from the 1st rank it got last year. In terms of cleanliness of other towns near the Ganga, Joshimath was ranked 4th, Rudraprayg 5th, Srinagar 6th, Gopeshwar 8th, Muni-Ki-Reti 11th, Badkot 12th and Karnprayag came 13th. Kirtinagar was ranked 18th, Devprayag 20th, Nandprayag 22nd and Tehri was ranked 28th in the list. Talking about the efforts undertaken to make the state clean, urban development minister Madan Kaushik said, “ The state government under the leadership of CM Trivendra Rawat is making serious efforts to carry out sustained urban development works. We have specifically asked civic bodies to undertake projects keeping in mind cleanliness parameters. In fact, we have instructed that the grants to be provided to corporations under the 14th and 15th finance commissions be first utilised for cleanliness and sanitation-oriented works. This has had a direct impact on our performance in the Swachh Survekshan.” According to the state’s official data, there are a total of 9.33 lakh houses and shops in the Himalayan state and garbage is being collected from 8.05 lakh such buildings. An estimated 1,640 metric tonnes of garbage is generated each day out of which, 56% is collected by the urban local bodies daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-bags-3-awards-in-swachh-survekshan/articleshow/77660690.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 21, 2020||Goa||Goa 7th in Swachh Survekshan ranking among small states||PANAJI: Goa’s lacklustre performance in the nationwide Swachh Survekshan 2020 cleanliness survey continued with the state being slotted in the seventh position among 15 states that have less than 100 urban local bodies. Jharkhand topped this list followed by Haryana and Uttarakhand. Goa’s capital was ranked 213 out of 382 cities at the country level in the Swachh Survekshan while Mormugao and Margao barely managed to make it to the top 125 cleanest cities in the western region. Mormugao was ranked 123, while Margao was ranked 125 among cities with 50,000 to 1 lakh residents in the western region. Mapusa took the 235th position among cities in the west zone that have a population between 25,000 and 50,000. Goa’s remaining municipal areas, which have a population less than 25,000, were further down the list. In the 2019 edition of the cleanliness survey, Panaji took the 337th spot out of 4203 urban areas while Goa was ranked 18th among all states. This time Goa has taken just a step up to 17th among 27 states. This time around, the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) has tweaked the ranking methodology to ensure that states and urban local bodies are compared with suitable peers. All of Goa’s 14 urban local bodies (ULBs) participated in the survey, but none made it to the national rankings of cleanest cities where Indore continued to entrench itself in the pole position. Surat and Navi Mumbai won the second and third position respectively. “Swachh Survekshan will continue to help us in sustaining the gains made under Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban (SBM-U), while providing a comprehensive roadmap to institutionalise the concept of total Swachhata among all our cities,” said housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Puri. Chhattisgarh won the prestigious title of the cleanest state in the more than 100 ULBs category while Jharkhand was adjudged the cleanest state in the less than 100 ULB category. The next phase of the Swachh Bharat mission, said Puri, will focus on safe containment, transportation and disposal of fecal sludge and septage from toilets, and also the grey and black water from households and establishments. The Centre plans to also provide adequate safety gear and mechanised equipment to all sanitation workers in the next phase, said Puri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-7th-in-swachh-survekshan-ranking-among-small-states/articleshow/77664410.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Buses remain off road, seek tax relief for lockdown period||BHOPAL: Passengers buses remained off road, a day after chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that all buses will be allowed to run at full capacity in Madhya Pradesh. Bus operators reiterated their demand of tax waiver and increase in bus fare. They have demanded that tax be waived between April and September. Operators say if buses are not running why should they pay tax. “Why should we pay taxes when we are not running the buses. It is a genuine demand. Our incomes have been hit in the last few months due to Covid-19 and the state government should consider our request,” said a bus operator. The operators have also demanded that financial assistance of Rs 5,000 be provided to drivers, operators and helpers every month as the industry is struggling amid the Coronavirus pandemic. Explaining their demand of raising fares, operators said, “Diesel prices have increased so it is natural that we be allowed to increase fares. Only then can we afford to run our buses.” President of MP Prime Root Bus Operators Association, Govind Shamra said, buses will not run until tax is waived and fare is increased. After it was announced that buses will start operating from Thursday several passengers reached the bus stand. Many passengers hoping to travel to Indore, Betul and Sagar could be seen waiting. “I had read in the newspaper that buses will start operating from Thursday. We waited for quite a while but no buses were running,” said Aru Sharma, a passengers. Even the Sutra service buses — operating on 48 different routes from Bhopal and Indore — which receive 40% subsidy from the government, have also stopped running. Sutra Seva is an initiative of Madhya Pradesh government to connect divisional headquarters and remote areas to the state capital. Bhopal City Link Limited (BCLL) said buses did not start operation due to no orders from the district collectors and transport department. As many as 35,000 were forced to cease operations in the state capital in the last five months due to the pandemic. BCLL PRO Sanjay Soni said, “No buses operated on Thursday. Buses are expected to be on road soon,” said Soni. Operators have been asked to ensure that all precautions and Covid safety norms are being followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/buses-remain-off-road-seek-tax-relief-for-lockdown-period/articleshow/77663302.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Dehradun||Minor bureaucratic reshuffle in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: District magistrate Ashish Srivastava was on Thursday given the additional charge of smart city mission CEO on Thursday. The additional charge was given to the Dehradun DM after withdrawing it from MDDA VC Ranveer Singh Chauhan. Similarly, the charge of urban development secretary was withdrawn from IAS officer Chandresh Kumar Yadav and given to Dehradun municipal commissioner Vinay Shankar Pandey. In a separate development, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday approved drinking water projects worth Rs 238 crore for Dehradun. It will cover Gumaniwala, Jeevangarh, Rishikesh Dehat and Nathanpur areas of the state capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/minor-bureaucratic-reshuffle-in-ukhand/articleshow/77660697.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 21, 2020||Hubballi||Youth stabbed to death||Hubballi: A-21-year-old was stabbed by three miscreants in broad daylight in Kalaburagi city on Thursday. The deceased has been identified as Veeresh Kadaganchi,21, of Ranesh Peer Durgha area of the city. He was attacked near the Public Garden area in the city, by three motorbike-borne miscreants, who waylaid the victim and stabbed him with a knife. He was shifted to the District Hospital, where he died. The police said the deceased was a student in the Sharanabasveshwar Degree College in the city. The Brahmagiri police have registered a case in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/youth-stabbed-to-death/articleshow/77660694.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Indore||MP: Buses remain off road, seek tax relief for lockdown period||BHOPAL: Passengers buses remained off road, a day after chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that all buses will be allowed to run at full capacity in Madhya Pradesh. Bus operators reiterated their demand of tax waiver and increase in bus fare. They have demanded that tax be waived between April and September. Operators say if buses are not running why should they pay tax. “Why should we pay taxes when we are not running the buses. It is a genuine demand. Our incomes have been hit in the last few months due to Covid-19 and the state government should consider our request,” said a bus operator. The operators have also demanded that financial assistance of Rs 5,000 be provided to drivers, operators and helpers every month as the industry is struggling amid the Coronavirus pandemic. Explaining their demand of raising fares, operators said, “Diesel prices have increased so it is natural that we be allowed to increase fares. Only then can we afford to run our buses.” President of MP Prime Root Bus Operators Association, Govind Shamra said, buses will not run until tax is waived and fare is increased. After it was announced that buses will start operating from Thursday several passengers reached the bus stand. Many passengers hoping to travel to Indore, Betul and Sagar could be seen waiting. “I had read in the newspaper that buses will start operating from Thursday. We waited for quite a while but no buses were running,” said Aru Sharma, a passengers. Even the Sutra service buses — operating on 48 different routes from Bhopal and Indore — which receive 40% subsidy from the government, have also stopped running. Sutra Seva is an initiative of Madhya Pradesh government to connect divisional headquarters and remote areas to the state capital. Bhopal City Link Limited (BCLL) said buses did not start operation due to no orders from the district collectors and transport department. As many as 35,000 were forced to cease operations in the state capital in the last five months due to the pandemic. BCLL PRO Sanjay Soni said, “No buses operated on Thursday. Buses are expected to be on road soon,” said Soni. Operators have been asked to ensure that all precautions and Covid safety norms are being followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/buses-remain-off-road-seek-tax-relief-for-lockdown-period/articleshow/77669614.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hubballi||Single-window system to clear permissions for Ganesha fest||HUBBALLI: With just a couple of days left for Ganesha festival, the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) and police, have started a single-window system to clear all permissions required by Sarvajanik Ganesh Samitis— right from erecting pandals to carrying out processions. After the government came out with new guidelines for the festival, the HDMC immediately started a single window system at both Hubballi and Dharwad. Suresh Itnal, Commissioner, HDMC, said to speed up the process of issuing permission, the single window system was introduced. Under the system, mandals will get permission within a day. Police and HESCOM officials too are trying to ensure that permission is cleared within a day. “As Ganesha idols will be installed on August 22, officials have been asked to finish the formalities at the earliest. Last year around 921 Ganesha idols were installed. However,it will be less this year, and authorities will be strict while issuing permissions,” he added. Eshwar Naik, chief fire officer, Hubballi, said instructions have been given to all district fire officials to monitor power safety measures taken by mandals. Amaresh Hippargi, secretary, Sarvajanik Ganeshotsava Samiti’s Mahamandal, said, “While guidelines set by the government will be followed strictly by the Ganesh Mandals, the restrictions for installing only one Ganesh idol in a ward will not work. Many have decided to install idols at temples too in their area”. Preparation of water tanks for immersion of Ganesha idols is too under way. Two water tanks in Hubballi, one at Indira Glass House and another one at Hosur are being prepared. People will have to immerse the idols in the water tanks identified by the HDMC. Most households will immerse idols within a day this time, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/single-window-system-to-clear-permissions-for-ganesha-fest/articleshow/77660722.cms||J Abbas Mulla
August 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Scrap Neet, says Congress leader||Tirupur: Tamil Nadu Congress committee president K S Alagiri has urged the state government to scrap Neet.In the wake of a teenager committing suicide allegedly due to Neet anxiety, Alagiri, who was in Tirupur to participate in the birth anniversary celebrations of late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, said that at least now, the state government should raise its voice against Neet and put an end to it in Tamil Nadu. Alagiri pointed out that the suicide of the girl in Coimbatore has sparked widespread criticism and condemnations from various quarters, including leading educationists. He recalled that Rahul Gandhi had demanded the Centre to allow states to decide on Neet, rather than imposing it.It is time that AIADMK government stood up for the rights of Tamil Nadu and fight for the interests of Tamil people, he said and warned that if AIADMK dispensation failed in doing so, it will not be able to even face the people in the next assembly elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/scrap-neet-says-congress-leader/articleshow/77662002.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Woman PSI helps family in distress in Mangaluru||MANGALURU: A woman Police Sub-Inspector attached to the Barke police station in Mangaluru has won much appreciation for her acts of kindness, the latest being to help a paan seller’s family in distress. ASHA workers, who have been visiting homes to check for people suffering from Covid-19 symptoms, on Wednesday came across a paan seller from Uttar Pradesh who works in the city and stays in Barke Police station limits. They found his son, a class 2 boy, to be Covid-19 positive. They wanted him to be admitted to hospital, but the family was not ready to send the boy alone to the district Wenlock Hospital. The worried workers approached Shobha, 50, sub-inspector, Barke police station. She told TOI, “When I went to the spot, I realised that communication was a problem. The paan seller had no business since the lockdown kicked in and the family couldn’t return to UP because they didn’t the money. The couple and their two sons (the elder one tested positive) were staying in a rented house. I saw that they hardly had any rations at home. The man told me the family was not willing to send the son to hospital as they wouldn’t be able to meet him or be with him.” The ASHA workers then contacted doctors and since the patient was asymptomatic, they said he could be in home isolation and the family has been quarantined. Shobha said: “The family needed a medical kit. I bought it for them, along with home essentials that will be sufficient for the next 10 days. Soon, neighbours came forward to help the family and assured they would drop off milk and other essential items at their doorstep.” Social worker Deepu Shettigar said, “There have been several instances when the SI has gone out of her way to help the needy. During the lockdown, when a mentally disturbed lady was throwing stones on the street and nobody dared go near her, she not only rushed to help the lady but also made sure she was enrolled in an ashram. Whenever we need any help, we reach out to her. She has redefined people-friendly policing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/woman-psi-helps-family-in-distress/articleshow/77661739.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Pandals set up in public places despite curbs||HYDERABAD: Despite the police not issuing permission to Ganesh pandal organisers to erect pandals in public places in view of the pandemic, a few pandals have been set up in public places. Though there is no official order issued by the state government prohibiting the setting up of pandals, state endowments minister Indrakaran Reddy said that in order to curb the spread of the virus, the state government will not make any official arrangements for the festival. The state government had on Monday said it will not allow public celebration of Ganesh festival and Muharram procession across the state in view of the novel coronavirus. A senior city police officer told TOI that the police will act sensitively and in accordance with the appeals made by minister Indrakaran Reddy and the high court to the public regarding the celebrations. City police commissioner Anjani Kumar is likely to hold a meeting with his subordinates on Friday to discuss the security arrangements for the festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pandals-set-up-in-public-places-despite-curbs/articleshow/77661993.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Huge inflows in Sagar, dam gates likely to be lifted today||HYDERABAD: With huge inflows from Srisailam project to Nagarjuna Sagar, the irrigation department is likely to open the Sagar dam gates on Friday to release water to the downstream. The Srisailam project has been receiving 4.60 lakh cusecs from upstream areas of Jurala and Karnataka. The dam authorities lifted seven gates to a height of 10 metres and released 1.90 lakh cusecs from the spillway and another 80,000 cusecs through left and right powerhouses. These outflows have increased to about 3.50 lakh cusecs by Thursday evening. Sagar project chief engineer V Narasimha told TOI that they are constantly monitoring the situation. “We have received 3.50 lakh cusecs inflows. While the full reservoir level is 585 feet, the present level is 575 ft. The dam is yet to reach full capacity. The decision will be taken on Friday,’ the chief engineer said. Meanwhile, the Telangana irrigation authorities released water from Jurala and lifted four gates of Koilsagar to let water flow into the downstream. Officials said almost all the lakes are filled to the brim due to the incessant rains. The incessant rains in the catchment areas of Krishna, Godavari and Pranahitha rivers has led to water levels in most of the irrigation projects increasing. Flood water had been reaching the Srisailam reservoir from both Tungabhadra and Krishna rivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/huge-inflows-in-sagar-dam-gates-likely-to-be-lifted-today/articleshow/77663388.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Chennai||Living with the dream of repatriation||The Tamils have lost a lot in the past, now they feel they have lost their future too, C V Vigneswaran, former chief minister of Northern Province in Sri Lanka, summed up succinctly the sentiment of Lankan Tamils. Read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/why-homes-a-distant-dream-for-lankan-tamils-in-india/articleshow/77668108.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/living-with-the-dream-of-repatriation/articleshow/77665293.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Dehradun||Nainital: Lawyers, activists, Left leaders write to President in support of Prashant Bhushan||NAINITAL: A group of over 20 lawyers, civil rights activists and the Left parties in Nainital wrote to the President of India on Thursday in support of senior lawyer Prashant Bhushan who has been convicted of criminal contempt by the Supreme Court. The lawyers handed over a memorandum addressed to the President to the Kumaon Commissioner. In their letter, the group said that the Bhushan’s tweets were about the conduct of the Chief Justice outside the court and “if anything needs to be discussed it has to be on the circumstances that led to Bhushan making those tweets”. “Freedom of speech and expression are the fundamentals of any democracy. Conviction of Prashant Bhushan on the charges of the contempt of court freedoms is granted by the constitution,” said Kailash Joshi, a Nainital-based lawyer who had signed the memorandum. The same group had also held a protest on Wednesday pledging their support to Bhushan. Bhushan has been convicted of committing criminal contempt after the SC took suo motu cognizance of two of his tweets. A three-judge bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra had found Bhushan guilty on August 14 and the quantum of his punishment will be decided in the next two days. Meanwhile, another group of Left leaders and activists from organizations like the Ambedkar Mission also held a protest in Haldwani’s Buddha Park. The group said Bhushan has been fighting corrupt officials and his Public Interest Litigations (PILs) have been instrumental in the apex court passing several monumental judgements as well. “Bhushan is someone who has fought against corruption his entire life. He has represented people with limited means pro bono. His criticism of judges does not amount to contempt but point to the problems that the country is facing,” said Raja Bahuguna, state secretary of CPI (ML).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nainital-lawyers-activists-left-leaders-write-to-president-in-support-of-prashant-bhushan/articleshow/77660712.cms||Prashant Jha
August 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Subsidy for buying farm machinery||Coimbatore: The agricultural engineering department has announced subsidy to buy farm machines and implements such as tractors, rotavators and tillers.The district has been allotted subsidy for 30 tractors, two mechanised ploughs, eight rotavators, eight power tillers, six coconut leaf shredders, two stalk cutters, and Rs 10lakh for setting up a centre to lease out the machinery, a communication from the district administration said.Small and marginal farmers, women farmers and farmers from SC/ST communities will be given 50% of the machine’s cost or Rs 5lakh for tractors, Rs 50,000 for ploughs and rotavators, Rs 63,000 for coconut leaf shredders and Rs 28,000 for stalk cutters, whichever is less. Other farmers will be given 40% subsidy. Farmers have to register in the Uzhavan app to avail the subsidy through www.agrimachinery.nic.in. “Rural entrepreneurs, farmers groups and farmers’ cooperatives will be given Rs 10lakh for setting up farm machinery rental centres,” said the communication.Farmers can approach agricultural engineering department on the Thadagam Road or contact 0422-2434838.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/subsidy-for-buying-farm-machinery/articleshow/77662008.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Bhopal||Covid ‘test’: Timed online exams leading to anxiety in students||BHOPAL: Exam season has begun and private schools of the city have started with online tests, keeping up with the academic schedule for the 2020-21 session. While the schools are striving to keep up the schedule, online exams are stressing students out as they are still getting used to the new strictly timed online tests. To ensure students do not cheat at tests, teachers ensure that there is a time limit for every answer, and as most of the schools are taking tests in multiple-choice-question formats, they are more strict with the timing. Even the students who attended online classes regularly feel that they have not understood the lessons well and are scared of taking the tests. “I have taken the pen and paper MCQs before, but online tests are really difficult for me because this is the first time I am taking an online test. I feel I do not understand well while studying online, I do better when in a classroom set-up. I feel if I take the online exam, I won’t do as well as I should, I am worried,” said Janvi Tripathi, a student of class 11. Another student Kajal Rajpoot, a class 7 student echoed the same thought. “Mathematics is not my strong suit. I fear that during timed MCQ paper I won’t have enough time to solve a sum. If I manage to solve it in time I will not be able to check it once more,” she said. Psychologists and psychiatrists of the city have observed an increase in the number of teenage patients, seeking counselling and developing phobias because of the unnecessary stress. “You cannot expect children to become experts at taking online tests and attending online classes overnight, it is a gradual process. During this time when students are already stressed-out because of the negativity and news of death due to the pandemic, expecting them to appear and do well in online exams is absolutely wrong,” said Dr Vinay Mishra, a psychologist. Sharing the experiences recounted by a few students who sought counselling from her, psychiatrist, Dr Ruma Bhattacharya said, “Most of them say that they feel pressurized as their parents expect them to do well, but the strain and discomfort that comes with online classes is making things difficult for them. Some of them are developing constant headaches and are losing the power of concentration, which is again leading them to symptoms of depression and anxiety,” added Bhattacharya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-test-timed-online-exams-leading-to-anxiety-in-students/articleshow/77663347.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Permission not needed to install idols: Organisers||HYDERABAD: Unperturbed by the government’s directive, Ganesh pandal organisers in the city maintained that no permission is needed for installation of idols. They, however, added that the height of most idols has been cut down drastically and all Covid-19-related precautionary measures have been put in place. “We do not require police permission for installation of the idols, but we are following the police’s advice regarding Covid-19 preventive measures. Already, the committee has cancelled laddu auction,” said president of the Balapur Ganesh Utsav Committee, Niranjan Reddy. While the committee, until 2019, used to install idols that were 12 to 15 feet tall, this year it has been cut down to six feet. While the popular Khairatabad Ganesh stands at nine feet this year, another 120-year Ganesh pandal organisation, Balveer Bhakth Samaj from Hussaini Alam in Old City, has limited the idol’s height to 3.5 feet. It is usually six feet tall. “Also, since we have installed the idol inside a bylane, we do not require police permission,” said chairman of the samaj, Murali Mohan. The Ganesh pandal organisation at Kalyannagar phase-I, meanwhile, has decided to not install an idol owing to a surge in Covid-19 cases. “For the first time in 15 years, we have not installed an idol,” said a member of the committee. Bhagyanagar Ganesh Utsav Samithi secretary Bhagvanath Rao said that in 2019, the police gave permission to 1.20 lakh Ganesh pandal organisers. This year, there will be a 10% to 20% drop,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/permission-not-needed-to-install-idols-organisers/articleshow/77662010.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Two SC judges recuse themselves from hearing Amaravati petitions||VIJAYAWADA: Two Supreme Court judges recusing themselves from hearing petitions on capital Amaravati is not only a rare occurrence, but is also a pointer to the intense legal battle between the state government and the capital region farmers. Chief Justice of India S A Bobde and Justice Rohington Nariman recently recused from hearing a petition challenging the high court’s order on the AP Capital Region Development Authority Repeal Act and AP Decentralisation & Inclusive Development of All Regions Act, as their direct family members had appeared for the litigants. The state government had moved the apex court after the high court issued status quo orders in a batch of petitions challenging the two legislations. On Monday, when a bench headed by the CJI was hearing the petition, one of the advocates informed him that his daughter, Rukmini Bobde, had appeared for one of the petitioners in the high court, following which the CJI recused himself and transferred the petition to another bench. The petition then came up for hearing on Wednesday before a bench comprising Justices Rohington Nariman, Navin Sinha and Indira Benerjee. Before the hearing, a letter was circulated through the registry by one of the advocates from the respondents’ (farmers) side that the case was briefed to senior counsel Fali S Nariman, who is the father of Justice Rohington Nariman, who then recused himself from hearing the petition and directed to transfer the case to another bench. Though judges recusing themselves in a case when there is a possibility of conflict of interest is not a new thing, two apex court judges, including the CJI, recusing from a case is a rare occurrence. Sources said the government recently had an agreement with a senior counsel who is considered among the country’s highly paid advocates. As per the agreement, he was not supposed to argue against the government in any case and in any court henceforth. Interestingly, the same advocate recently appeared in a case against the government, and is also arguing for the government in two other cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/two-sc-judges-recuse-themselves-from-hearing-amaravati-petitions/articleshow/77660743.cms||Srikanth Aluri
August 21, 2020||Bhopal||Innovation on waste management key in Bhopal’s swachh leap to rank #7||BHOPAL: The state capital improved on its Swachh rankings in 2020, compared to a slide of 18 places last year. Bhopal stood seventh in the overall rank of 47 urban bodies with more than 10 lakh population in Swachh Survekshan 2020. To top it up, the city of lakes bagged a much-deserved recognition for best ‘self-sustainable state/national capital /UT’. The move up was lead by a deliberate strategy to innovate. Cleaning drives, fines and filling up landfills is something all the cities were doing by emulating the Indore strategy. Led by former Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner, B Vijay Datta, the state capital’s Swachh strategy was modified to innovate. “Turning clothes to bags, old books for reuse in school or libraries, plastic or e-waste collection at sources and green cell sites (convert green waste into manure) were innovative measures undertaken by the BMC,” explained Datta, who is now deputy secretary industries. “I would thank and congratulate not just the darogas, but all the officers and staff of the BMC. We worked as a cohesive unit,” he added. Each city has a challenge to carry waste to landfill site. The Bhopal example has been of sustainable waste management, aimed at reuse of waste within the city and promotes employment in the process. The innovation challenged conventional system of waste management. It came with its own criticisms. Waste transfer stations building on green zones, irked many. Some even challenged the move in National Green Tribunal. One of the waste transfer stations has become a tool-kit of how to reuse plastic waste. The end product has been used for construction of roads and won accolades for the BMC at the international level. A presentation for the same was held in World Bank backed 56th Global Environment Facility (GEF) council meeting Washington in June 2019. “The challenge is to improve. There are new set of Swachh Bharat guidelines like medical waste management that have come to the fore during the pandemic,” said BMC commissioner, KVS Chaudary. Moving ahead, the city has to clear the old Bhanpur waste landfill and begin phase II of Adampur landfill. Bhopal’s Swachh mission also incorporated the innovations of last survey into the large scale model.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/innovation-on-waste-mgmt-key-in-bhopals-swachh-leap-to-rank-7/articleshow/77663398.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Nagpur||Extend suspension of biometric system at ration shops: HC||NAGPUR: Coming to the rescue of ration shop owners across Maharashtra, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Thursday extended the exemption granted to them from using biometric machines in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Petitioner Ration Dukandar Sangh through counsel Firdos Mirza had contended that use of biometric while operating E-POS machine was suspended through a government resolution (GR) of March 13 due to novel coronavirus outbreak and was extended till July 31 by another circular. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) too issued similar directions in this regard on July 30. However, it wasn’t continued thereafter. The petitioners contended that they made several representations before the authorities concerned to continue the exemption owing to increase in cases of Covid-19, which is peaking, “but no decision was taken till date”. Principal secretary of state Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection Department and other are respondents in the case. “We find it fit to issue directives to respondents to grant extension to suspension of use of biometrics till the final decision is taken on the representations made by the petitioners,” a division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor held. Earlier, Mirza prayed for directives to respondents to consider the representations made by petitioners and decide those within stipulated period. He requested for suspension of use of biometric till the government comes out with any decision in this regard. “We have perused record and find that petitioners have made many representations in this regard to respondents. One of it was made on March 7 which is on record. In light of the fact that no decision has been taken on their representations, we hereby direct respondents to decide on them within four weeks,” the judges said before disposing of the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/extend-suspension-of-biometric-system-at-ration-shops-hc/articleshow/77663400.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 21, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: KGMU VC’s staff, faculty test positive||LUCKNOW: Three KGMU employees, including a senior faculty of neurosurgery department, were among 796 new Covid cases in city on Thursday. The other two employees are of KGMU vice-chancellor’s office. The city tally has reached 19,764 with 11,500 cases reported in August. On Thursday, one person contracted Covid infection in less than two minutes. The senior faculty had given sample in routine drive on Wednesday but tested positive. “He has mild symptoms and is in home isolation. His office being sanitized and all his contacts are being tested,” said KGMU spokesperson, Dr Sudhir Singh. After his two personal staff tested positive, vice-chancellor Lt Gen (retd) Bipin Puri also gave his samples for testing. The report is awaited. A section of health directorate has been closed for 72 hours for sanitization after three employees tested positive. “Employees have been asked to remain in home isolation,” said director general, health, Dr DS Negi. Meanwhile, for the first time in the city, 1,014 patients recovered from Covid in a single day since the pandemic outbreak. With this, the number of active cases went down below 7,000 to 6,705, while cured cases zoomed to 12,813. The highest 35 cases were reported from Mahanagar, followed by Thakurganj (33), Indiranagar (32), Gomtinagar (28) and Talkatora (26), while 23 cases each were recorded from Alambagh, Cantonment, and Sarojininager. Other areas, where people were found infected were Chinhat (21), Jankinpuaram and Madiaon (18 each), Hazratganj and Chowk (17 each), Aashiana (16) and Aliganj and Rae Bareli Road (14 each).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kgmu-vcs-staff-faculty-test-positive/articleshow/77664421.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Coimbatore||55 sovereigns of gold jewellery recovered from serial burglars||Coimbatore: The rural police recovered 55.5 sovereigns of gold ornaments worth Rs 25 lakh from two burglars on Thursday.The arrested people were identified as M Mohammed Yasin, 31, of Anaimalai near Pollachi and K Pandian, 30, of Nehru Nagar at Makkinampatti near Pollachi. “The duo had decamped with gold ornaments and silver articles from a house at Suleswaranpatti near Pollachi. They broke into a house at Anbu Nagar on the Pollachi – Palakkad Road and stole cash. They also looted gold ornaments from a house at Kariyanchettipalayam near Kottur,” a police officer said.A team led by Pollachi sub-division DSP K G Sivakumar and inspector Mahendran that investigated the serial burglaries nabbed Yasin and Pandian from near the Suleswaranpatti panchayat office on Thursday. They were remanded in judicial custody.The duo had also stolen 793 bottles of liquor worth Rs 1.4 lakh from a Tasmac outlet at Vanjipalayam Pirivu near Pollachi in June, police sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/55-sovereigns-of-gold-jewellery-recovered-from-serial-burglars/articleshow/77662016.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Student unions stage protest against Neet||Coimbatore: Two days after a medical aspirant in the city killed herself allegedly over fears about facing the National Entrance cum Eligibility Test (Neet), student outfits staged a protest on Thursday.Members of Students Federation of India (SFI), Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) and All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) staged a protest near the south taluk office in the city against the imposition of Neet. They met district administration officials and handed over a petition.SFI district secretary Dhinesh Raja said the assembly should pass a resolution against Neet. “A student had committed suicide earlier because of Neet. This is the second such incident,” he said. “Even without Neet, the state produced qualified and talented doctors. The exam has caused mental stress and anxiety among students.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/student-unions-stage-protest-against-neet/articleshow/77662012.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana government stays firm on restrictions at Ganesh pandals||HYDERABAD: Just a day before Ganesh Chaturthi, the state government and Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and Bajrang Dal (BD) stuck to their guns over conducting the festivities. While the government said restrictions on pandals at public places would stay in view of the pandemic and that there would be no relaxation, BD and VHP urged people to celebrate the festival while following Covid-19 guidelines. Angry BD workers staged a dharna at Koti Women’s College chowrastha on Thursday, protesting against what they called police harassment of Ganesh pandal organisers at some places. While there was speculation that the government would issue separate orders on banning Ganesh pandals at public places in the city, chief secretary Somesh Kumar on Thursday said both lockdown and unlock orders issued by the government from time to time prohibit all types of religious activities, mass gatherings and processions. “Ministers held a meeting with representatives of various organisations and there is no need for separate orders as of now,” the CS said. Ministers — Talasani Srinivas Yadav and Mahmood Ali — held a meeting where VHP and Ganesh Utsav Committee members were present. Srinivas warned that police would take action if people violate the ban orders.  Expressing resentment over the restrictions, BD and VHP leaders said police should at least allow pandals in function halls and community halls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-stays-firm-vhp-wants-curbs-relaxed/articleshow/77662019.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 21, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu government has no plans for second capital: CM||DHARMAPURI: Seeking to put to rest the demands for a second capital for Tamil Nadu, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said the government has no such plans. Declining to endorse the statements from his own cabinet colleagues on setting up of a second capital, EPS told reporters in Dharmapuri on Thursday that those were their personal opinions and not of the state government. “Those are not the government views. It’s their personal opinion,’’ he said responding to a query on ministers seeking to make Madurai or Trichy second capital for the state. It all started with state revenue minister R B Udhayakumar who hails from Madurai stating that the southern city be made second capital. Soon, the political circles were abuzz that the demand for making Madurai the second capital was made keeping an eye on upcoming elections and to woo the voters in southern Tamil Nadu. Shortly afterwards, state tourism minister Vellamandi Natarajan, from Trichy sought that his native be made the second capital. The demands set off a debate on the second capital and demands started coming from other parts of the state too. However, EPS chose not to delve deep into the subject and sought to put an end to the demands making it clear that the government has no idea to create a second capital. EPS said that the state government was fast progressing on the economic front. The state government had attracted many investors through global investors meet in 2019 and nearly Rs 3 lakh crore worth of investments will be invested in Tamil Nadu. “One among the companies – a petrol-oil marketing terminal, owned by HPCL will be set up at Sivadi in Dharmapuri at the cost of Rs 916 crore,” he said, adding that, SIPCOT – an industrial park will be set up in Dharmapuri district in two phases and one phase will be set up in 925.33 acre. Earlier, there was a brief commotion as Dharmapuri DMK MP Senthil Kumar attempted to enter into the collectorate premises to participate in the review meeting chaired by EPS. The police officials prevented him at the entrance after the MP was not invited. “Is this an AIADMK's party meeting?” the MP questioned. Responding to the query, EPS told reporters that it was a review meeting with officials and none of the public representatives were invited. “When I am conducting the meeting with the officials, how can the MP participate?” he asked. Talking to reporters in Vellore on the ban on Ganesha Chaturthi processions and celebrations, the chief minister maintained that the government will function as per the orders of the Madras high court order and the guidelines of the Union government that had banned religious gatherings and processions in public places. He assured to look into the complaints that the masks distributed through the fair price shops are sub-standard. He said the government has been urging the Centre to link the rivers in the country and pointed out that he had insisted the Centre link Godavari and Cauvery rivers during a videoconference with the Jal Shakthi Minister couple of days ago. He said the government has appealed to the Centre to provide Rs 600 crore financial assistance to establish a facility to treat and remove toxic chemicals from the effluents let out by the industries in Ranipet district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/no-plan-for-second-capital-eps/articleshow/77663401.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Delhi||Doubling rate in Delhi at 101 days against India average of 29||NEW DELHI: On July 1, Covid-19 cases in Delhi were doubling at the rate of 20 days, same as with the rest of India. By July 17, the doubling rate of Delhi rose to 58 days and to around 90 days on August 1. The doubling rate in Delhi now stands at 101.5 days, while for the rest of India, it is 28.8. These figures were part of the fresh data regarding the Covid-19 situation presented by the health department of Delhi government in a meeting of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) held on Wednesday. The data reveals that the mortality rate in Delhi has also considerably decreased. For the month of August, the mortality rate in Delhi is 1.4%, while the country has a mortality rate of 1.9%. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has often reiterated that the Delhi government wants to bring Covid-19 deaths to zero and many steps have been taken to achieve this target. These include widespread testing, oximeters, responsive ambulance system, ready availability of beds via Delhi Corona app and focus on adding ICU beds, apart from supplying oxygen concentrators to patients recovering in hospitals as well as home isolation. Kejriwal had also constituted special committees in July to inspect the hospitals with the highest mortality rate and give hospital-wise recommendations on following standard operating procedures and protocols. On June 20, the recovery rate of Delhi and the rest of India was similar at 55.2%, the health department data reveals. Since then, the recovery rate of Delhi has been consistently higher than the rest of India. Currently, the recovery rate in Delhi is 90.2% compared with 72.5% recovery rate for the rest of India. Out of a total of 1,57,354 cases in Delhi, 1,41,826 cases have recovered. The role of the “Delhi Model” in containing the spread of Covid-19 can also be seen in the decrease in test positivity rate over the last two months. On June 18, the test positivity rate in Delhi was 24.6%, which reduced to 5.2% on August 16. On June 18, 9,088 RT-PCR tests were conducted in Delhi of which 2,804 positives emerged - a positivity rate of 30.8%. In comparison, on August 16, 4,106 RT-PCR tests were conducted of which 434 positives emerged - a positivity rate of 10.5%. Similarly, on June 18, 3,316 Rapid tests were conducted of which 247 positives emerged - a positivity rate of 7.4%. In comparison, on August 16, 10,882 Rapid tests were conducted of which 353 positives emerged - a positivity rate of 3.24%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/doubling-rate-at-101-days-against-india-avg-of-29/articleshow/77663467.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 21, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Officials booked for embezzlement||YAMUNANAGAR: Police booked former principal of Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Saraswati Nagar (Mustafabad) and block education officer for alleged embezzlement of about Rs 8.57 lakh meant for construction of classrooms. After several years of the matter being highlighted, police on Tuesday registered a case against then school principal Karnail Singh and BEO Mustafabad Ram Parkash under Section 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant) of the IPC at Chhappar police station on Tuesday, August 18. As per case details, Ram Parkash is posted as BEO, Barara block and Karnail Singh at GSSS, Dahar in Panipat district. District project coordinator, Sarv Shiksha Abhiyan, Yamunanagar Suresh Kumar lodged a complaint against both officials with the Yamunanagar police. DPC Suresh told the police, “It was found that serious financial lapses were committed by Karnail Singh, principal, GSSS, Mustafabad and Ram Parkash, BEO, Mustafabad in utilisation of Rs 38,23,430 grant released for construction in 2012. The grant was released for construction of 11 rooms. It was found that from May 8, 2012, to August 26, 2013, six rooms were constructed while the rest were not made.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/officials-booked-for-embezzlement/articleshow/77663385.cms||Jaskaran Singh
August 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Irfan Kalia tests +ve; aide identified||AHMEDABAD: Irfan Kalia, 24, of Chembur, who was apprehended from Hotel Vinus in Relief Road area on Tuesday night over a plot to assassinate Gordhan Zadafia, state BJP vice-president, has tested positive for Covid-19. The news, which came early on Thursday morning, made ATS alert about possible infection. A senior ATS official said, “Kalia has been isolated in a city-based hospital and will be arrested after he is discharged from there.” Giving some good news, he added, “The officers and personnel who came in contact with Kalia have been tested and all have reported negative for Covid-19.” Meanwhile, ATS officials were able to identify an accomplice of Kalia named Salman, who was to assist him in the planned crime. He is still not in the state and was to arrive here, but Kalia was apprehended before that. Officials are concerned about the deep roots of the conspiracy in Ahmedabad. Besides the fact that Kalia obtained the firearms within the city, and his handler abroad, one Shabbir, is also from Ahmedabad. An ATS official said, “We have identified his handler, Shabbir. Currently, he is in a foreign country and central agencies are helping to trace him.” Kalia and his accomplice Salman had been promised Rs 2.5 lakh each for assassination of Zadafia, the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kalia-tests-ve-aide-identified/articleshow/77663307.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Hernia rectification surgery done on Covid-19 patient||COIMBATORE: ESI Hospital performed a life-saving surgery on a Covid patient with co-morbidities in the wee hours of Thursday. The patient is now stable and recovering from the virus and surgery. They removed an obstruction in her small intestine due to herniation of the same intestine. A 56-year-old woman from Vedapatti had been suffering from paraumbilical hernia, a condition where the abdominal contents, including bowels, protrude through a weak point of the muscles near the naval. She also had other co-morbidities like diabetes, hypertension and hypothyroidism. “The private hospital she went to for a surgery, tested her before the surgery and found her testing positive. “Since the hospital was expensive for Covid treatment, she was transferred to ESI Hospital on August 16,” said the dean of ESI Hospital, Dr Nirmala. Due to her comorbidities, doctors chose to treat the Covid infection first. But she suddenly developed small intestine obstruction which resulted in vomiting and constipation which can be life threatening. After assessing her situation, four surgeon team took up the surgery at 12am on Wednesday and removed the obstruction in a two hour procedure. “She is on postoperative care and her health is improving well,” the dean said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hernia-rectification-surgery-done-on-covid-19-patient/articleshow/77663411.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hubballi||No darshan of Chabbi Ganesh this year||HUBBALLI: Probably for the first time in the last few decades, there will be no darshan for devotees at the Chabbi Ganesh, due to the pandemic. The Ganesha idol installed by the Kulkarni family in Chabbi village in Hubballi taluk is famous for fulfilling the wishes of devotees. The red colour Ganesha idol used to attracts devotees from surrounding districts and neighbouring states. Since there is a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Hubballi Rural taluk administration has allowed the Kulkarni family to celebrate the festival only with their family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/no-darshan-of-chabbi-ganesh-this-year/articleshow/77660767.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Bareilly||Bitten by snakes, two kids buried in cow dung on advice of ‘ojhas’ in UP, die||Bareilly: In the last 24 hours, a girl, 13, and a boy, 16, died due to snakebites because their parents took them to snake charmers who advised them to bury them in cow dung in Shahjahanpur district. Scores of children die due to snakebites in the Bareilly region every year as parents prefer local “therapists” (ojhas) to medical intervention. They either bury them in cow dung or in mounds of sand, believing that it will mitigate the effect of the venom. Some children survive, most likely because they are bitten by non-venomous snakes. The others don’t make it. The rainy season is the deadliest for the children as the venomous reptiles come out in open due to waterlogging. The first incident was reported from Sangam Vatika locality of Nigohi where Surendra, a student of class IX, was sleeping on the floor of the house when a snake bit him in the leg early on Wednesday. The family immediately took the boy to a local quack who gave up hope a few minutes after the treatment. The family then took him to a snake charmer who gave few herbs and advised them to bury the boy neck deep in cow dung. Unfortunately, Surendra’s condition didn’t revive and was declared dead in the evening. The family buried the body without making any complaint against anyone. The second incident was reported from Naughva Mubarakpur village in Kalaan area where Sita, a student of class V, was bitten by a snake while she was tending to her goats outside her village on Wednesday evening. It took the family some time to realise that their daughter was bitten by a snake. Then they took her to a local snake charmer, who was easily available, to save time and he advised them cow-dung treatment but it also failed horribly and the girl succumbed on Thursday morning. Her father Suneel Kumar, a farmer, said, “We have seen many people surviving snakebites after getting treatment from the snake charmers because they are experts in dealing with different venoms found in different snakes. It takes us 2-3 hours to reach the government hospital and the guarantee of treatment is also not there and we cannot afford treatment at a private hospital.” Dr Mohammed Meeraz, emergency medical officer at the district hospital, said, “We treat many cases of snakebite and always advise people to approach a hospital at the earliest. We have saved many lives but people still follow traditional practices which prove lethal to them. We have sufficient anti-venom available here every time.” Govind Singh, Nigohi station house officer, said, “We have heard about the incident, but a case can't be filed against the snake charmer until a written complaint is given by the family.” According to a July 2020 report, a staggering 1.2 million snakebite deaths have been reported in India over a 20 years’ period from 2000 to 2019, an average of 58,000 deaths per year. According to the report, 70% of these deaths occurred in limited low-altitude, rural areas of eight states – Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh (including Telangana), Rajasthan and Gujarat. The study also found that half of all snakebite deaths occurred during the monsoon period from June to September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bitten-by-snakes-two-kids-buried-in-cow-dung-on-advice-of-ojhas-in-up-die/articleshow/77660773.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Special police teams to nab speed demons||Coimbatore: The Coimbatore city traffic police have formed two special teams to nab those involved in late-night car and bike races on the city roads."Following several complaints from locals, two special teams, each comprising a sub-inspector of police (traffic) and two traffic constables, have been appointed to patrol on their motorcycles from 11pm to 5am to keep a check on racing. The vehicles of road racers will be seized," said R Mutharasu, deputy commissioner of police (Traffic), Coimbatore city.The motorists would have to pay a penalty before the court to get back their vehicle, he added.After being rammed by an unidentified speeding car, a damaged stationary autorickshaw parked on the roadside was found at Saibaba Colony on Wednesday morning.Auto driver Kingston, 37, lodged a complaint with the Saibaba Colony police. After visiting the spot and checking CCTV footage, the police found that a speeding luxury car rammed into Kingston's auto and also damaged an educational institution's gate.“We received complaints of racing on the SITRA – Kalapatti Road, Avinashi Road, and few other streets in Coimbatore city. These roads are meant only for travel and not for races,” said Mutharasu. He requested people to contact the police if they notice any motorists racing in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/special-police-teams-to-nab-speed-demons/articleshow/77662022.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Ganesha idol found damaged||Coimbatore: Tension prevailed on Big Bazaar Street after a Lord Ganesha idol was found removed from roadside in the area, where it was installed three years ago, on Thursday morning.Hindu outfit members and shopkeepers and residents of Karuppa Gounder Street- Sullivan Street Junction gathered at the spot and demanded the Big Bazaar Street police to take action against the people, who damaged the idol.Police later found that the idol was removed by an 81-year-old man, identified as Rajappan, as he wanted to convert a portion of his house into a shop.“He told us that the statue was installed in front of his house in 2017. He removed the idol from the area for setting up the shop, which he was planning to rent out. He had no intention of damaging the idol,” a police officer said.While he was picked up for questioning, the octogenarian was later let off with a stern warning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ganesha-idol-found-damaged/articleshow/77662028.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Nine-ft idol adorns Khairatabad pandal||HYDERABAD: Even as several Ganesh pandal organisers are frequenting police stations to obtain permission for setting up pandals, a nine-foot Ganesh idol, built on the ‘Dhanvantari Narayana Maha Ganapathi’ theme, adorned Khairatabad pandal on Thursday. Incidentally, a nine-feet idol was built way back in 1950, and since then, the height has only increased. However, the pandemic has forced the organisers to restrict it. With only a few hours remaining for the festivities to begin, artisans are busy giving final touches to the Khairatabad idol. City-based clay Ganesh idol-maker, K Nagesh, with the help of 20 artisans from Kolkata, took 20 days to build the eco-friendly idol. Asked about the necessary police clearance for installation of the idol, Khairatabad Ganesh Utsav Committee founder-president, S Sudershan, said that they had obtained all permissions from the government and the police. Meanwhile, the committee is making arrangements for live-streaming pooja and other rituals. “As the devotees cannot visit the pandal, they can watch the programmes live by visiting our portal. In fact, this is the first time that we have made such an arrangement,” said S Raj Kumar, a member of the committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nine-ft-idol-adorns-khairatabad-pandal/articleshow/77662030.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 21, 2020||Nagpur||‘Red alert’ for certain areas as south Gadchiroli flooded again||NAGPUR: The meteorological department has sounded ‘red alert’ for catchment areas of Indravati and Godavari rivers, causing concern for south Gadchiroli, especially Sironcha where at least 15 villages are already cut-off and roads blocked as flood revisited the area amid heavy downpour. In all, at least 65 villages have been marooned in the flood waters. The increase in backwaters of Indravati river has led to flooding of Parlakota river cutting off the entire Bhamragarh taluka from the rest of the district for the second time since Sunday. With water flowing dangerously over the Parlakota bridge, around 40 villages in Bhamragarh have once again lost connectivity. Aniket Amte, administrator of the Lok Biradari Prakalp project at Hemalkasa in Bhamragarh, said it’s high time the height of the Parlakota bridge is raised and villages shifted to safer places from the current locations as repeated flooding is affecting them the most. “Flooding of five nullahs (Kumarguda, Tadgaon, Perimilli, Kurkeli and Chandra) and Bande river between Alapalli and Bhamragarh submerge bridges every year. Government must think of long-term solution like raising the height of the bridges here to bring relief to these talukas that remain cut-off for several days in a year,” said Amte. Bhamragarh tehsildar Satyanarayan Silamwar said relief boats and other medicines have been dispatched to ensure there is no casualty. “In June Bhamragarh residents were provided with ration and medicines to last for four months. Hopefully, it will come to their help now,” he said. Sironcha tehsildar Ramesh Jaswant said disaster management teams have been pressed into action. “We are on our toes for last seven days as incessant rain hs raised the water levels of the main river,” he said. The road connectivity between Asaralli and Somanpalli in Sironcha has been snapped due to flooding of the Somanpalli nullah. Alapalli-Sironcha road too has been cut off due to overflowing Amraji nullah. Flooding of Koretogu nullah has cut off link between Rompalli and Zinganoor. The Hemalkasa-Karampalli-Surjagadh road has been flooded by Pidmilli nullah while overflowing Arewada nullah has snapped the connection between Kasansoor-Koti and Bhamragarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/red-alert-for-certain-areas-as-south-gadchiroli-flooded-again/articleshow/77663428.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 21, 2020||Vadodara||Chased by stray dogs in Vadodara, girl lost six years ago returns||VADODARA: She was only seven-years-old when fate took her on a stray adventure one fateful night in 2014. And returned six years later to recount her tale, a real-life pulp fiction material. Chased by street dogs, the sleepy young girl who had gone out in the dark outside her aunt’s home in Vadodara’s Atladara area to answer nature’s call, she disappeared into the night for six long years. However, the freak adventure ended when the girl, a native of Dhanpur in Dahod, finally reunited with her parents as a 13-year-old. The reunification tale is also equally amazing. It was nothing less than stray fate again that crossed the girl’s path with that of a labourer from Dahod who gave the girl shelter for three years and eventually while working in Gandhinagar got a clue and contacted her parents. The amazing story that shaped up around six months ago, came to cops’ knowledge only on Wednesday when they contacted her parents during a special drive to trace missing children. Though a missing person’s complaint was lodged in 2014, cops were clueless on the girl’s whereabouts for all this time. “The girl does not remember how and where she spent her initial years after getting lost. But around three years ago she said she met Sarla, a construction labourer who hails from Limkheda taluka of Dahod, who was working in Vadodara then and started living with her,” said a police official. The woman tried to find out about her background, but the girl had a vague memory of her early days. And so, Sarla could not help her. But, around six months back, during one of their conversations, the girl suddenly shared some incidents from her early childhood. “The woman guessed about the parents from the incidents she had shared and reached out to her parents,” the police official said. The girl’s parents then went to Gandhinagar to meet their daughter and bring her back to Dahod. “Our officials went to meet her parents to know if they had found any whereabouts of their missing kid and were taken by surprise to know that the girl was already reunited,” said inspector D K Vaghela of JP Road police station. The girl is now being counselled by Childline helpline so that she can try to recall her initial years after getting lost, said Vaghela, adding that thankfully the counselling confirmed that no untoward incident has taken place with her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/chased-by-stray-dogs-girl-lost-six-years-ago-returns/articleshow/77661413.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru is country’s cleanest small city; Periyapatna South India’s spotless town||Mysuru: For the second year running, Periyapatna was adjudged the cleanest among urban centres in South India (six states) with a population of less than 25,000 in the Swachh Survekshan survey. Mysuru was named the cleanest city among those with a population of three to 10 lakh. The staff and officials of Periyapatna Town Municipal Council and Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) are understandably proud that their efforts have been acknowledged by the central government. Meanwhile, two MCC pourakarmikas interacted with Union minister of state for housing and urban affairs Hardeep S Puri, who declared the Swachh Survekshan results on webcast on Thursday. In addition to lavishing praise on the two workers for their contribution towards keeping Mysuru city clean, the minister inquired if they were deriving benefits under central schemes such as Ayushman Bharat and PM’s Jan Dhan Yojana initiatives. Puri also congratulated MCC’s nodal officer for Swachh Survekshan and health officer Dr DG Nagaraj, for his role in keeping the heritage city clean. Dr Nagaraj attributed Mysuru’s success to active participation from residents, segregation of waste at source and decentralising collection and treatment of garbage. However, Mysuru dropped two places in the overall rankings, slumping to fifth from last year’s third position. This year, Navi Mumbai slotted in third, jumping four places from its last year’s rankings. Periyapatna beat towns with a population of less than 25,000 in six states – Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Goa, Tamil Nadu and Kerala – to successfully defend its crown. Periyapatna TMC environmental engineer Prasanna AT attributed the civic agency’s success to door-to-door garbage collection and segregation of waste. He said around seven tonnes of waste was generated in Periyapatna every day, on average. MCC’s sanitary supervisor’s efforts lauded Union minister Hardeep S Puri on Thursday lauded the efforts of MCC sanitary supervisor Nanjundaswamy M for his palpable zeal towards keeping the city clean. Nanjundaswamy thanked the minister for extending medical and financial assistance to pourakarmikas, which he said helped motivate them to renew their efforts. On learning that Nanjundaswamy had contracted Covid-19, and had resumed his duties immediately after being discharged, Puri expressed his appreciation with applause, much to the former’s glee. Nanjundaswamy told TOI he was likely to have contracted Covid-19 while working at a containment zone in Gandhi Nagar. Manjula, a pourakarmika, who interacted with the union minister, expressed her gratitude to the Centre for the various welfare schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-is-countrys-cleanest-small-city-periyapatna-south-indias-spotless-town/articleshow/77662337.cms||Lawrence Milton
August 21, 2020||Vijayawada||HC issues notice to govt on Universities Act||Vijayawada: The high court on Thursday issued notices to the state government in a petition challenging the Andhra Pradesh Universities (second amendment) Act. Allu Chinna Narayana, a retired professor of University of Hyderabad, moved the HC challenging the amendment, which inserted the words “on the recommendations of the government” to appoint vice-chancellors to universities in the state. S Srinivasa Rao, the counsel for the petitioner, argued that the amendment has no legal competence and is contrary to UGC guidelines and against the institutional autonomy of universities. The UGC guidelines state that a search committee will submit probable names to the chancellor, who shall select and appoint the vice-chancellors out of the panel of names. The government has no role in appointing VCs and hence the amendment is illegal, he contended. The petitioner made principal secretaries of law, higher education, general administration and UGC as respondents. The HC issued notices to the government and other respondents and posted further hearing of the matter after two weeks. The court also said that any appointments made henceforth will be subject to the adjudication of the petition. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-issues-notice-to-govt-on-universities-act/articleshow/77660765.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Hotel owner an old friend of Zadafia||Ahmedabad: Jethanand Harwani, owner of Vinus Hotel on Relief Road, from where Gujarat ATS caught a sharpshooter on a mission to kill Gordhan Zadafia, says he is an old acquaintance of the state BJP leader. Harwani said, “Zadafia and I have worked together since the time of Sangh Parivar.” When asked if the sharp-shooters were checked for their identity during the check-in, Harwani said that his hotel manager Karan Singh had allowed entry into the hotel only after checking their IDs and baggage. “I had directed my manager to be vigilant. But we cannot deny any guest,” said Harwani. Meanwhile, Jashwantsinh Vaghela, secretary of Janvishram Co-Op Housing Society Ltd where Harwani’s wife Asha and daughter Minal own a tenement, told TOI that he had mailed an application to the police commissioner on Thursday. “The Harwani’s have allowed paying guests to stay in the tenement sans any permission thereby violating the society’s norms,” said vaghela. Harwani, however, told TOI that he had not violated any society norms. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hotel-owner-an-old-friend-of-zadafia/articleshow/77663345.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Interest in home schooling rises since pandemic in Karnataka's coastal districts||MANGALURU: Sisters Dhrithi and Diya, residents of Karkala, who are studying in class nine and seven, respectively, never liked regular schooling and had always wanted to pursue homeschooling. The pandemic has helped them to realise their dream. They recently quit their school and are now doing homeschooling. While their counterparts are busy with online classes, a small group of students, supported by their parents, are taking up homeschooling. Like Dhrithi and Diya, a handful of parents in the coastal districts are keen on homeschooling for their children, and are taking the opinion of people who are already into it. “We wanted our children to be home schooled for a long time, but we had to postpone it due to various reasons. After analysing the current scenario, natural calamities and climate crisis, we felt that our children needed more life skills along with their academic education. The current education system does not address any of these issues, and homeschooling will prepare them for a better future,” said Mamatha Rai, who runs a trust involved in reviving Udupi saris. Mamatha, a postgraduate in physics and an MCA, who recently removed her children from formal education, said that it was a long pending plan, and that they had relocated to Karkala to implement it. “Our family is completely convinced about homeschooling being the best option for our children, and there is no turning back on it.” Sisters who have done formal schooling, will now plant to complete their Class 10 through the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS). Mamatha says though there are many parents who want their children to be home schooled, they are apprehensive due to the risks involved. Jeune Lobo, a farmer from Shirtady, Moodbidri, whose twins Ethan and Elena are being home schooled since an early age, said that since the pandemic, a lot of parents from Dakshina Kannada and Udupi are approaching her to take advice on homeschooling. It was not a smooth journey when Jeune started homeschooling. She explains that the concept was new and scary, yet exciting. “Though we got a lot of information from the internet, we did not yet know anyone who home schooled their children. So we reached out to the homeschooling community in Bengaluru to clear our doubts and concerns,” she said. The children got enough time and attention from both parents. “While other children studied in schools, our kids learnt at home, while travelling, visiting friends and relatives. Learning was not limited by time or place. Whenever we ask our children, if they want to attend school, they say that they are happy with homeschooling.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/interest-in-home-schooling-rises-since-pandemic/articleshow/77663356.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||HC restrains Haryana from finalising candidates from non-SCS to IAS||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has restrained the Union and Haryana governments from finalising the candidates for final selection into the coveted IAS from non-state civil services officers’ quota in Haryana. A division bench comprising Justice R K Jain and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by Surender Singh Dahiya, additional director posted with the agriculture department, Haryana. Dahiya has challenged the August 7 order of Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), Chandigarh. The bench has also issued notice to Union government, Haryana government and Haryana Public Services Commission (HPSC), seeking their replies on the contentions raised by the petitioner. The petitioner’s main grouse in this case is the Haryana government’s decision to conduct a written examination for selection on IAS from non-state civil services quota. In his plea before CAT, the petitioner had challenged the June 9 decision of the state government through which it (state) had asked the HPSC to hold a written examination for selection of IAS from non-state civil services officers’ quota. In his plea filed before the CAT, the petitioner argued that the decision to conduct written examination is ultra vires of the All India Service Act, 1951, the Rules and Regulations framed thereunder. His argument was that the state has absolutely no role to play in this regard. The Haryana government, however, had argued that it is assigned the role under Regulation 4 of the rules to decide whether or not a candidate to be considered under the Non-SCS category is of ‘outstanding merit and ability’ and it is only in that context that decision to hold examination was taken so that the actual performance of the officer is assessed. Hearing the plea, the Chandigarh CAT bench had dismissed Dahiya’s plea on August 7, observing that it is difficult to accept that the state has exceeded the legislative competence of the state. It had also observed that Dahiya could have a genuine apprehension in case he is required to compete in the written examination with fresh candidates. Aggrieved from dismissal of his plea, Dahiya approached the HC, seeking directions to quash the decision of Haryana government prescribing written examination for IAS post. The case would now come up for further hearing on August 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-restrains-hry-from-finalising-candidates-from-non-scs-to-ias/articleshow/77663407.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Kochi||Kochi residents’ demand for durable roads gets ignored||KOCHI: Heavy rain that lashed the city recently exposed the poor quality of road relaying work undertaken in Kochi. Large potholes have been formed on many stretches of major roads. Outbreak of Covid-19 has forced people to give up public transport and use private vehicles, including two-wheelers and cars, and motorists struggle to drive through the pothole-filled stretches. “It was following the high court intervention in October 2019, the road owners like Kochi corporation and public works department (PWD) undertook road relaying works. The local bodies were given time till January 31 to complete road works. But once the monsoon began, the relayed roads started getting damaged. The road owners and their contractors should be made accountable for the poor quality in road relaying works. No guarantee is being provided for the relayed roads,” said Ranjith G Thampy, who had earlier filed a petition in the high court seeking steps to save Marine Drive. Citing the stretches of Chittoor Road between Pullepady Junction and Rajaji Road and the road leading from AL Jacob railway overbridge to Rajiv Gandhi Indoor Stadium, Thampy said there has been no permanent solution for the potholes. “When these areas were pinpointed, the corporation put red earth and crusher metals to cover up the damage. And when it rains, the red earth got washed away,” said Thampy. The repeated demand to construct quality roads in the city have fallen on deaf ears. Neither the road owners nor their contractors provide guarantee for the road relaying works. Reports of damaged roads surface every year during the monsoon. Though it’s known that sufficient provisions should be provided for drainage along the roads, there has been no sincere effort in this regard. The existing drainage network often remains clogged, resulting in waterlogging. “The local self-government department and PWD end up spending huge amounts for relaying roads every year. If durable roads are constructed, there would not be a need to meet these expenses every year. Road works is a fertile area for corruption. Therefore, neither politicians nor officials want to have good quality roads which can withstand bad weather conditions,” said Thampy. Meanwhile, C P Ajith Kumar of Suburban Travels -- who had approached the high court citing the pathetic conditions of Kochi roads -- pointed out how agencies like Boarder Roads Organizations (BRO) was engaged in road infrastructure works in inhospitable and far-flung areas. He said that when technical know-how and manpower is available to construct road networks in most treacherous terrains and climatically harsh regions, why is it not possible for Kochi corporation, greater Cochin development authority, PWD and national highways authority of India (NHAI) to construct good roads in urban centres? The Covid outbreak is being taken as an excuse for not relaying and reconstructing roads. “If the road owners are not taking an initiative to construct durable roads in the city, we will be forced approach the court,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/city-residents-demand-for-durable-roads-gets-ignored/articleshow/77662051.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
August 21, 2020||India||Gehlot skips Pilot-attended party function||JAIPUR: Though the central leadership of Congress had brokered a deal with his former deputy Sachin Pilot, who raised a banner of revolt against Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot, it seems the latter has not been able to get over the bad blood created during the month-long acrimony. Gehlot on Thursday skipped a function at the Pradesh Congress Committee office which was attended by Pilot. The occasion was the 76th birth anniversary of former PM Rajiv Gandhi. A memorial function was at the PCC headquarters. All arrangements were made for the CM’s visit. But when Pilot reached the headquarters, the CM cancelled his visit at the last moment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gehlot-skips-pilot-attended-party-function/articleshow/77665554.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Vijayawada||No ex gratia yet for docs who died in the line of Covid-19 duty||Visakhapatnam: Even though around 20 doctors, including five government doctors, lost their lives while on Covid-19 duty in the state, none of their families have received the ex gratia (Rs 50 lakh as announced by the central government) amount yet. Similarly, though hundreds of doctors and nurses have contracted the infection, they neither have government insurance cover nor is there any provision of ex gratia for them. Moreover, most doctors do not even have assured beds or ICUs guaranteed if they were to be admitted in a Covid-19 hospital. Over 7,000 members of the AP government doctors’ association (APGDA) are now planning to take up a state-wide black badge protest from Thursday on the issues plaguing doctors who are in the frontline of the war against the novel coronavirus. As per a state-wise Indian Medical Association data released in July, 175 doctors have lost their lives across 18 states, including 11 from AP. The numbers have further gone up in August, Dr PA Ramani, IMA’s Visakhapatnam unit president, said. “We are asking the government to take better care of doctors who are risking their lives on duty. In every district, almost 150-200 doctors and nurses have been infected by Covid-19. In Visakhapatnam alone, four practitioners including a general physician, paediatrician, ophthalmologist and psychiatrist have died. The family members of a final-year PG doctor of a private medical college in Eluru, who died in June, did not get any ex gratia,” he said. Of the 175 doctors who died across India, hardly 10% of families have received any ex gratia so far. Dr K V Ramprasad, secretary of APGDA in Visakhapatnam, said over 20 doctors from government and private hospitals have died in the state but nobody’s family has received the ex gratia amount announced by the central government. “We are representing our key demands to the government and resorting to a black badge protest. We want expediting the payment of Centre’s compensation of Rs 50 lakh and allocation of another Rs 50 lakh from the state government. Secondly, 15-20 separate rooms with oxygen and five beds with ICU facility should be earmarked for doctors and their families on Covid-19 duty in each district in case they get infected. At least, we will not feel so depressed and insecure then. And it will also boost our morale,” he said. “Finally, pay revision as per UGC scale is due since 2016 for doctors under the directorate of medical education and we are getting almost half the salary of what we should have got, which is demoralising as well,” added Dr Ramprasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/no-ex-gratia-yet-for-docs-who-died-in-the-line-of-covid-19-duty/articleshow/77643123.cms||Sulogna Mehta
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||2 women faking as I-T officers held in Jind||Jind: The police on Thursday evening arrested two women for impersonating as income tax officers and conducting a fake raid at a jewellery shop in the main market here. The accused have been identified as Sweta aged, 25, who hails from Shahdara in Delhi, and Swati, 26, a native of Nirjan village in Jind but was staying in Kaithal with her father, who is a Haryana government official. Both entered a jewellery shop and got the shutter down. They produced their identity cards, showing them as income tax officers from Delhi, and a search warrant. They sought various documents from the shop owner, including the income tax returns. After giving a look to the papers, the duo said there were discrepancies in the documents and sought Rs 1.50 lakh and some gold to settle the matter. But, the shopkeeper got suspicious and called some other shopkeepers in the areas and also the police, who took them into custody. According to the police, the duo has confessed their crime and they have been booked on charges of cheating and forgery of documents, among others. DSP Jitender Khatkar, who is investigating the case, said, “The motive of the accused women was to make money and they were inspired by the Bollywood movie Special 26, in which fake officers conduct raids. They used to work together at a call centre in Delhi. While Sweta has completed her graduation, Swati is a divorcee and has done BBA course. There may be other accomplices with the women, so we have taken them on four days’ police remand for investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-women-faking-as-i-t-officers-held-in-jind/articleshow/77663452.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Prostitution racket busted at Kallar, 2 men arrested||Coimbatore: The rural police have busted a prostitution racket that was functioning out of a lodge on Ooty Road at Kallar near Mettupalayam with the arrest of two people who were running the same. They have also rescued a 22-year-old girl from Bengaluru in Karnataka who was forced into flesh trade.An investigation officer identified the accused as K Mahendran, 46, and R Ganeshan, 36, both natives of Vellore district. Mahendran had taken the lodge named Saranya on lease for three years and the business was good till March this year. Ganeshan was his staffer.“The duo said they stared running the sex racket after the lockdown affected their business very badly. Mahendran had to pay a monthly rent of Rs50,000. As he was out of business since March, he was unable to pay the rent. The lodge will be sealed with the help of revenue department,” the officer said.According to him, Mettupalayam police inspector Chennakesavan and team conducted a raid at Saranya lodge on Wednesday night based on a tip that the facility was used for flesh trade. The team found a secret room that was used to hide victims during police raid.The Mettupalayam police subsequently booked Mahendran and Ganeshan under Sections 3 (2) (a) and 4 (2) (c) of the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act and produced them before a judicial magistrate, who remanded the duo in judicial custody, on Thursday morning.The rescued woman was, meanwhile, sent to the government run home on Sanganoor Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/prostitution-racket-busted-at-kallar-2-men-arrested/articleshow/77662042.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Phone tapping claims: Petitioner told to add details to main petition||VIJAYAWADA: The high court on Thursday asked the petitioner to merge the additional affidavit with the main petition in the phone tapping case. As the allegations made in the additional affidavit are not part of the main affidavit, it is better to merge it by making necessary changes to the pleadings so that the respondents would be able to answer in case if any notices are issued, the bench observed. Advocate for the petitioner, J Sravan Kumar, requested the bench for time to file the affidavit afresh with suggested changes. The petition has alleged that an IPS officer was asked to track the movements of high court judges, and that the phones of judges are being tapped. As the allegations are serious in nature, the high court asked the petitioner to submit any evidence in support of his allegations. Sravan Kumar had told the court on Tuesday that he will file an additional affidavit with the names of the police officers. On Thursday, the HC asked him to include the additional details in the original petition, and posted the matter for further hearing to next Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/phone-tapping-claims-petitioner-told-to-add-details-to-main-petition/articleshow/77660778.cms||Srikanth Aluri
August 21, 2020||Bhopal||Saas-Bahu mix up in Covid test; not me, says quarantined woman||BHOPAL: In a strange case of mix-up and confusion, the district administration in Tikamgarh quarantined a woman when her daughter-in-law was believed to be corona positive. The mother-in-law, who was quarantined, said, “I was never medically examined. My swab samples were also never collected.” Health officials, however, insisted, “She is corona positive. We took her samples.” Her daughter-in-law reportedly left for Delhi with her husband on Tuesday morning. The chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr MK Prajapati said, “She was the one who whose swab samples were taken by the doctors earlier this week. But she got the name of her daughter-in-law mentioned on the documents.” The block medical officer involved in the case has been transferred. But the CMHO denied the alleged mix-up as the reason behind his transfer. On Tuesday night, when health workers in Badagaon village of Tikamgarh knocked at the doors of the 40-year-old woman, she was surprised to find people standing outside her house wearing PPE kits. They asked the woman to accompany them as “her coronavirus test report was positive”. But the woman refused. After arguing for over half an hour, she accompanied them and was lodged at a Covid -19 care unit of the village and quarantined. The woman continues to insist: “No one took my test samples, there was no medical examination. But the doctors forced me to accompany them and isolated me.” The staff accompanying the health workers threatened to beat me, she alleged. The CMHO said, “After the controversy, I asked the block medical officer and he said he had identified the woman. The BMO told me that she is the same woman whose swab samples were collected. But she had not mentioned her name on the medical documents.” However, on Thursday, after the BMO was transferred.Dr Prajapati said, “this mix up was not the reason behind his transfer”. The CMHO said, “Her daughter-in-law and son have both migrated to Delhi. And they left Tikamgarh before the swab samples of the 40-year-old woman were collected.” So far, there have been 363 positive cases and 10 deaths in Tikamgarh. There are 25 active cases of the virus infection there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/editedsaas-bahu-mix-up-in-covid-test-result-puts-tikamgarh-officials-in-a-tizzy/articleshow/77663437.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Lucknow||Chatbot to answer your UPSEE query||Lucknow: All queries of candidates appearing for the Uttar Pradesh State Entrance Examination (UPSEE) 2020 will be answered immediately — all they need to do is ping on a WhatsApp number. Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University has launched a WhatsApp chatbot, a computer program designed to simulate conversation with users, for the convenience of aspirants. “This facility will enable candidates get real-time answers to the queries related to UPSEE through the use of artificial intelligence. If a candidate asks questions on WhatsApp chatbot through the registered mobile number in UPSEE 2020, the information will be made available within seconds,” said vice-chancellor Prof Vinay Kumar Pathak. He said candidates can get information related to examination, application number, results and counseling at any time. If the candidate asks questions from an unregistered mobile number, he would only get general information like the date of examination and counselling schedule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/chatbot-to-answer-your-upsee-query/articleshow/77664483.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Pandemic hits Dhoolpet artisans hard, no takers for ready idols||HYDERABAD: With a huge pile of unsold Ganesh idols and repeated calls from local financier to pay off the Rs 8 lakh loan, 35-year-old Laddu Singh, an artisan from Dhoolpet, had his hands full and the stress took a toll on his health as he succumbed to a heart attack on Thursday. Laddu’s is not an isolated case as artisans in Dhoolpet say all of them, with little or no sale of the Ganesh idols following the government’s move to ban the erection of pandals during Ganesh Chaturthi festivities in the wake of the pandemic, are facing a similar predicament. “He is my brother-in-law and I last saw him restlessly calling all his old customers and requesting them to buy at least a few idols. He had hired some 10 workers to build 100 idols in his workshop. None were sold,” said Kailash Singh Hazari. Laddu has been an idol maker for last two decades. Laddu, like the close to 7,000 artisans in Dhoolpet, bought raw material by taking a huge loan from the local financier at the beginning of the year expecting a rush by August. “This is the main festival for us. Usually, by selling Ganesh idols, we make enough to pay the workers and repay the loan. With little money in hand after all payments and money earned through the sale of the idols, we have to pay for household expenses, children’s education, medical expenses etc,” said Sushil Singh, who has been in the profession for over a decade. Sushil’s workshop also has over 120 idols but so far not even one idol has been sold. “None of my old customers are buying even the idols that are 4 feet and below. There is no support from the government,” he said. Kailash had received orders for 10 Ganesh idols for apartments. “Of the 10, eight orders were cancelled after we finished making the idols. Only two were sold. I received over Rs 12,000 as advance for 10 idols, of which I had to return Rs 10,000 after the orders were cancelled,” said Kailash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pandemic-hits-dhoolpet-artisans-hard-no-takers-for-ready-idols/articleshow/77662058.cms||Aditi Mallick
August 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||2006 station blast accused arrested||AHMEDABAD: Sleuths of the the Gujarat anti-terrorist squad (ATS) arrested Abdul Razak Gazi from 24 Parganas district in West Bengal on Wednesday. Gazi is accused of involvement in the 2006 Ahmedabad railway station blast and was on the run for 14 years. DIG ATS Himanshu Shukla said they have sent Gazi for Covid-19 test. SP ATS Imtiaz Shaikh said that to create enmity between two communities, Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) and the banned Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) had obtained RDX and money at the instance of the Pakistani intelligence agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI),” he added. Shaikh said a bag full of explosives was kept on Platform 2 and 3, near a phone booth. The bomb went off at about 1.43am and some 10 persons were injured. “Abdul Razak has been held in that case as he had sheltered two of the accused after the blast,” he said. Shaikh said Razak, a resident of Bagundi village close to Bangladesh border, had helped terror suspects Zulfikar Kagzi and Saiyed Zabiuddin Ansari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2006-station-blast-accused-arrested/articleshow/77663378.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: SDM, lawyer in verbal spat over search warrant||HISAR: Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Ellenabad town of Sirsa district engaged in an argument with a lawyer on Wednesday over the issuance of a search warrant in the case of a couple’s marriage. Both sides filed police complaints against each other. Police have sought legal opinion in the matter to proceed further. Lawyer Shrikant Thepra approached the court of Ellenabad SDM Dilbag Singh Godara for the issuance of a search warrant to recover a young woman, who got married against the wishes of her parents and was taken away by her family members. The lawyer had sought the search warrant for the woman’s recovery under Section 97 (search for persons wrongfully confined) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). The search warrant was not issued and employees in the SDM’s office filed a complaint against lawyer Thepra for obstructing government work. The lawyer filed a complaint with the police about alleged misbehaviour by the SDM and his subordinates who, he said, asked him to give them masks and sanitisers. Speaking about the incident, SDM Godara said, “Neither did the lawyer write the application correctly nor did he have the woman’s marriage certificate. When I told this to him, he got angry and brought his other lawyer colleagues to the office.” Thepra said the SDM first asked for sanitisers and masks, which he refused to provide. Ellenabad DSP Jagat Singh said he received complaints from both sides. “Legal opinion is being sought,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ellenabad-sdm-lawyer-spar-over-issuance-of-search-warrant/articleshow/77663424.cms||KUMAR MUKESH
August 21, 2020||Vijayawada||AP crosses 3M tests as tally rises to 3.16L||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh achieved the three million Covid-19 tests milestone on Wednesday, even as the state reported 9,742 new cases, taking the cumulative tally to 3,16,003. The toll has increased to 2,906 with 86 more Covid-related deaths. As many as 8,061 Covid-19 patients were declared cured on Wednesday. There are currently 86,725 active cases in the state with 2,26,372 recoveries and 2,906 deaths, reflecting a recovery rate of 71.6%. Uttar Pradesh (39.6 lakh), Tamil Nadu (38.4 lakh) and Maharashtra (32.6 lakh) are the only three states, which have conducted more than three million Covid-19 tests. However, AP continued to maintain its lead by testing about 56,541 people per every million population, the highest in India. While the national average of tests per every million population is 22,886, Assam (51,995 tests per million) and Tamil Nadu (49,945) stood in the second and third places after AP. Starting with zero test facilities in February, the state government ramped up its health infrastructure and established 81 testing laboratories as of date, including the private ones. The first lab became operational on March 7, after sending the initial samples to the labs in other states for the want of a Covid-19 testing facility in AP. The state, which collected its first Covid-19 sample on February 1, took 59 days to complete the first one lakh tests and 124 days for the first one million tests by July 5. It could reduce its time to test the second one million tests to 27 days by August 1 and the latest one million tests to 18 days on Wednesday. According to the state health officials, the extensive testing has become the backbone in the battle against Covid-19 in the state. In the initial months of the pandemic, the state took advantage of its village/ward volunteer system for community surveillance and identifying the vulnerable groups and foreign returnees to keep the infection numbers in check. However, with the opening of the state borders and lifting restrictions on commercial activities as part of the unlocking process, the state witnessed a steep surge in cases in June and July months. In August, the daily new cases settled around 8,000 to 10,000-mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-crosses-3m-tests-as-tally-rises-to-3-16l/articleshow/77643150.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Swachh Survekshan 2020: City fails cleanliness test||Coimbatore: The city is not getting any better in terms of cleanliness. According to the yearly cleanliness survey of cities, Swachh Survekshan 2020, declared on Thursday, the city has bagged 40th position among 47 cities with population of more than 10 lakh. Madurai ranks 42, while Chennai ranks 45 in the survey that was topped by Indore in Madhya Pradesh. Two years ago, Coimbatore was ranked 17th among 47 cities. Residents say the poor ranking is directly proportional to the city looking extremely messy due to the multiple infrastructure projects taking place with no coordination with each other.This is the fifth edition of the survey that was initiated in 2016 as a yearly affair. This year, close to 2 crore citizens across 42 cities took part in the survey conducted by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs.Nationally, Coimbatore has been rated less cleaner than almost all cities in North and central India, including Varanasi, Greater Mumbai, Pimpri Chinchwad, Dombivili and Hyderabad, all of which have larger populations. This is a significant drop compared to 2017 and 2018, when the city was ranked 16th. In fact, no city from Tamil Nadu figured in the top 10 rankings in any of the categories.Coimbatore’s scores including direct observation, citizen’s feedback, service level progress and certifications stood at 2,337 out of 6,000, which is half of table-topper Indore (5,647.5). Though exact scores in each category were not provided, Coimbatore scored around 850 out of 1,500 in terms of direct observation, which was slightly more than national average, scored around 750 out of 1,500 in citizen feedback again slightly more than state and national average, scored 0 in terms of certifications and scored around 40 out of 1,500 in service level progress. A resident from the city said he is not surprised at the laggard performance of the city in the survey. “Last year, they began work on the Trichy Road flyover, Kavundampalayam flyover and laid electric cables on Avinashi Road simultaneously. There were garbage pile-ups everywhere,” said Shiva Kumar, a resident of Race Course.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/swachh-survekshan-2020-city-fails-cleanliness-test/articleshow/77662054.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||More rains in store for Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The heavy monsoon showers, which started on Wednesday night, continued to lash many parts of the city even on Thursday. According to the Telangana State Development Planning Society figures, Dammaiguda, Patancheru and Ramanthapur areas received light rains of up to 38 mm till 8.30 am. During the day, the city received 23.7 mm of average rainfall with Asifnagar receiving 26.3 mm of rainfall followed by 12.5 mm at Chandulal Baradari. IMD Hyderabad figures indicate that the city has experienced 43% excess rains after receiving 576.9 mm cumulative rainfall from June 1 till date as against the normal of 404.3. Meteorologists said that it will be a wet start to the festive season as monsoon has been active across the state. “Southwest monsoon is vigorous across Telangana. Hyderabad too will experience light to moderate rains for the next two days,” said Naga Ratna, in-charge director, IMD, Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/more-rains-in-store-for-hyd/articleshow/77663457.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Delhi||BJP to Delhi lieutenant governor: Issue guidelines for wedding season||NEW DELHI: Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor has requested lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, who is also the chairman of Delhi Disaster Management Authority, for getting guidelines issued for people who want to solemnise marriage functions. Meanwhile, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta has requested the LG to allow Ramlila with social distancing. The wedding season begins from November and due to the Covid lockdown, families with planned weddings are anxious about the guidelines governing social functions in Delhi. In a letter to the LG, Kapoor said that the peak wedding season would occur between November 15 and December 25 and many families were awaiting guidelines. “From booking place and caterers to sending invites among other activities, everything takes time and involves money and people are anxiously awaiting guidelines to ensure bookings,” Kapoor added. “Several Independence Day events were recently organised while maintaining social distancing across the country. A number of these events have been made successful by reducing the number of people. Similarly, all the Ramlila organisers, who have been holding the event for several years, should be allowed,” said Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjp-to-lg-issue-guidelines-for-wedding-season/articleshow/77663566.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||School trustee attacked||Ahmedabad: The managing trustee of Raghunath Hindi High School on Thursday filed a complaint with Shaherkotda police alleging that her son beat her over hoisting tricolour on Independence Day in the school compound where he lives with his family. Sumitra Yadav, 73, resident of Saraspur, said that her elder son Chetan Yadav had on Tuesday evening barged into her house and asked why she hoisted the flag on Independence Day and why she had entered his property. “Chetan then pulled Sumitra’s hair and tried to strangle her. As she screamed for help, her two younger sons and daughter-in-laws rushed there and rescued her from Chetan,” states FIR of the case. Before leaving Sumitra’s house, he pulled out a knife from his pocket and pointed at her while threatening that he would kill her if she ever entered the school compound. She fell ill after the attack and approached Shaherkotda police on Thursday where she filed a complaint of causing hurt, uttering of abusive words and criminal intimidation against Chetan. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/school-trustee-attacked/articleshow/77663405.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Government mulls splitting large rythu bazaars||VISAKHAPATNAM: The agricultural marketing department is mulling breaking up one rythu bazaar in several parts that would allow them to operate from different venues. With the state government keen on reopening educational institutions from September, department officials are compelled to shift the markets, which are currently being operated from the school grounds. However, in the absence of a proper large fields in the neighbourhood where markets can be operational while maintaining proper social distancing, officials are now looking forward to this idea of ‘multiple venues’. Explaining the reason for considering the idea, K Srinivas Rao, joint director (marketing) of the agricultural marketing department told TOI, “We have been operating the rythu bazaars from various large open fields since March-end to ensure that the vendors and customers maintain proper social distancing. Many of these markets are now being operated from grounds located inside private- and state- run schools. Although we are not sure when the educational institutions would resume, we are trying to find out alternative places for these bazaars.” Officials close to this development claimed that when they selected the grounds in March, they had allotted the largest ground closest to the market on most occasions. Now, while finding alternatives they are no longer getting a field big enough that can help maintain social distancing, especially on Sundays. “So, the least we can do is split the markets into multiple venues. In that case, one of the venues can be the original site of the market,” a senior official explained. In fact, a few markets are already operating from multiple venues. Like, the Peddawaltair Rythu Bazaar. When the market was shifted in March, a section of the vendors were settled at the Andhra University ground and rests were sent to a private school. After the private school authorities asked the market to be removed from their premises, vendors were sent back to the original site of the market. “There is no other solution. We cannot shift all the vendors to the original market sites as this would lead to overcrowding. The best solution is to split the markets. But the locations have to be selected carefully,” said Janardhan Rao, an estate officer of a rythu bazaar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/govt-mulls-splitting-large-rythu-bazaars/articleshow/77660792.cms||Arpit Basu
August 21, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: 24-year-old man stabbed at Eloor, four on the run||KOCHI: Eloor police are on the look-out for a four-member gang which attacked a youth at Pathalam Junction near Eloor late on Wednesday. The youth sustained stab injuries in the attack that took place around 7.30pm. According to police, the 24-year-old man from Pathalam was admitted to a private hospital in the city. Police said he sustained injuries to his thighs and that the injuries were not critical. Police said that the victim was standing at Pathalam Junction when the attackers, riding two motorcycles, approached him and attacked without provocation. Three among them pinned him down and the fourth stabbed him with a knife. The accused later fled the scene, leaving the victim bleeding, said a police officer. Police said that they have launched a probe to find out the exact reason for the attack. They said that prima facie they suspect some previous grudge nursed by the accused towards the victim as the reason for the attack. Police said that the accused will be arrested soon. An FIR was registered in connection with the attack at Eloor police station invoking Sections 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous means), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/24-year-old-man-stabbed-at-eloor-four-on-the-run/articleshow/77662067.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu prays for SP Balasubrahmanyam, singer still critical||CHENNAI: The health condition of playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, who is suffering from Covid-19, remains critical, said a medical bulletin issued by MGM Healthcare in Chennai on Thursday night. “Our multi-disciplinary team of clinicians has been actively collaborating with national and international experts and continues to closely monitor his vital parameters,” said the bulletin issued by hospital assistant director Dr Anuradha Baskaran. The bulletin came minutes after a mass prayer was organised by the film fraternity. Film celebrities led by director Bharatiraja recalled their association with the legendary singer in a virtual meeting. An orchestra was playing SPB’s famous number in the background. Film stars including actor Saroja Devi, Prabhu, Sivakumar, Satyaraj, Sarat Kumar and Radhika among others took part in the meeting. On Wednesday, actors including Rajinikanth and Kamal Haasan urged people to play SPB hits at 6pm as part of their prayer for his recovery. Fervid fans lit candles, sung his songs in groups, while others took to social media to post his famous melodies. Earlier, his son, singer and producer S P Charan in a video message said there was no “development” in his father’s health condition, but the family was keeping hope and faith alive. “We are confident that all the prayers will help him recover,” he said, thanking the film and music industry for the mass prayer. SPB is on a ventilator and ECMO. While the ventilator uses pressure to blow oxygenated air into your lungs, the ECMO pumps blood to a heart-lung machine, which removes carbon dioxide and returns oxygen-filled blood back to tissues. ECMO allows the blood to bypass the heart and lungs, allowing these organs to rest and heal. Doctors said they were monitoring his health condition round the clock to prevent infections or bleeding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/vitals-of-spb-being-monitored-says-hospital-film-fraternity-holds-prayer/articleshow/77663491.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Swachh 2020: Ahmedabad among 4 Gujarat cities in top 10||AHMEDABAD: The city of Ahmedabad has been ranked the cleanest city in India — among those with populations of more than 40 lakh — for the second consecutive time, beating all metropolitan and mega-cities. It has, however, a three-star rating when comes to being a ‘garbage-free city’, while Surat and Rajkot have five stars. Among cities with more than 10 lakh people, Ahmedabad ranks fifth while Indore leads the pack, followed by Surat. Rajkot ranks sixth, while Vadodara is tenth. The result of the Swachh Survekshan 2020 announced on Thursday, ranked Ahmedabad at fifth position in the country, one better than in Swachh Survekshan 2019. Officials said the city will get five and seven star ratings once the Pirana garbage mound is completely removed. Work on clearing the landfill site has begun, but not even half of the mound has been removed yet, causing the city’s rating to be lower. Mayor Bijal Patel said, “It is good that the city has been able to maintain its position in the Top 10. Ahmedabad is the only metro city to find a place in the Top 10 in the country and was able to hold on to its positions among mega-cities.” She thanked the people of the city and the solid waste team of the AMC for the achievement. Officials said the city also enjoys open defecation free ++ status and all public toilets are listed on Google maps. Community and public toilets have sanitary pad vending machines and incinerators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-cleanest-among-those-with-more-than-40l-people/articleshow/77663417.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow University gets 15 times more applications than seats for BSc||LUCKNOW: The delay in national-level engineering and medical entrance test due to Covid-19 pandemic and high rating of Lucknow University’s science faculty has resulted in a spike in applications in the undergraduate science courses here. This year, LU has received the highest number of applications in BSc (biology) in the past 5 years and in BSc (mathematics) in three years. Applications in the two courses are around 15 times more than the seats. For admission to 280 seats in BSc (biology), number of applications received is 4,029. There are 6,481 applications for 470 seats in BSc (mathematics). This means that for admission to a single seat around 14 candidates are in the race. “There was no certainty on whether JEE and NEET will be held. I didn’t want to leave the best option available locally,” said candidate Shrishti Singh. She said LU science faculty is reputed and is known for its patents and research work. Avantika Rastogi said, “Others are behind in the admission process. Thus, I opted for LU, as it is a good choice.” LU science faculty was on a par with a number of top universities in the country. LU admission coordinator Prof Anil Mishra said, “The branding of Lucknow Unversity has helped in improving the number of applications. Its science faculty is highly rated in the Scopus impact factor that measures the impact of journals. Scopus is Elsevier’s abstract and citation database.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-gets-15-times-more-applications-than-seats-for-bsc/articleshow/77664506.cms||Mohita Tewari
August 21, 2020||Nagpur||Tiger conservation to worsen if pandemic continues: Survey||NAGPUR: In 2010, 13 tiger ranging countries had vowed to double the big cat population from an estimated 3,900, but the task seems to be difficult owing to Covid-19 pandemic which has affected conservation efforts in a big way. WWF Tigers Alive Initiative conducted an online survey and covered 12 tiger range countries across more than 40 protected areas (PAs). The park managers said they were pessimistic about the future due to budget cuts compared to pre-Covid levels. An estimated 3,900 tigers remain in the wild globally of which 2,967 are estimated to be in India. In 2010, when the tiger population had dipped to as few as 3,200, leaders from the 13 countries vowed to achieve an unprecedented goal of doubling the tiger numbers in the wild by 2022. However, this goal seems to be difficult now. Talking to TOI about the survey, Khalid Pasha, Conservation Assured / Tiger Standards (CA|TS) manager, WWF Tigers Alive Initiative, said, “Of the survey of 77 staff across more than 40 PAs in tiger range countries, almost half of the respondents indicated that their budget for managing PAs had already been reduced compared to pre-Covid levels.” Talking about the budget, Pasha said, “75% of the respondents were pessimistic about future budget allocations. The ability of rangers to work effectively is being compromised by additional responsibilities, salary cuts and disruption of essential supplies and equipment. This is despite the fact that rangers in most tiger range countries are considered to provide essential services and are exempt from lockdown rules.” The survey was conducted online between May-June 2020. Responses came from 11 tiger range countries. Nearly 75% of respondents were PA managers or field staff. Almost half of the respondents in the survey indicated that their budget for managing PAs had already been reduced compared to pre-Covid levels. “Around 60% of PAs experienced disruption in supplies, fuel or equipment due to lockdowns. It comes as no surprise that 62% were pessimistic about their ability to manage wildlife parks due to the impact of the pandemic,” said Pasha. “We also found that community engagement activities have essentially stopped around the surveyed parks though wildlife patrolling and habitat management activities continued even during the lockdown,” he added. On the impact of the pandemic, Pasha said, “Conservation has been impacted with limited opportunities to travel and carry out any field based work. At the same time safeguards limiting the interaction with local communities add a further challenge. This may have wider implications for tiger conservation in the long-term, if the situation becomes prolonged.” Regarding conservation challenges, Pasha said, “The survey represents a snapshot in time but threats to protected areas, tigers and tiger prey may change if funding, legal effectiveness and levels of community engagement continue along the trends that were reported by this survey. It is also probable that the factors covered by this survey may further worsen as the global pandemic continues to drag on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tiger-conservation-to-worsen-if-pandemic-continues-survey/articleshow/77663530.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 21, 2020||Kolkata||Housing complex sets up Covid safe home in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The state government has allowed New Town’s Greenwood Sonata to have a Covid-19 safe home on its premises. The chief medical officer of health (CMOH), North 24 Parganas, issued the permission on Wednesday, along with a set of guidelines. Eleven more housing societies are applying for similar approvals, but Greenwood Sonata is the state’s first gated community with the official nod to house residents with mild coronavirus symptoms. “We had been eagerly waiting for permission for the first Covid-care facility in an apartment complex,” said Samaresh Das, chairman, New Town Forum and News (NTFN), the NGO facilitating the project on behalf of New Town residents. “Greenwood Sonata is the state’s first residential complex with its own Covid-care centre,” said Debashis Sen, chairman, New Town Development Authority (NKDA), adding, “New Town residents are setting a splendid example at a time when several Covid patients are being hounded out of their neighbourhoods.” “On July 19, an inspection team from the CMOH’s office in Barasat, the state WHO and NKDA visited us and expressed satisfaction with the facilities on offer. We had been waiting for the formal letter ever since, because more such Covid isolation centres are lined up. The isolation centres will give residents a space to stay away from home yet close by without risking infecting family members,” said Sudipta Mukherjee, president of Greenwood Sonata Apartment Owners’ Association and the director of Titagarh Wagons. Office-bearers of other societies, too, expressed their delight. Gobinda Biswas, secretary, Sunrise Point Apartment Owners’ Association, said: “Now we can get ours. We are applying for an eight-bed facility. All the 350 families in our complex are on board.” Parimal Ghosh, director, PS Ixora, said, “The authorities came for an inspection and wanted us to make some changes. We were advised to cover the top of the AC vent to reduce risk of infection of residents staying above the facility.” The 400-odd families of Greenwood Sonata in Action Area IID have spent Rs 3 lakh for the five-bed set-up in the community hall. The Wi-Fi-enabled AC set-up is equipped with television, telephone, refrigerator, specialized wash basin and washing machine. Ceiling fans have been installed to address non AC ventilation requirements. Medical equipment, like sphygmomanometer, pulse oxymeters, oxygen cylinders, PPE and N95 masks are available. The safe home will also have 24-hour caregivers who will stay in separate living quarters. “The residents voluntarily paid Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 each to raise the funds. Once the safe home starts functioning, there will be contributory charges for the running cost,” said Mukherjee. There will be two in-house doctors who are complex residents. One of them, Debanjan Kundu of RG Kar Medical College, is overwhelmed by the support he received from his neighbours when he got infected last month and has resolved to be on call 24x7. NTFN had mooted the idea of such safe houses at the start of the lockdown. “We made a presentation before NKDA more than three months ago,” said Das. He, Mukherjee and others have since been going around New Town to raise awareness for a community fight against coronavirus. “We have covered 17 housing complexes so far. Most of them are applying for permission to set up safe homes. There are 50-odd complexes in New Town and we are going to visit the rest during the next few days,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hsg-complex-sets-up-cov-safe-home/articleshow/77662068.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
August 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Demand for NREGS work rises in Srikakulam, highest since 2007||VISAKHAPATNAM: As many as 30,393 new job seekers have sought jobs under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) since April 1 this year, the highest number of applications in Srikakulam district since the scheme was launched on March 22, 2007. Among the job seekers are RMPs (registered medical practitioners), private school teachers, masons, BTech graduates, unemployed polytechnic qualified students and nearly 3,000 persons who were employed in shopping malls in Hyderabad, Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam. “All these people returned to their native places and approached our department to eke out a living under the MGNREGS, a scheme that is meant for daily wage labour,” said H Kurma Rao, projector director, District Water Management Agency (DWMA). Sura Srinivasa Rao, an RMP from Vanjangipeta village under Amadalavalasa mandal, said “I used to earn nearly Rs 15,000 per month as an RMP before the Covid-19 outbreak. After the lockdown, employment under the MGNREGS rescued me and my family.” Potnuru Koteswara Rao, who used to work in a shopping mall in Hyderabad before the lockdown was imposed, said for a monthly income of around Rs 10,000, the employment scheme came as a boon to him and his family, and to his peers who worked with him in Hyderabad. “I got Rs 216 per day and earned Rs 10,500 for working on deepening a pond in my village,” Koteswara Rao told TOI. DWMA officials said each job card holder earns Rs 230 per day. “Almost all works are manual. Works like desiltation of irrigation tanks, desiltation of feeder channels and deepening of tanks are carried out. There is no corruption in payment as wages are directly paid into bank accounts by the central government,” project director Kurma Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/demand-for-nregs-work-rises-in-skulam-highest-since-2007/articleshow/77660808.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
August 21, 2020||Vijayawada||CM approves design for 30L houses||Amaravati: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy inspected a model house constructed at Tadepalle under the YSR housing scheme on Wednesday and expressed his satisfaction. Senior officials, including housing principal secretary Ajay Jain, commissioner and director municipal administration Vijaya Kumar explained the facilities to be provided in each house. Approving the design, the chief minister directed the officials to ready the plans to construct 30 lakh houses for the poor with the same design, adding that the officials should provide two fans and one overhead water tank as part of the package. The house was constructed in 48 square yards of land (one cent) keeping in view of the house sites to be distributed to the poor. It had a living room, bedroom with attached toilet and kitchen. A small roof-varenda was also provided. Speaking to the media after the chief minister left, housing minister Ch Ranganatha Raju said they estimate that it would cost around Rs 1.9 lakh per house and Rs 2.5 lakh, including the infrastructure required for the colonies. He said they would begin construction soon after distribution of house sites. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-approves-design-for-30l-houses/articleshow/77643161.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Surge continues with 1,968 new Covid-19 cases, 9 more deaths||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Denoting a rapid surge in Covid-19 cases and fatality rate in the state, 1,968 more new cases and nine deaths were reported on Thursday. With this the total number of cases has risen to 52,199 with 192 deaths. The last 10 days alone saw 16,684 positive cases and 75 deaths. With 1,217 patients recovering on the day, the number of active cases has become 18,123. Of the new cases, 71 are returnees from foreign countries and 109 from other states. Of the 1,788 local transmission cases reported, 48 are health workers and three are Coast Guard personnel of INSH. The nine deaths confirmed were Mohanan, 68 from Kozhikode and Mahad, 48, Basheer, 44, Rajan, 84, Krishnankutty Nair, 73, Lawrence, 69, Mohana Kumaran Nair, 58, Mershali, 75, and Manikandan, 72, from Thiruvananthapuram. Among the newly reported cases, 429 are from Thiruvananthapuram. The rest of the infected are from Malappuram (356), Alappuzha (198), Ernakulam (150), Kozhikode (130), Kottayam (124), Pathanamthitta (119), Kasaragod (91), Kollam (86), Kannur (78), Thrissur (72), Palakkad (65), Idukki (35) and Wayanad (35). The cases reported through local transmission are Thiruvananthapuram (394), Malappuram (328), Alappuzha (182), Ernakulam (138), Kottayam (115), Kozhikode (108), Pathanamthitta (95), Kollam (79), Kasargod (79), Thrissur (67), Kannur (66), Palakkad (34), Idukki (29) and Wayanad (23). The infected healthcare workers are 21 in Thiruvananthapuram, nine in Malappuram, four each in Ernakulam and Kozhikode, three in Kasaragod two each in Kollam, Thrissur and Kannur, and one in Palakkad. The state capital reported the highest number of positive cases till date 11,411. So far, 33,828 people have recovered from the illness. Currently 1,73,189 people under observation across the state, of which 14,646 are in hospitals. On Thursday, 2,198 people were admitted to hospitals. Meanwhile, the number of tests has been increased with 37,010 samples being tested in the last 24 hours. A total of 13,12,992 samples have been sent for testing so far. The number of hotspots stands at 585 after 31 new places were declared as hotspots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/surge-continues-with-1968-new-cases-9-more-deaths/articleshow/77660852.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Women crowd in banks for Cheyutha money||Vijayawada: Since last week, women have begun making beelines at the banks in Krishna district. These women have begun crowding, while risking contracting coronovirus, to withdraw the amount deposited in their accounts under the newly-launched YSR Cheyutha scheme. The government deposited Rs 18,750 in the accounts of eligible women beneficieries under the scheme. The problem began after many women allegedly did not receive any message or response to their application for the scheme either from the bank or the government. Concerned, they began visiting the banks and ward secretariats. Meanwhile, after Covid-19 cases rose among bank employees in the district the administration fixed the working hours of nationalised banks from 10 am to 1 pm on weekdays till September 1. This limited timing further fuelled the rush. Speaking to TOI, K Lakshmi, a beneficiary from Kandrika, said, “It took me two days to withdraw cash at the bank. Some women have started lining up from 6 am. Banks should arrange for separate counters to give cash to the beneficiaries,” said . But harried bank officials told TOI that that many of the beneficiaries coming to the banks to withdraw cash have ATM cards. “Beneficiaries are coming to inquire about their balance status when they can easily check it at an ATM. Moreover, most of them are not maintaining physical distance. If this continues, there is a chance of many bank employees contracting Covid-19,” Y Srinivasa Rao, secretary of Krishna district bank employees’ co-ordination committee, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/women-crowd-in-banks-for-cheyutha-money/articleshow/77643174.cms||Venu Lanka
August 21, 2020||Bareilly||After 6 years, PTR to get first wildlife vet||Pilibhit: For the first time since Pilibhit forest was declared a tiger reserve on June 9, 2014, a veterinarian specializing in treating wildlife will be posted there. Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) authorities gave the go-ahead for posting a wildlife veterinarian on Wednesday. For the past six years, PTR has been depending on local government veterinarians, trained to treat cattle and other domesticated animals, to attend to the injured wildlife. Whenever needed, they have also been deployed to undertake tasks such as trapping and tranquilizing stray big cats. Clumsy attempts by untrained vets have led to disastrous consequences as the May 3 Jari village incident shows. An inexperienced government veterinary officer, deputed to tranquilize a five-year-old tiger that had strayed from Mala range, is said to have failed to assess its weak condition and pumped too many tranquilizer darts into it. The big cat collapsed soon after and died. According to H. Rajamohan, PTR's field director, the veterinarian will be posted on contractual basis for 11 months, which will be subject to renewal for the same period depending upon his performance. The forest authorities have shortlisted one Dr Daksh Gangwar, serving the Wildlife Trust of India (WTI), for the post out of seven applicants. "He has also been working in coordination with us for the past two years," said Rajamohan. The selected veterinarian will be sent to Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India to attain expertise in dealing with wildlife, Rajamohan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/after-6-years-ptr-to-get-first-wildlife-vet/articleshow/77660834.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Relief boat sinks in river Sabari; 1 missing, 3 rescued||RAJAHMUNDRY: A man is missing while three others were rescued after the launch they were travelling in hit a bridge across river Sabari in Chintoor mandal of East Godavari district on Thursday night. Search operation is on for the missing person in the river, which is in spate following heavy rains in Chhattisgarh. Sabari is the tributary of river Godavari, which too is in floods with heavy inflows from the catchment. The launch was returning after supplying relief material to people of flood-hit villages in Chintoor and neighbouring mandals. As the water level in the river was quite high, the launch crew is believed to have misjudged the height of the bridge and hit it. The launch reportedly broke into two and sank. There was heavy water current in the Sabari at the time of the mishap, which also led to imbalance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/boat-sinks-in-ap-1-missing-3-rescued/articleshow/77663568.cms||Samson Raj
August 21, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Surge continues with 1,968 new Covid-19 cases, 9 more deaths||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Denoting a rapid surge in Covid-19 cases and fatality rate in the state, 1,968 more new cases and nine deaths were reported on Thursday. With this the total number of cases has risen to 52,199 with 192 deaths. The last 10 days alone saw 16,684 positive cases and 75 deaths. With 1,217 patients recovering on the day, the number of active cases has become 18,123. Of the new cases, 71 are returnees from foreign countries and 109 from other states. Of the 1,788 local transmission cases reported, 48 are health workers and three are Coast Guard personnel of INSH. The nine deaths confirmed were Mohanan, 68 from Kozhikode and Mahad, 48, Basheer, 44, Rajan, 84, Krishnankutty Nair, 73, Lawrence, 69, Mohana Kumaran Nair, 58, Mershali, 75, and Manikandan, 72, from Thiruvananthapuram. Among the newly reported cases, 429 are from Thiruvananthapuram. The rest of the infected are from Malappuram (356), Alappuzha (198), Ernakulam (150), Kozhikode (130), Kottayam (124), Pathanamthitta (119), Kasaragod (91), Kollam (86), Kannur (78), Thrissur (72), Palakkad (65), Idukki (35) and Wayanad (35). The cases reported through local transmission are Thiruvananthapuram (394), Malappuram (328), Alappuzha (182), Ernakulam (138), Kottayam (115), Kozhikode (108), Pathanamthitta (95), Kollam (79), Kasargod (79), Thrissur (67), Kannur (66), Palakkad (34), Idukki (29) and Wayanad (23). The infected healthcare workers are 21 in Thiruvananthapuram, nine in Malappuram, four each in Ernakulam and Kozhikode, three in Kasaragod two each in Kollam, Thrissur and Kannur, and one in Palakkad. The state capital reported the highest number of positive cases till date 11,411. So far, 33,828 people have recovered from the illness. Currently 1,73,189 people under observation across the state, of which 14,646 are in hospitals. On Thursday, 2,198 people were admitted to hospitals. Meanwhile, the number of tests has been increased with 37,010 samples being tested in the last 24 hours. A total of 13,12,992 samples have been sent for testing so far. The number of hotspots stands at 585 after 31 new places were declared as hotspots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/surge-continues-with-1968-new-cases-9-more-deaths/articleshow/77666287.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Reuse, Reduce, Recycle’ mantra powered Surat||Surat: The Diamond City saw a sparkling improvement in its cleanliness ranking, becoming India’s second cleanest city after Indore, in the fifth edition of Swachh Survekshan (country-wide sanitation survey) that was released by the union housing and urban affairs ministry on Friday. Surat improved from a distant 14 last year to number 2 and officials attributed this boost to capping of Khajod landfill site which has now been converted into sprawling green land mass and massive increase in recycling of solid and liquid waste. “We worked with a mantra of three Rs’ - reuse, reduce and recycle in waste management,” said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat. In February, SMC officially closed the solid waste landfill site near the world's largest Surat Diamond Bourse (SDB) at Khajod and it is now covered with lush green lawns. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/reuse-reduce-recycle-mantra-powered-surat/articleshow/77663456.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Clinical trials for 2 vaccines get green signal||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state government has given approval for conducting phase-II and phase-III clinical trials for two proposed Covid-19 vaccines at Andhra Medical College-King George Hospital (AMC-KGH), Visakhapatnam. A communique from the Directorate of Medical Education (DME) was received in this regard. Speaking on the trials, principal of AMC and superintendent of KGH, Dr PV Sudhakar said, “Phase-II clinical trial of CRO Navitas Life Sciences for the acute treatment of moderate to severe Covid-19 cases would be undertaken. The study has the support of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). Dr Y Gyana Sundar Raju, professor of general medicine has been appointed as principal investigator for the study.” The other clinical trial will be a phase-II or III single blind randomised control study to determine the safety and immunogenicity of the vaccine developed by the Serum Institute of India. The study has the support of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Dr B Devi Madhavi, professor of community medicine will be the principal investigator. A team of experts from various departments are co-investigators in the studies. In June, the ICMR had selected AMC-KGH as one of the 12 institutes in the country to conduct clinical trials for Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. However, government officials said the clinical trial could not take off as the ICMR did not have the state government’s permission to select a state-run institute for conducting clinical trials, against set protocol. The DME had also stated it would adopt a wait and watch policy based on results from the other 11 institutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/clinical-trials-for-2-vaccines-get-green-signal/articleshow/77660819.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Kolkata||Arts, social science in MAKAUT courses||KOLKATA: Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology (MAKAUT) is incorporating humanities, social science and allied courses in its curriculum for the first time. The courses launched from 2020-21 academic year includes MSc in applied economics, applied psychology, applied statistics and analytics and BSc in economics, psychology and statistics. “Looking at the growing career prospects and scope for achieving employability in multiple functions as well as in diverse industries, the courses have been launched. Moreover, MAKAUT will include state-of-the-art content, suitable for today's digitized environment,” said vice-chancellor Saikat Maitra. The VC pointed out that the courses like MSc in applied economics is designed to build skills in economic reasoning and train the students in constructing and estimating economic models using quantitative techniques and econometrics. “It aims to build a firm understanding of the fundamental tools of economic analysis in students, for application in studies and analyses of economic issues and policies,” Maitra said. Sukhendu Samajdar, director of the School of Natural, Applied and Social Sciences, added: “Introduction of full-time programmes in social and behavioural sciences will humanize the technical ambience of the university campus.” The admission to the courses is through the Common Entrance Test (CET) 2020. The duration of Masters programmes is for four semesters while for the Bachelors will be six semesters. The eligibility to apply for the courses have been drawn up by the university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/arts-social-science-in-makaut-courses/articleshow/77662078.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Bhopal||Nath addresses youths; gives blueprint for generating jobs||Bhopal: Two days after chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s announcement of 100% reservation of government jobs for Madhya Pradesh residents, PCC chief Kamal Nath on Thursday addressed youths on social media and revealed his plans and schemes for employment generation. Nath said that his 15-month government — which was toppled in March — had launched various schemes to bring industries and employment opportunities for youths. He alleged that in the 15-year BJP rule, educated youths kept waiting a better future, but there were no jobs. “I am sorry to say that many youths who got their degrees five to ten years ago, were denied employment during their prime and now have crossed age-limits to get hold of jobs. Those who are educated and pursued higher studies are in a situation when they neither belong to villages, nor can be part of the cities,” Nath said. “You may have realised that in the past 15 years, MP has fallen behind with no vision or schemes for employment generation. This has resulted in despair,” he added.Nath said that just by making announcements, the government cannot give jobs . “Jobs are decreasing and arranging funds to start a business is becoming all the more difficult,” he said. Nath argued that his government got a mandate for five years, but got only 15 months in office. “In five years, my efforts would have been to give a new direction to the state. There is very limited scope for jobs in the government. So, I made a scheme to bring new jobs in the private sector. I wanted to give new identity to the state and bring industry here. I also made the condition that industries would have to give 70% jobs to the youths of this state,” he said. Nath said that there is a lot of scope in horticulture and he wanted to make MP the horticulture capital of the country. “I made a plan to connect youths to horticulture and send the state’s farm produce to the rest of the country as well as export them.” Nath said that he wanted to make MP a logistic hub. “We started work on food parks and investments also started flowing for food processing industries. This would have increased economic activities and generated jobs across the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-addresses-youths-gives-blueprint-for-generating-jobs/articleshow/77663527.cms||Suchandana Gupta
August 21, 2020||Chennai||Vested interests are acting against siddha medicine, says Madras high court||CHENNAI: The Madras high court has accused the central government of discriminating against siddha stream of medicine, expressing dismay over meagre fund allotment for research and development of siddha. It said vested interests were acting against the development of siddha. “What we suspected was right. The Centre is clearly discriminating against Siddha. While about Rs 3,000 crore has been allotted to research in Ayurveda in the past 10 years only Rs 437 crore has been allotted to Siddha,” a division bench of Justice N Kirubakaran and Justice V M Velumani said on Thursday. The central government is ‘showing step-motherly’ treatment to siddha as even foreign medicines like homoeopathy and yunani are being allocated more funds than siddha, the bench said. “If this is the case, then the government can remove the letter ‘S’ from AYUSH and rename the department as Ayurveda department,” the judges added. The court then directed assistant solicitor-general of India G Karthikeyan to ascertain the reason for such low allocation of funds to siddha medicine, within a week. The bench made the observations after perusing a report filed by the AYUSH ministry as to the allocation of funds to alternative medicines in the country. The issue pertains to a plea moved by V Thanikasalam who was detained under the Goondas Act for claiming to have found a cure for Covid-19 in siddha. When the plea came up for hearing, the bench censured the state and the central governments for not considering and analysing claims of cure available for Covid-19 in siddha medicine. “The apathetic attitude exhibited by the governments would not help anyone when the entire world is desperately looking for a solution to cure Covid-19,” the court said in an interim order. “If the medicines developed by qualified siddha doctors are not recognised and sent for analysis by the state government to the AYUSH department, the very purpose of having siddha institutes and siddha medical colleges would be lost. It seems vested interests are acting against development of siddha and that is the reason why siddha medicines are not properly promoted and published in the media,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/vested-interests-are-acting-against-siddha-medicine-says-hc/articleshow/77663520.cms||Suresh Kumar
August 21, 2020||Kochi||CMFRI to assess marine species||Kochi: The Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) has launched a research project to assess the status of 27 species of marine mammals and five species of sea turtles in Indian waters. With an overall budget of Rs 5.66 crore, the project is funded by marine products export development authority for a period of three years. This research assumes significance in the context of emerging seafood trade related challenges faced by the country. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the USA, had issued import provisions of Marine Mammal Protection Act (MMPA), stating that seafood exporting countries should not allow intentional killing of marine mammals in commercial fisheries. Inaugurating the webinar, J K Jena, deputy director general, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) said this research project would bolster the preparedness of the country in meeting the challenge faced by the seafood export industry and enhance the indigenous capacity to address the emerging conservation concerns of marine mammals and sea turtles. “Considering the need for conservation, the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972 listed all the species of marine mammals and sea turtles under Schedule I. However, fisheries interaction and other human interventions have negative effects on the population of these megafauna. This is evident from frequent reports on bycatch and stranding of these animals along the coastline of India. While government and non-government organisations have undertaken studies on distribution, biological and ecological characteristics, the information on status of stocks of marine mammals as well as bycatch of sea turtles are not available,” said CMFRI director A Gopalakrishnan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cmfri-to-assess-marine-species/articleshow/77662097.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Chennai||Chennai slowly cleaning up its act||CHENNAI: The Greater Chennai Corporation has finally broken into the top 50 of the Swachh Survekshan rankings in the country, a long way up from the 235th spot in 2017. Swachh Survekshan is an annaul survey of cleanliness in cities and towns across the country. Chennai stands 45th among 500 cities ranked based on their solid waste management, citizen feedback, direct observation by a central team and open defecation free certification. Last year, the city was ranked 61 and 100 in 2018. So what did the civic authorities do right? For one, they got their paperwork in order. For another, they improved garbage collection and disposal. “We focused on source segregation by deploying an animator in every ward to create awareness. We also created infrastructure for waste composting in every ward,” said G Veerappan, superintendent engineer, solid waste management department. As a result, there was 100% door- to-door solid waste collection and 45% of that waste was segregated at source. “We increased the amount of wet waste entering the 162 decentralised compost yards, each with five-tonne capacity. About 140 tonnes was processed at these yards every day by August last year,” said D Vijula, executive engineer in charge for Swachh Bharat mission. The corporation also tied up with scrap dealers and recyclers to ensure recyclable waste didn’t go to the landfill, said Vijula. Animators who were employed in 2017 were asked to visit every home and explain to people why segregation of waste was important. “Slowly, as we added infrastructure, we could see a change in the attitude of people, which improved segregation,” said an animator of Saligramam, Jothi. Apart from all this, the civic body ensured it did the paper work properly. “The first year, we did not send proper documents. The second year we did not get the open defecation-free status. Last year, we ensured our processes were right, yet we got just 61 st rank. So this year, we decided to put in a lot of effort at the ground level,” said Vijula. Veerappan said, “We are still behind Madurai and Coimbatore. We hope to do better as we have special projects worth crores of rupees.” Bio-CNG plants and incineration plants are coming up at seven places. The corporation has signed a contract with Dalmiya Cements who will take 300 tonnes of plastic waste every day. It will set up five processing plants for garden waste and tender coconut waste. Two plants to process construction debris and 13 hazardous waste collection centres will be set up. “All this will be completed in the coming six months. Hopefully, next year, we will have a better ranking,” said Veerappan. Corporation commissioner, G Prakash, had also told TOI earlier that he aimed to reduce by half the solid waste sent to landfills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-slowly-cleaning-up-its-act/articleshow/77663661.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata students shine in pan-India NEP debate||KOLKATA: A national debate among students on the recently launched National Education Policy over video conference, probably the first-of-its-kind, revealed some interesting aspects of the education system in India. While some felt that it was a visionary policy, others opined that education in India still lacked the basic infrastructure. “NEP is a visionary policy that will make students job-ready. This will bring about equality among the various segments of the society,” said Saheli Chakraborty from NUJS, Kolkata, who along with her teammate Senjuti Chakraborty from Nalsar University, Hyderabad, bagged the winning trophy in the debate recently conducted by Kolkata-based education and youth platform Tribe Tomorrow. Chakraborty also won the best debater award. Arshia Grace Manavalan and Kanishka Agarwal from St Xavier’s College, Kolkata, won the runners-up award. “There are schools where girls do not have toilets and you are talking about imparting digital skills? Also, there is no discussion about infrastructure,” argued Agarwal. While Manavalan and Ishika from The Institute of Company Secretaries argued on the feasibility of using regional language as a medium of imparting education, others highlighted the role of technology and bureaucracy in the implementation of the policy. The debate was also participated in by students from Presidency University, Gauhati Medical College, Symbiosis, Hyderabad, and Loyola College, Chennai. Jury member Prof Diptendra K Sarkar, surgeon and chief of breast services, IPGMER, advised the students to adapt to the virtual medium of debating by practising appropriately with gadgets, lights, settings, etc to compensate for the diminished use of body language. Arjuna Awardee Saurav Kothari, who was a guest of honour, said, “Our children need to talk more to people who earned success after failing in life several times. It is important to know the success stories of people who did not let failures weigh them down” Tribe Tomorrow founder Debaroopa Bhattacharya said, “We want to address the needs of the youth in India and Tribe Tomorrow Network provides an open platform to discuss their issues.” “We plan to reach out to students in the remotest parts of Bengal soon and help them achieve a parity with those in tier I and II cities,” added co-founder ENT oncosurgeon Shantanu Panja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-students-shine-in-pan-india-nep-debate/articleshow/77663563.cms||Abhishek Chakraborty
August 21, 2020||Kolkata||Cops plan temporary parking lot in Burrabazar-Posta area||KOLKATA: The cops are planning to approach the Kolkata Municipal Corporation to allow for some augmented temporary parking in and around Burrabazar-Posta area. The decision was taken after Howrah Bridge, Jorabagan and Headquarter traffic guards observed that designated parking lots in the area were getting full very quickly in the morning. “The number of two wheelers (cycles included) and four-wheelers saw an exponential hike in the past three months and traditional parking lots are not being able to handle the pressure. With the trains not running and the pressure of maintaining social distancing, people are buying more vehicles. As a result, illegal parking is taking place,” said an officer from Howrah Bridge traffic guard. Police sources said that on certain days — especially the one before lockdown — this is creating trouble in regular flow of traffic in pockets of MG Road, Kalakar Street and its adjoining areas. The problems magnify when it comes to bikes and scooters being illegally parked. Though local traders claimed an illegal parking mafia is at work, cops said they are yet to receive any complaint in this regard. According to the new plan, the cops want segregated parking for bikes and cars. “The whole idea is to ensure that at least the major roads, that act as a lifeline, not get clogged. As an alternate plan, the new parking lots can be disbanded once the situation of public transport improves,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-plan-temporary-parking-lot-in-burrabazar-posta-area/articleshow/77663573.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Court orders transfer of Bhatt’s co-accused||Ahmedabad: A sessions court in Palanpur recently ordered a jail transfer for I B Vyas, a retired deputy superintendent of police and a co-accused in the 1996 drug-planting case involving former IPS officer Sanjiv Bhatt. The court cited two reasons for shifting Vyas from Palanpur jail to Nadiad jail, his health and safety. This was because he has chosen to turn approver against Bhatt in this case, which is more than two decades old and was investigated upon the Gujarat high court orders two years ago. Bhatt and Vyas, who was serving as a police inspector under Bhatt, were arrested in 2018. The allegations against them were of framing a Rajasthan-based advocate, Sumersingh Rajpurohit, in a false narcotics case. This was allegedly to pressurize him to vacate a commercial property in Pali town in Rajasthan. The property belonged to the sister of a then sitting judge of the high court, R R Jain. The investigation took place two decades later at the HC’s behest in response to two petitions filed by Justice Jain and Vyas. They had sought further investigation in the case. This was because Rajasthan police had investigated the case on the lawyer’s complaint of abduction from Pali. In October 2019, Vyas proposed to turn approver in the case. His application to become court’s witness is pending for consideration. Last month, he filed another application and requested the court to shift him to another jail on the grounds that he is 70 years old and suffers from various ailments and undergoing treatment in Ahmedabad and Vadodara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-orders-transfer-of-bhatts-co-accused/articleshow/77663493.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Nagpur||1st virtual meeting of GB ends in chaos, to be held again today||Nagpur: The first ever Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s general body meeting via videoconferencing, against the backdrop of rising Covid-19 cases in the city, was marred by technical snags including loss of voice, mismanagement etc on Thursday. Consequently, an anguished mayor Sandip Joshi postponed the meet till Friday morning. The mayor has directed the civic administration to ensure a snag-free meeting on Friday from 11am. Though scheduled to start at 11am, the NMC’s IT cell started the virtual meeting from 10.15am itself. Joshi started the meeting with paying condolence to departed personalities and congratulating achievers across the country including new vice-chancellor of Nagpur University. He then ordered the proceedings to start with discussion on adjournment notice of senior BJP corporator Dayashankar Tiwari. Tiwari wanted to know about the rise in Covid-19 cases, civic administration’s preparedness at its treatment facilities when beds are almost full in both Government Medical College and Hospital and Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital, and plan to tackle the surging novel coronavirus cases etc. As soon as Tiwari started seeking the administration’s reply, leader of opposition and senior Congress corporator Tanaji Wanve too started raising some queries. Many other corporators also started speaking at the same time and thereby causing utter chaos in the virtual meeting. Amid the din, no one could hear what others were saying. Angry over this, the mayor expressed anguish and postponed the meeting until Friday. He directed the administration to make good arrangements for tomorrow’s meeting. Later, a few corporators said the voice quality was bad and some complained that their voice was not audible to others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1st-virtual-meeting-of-gb-ends-in-chaos-to-be-held-again-today/articleshow/77663571.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 21, 2020||Lucknow||Riding on tech and smart services, Lucknow shines in swachh survey||LUCKNOW: The adoption of technology and smart services by Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) helped Lucknow secure the 12th position out of 47 cities with a population of over 10 lakh assessed in the Swachh Survey for 2020. The rankings were done on four parameters—direct observation, citizen feedback, service level progress and open defecation-free (ODF) certification. Each carried 1,500 marks. Last year, these categories had 1,250 points each with a total 5,000. This year, Lucknow secured 78.8% (4,728/6,000) points as compared to 55% (2,746/5,000) in 2019.  The turning point, many in LMC believe, was the intervention of courts and notices by the panel formed by the National Green Tribunal to assess the situation of solid waste management in the state. In May 2019, a consumer court had imposed monetary penalty on LMC officers for poor services. LMC had moved the high court to get a stay. The HC provided relief on penalty, but directed it to present an action plan on how LMC plans to improve the city’s garbage management. This made the civic body swing into action. Several measures were introduced such as mechanised street sweeping, GIS enabled smart watches to monitor sanitary workers and vehicle trackers to keep tab on garbage collection trucks. Besides, installation of smart garbage dumpsters and compactors as well as revival of the Shivri solid waste treatment plant was done. These efforts were reflected in this year’s scores. The maximum improvement was in the “service level progress” parameter. Last year, LMC got 20% in this category, while this year, the score surged to 72%. This led to improvement in the “direct observation” parameter in which a third party inspected the services and cleanliness on the ground. As the situation was better on the ground, LMC got 99% points in this category this year in comparison to 72% points last year. “The two parameters are connected. Technology improved services that were visible on the ground. Hence, marks increased in both the service level progress and direct observation,” said former municipal commissioner Indramani Tripathi, under whose supervision all these changes were done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/riding-on-tech-smart-services-capital-shines-in-swachh-survey/articleshow/77664525.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
August 21, 2020||Kolkata||‘Blind spot’ worry for Kolkata traffic police||KOLKATA: An analysis of accidents after lockdown by the various Kolkata traffic police guards and the squad that investigates fatal accidents has revealed that most pedestrians and two-wheeler riders are clueless about the blind spots for truck and bus drivers. The police now plan to write to the transport department elaborating on the need to educate two-wheel riders, including cyclists, about this aspect to avoid accidents. “Under normal circumstances, we hold regular awareness programmes where we teach two-wheel riders through practical classes where we let them take the seat of a truck driver. But in the present Covid situation that is not possible. Yet bikes have multiplied during the pandemic at an exponential rate, mostly because people wanted to avoid public transport to maintain social distancing, an officer from the fatal accident investigation squad said. “The same goes for bicycles. Experienced cyclists know how to manoeuvre in the city. But those choosing geared cycles lack basic discipline,” he added. Times ViewAn overwhelming majority of cyclists have hurt their own cause by behaving so irresponsibly on the road. They have been a menace, primarily to themselves. More disciplined cycling, including adherence to signals, is a must if cycles are to come back to the major thoroughfares permanently.The cops cited two recent accidents to drive home the point: the Moulali, CIT Road, accident that killed two youths on a bike on Wednesday and the one on Basanti Highway earlier this month involving a cycle, motorcycle and a truck. Both the accidents occurred as they swerved or tried to overtake dangerously. A woman pedestrian killed in a bus accident on Wednesday, too, just raised her hands hoping in vain that the driver would notice her. Blind spots are locations around a moving vehicle that are not reflected in its mirrors. “If a driver cannot see a vehicle next to him, he is more likely to crash into it when switching lanes. Especially for drivers of heavy vehicles, like buses and trucks, it gets impossible when a biker tries to overtake very close to them.,” said a senior FSTP officer. “In certain north Kolkata pockets, cyclists refuse to stick to the extreme left lane.We are also asking cyclists not to latch on to heavier vehicles to travel faster,” said an officer. “Our aim is to bring down accidents by implementing all necessary measures,” joint CP (traffic) Santosh Pandey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/blind-spot-worry-for-traffic-police/articleshow/77663548.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Four more furnaces for Dhapa Covid crematorium||KOLKATA: Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) is planning to increase the furnace count at the Covid crematorium in Dhapa from two to six by early next year. While two new furnaces are already under construction, officials at the civic authority have decided to add two more. Funds have already been allocated and work is set to begin shortly. According to KMC sources, the decision was speedily approved at a recent meeting after the civic body’s electrical department engineers pointed out that the furnaces that are currently in operation are under heavy load. The furnaces may break down any moment since they have been working non-stop for four months now, it was told. In May, KMC had decided to set up two furnaces so that at least one of the four furnaces could be kept on standby. While the two new furnaces are nearing completion, civic officials in charge of the crematorium said two more furnaces were needed as the two units that are operational may have to be replaced. Of the two furnaces in operation, one was constructed in 1995 for cremation of unclaimed bodies. Construction of the other furnace, meant for cremation of stray animals, was hurriedly done and it was put to use for cremation of Covid victims. “The condition of the old furnace is extremely vulnerable and it malfunctions often. Since the second furnace cannot take much load, bodies have to be then sent to Nimtolla old complex for cremation,” said a KMC health department official. According to a KMC health department official, when the new furnaces are operational, the civic body will set up a special squad for their maintenance. “We need a team of engineers and workers who will look after the maintenance of the crematorium at Dhapa,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/4-more-furnaces-for-dhapa-covid-crematorium/articleshow/77662089.cms||Saikat Ray
August 21, 2020||Kolkata||Planned lockdown catches handful of flyers off guard||KOLKATA: An empty terminal, no passenger flight, deserted driveway, strolling cops, shut doors and nine hapless passengers sitting on the floor: that was the picture of Kolkata airport on the first of the two back-to-back lockdown days on Thursday. With the lockdown dates announced well in all advance, all airlines had suspended flight movements on these days. But as seen in previous lockdown days, a handful of passengers continue to come to the airport, unaware of the suspension. However, unlike on other days when passengers had to spend only a night outside the airport with the airlines offering them a ticket for the next morning flight, the ill-fated passengers on Thursday may have to spend several nights at the airport, courtesy the back-to-back lockdown and packed flights over the weekend. “Our agent never told us about the lockdown and that flight movement was suspended. We had hired a car to reach the airport early on Thursday from our village in Bihar. We had our scheduled flight at 9.45am on Thursday. But with the airport shut, we sought help from the airline, who said the earliest they can accommodate us in a flight will be next Monday or Tuesday. We don’t have money or resource to go back home and come back again two days later. We will somehow have to wait here,” said Goutam Mondal, who had a flight to Trivandrum via Bangalore on Thursday. Sitting closer to Mondal and three others was another set of passengers who have an even longer stay at the airport. “Thirty five of us were travelling together to Andaman on August 18 but while 30 of us could board the plane, five of us were left behind as we had stood in a wrong queue. Our agent had said he will get us on a plane on August 19 but he failed. Now as there is a lockdown and we have nowhere to go. The airline has said the next flight to Andaman is on August 25,” said Virender Kumar, a labourer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/planned-lockdown-catches-handful-of-flyers-off-guard/articleshow/77662085.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Community centres back in business; banquet halls wait||NEW DELHI: With Covid-19 situation under control in Delhi, people have started booking community halls for social functions in Unlock-3. North Delhi Municipal Corporation has seen 65 bookings, while East Delhi Municipal Corporation has approved requests for 34 social gatherings at its community centres. South Delhi Municipal Corporation has received 30 applications so far. Most of these bookings are for marriages in upcoming months, while the rest for condolence meetings and religious functions, an official said. A senior north corporation official said that a maximum of 50 people can be allowed and both Delhi Police and the district magistrate’s office need to be informed about the gathering. “We have also issued standard directions on ensuring social distancing, masks and sanitisation at entry points. Monitoring will be carried out to ensure no violations take place,” the official added. The report from the community service department of the civic body shows that maximum bookings have been done from Civil Lines zone (31) followed by Keshavpuram (15) and Karol Bagh (10) zones. About 46% of these bookings are for marriages, while 35% for religious events. Similarly in east Delhi, out of 34 bookings, 22 are for marriages and 10 for condolence meetings. Private banquet halls, meanwhile, rue that there are still too many hurdles in their pathway. The strict cap on the number of guests and confusion around the matter has led to fewer bookings, they claim, adding that many people are waiting for Unlock-4 norms to be out. Rahul Mathur from Heritage Garden Banquet near Daryaganj said that Delhiites are still not clear about the guidelines. “For 50 people too, permission needs to be taken from the administration. Enquiries are coming, but people want us to book hall for 200-250 people. They say marriages cannot be done with just 50 people. Hopefully, the number of people allowed at social gatherings will increase in the final unlockdown,” he added. “We have got a few bookings for 50 people. Space between counters serving food has been increased and staff will serve food to avoid guests touching the utensils,” Mathur said. Shubham Agarwal of Clouds Banquet Hall near Prem Nagar said that they were yet to start the facility and hence, incurring huge losses. “Enquiries are there, but the government should release and publicise detailed guidelines,” he added. At La Fortuna banquet, Rajinder Bhayana said that unless government issues clear guidelines, the confusion would prevail. “As of now, bookings are taking place only with the condition that the money will be refunded if the function does not happen,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/community-centres-back-in-biz-banquet-halls-wait/articleshow/77663605.cms||Paras Singh
August 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||IFFK likely to be held online||Thiruvananthapuram: Minister for cultural affairs A K Balan said that International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) may be organized online if it cannot be conducted in the usual way owing to Covid-19. The preliminary steps for IFFK have begun. “If the fest cannot be held in December, it may be held in January or February. Online festival will be the next alternative,” said Balan. Meanwhile, Kivilcim Akay’s Amina will open the Docuscape online film festival on Friday. The inaugural ceremony will take place online at 4pm on www.idsffk.in with chairman Kamal introducing the festival and Balan delivering the inaugural address. This will be followed by the screening of film Amina, directed by Turkish filmmaker Kivilcim Akay and the Malayalam film Gi by Kunjila Mascillamani. The live streaming of the inauguration will be available on Facebook/iffklive. There will be 29 films screened across eight days of the festival. There are six films in the international non-fiction and one film in the international fiction categories. The award winning films screened at the previous editions of International Documentary and Short Film Festival of Kerala (IDSFFK) are being screened under the Indian section with six films in the non-fiction and five films in the fiction categories. Registered delegates can take part in the festival through the website www.idsffk.in or by downloading the IFFK Mobile app via Google Play Store. For free registration visit: www.idsffk.in. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/iffk-likely-to-be-held-online/articleshow/77660915.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Bareilly||Sambhal kidnapping: As daughter flees with her lover, family scripts fake abduction story||Bareilly: A family in UP’s Sambhal, which complained about the kidnapping of father-daughter duo by some unidentified men from Khanpura village under Kudh Fatehgarh police jurisdiction on the night of August 18, turned out to be a fake kidnapping story. According to Sambhal police, the daughter of Raj Bahadur had fled with her lover on August 17. In order to save the family’s honour, Raj Bahadur along with his family and relatives hatched a plan, and staged his own and daughter’s kidnapping by some unknown persons. Raj Bahadur confessed to police that he had made a plan to fake a kidnapping incident along with his family members and relatives who assisted him to carry out the act. He also said that he had requested family members to create a scene to attract his neighbours and other villagers and tell them that unknown persons abducted him and his daughter at gunpoint. In her statement to police, daughter of Raj Bahadur, Neelam, 18, said that she was in contact with one Babu, resident of Bilari, Moradabad, for five months. On August 17, the girl left her house and went with Babu and two other friends who came to pick her up from the Binri area. They were then staying in Moradabad, she said. Sambhal SP Yamuna Prasad said that three police teams were deputed to crack the case and the cops successfully traced the father at his relatives' place in Moradabad while his 18-year-old daughter was found with Babu and two of his friends under Majhola police station in Moradabad. The case turned out to be fake. Six people, including Raj Bahadur, his wife Amarwati, son Suneel, daughter Dharamwati and two others have been arrested. The family had earlier alleged that some unidentified men with faces covered had barged into the house late on August 18 and forcefully dragged Raj Bahadur. The family had also alleged that the daughter, who came to the father’s rescue, was also abducted at gunpoint by unknown men on motorcycles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sambhal-kidnapping-as-daughter-flees-with-her-lover-family-scripts-fake-abduction-story/articleshow/77660851.cms||Maria Khan
August 21, 2020||Kolkata||First online Lok Adalat in state tomorrow||Kolkata: The first-ever online Lok Adalat in the state will be held on August 22 in the main building of Calcutta High Court. It is being organised by the Calcutta High Court Legal Services Committee, chaired by justice Soumen Sen, a sitting judge of the high court. Calcutta High Court Chief Justice TBN Radhakrishnan will inaugurate the online Lok Adalat. Two national Lok Adalats could not be held due to the ongoing situation triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic. As many as 120 cases are enlisted in the three benches of the Lok Adalat. References have been received from both litigants in each of these cases. The cases relate to motor accident claim appeals, electricity, pension and gratuity and compassionate appointment matters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/first-online-lok-adalat-in-state-tomorrow/articleshow/77662098.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Production still 50%, bizmen blame it on labour shortage||Ludhiana: Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), Ludhiana, has claimed that pollution level in the city has come down drastically as factories are operating at 50% of their production capacity. State industry department and industry minister too have recently claimed that 90% industrial units have started functioning here. Businessmen are of the view that fall in production is primarily due to shortage of labour and less orders, while lack of funds is adding to the woes of the businessman. Inderjit Singh Navyug, former president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association, said “Although majority of the cycle parts units have started operating but we have not been able to ramp up production and we are running at 60% of our capacity at this moment. The major reason for the fall in production is unavailability of the labour as a huge number of workers have still not returned to the city after they left for other states. Moreover, no proper transportation facilities are available at this moment from states like UP, Bihar and Jharkhand. In addition to this strict quarantine laws in place in Punjab have also discouraged workers to return.” According to Narinder Bhamra, president of Fastener Manufacturers Association of India, “ Fastener units are operating at 50% of their capacity as neither do we have adequate orders in hand, nor we have enough labour to carry out production. So its very hard for us to cope up with these problems and as a result we are left with no other option than to cut down our production. I think it will take another two-three months for the situation to get a little better.” Nitin Sharma, an auto parts manufacturer, said, “A huge number of workers are refusing to return to Punjab due to rise in cases of Covid-19. Moreover, they feel better in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, etc. as they are with their families and at their homes during this time as compared to working in Ludhiana, where they have to live without their families and in unhygienic vehras. Sandeep Bahl, senior environmental engineer, Punjab Pollution Control Board, Ludhiana, said, “As per our ground assessment, about 50% average production is being recorded in the industries in Ludhiana.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/production-still-50-bizmen-blame-it-on-labour-shortage/articleshow/77662099.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Trichy||DGP holds meet with top cops of central zone||Trichy: Director General of police (DGP) of Tamil Nadu J K Tripathy convened a meeting with top cops of the central zone in Trichy on Thursday. En-route to Chennai by road from Tirunelveli, Tripathy visited Trichy and held a meeting with inspector general of police (IG), central zone, H M Jayaram, commissioner of police, Trichy city, J Loganathan, deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, Trichy range, Z Annie Vijaya and DIG of Thanjavur range Rupesh Kumar Meena and the superintendents of police of Trichy, Karur, Pudukottai, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Trichy at the police control room in Trichy. Police sources said that DGP discussed the law and order situation in the central zone. He was accompanied by Trichy collector S Sivarasu. He inspected the renovation of the building for the special camp for the foreigners involved in crimes on the campus of Trichy central prison before leaving for Chennai by road.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dgp-holds-meet-with-top-cops-of-central-zone/articleshow/77664539.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Trichy||Trichy city police to display pictures of best-performing personnel on flex board||Trichy: Aimed at motivating police force to deliver their best at maintaining law and order, preventing crime and handling general public with a humane approach, Trichy city police have decided to display the names and photographs of the best performing police officers on flex boards at the office of the city police.The flex board at the entrance of the building, an initiative by the commissioner of police, Trichy city, J Loganathan, will have a detailed description of the exemplary work done by police personnel from the rank of constables to inspectors in July.The officers said that the practice will be followed every month. The inspector-level officers will have a good service entry (GSE) in their service book, while the other cadres will be given a reward besides an entry in their service book.To start with, Trichy city police commissioner handpicked 11 officers including two inspectors, three sub-inspectors, one special sub-inspector (SSI), one senior head constable and four head constables attached to various police stations and units of the city police. The final list has been prepared from the lists submitted by the deputy commissioners of police, law and order and crime and traffic every month.Inspector of police Srirangam Senthilvel Kumar and senior head constable Manivel were appreciated for arresting four history sheeters in Srirangam jurisdiction to maintain the law and order.The role of inspector Meerabai, SI S Chitrarasu and HC V Sambathkumar of the police control room in tracing the accused in two hit-and-run fatal accidents and seizing the vehicles also received a pat from the commissioner of police.Not only prevention and detection of the crime, the humane approach of two policemen also earned them appreciations. What the two head constables, S Durairajan and S Thirumurugan, did was that they rescued two mentally ill men near the central bus stand and enrolled them in a private home before tracing their native places and helping them reunite with their family in Salem and Uttar Pradesh.Sub-inspectors R Srinivasan and Baranikumar were appreciated for booking 2,258 and 2,449 road traffic rule violations and collecting fines in July.SSI N P Selvaganesan of intelligence section of Trichy city police also got an appreciation for alerting police with early inputs to take action against offenders. Head constable R Kanagaraj of intelligence section of Trichy city police had a major role in tracing chain snatching offenders and recovering the jewelleries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-city-police-to-display-pictures-of-best-performing-personnel-on-flex-board/articleshow/77664532.cms||Gokul Rajendran
August 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: After appeal on social media, plasma reaches Jharkhand via locked-down streets||KOLKATA: A 25-year-old techie, who recently recovered from Covid-19, donated his plasma in Kolkata for a 67-year-old Covid patient admitted to the ICU of a Jamshedpur hospital. The plasma unit travelled about 300km by road on Thursday morning during the lockdown, becoming perhaps the first-of-its-kind inter-state plasma donation during the pandemic. The Jamshedpur-based patient, a businessman, had been under ventilation in the ICU since August 14. On being informed that plasma transfusion was the only option left to save his life, his family started looking for donors. “We appealed on social media and WhatsApp groups to get matching plasma. We got no response in Jharkhand, but Project Life Force from Bengal responded and said it would try to get a matching donor,” said the patient’s grandson. Project Life Force (PLF) that works on blood donations has often helped in inter-state donations of rare blood groups. Its volunteer, Yash Karia, a Baguiati resident who tested positive in early July, found that his blood group matched with that of the Jamshedpur patient. “I was motivated to donate during an online interaction with Dr Ritam Chakraborty of AMRI, Dhakuria, arranged by PLF,” said Karia, the 25-year-old who works for a Chennai-based GPS device manufacturing company. Karia had returned to the city just before the nationwide lockdown began in March. Karia underwent the screening process at AMRI Dhakuria’s plasma bank on Tuesday and donated his plasma on Wednesday. When the donation was in progress, the patient’s grandson left Jamshedpur for Kolkata reaching the city around 10pm on Wednesday by car. “The lock down helped me travel back to Jamshedpur faster on Thursday as there was barely any traffic. I was stopped by the police at three-four spots. But they let us go immediately after I showed papers from the hospital,” he said. “The plasma was packed in a special insulated box packed in ice for proper transportation. Requests for plasma are increasing. So we have started a data bank of our health care workers who tested positive,” said head of transfusion medicine and blood bank at AMRI Dhakuria. “We appeal to more healthy individuals to come forward and donate. I wish we could coordinate with the state government as well,” said Ajay Mittal, director, PLF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-appeal-on-social-media-plasma-reaches-jkhand-via-locked-down-streets/articleshow/77663572.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Double whammy for the idol makers of Ahmedabad's Gulbai Tekra||AHMEDABAD: Already facing a financial crunch because of cancellation of the Ganesha festival due to the pandemic, idol makers of Gulbai Tekra area of the city faced police and AMC action on Thursday. A team of AMC and police removed temporary sheds and other encroachments where the idol makers had been making Ganpati idols. Residents of Gulbai Tekra said AMC and policemen arrived and forced them to dismantle temporary sheds that they had erected to make Ganesh idols. “They alleged that we were encroaching on the road, but we just tied up plastic sheets to ensure that the idols do not get wet even as they are being made. The AMC staff pulled down all the plastic sheets and took them away,” said Ramesh Bhati, an idol maker at Gulbai Tekra. Another artisan, Deva Bhati, alleged that cops also asked them not to put up electric bulbs and work. “This is the only time of the year, when we can earn some money. The police and AMC action is unjustified, as we are not encroaching on the road, but merely making idols ahead of Ganesh Chaturthi,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/double-whammy-for-the-idol-makers-of-gulbai-tekra/articleshow/77663521.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: One more Covid-19 patient kills self||RAJAHMUNDRY: A man undergoing treatment at a Covid-19 hospital at Rajanagaram near here allegedly ended his life by jumping from the hospital building late on Wednesday night. The incident comes close on the heels of three of a family killing themselves by jumping into river Godavari on Wednesday morning after the head of the family died due to Covid-19. Police said the 40-year-old, , was admitted to the Covid-19 hospital at Rajanagaram on August 18. He was later in home quarantine. As the symptoms resurfaced, he was again admitted to GSL hospital. On Wednesday, he jumped from the window of the bathroom.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/one-more-covid-19-patient-kills-self/articleshow/77663599.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Medium change: Edu dept supplies bilingual textbooks||Visakhapatnam: The school education department is providing bilingual textbooks to schools in districts as part of its effort to introduce English as medium of instruction from standards 1-6 from this academic year. The unique feature of these textbooks is that the curated lessons are published in both English and Telugu for non-language subjects such as mathematics, science and social studies. In these textbooks, one page will contain the lesson in English while the other page will have the same lesson in Telugu. The textbooks are expected to cater to the needs of both English and Telugu medium students. Prem Kumar, Visakhapatnam’s deputy district education officer, said the district has already received around 11 lakh textbooks. “We have started sending the books to mandals from Wednesday,” he said. Samala Simhachalam, state president of AP SC/ST Upadhyaya Sangham, said students may find these textbooks useful as they may face transitional issues on being shifted from Telugu medium to English medium. “Now, the students will be able to refer to the lessons in Telugu if a particular topic is incomprehensible to them in English,” Simhachalam said. The matter of introducing English as medium of instruction in government-run schools is currently in court. Earlier, the state government had conducted a survey in which nearly 96% respondents, parents of students studying in government schools, voted in favour of introducing English as medium of instruction. The government, in affidavits to the high court on PILs filed against the proposed conversion of all government schools to English medium, had made a proposal to continue one Telugu medium school in each mandal headquarters. Earlier, the school education department had come up with Bodh App to provide online training to teachers for teaching in English. The training module contained topics such as use of nouns, verbs, prepositions to clauses and conjunctions. Several webinars have been included as part of the module including those on ‘How to be a successful English Language teacher’ and ‘Tips and resources for teaching grammar’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/medium-change-edu-dept-supplies-bilingual-textbooks/articleshow/77643202.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 21, 2020||Chennai||Today is my Independence Day: Dalit chief of Athupakkam panchayat||CHENNAI: “Today is the real Independence Day for me,” said V Amrutham on Thursday as the dalit woman president of Athupakkam panchayat hoisted the Tricolour in the village in the presence of the district collector and superintendent of police. Amrutham had not been allowed to hoist the flag on August 15, allegedly by the other panchayat members and its secretary, who belong to the dominant vanniyar caste. She has said they did not allow her to hoist the flag on Republic Day either and that the panchayat secretary did not brief her on official matters. After TOI reported the incident, the district administration erected a new flag mast at the panchayat office and Collector Maheswari Ravikumar received Amrutham with a bouquet and district superintendent of police P Aravindhan assisted her to hoist the Tricolour. The collector organised the event acting on a TOI report that Amrutham was humiliated and prevented from hoisting the Tricolour at the panchayat union elementary school, abutting the panchayat office, by former panchayat president V Haridoss on Republic Day and that she was invited for the Independence Day function at the same school and later told not to attend it. She was getting ready to go to the school on August 15 morning when the call came from the school headmistress that she need not attend the function. Since there was no flag mast at the panchayat office, the panchayat president had been hoisting the Tricolour on Republic Day and Independence Day all these years at the school. Problems started after the recent local body polls. In the delimitation exercise which preceded the polls, Athupakkam panchayat president post was reserved for dalit women. Since Amrutham’s victory in the polls in January this year, she has been facing discrimination. “Today is the real Independence Day for me. Words fail me in expressing my happiness,” Amrutham told TOI. The district authorities also got her a name board at the panchayat office. She was prevented from placing a name board all these months. Amrutham vowed to live up to the expectations of her villagers and provide all basic amenities to them, starting from water supply to street lights. “I was scared about a few people and requested the collector to ensure my safety. She told me not to worry as the district administration is with me,” said Amrutham. Collector has already initiated disciplinary action against panchayat secretary M Sasikumar, a vanniyar, for discriminating Amrutham on the basis of her caste. He has been suspended. Sasikumar and K Vijayakumar, husband of panchayat vice-president Revathy, have been arrested in connection with the assault on a journalist, who went to the village after the TOI report. Thanking TOI for bringing the issue to the notice of the administration, Maheswari said, “I invited Amrutham to my office on Wednesday. We had a long chat and discussed the problems faced by her. We decided to honour her in front of the same villagers to send a strong message (against caste discrimination)”. Action has been taken to remove former panchayat president Haridoss as president of the parent-teachers’ association of the panchayat union elementary school in the village. The district administration has appointed a new panchayat secretary to help Amrutham to carry out her duties effectively without anyone’s interference, said the collector. All the documents and records related to the panchayat have been handed over to Amrutham. “Except a few, rest of the villagers are supporting Amrutham,” said the collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/today-is-my-i-day-dalit-panchayat-chief/articleshow/77662122.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
August 21, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi, Kannauj in ‘Best Ganga Town’ category||LUCKNOW: Varanasi and Kannauj were among UP cities that got top slots in all the three population-wise categories of cities and towns with the cleanest areas around the Ganga. The Swachh Survey 2020 had introduced the ‘Best Ganga Town’ category this year in which cities located on Ganga banks were assessed on the basis of cleanliness in the 500 radius of the river. While Varanasi bagged top rank among cities with over one lakh population and Kannauj was ranked first among cities with population between 50,000 and one lakh, Chunar in Mirzapur occupied number one position among places with population less than 50,000. Conducted by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, the survey assessed 92 cities and towns located on the Ganga banks after dividing them into three population-wise categories. Of the total cities survey, 20 are from UP. Eight UP cities have found place among 46 assessed in the category of population above one lakh. Five of them were in the top 10. If Varanasi was at number one, Kanpur came second, Prayagraj fourth, Mirzapur seventh and Garhmukhteshwar ninth. However, Ballia was at 37th place, Farukkhabad 38th and Ghazipur 46th. Similarly, top three places were occupied by UP cities and towns among 18 assessed in the category of cities with population 50,000 and one lakh - Kannauj (1st), Bijnor(2nd) and Shuklaganj (3rd). Of 28 towns assessed under the category of cities with populations less than 50,000, nine were from UP. Of these, Chunar and Bithoor grabbed the first and the second positions respectively. While Babrala occupied seventh place, Saidpur was at ninth, Jhunsi 14th, Ramanagar 15th, Naraura 17th and Hastinapur 21st.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kashi-kannauj-in-best-ganga-town-category/articleshow/77664567.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
August 21, 2020||Chennai||Distance education, an option of learning without restrictions||By R MahendranAccording to the All India Survey on Higher Education 2018-19, the total enrolment in distance education is 53%, while conventional education has only 47% in higher educational institutions. This survey further explores that 56% students are pursuing their undergraduation in distance mode. The main reasons behind high enrolment in distance education are academic flexibilities like age, space, time and pedagogy, besides rigidity prevailing in conventional mode. At this time of pandemic-affected schedules, parents and students are worrying over resumption of classes on campuses. Online education has been helpful for conventional universities and colleges to restart the disrupted teaching and learning. In a way, it is like distance education involving digital components that is becoming an alternative to learning on campuses. This paradigm shift helps understand how the distance education mode provides uninterrupted learning in unforeseen situations. Since Class XII results were announced in Tamil Nadu in July, parents and students have been busy searching for good educational institutions for higher studies, since conventional institutions have a strict criteria while admitting students. Distance education, on the other hand, is largely flexible in connection to enrolling students in a programme. It is not only for those who missed the opportunity but also for those who are looking for a new chance. Those who are not able to opt for their interested programme in regular education need not be disappointed. It also allows students to take their own time to learn as well as pursue other interests. A distance education student once told me that he has the mode that gives him sufficient time for the preparation of competitive examinations such as TNPSC and banking. In addition, there is a provision in distance education, in which a student who is pursuing a programme in regular mode can also study either a diploma or a certificate programme in distance mode simultaneously so as to sharpen his/her knowledge and skills.As per the report of the Distance Education Bureau (DEB), in Tamil Nadu, universities like Tamil Nadu Open University, University of Madras, Anna University, Madurai Kamaraj University, Manonmaniam Sundarnar University, Tamil University and Tamil Nadu Physical Education and Sports University are among those approved for offering diverse programmes through the distance mode. As regards the quality, these universities are also focusing on revision of curricula, resourceful study material, development of e-contents and seamless learner support services for sustaining quality in distance education on a par with regular education adhering to the UGC (ODL) Regulations 2017.There is a misconception regarding the validity of distance education degrees but the UGC, the apex education body endorses equal treatment for both regular and distance education degrees. There may be fake and unapproved distance education institutions, so students need to be vigilant when choosing an institution. Before enrolment, it should be ensured whether the institution has got a programme approval from UGC and DEB. Further, it has to be verified if the institution has quality study material and assures seamless learner support services, including academic counseling and placement support.The National Education Policy 2020 that aims for 50% gross enrolment ratio in higher education by 2030 unhesitatingly recommends Open and Distance Learning along with online learning to enhance access, equity and inclusion in higher education.(The writer is an assistant professor of English, Tamil Nadu Open University)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/distance-education-an-option-of-learning-without-restrictions/articleshow/77665326.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Rajkot||Barda triple murder: Cops to reconstruct crime||Rajkot: The Porbandar police will conduct a reconstruction of the crime at the spot in Barda wildlife sanctuary where beat guard Lakhman Odedara allegedly murdered three persons - a pregnant woman forest guard, her husband and a casual labourer, on August 15.Odedara was formally arrested on Thursday after his Covid-19 test came negative. Police claim that he killed Hetal Solanki, who was in charge of Godhana beat, after their alleged love affair threatened to ruin his married life. “We will be producing Odedara before the court here in Porbandar to seek his seven days remand. We will take him to the spot for reconstruction of crime,” said Porbandar deputy superintendent of police, Smit Gohel. According to the police, Odedara had hatched the conspiracy of all the three murders and used a gedia (a wooden weapon with sharp curved edge) to kill Hetal, her husband Kirti and labourer Naga Agath one by one on August 15. Odedara (32) allgedly had an affair with Hetal for the past two years. When his wife Manju learned about the affair, there started frequent quarrels between the couple. Twenty days ago, Hetal had fought with Manju and had also threatened her. Odedara, who did not want to ruin his married life, then decided to kill Hetal. As part of the conspiracy, Odedara provided a false tip-off about a liquor den to Agath who informed Hetal, and they decided to conduct a raid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/barda-triple-murder-cops-to-reconstruct-crime/articleshow/77662178.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Vijayawada||A majority to buy buffaloes with aid||Visakhapatnam: As many as 12.81 lakh women beneficiaries of the YSR Cheyutha scheme selected their livelihood options through ‘navasakam’ portal till date, said Thumma Vijay Kumar Reddy, commissioner of information and public relations, ex officio special secretary and member of state-level Covid-19 task force committee. In a press release, Reddy said that the maximum number of women, about 1.57 lakh, opted to purchase buffaloes; 1,51,090 women opted to purchase cows; 1,04,347 to purchase sheep; 62,921 to purchase goats, 78,832 for setting up kirana shops, 5,813 for manufacturing incense sticks, 29,933 for setting up fruit shops, 75,131 for vegetable vending and 6,15,963 for starting various other businesses. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/a-majority-to-buy-buffaloes-with-aid/articleshow/77643244.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘No immersion in ponds, rivers’||Ahmedabad: The AMC had decided not to allow immersion of the Ganesh idols in any river or makeshift pond. After the standing committee meeting, its chairman Amul Bhatt said that the Lokmanya Tilak Trophy, organized for the best pandal decoration and cultural programmes, will not be held this year. Bhatt appealed to the residents not to install big idols. “If the idols are small and made from mud, they can be immersed near the homes of the devotees,” he said. The civic body has also decided not to permit public celebration of the Ganesh Utsavs. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-immersion-in-ponds-rivers/articleshow/77663565.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Indore||Its a 4! Indore cleanest city, again||INDORE/BHOPAL: For the past year, Indoreans woke up to the jingle ‘Chouka Lagayenge…’ (we’ll hit a ‘four’) as they lined up at their door to hand over garbage bags. On Thursday, Indore did hit it beyond the boundary, bagging #1 rank in Swachh Survekshan for the fourth year in a row. “Congratulations to the people of Indore. The city has hit a four this time and surely will hit a six in the future,” Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said. He also congratulated Bhopal residents and Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) team. Bhopal leaped to seventh rank from the dismal 19th it ranked last year. It lost the cleanest state capital tag to New Delhi, but drew consolation from being adjudged the best in ‘self-sustenance’. Four MP cities figure in the top 20 (more than 10 lakh population) — Indore (1), Bhopal (7), Gwalior (13) and Jabalpur (17).. Union minister for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri announced the results of Swachh Survekshan 2020, declaring Indore as the country’s cleanest city. “Heartiest congratulations! Indore is India’s cleanest city 4th year in a row. The city and its people have shown exemplary dedication towards cleanliness,” the minister tweeted. Heartiest congratulations!Indore is India’s cleanest city 4th year in a row. The city & its people have shown exem… https://t.co/5IzKxgJAhD— Hardeep Singh Puri (@HardeepSPuri) 1597903860000If it were not for Covid precautions, celebration would have erupted in the streets — squeaky clean, by the way. Last year, Indoreans had swarmed on to the roads to celebrate the city’s Swachh hat-trick, and promptly got down to cleaning them up. In no time, the streets were back to Swachh. It was a glimpse of how Swachhta is now part of Indore’s culture. So, when the 2019-2020 survey began, Indoreans never doubted their city would win again. The civic corporation had started preparing for this year even before it had finished its work for the previous year’s survey. Indore beat 4,241 other cities and clinched the title by securing 5647.56 marks out of 6000. The second and third positions went to Surat (5519.59) and Navi Mumbai (5467.89). Indore beat 4,241 cities to clinch titleAs per the survey report, over 94% voted positively for Indore. Apart from obtaining fivestar and ODF++ certifications, one of the clinchers was the city securing the maximum 1,000 marks under quarterly assessment, which was introduced by the Centre for the first time to ensure that best practices in waste management and sanitation are followed throughout the year. Indore outperformed in most of the criteria, including collection and transportation, sustainable sanitation, processing and disposal, capacity building, and also in innovation and best practices. “This success is the outcome of a dedicated workforce and increased level of awareness among citizens,” said Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) commissioner Pratibha Pal. “Cleanliness has become a habit with Indoreans, and increased level of motivation among cleanliness and sanitation workers has helped the city achieve this milestone,” Pal told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/its-a-4-indore-cleanest-city-again/articleshow/77666294.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Nadu-Nedu works begin, rythu bazaars asked to move out||Visakhapatnam: While Nadu-Nedu works in a bid to revamp government schools in Andhra Pradesh gather steam, rythu bazaars running from government school compounds seem to have run into a bit of trouble. With renovation works going on all around the school, operations of these rythu bazaars have been hit. Some government school managements have even asked estate managers to shift the markets from the schools’ compounds. It was following the Covid-19 outbreak that the state government had decided to shift rythu bazaars to fields in order to maintain proper social distancing. Many such rythu bazaars were shifted to grounds of government-run as well as some private schools. Now, officials of the agriculture marketing department have started looking for alternative venues for these markets. Janardhana Rao, estate manager of a rythu bazaar, said, “The MVP Colony rythu bazaar is currently operating from a nearby government school. We have been asked by school authorities to vacate the premises. The school wants to initiate renovation work under the Nadu-Nedu scheme.” The Nadu-Nedu scheme was announced in November 2019. Under the first phase of the scheme, around 15,715 government schools are expected to be renovated. “Moreover, the education department has decided to open schools from September. If schools resume, we’ll anyway have to shift these markets,” said K Srinivasa Rao, joint director of agriculture marketing department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/nadu-nedu-works-begin-rythu-bazaars-asked-to-move-out/articleshow/77643227.cms||Arpit Basu
August 21, 2020||Ludhiana||After testing +ve, Ayali exhorts people to go for test||Ludhiana: SAD MLA Manpreet Ayali after testing positive for coronavirus went live on his FB page on Thursday for encouraging people to get themselves tested if they show any kind of symptoms. Ayali claimed that he had mild symptoms and when he got himself tested, it came positive. But as he had got himself tested in time and was already staying in isolation, his family members were safe. He asked people there was no need to panic as there was no problem in staying in isolation when it is for safety of family members and other people. Ayali had felt symptoms like fever and soar throat, so he got himself tested, which came positive. He is in home quarantine till August 25. Ayali claimed that he was doing well and there was no major problem he was facing while remaining in isolation. He asked people not to hide anything if they had any symptoms because by doing this they would put lives of their family members as well as other people at risk. Ayali further claimed that he was following the directions of doctors and was always keeping an oximeter with him so that he could check his oxygen level. He claimed if a person is healthy then he need not to worry but for people suffering from any disease or senior citizens need to be careful. He said, “If the oxygen level of any person is fine, then there is no need to go anywhere, just sit back and take rest in isolation. Drink some hot water and eat healthy food.” The Dakha MLA further said, “Covid-19 has hit the economy badly and many people have died as well but this disease has made us learn many things. We are reminded of our earlier times when home-cooked food was considered the best. So, better avoid eating outside and take a healthy diet. This is the only way to remain safe from this disease.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/after-testing-ve-ayali-exhorts-people-to-go-for-test/articleshow/77662144.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Bareilly||School management makes teacher file resignation for attempting to outrage modesty of student||Pilibhit: Management of a reputed CBSE-affiliated public school in Pilibhit city made a school teacher file his resignation immediately after the chairperson of the school was presented with a complaint against a teacher regarding his attempt to outrage the modesty of a class XII student of another public school.The girl was a student of the alleged teacher’s private coaching center which he was operating unlawfully at his residence in Pilibhit city despite the state government closing down all educational institutions due to the outbreak of the coronavirus.Chairperson of the school Parvinder Singh Sehmy said, “Gursevak Singh had been teaching physics in our school to intermediate classes for the last six years. He had good command over his subject. As the matter was extremely serious in nature, associated with an assault upon the modesty of a girl regardless of the fact that she was not a student of my institution, I called the erring teacher to my office and asked him to choose one of the two options – an FIR against him or his resignation from his post. Going for the second option, the teacher filed his resignation.”The mother of the survivor said that she was satisfied with the action taken by the school management against the teacher. This made her drop the idea of taking up the matter with police.On being asked about the incident, the teacher denied all allegations but simply accepted that he was operating the private coaching classes. He alleged that the school management completely ignored his side while compelling him to file the resignation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/school-management-makes-teacher-file-resignation-for-attempting-to-outrage-modesty-of-student/articleshow/77660886.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Bhopal||Its a 4! Indore cleanest city, again||INDORE/BHOPAL: For the past year, Indoreans woke up to the jingle ‘Chouka Lagayenge…’ (we’ll hit a ‘four’) as they lined up at their door to hand over garbage bags. On Thursday, Indore did hit it beyond the boundary, bagging #1 rank in Swachh Survekshan for the fourth year in a row. “Congratulations to the people of Indore. The city has hit a four this time and surely will hit a six in the future,” Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said. He also congratulated Bhopal residents and Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) team. Bhopal leaped to seventh rank from the dismal 19th it ranked last year. It lost the cleanest state capital tag to New Delhi, but drew consolation from being adjudged the best in ‘self-sustenance’. Four MP cities figure in the top 20 (more than 10 lakh population) — Indore (1), Bhopal (7), Gwalior (13) and Jabalpur (17).. Union minister for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri announced the results of Swachh Survekshan 2020, declaring Indore as the country’s cleanest city. “Heartiest congratulations! Indore is India’s cleanest city 4th year in a row. The city and its people have shown exemplary dedication towards cleanliness,” the minister tweeted. Heartiest congratulations!Indore is India’s cleanest city 4th year in a row. The city & its people have shown exem… https://t.co/5IzKxgJAhD— Hardeep Singh Puri (@HardeepSPuri) 1597903860000If it were not for Covid precautions, celebration would have erupted in the streets — squeaky clean, by the way. Last year, Indoreans had swarmed on to the roads to celebrate the city’s Swachh hat-trick, and promptly got down to cleaning them up. In no time, the streets were back to Swachh. It was a glimpse of how Swachhta is now part of Indore’s culture. So, when the 2019-2020 survey began, Indoreans never doubted their city would win again. The civic corporation had started preparing for this year even before it had finished its work for the previous year’s survey. Indore beat 4,241 other cities and clinched the title by securing 5647.56 marks out of 6000. The second and third positions went to Surat (5519.59) and Navi Mumbai (5467.89). Indore beat 4,241 cities to clinch titleAs per the survey report, over 94% voted positively for Indore. Apart from obtaining fivestar and ODF++ certifications, one of the clinchers was the city securing the maximum 1,000 marks under quarterly assessment, which was introduced by the Centre for the first time to ensure that best practices in waste management and sanitation are followed throughout the year. Indore outperformed in most of the criteria, including collection and transportation, sustainable sanitation, processing and disposal, capacity building, and also in innovation and best practices. “This success is the outcome of a dedicated workforce and increased level of awareness among citizens,” said Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) commissioner Pratibha Pal. “Cleanliness has become a habit with Indoreans, and increased level of motivation among cleanliness and sanitation workers has helped the city achieve this milestone,” Pal told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/its-a-4-indore-cleanest-city-again/articleshow/77663588.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Goa||Goa CM Pramod Sawant talks tough on drugs trade crackdown||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said that he has given the police department the full freedom to destroy the entire chain of drugs trade in Goa. Director general of police Mukesh Kumar Meena also said that the CM has given instructions to the police to carry out inquiry and take action in the recent drug party case in a manner which sets an example. “We have begun work to remove the drug menace from its roots. I congratulate our Crime Branch and Narcotics Cell for the investigation of the recent drugs case and the arrests made. We will go right to the last person in this drugs chain, from the peddler to the supplier,” said Sawant The statements come as investigations are under way in a party in Anjuna where drugs were found in use. Actor Kapil Jhaverri and the organiser of an electronic dance music event Shailesh Shetty have been arrested in the case. Photographs of the accused have surfaced posing earlier with different politicians, which has led to mud-slinging amongst political parties in the state. “The police department will get all the support they need from me as the home minister. I give them full freedom to finish the drug trade in Goa. I am committed to this. We cannot let our youth be destroyed by the drug menace,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-talks-tough-on-drugs-trade-crackdown/articleshow/77663608.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Lucknow||CIPET to be set up in Ayodhya for skill and plastic tech training||LUCKNOW: With the apex court paving way for construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya, the state government is working towards developing the district in other sectors. Next in line is setting up of a campus of Central Institute of Plastic Engineering and Technology (CIPET), which will award diplomas in plastic and plastic mould technologies, petrochemicals and National Skills Qualifications Framework (NSQF). CIPET already has two centres in UP, one for skill and technical support in Varanasi and an Institute of Plastics Technology in Lucknow. Alok Kumar, additional chief secretary (industrial development) said, the institute was being set up with Centre’s help. “Each year, 180 students will be admitted per batch for diploma courses. Training can also be provided to up to 1,000 students each year under skill development. We have identified land for the campus,” he said. Sources said, the project was kick-started after R K Chaturvedi, secretary, ministry of chemicals and fertilisers, recently wrote to UP government. The ministry proposed starting a three-year programme for skill development training in Ayodhya with 60 seats in each programme. “We began work as soon as we received the letter and apprised the Centre on steps taken. District magistrate Ayodhya has identified a newly constructed building of Rajkiya Ashram Paddhati School in Milkipur and will be handing it over to the director, CIPET, Lucknow, for temporary use,” said an official. The DM and CIPET director have identified land for a permanent building and the acquisition process has begun, the official said. The government also requested the Centre to take steps for establishing a technical assistance centre in Auraiya’s plastic city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cipet-to-be-set-up-in-ayodhya-for-skill-plastic-tech-training/articleshow/77664585.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 21, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Techgentsia’s win is a tale of self-reliance||KOCHI: The story of Joy Sebastian, whose company Techgentsia Software Solutions Pvt Ltd won the grand innovation challenge by the government of India for developing a video conferencing solution is one most heart-warming success stories to have come out of small-town Kerala. Alappuzha-based Techgentsia battled out with several tech giants in a five-month long contest to win the challenge which will see the governmental adoption of their solution, which can give companies like Zoom and Cisco a run for their money. Techgentsia is hosted by Infopark in Cherthala in the village of Pallippuram and Joy himself hails from Pathirappally, a coastal hamlet not far away. Joy's parents were not privileged to have an education higher than primary school but that did not deter him from pursuing his entrepreneurial dreams. The next-generation video conferencing solution VConSol developed by their team supports up to 80 active participants and 300 passive participants. “Their demand was for 18 active participants but we could provide them with a product that is three times more capable,” says Joy Sebastian, CEO, Techgentsia. Such solutions are currently provided by platforms like Zoom as enterprise packages which cost $50/month. Another advantage is that it will support all technologies in the video conferencing spectrum. The high-profile contest with Rs one crore prize money attracted 1983 applicants from which 12 applicants were shortlisted and provided with Rs 10 lakh each to fine tune the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/techgentsias-win-is-a-tale-of-self-reliance/articleshow/77662206.cms||Binu Karunakaran
August 21, 2020||Puducherry||Puducherry government takes over pvt hospital for Covid-19 care||PUDUCHERRY: With the Union territory recording its highest 24-hour spike in Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the Puducherry government took over administrative control of Sri Venkateswaraa Medical College Hospital and Research Centre (SVMCH), Ariyur, by invoking the Epidemic Diseases (ED) Act, 1897 and Disaster Management (DM) Act, 2005. In the first of its kind in the UT, collector T Arun passed an order on Wednesday declaring the facility a ‘designated Covid hospital’ to use all facilities purely for Covid treatment. The collector warned that any violation of the order will attract punishment under the provisions of ED Act and DM Act. He said SVMCH, after agreeing to admit Covid patients referred by the government during a meeting held on August 5, failed to honour its promise and denied admission to patients referred by the government. Lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi on Wednesday pointed out that the Union territory despite having good healthcare infrastructure did not make full use of private medical college hospitals in the fight against Covid-19. On Thursday, the Union territory reported a record 554 people new infections with 484 cases just from Puducherry. Karaikal and Yanam reported 35 cases each. The positivity rate of samples tested stood at 39.9%, well above the national average. At present, there are 3,521 active cases and close to 50% (1,725) are in home isolation, while 1,796 are undergoing treatment at various facilities. Eight patients, including three women, died of Covid, taking the death toll to 137. The fatality rate of the infection in the territory is 1.5%. Puducherry has 1,627 active cases in hospitals and 1,602 in home quarantine. Yanam has 81 cases in the general hospital and 87 in home isolation. Karaikal has 86 patients in the general hospital and 87 in home quarantine while and Mahe has two cases in the general hospital. The territory so far reported a total 9,292 cases, of which 5,634 patients are reported to have recovered. The recovery rate is 60.6%, lower than the national average. Healthcare authorities have sent 59,757 swab samples for testing, of which 48,902 samples tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/pondy-govt-takes-over-pvt-hospital-for-covid-19-care/articleshow/77665333.cms||Bosco Dominique
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 toll crosses 3k mark in AP, state sees over 9k new cases||Visakhapatnam: The Covid-19 toll in Andhra Pradesh crossed the 3,000-mark on Thursday with the novel coronavirus claiming 95 more lives in the state. The toll now stands at 3,001. The state also reported 9,393 new Covid-19 cases, taking the cumulative tally to 3,25,396. Andhra Pradesh had breached the 2,000 Covid-19 deaths mark on August 9 and it only took just 11 days for the state to register 1,000 more deaths. With the testing of another 55,551 samples on Thursday, a total of 30,74,847 samples have been tested so far. While AP continued to be among the top five states in terms of the number of Covid-19 tests, it is ahead of all other states with respect to the tests per million populations (57, 581). The Covid-19 positivity rate has increased to 10.58 percent. Meanwhile, 8,846 Covid-19 patients recovered from the virus and were discharged from the hospitals across the state since Wednesday. The total recoveries in the state increased to 2,35,218.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-toll-crosses-3k-mark-in-ap-state-sees-over-9k-new-cases/articleshow/77663641.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt’s Covid helpline got over 8 lakh calls in 3 months: Study||NEW DELHI: In the last three months, the Delhi government’s Covid helpline has received more than 8,10,000 calls from patients or those suspecting to have caught the infection, reveals a study conducted by StepOne, a non-profit organisation. The study highlighted that a Covid Positive Triage system was set up in Delhi wherein the test results uploaded on the ICMR website were passed on an hourly basis to the Project StepOne platform. “The results were also relayed among the doctors’ network for teletriage. The doctors would then assess the patients and decide whether they should stay at home or go to a Covid care centre/hospital. To manage the challenge of insufficient hospital beds, the government had also launched a 24X7 helpline for Covid-positive patients,” the study, which was released on Thursday, found. “The Delhi government worked with Project StepOne to create a process where critical cases got ambulances immediately. The ambulance wait time for a critical patient was brought down to 15 minutes resulting in several lives saved.” StepOne has been working with the government to fight the pandemic since June 1. Volunteers at StepOne have also been coordinating with the government to reach out to all potential plasma donors. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal congratulated all the volunteers and said that it is only through everyone’s joint effort that Delhiites have brought a drastic improvement in the Covid graph. “Every other place has been adopting the Delhi model when it comes to tackling the situation. The plasma bank and home isolation have been the most successful mediums in bringing down the number of cases. StepOne has a huge role to play in the success of these models and I am very thankful to every volunteer,” said the CM. “The plasma banks have become a textbook example and several states are copying the Delhi’s plasma bank model. As a Delhiite, I would like to thank all the volunteers for making this a success,” said AAP MLA Raghav Chadha. Dr Amita Bahl, a volunteer doctor, said, “Working with StepOne has been a new experience. Every case teaches me a new lesson in life.” Thanking all the doctors and volunteers of the StepOne community, MLA Atishi Marlena said, “While there was so much panic, all of you came together to help corona patients. It is because of you that so many patients today feel reassured that this is a disease that they can deal with, often inside their own homes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govts-covid-helpline-got-over-8l-calls-in-3-months-study/articleshow/77663681.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
August 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana stands at 34 among 47 in Swachh Survekshan||Ludhiana: The industrial town has been ranked 34 at the national level Swachhta Survekshan-2020. The results were announced on Thursday from a virtual platform. This ranking is out of 47 cities having a population from 10 to 40 lakh. Interestingly, in Punjab, only Ludhiana and Amritsar were contesting in this category and the industrial town is at 34th position while Amritsar ranked 39. This time the criteria to judge the cities in the survekshan was changed as it was done on a quarterly basis. The cities were divided into parts on the basis of population. In the first quarter the city was at 40th rank while in the second quarter it was judged at 38th rank out of the 47 cities. While in the initial years the competition used to be among a few cities as in the first year it was among 50 cities and gradually the number of cities increased. The officials claimed that it was not justified to rank a city with a population of 50,with another having a population of 10 lakh. So, it was a good step that cities are being judged on the basis of population. The idea is to encourage sanitation employees to work hard and also involve people in maintaining hygienic conditions in their city. While reacting over ranking, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said, “Though the ranking has improved as compared to previous years but scope of improvement is always there. We need to work harder to achieve first place in the country.” He said there was a need to work on cleanliness of city roads, proper lifting of garbage from the entire city, double shift of sweepers in the city, etc. Ashu said they could achieve targets and this year the employees should work harder to gain better ranking. Meanwhile, mayor Balkar Sandhu though showed satisfaction over the ranking and gave credit to the sanitation employees and officials who were involved in making arrangements, but he claimed that they should be aiming for a better ranking. He said they would want their ranking to be among the top 10 cities now. The secretary of MC, Neeraj Jain, said it would encourage the residents to work harder in the respective fields and they would be able to achieve better ranks in the survekshan of 2021. Previous rankings 2016-- 34 out of 73 cities 2017-- 140 out of 434 cities 2018--137 out of 485 cities 2019-- 163 out of 425 cities||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-stands-at-34-among-47-in-swachh-survekshan/articleshow/77662185.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Goa||Chimbel locals in dark over ‘planned’ power shutdown||Panaji: Residents in Chimbel, parts of Santa Cruz and Merces went without power for the first half of the day on Thursday. Although the department stated that it was a planned shutdown, most residents were left in the dark about it. The shutdown was undertaken between 9am to 2pm. “They never intimated us that there would be a shutdown. We have been having frequent power cuts the whole month. It’s difficult for children to attend online classes. Food I have stored in the fridge has also gotten spoilt as a result of prolonged power cuts. The power supply during this entire month has been poor,” Chimbel resident Ana Gracias said. A resident from Merces said she wasn’t aware about the “planned shutdown”. “I didn’t find any notice in the newspaper and when I called the helpline to complain, they said they couldn’t register my complaint. I was told that another resident had already complained so they couldn’t register mine,” Mohammed Sayed said. A miniscule few who registered their numbers with the electricity department were informed of the power shutdown on the same day. “It was a scheduled emergency shutdown for maintenance work prior to Ganesh Chaturthi. Work had to be undertaken to prevent power outages during the festival. Many conductors had grown weak and we wanted to ensure there are no unnecessary opening of jumpers,” a department engineer said. “All those who registered their numbers with the electricity department received messages about the scheduled outage. We have been asking the public to register their numbers with the department so that they can receive direct messages. All outages even unscheduled ones are registered and messages are sent through the Urja Mitra app,” the engineer said. Chimbel also faced power problems a few days back when the aerial bunch cable in the area developed faults.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chimbel-locals-in-dark-over-planned-power-shutdown/articleshow/77663645.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Bareilly||23-year-old woman killed over dowry||Pilibhit: A 23-year-old woman, identified as Munni Devi, was allegedly killed by her husband and other in laws over dowry in Gonch village under Jahanabad police station. Her body was allegedly hanged in the verandah of her house on Thursday morning. The police have sent the body for an autopsy. An FIR in the matter has been lodged against four persons. According to the deceased's father Chheda Lal, resident of Naugvan Pakadia village under Sungarhi police station, he had married his daughter to one Sanju in Gonch village on April 2, 2019 and had given enough dowry, including a bike and cash worth Rs 50,000. His son in law and his family members had started to demand cash worth Rs 1 lakh as additional dowry soon after the marriage, after which they began torturing his daughter. Station house officer (SHO) Harish Vardhan Singh said that the police had lodged an FIR against Sanju, his father Mewa Ram, mother Ramkali and sister Puja under sections 498 A (subjecting a woman to cruelty by husband or his family members), 304 B (death of a woman caused by any burns or bodily injury or occurred otherwise than under normal circumstances within seven years of her marriage) of the IPC and sections 3 and 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/23-year-old-woman-killed-over-dowry/articleshow/77660913.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Goa||Goa: Decades-long struggle comes to fruition with NGT order on private forests||PANAJI: The National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) order asking the Goa government to notify 46.11 sq km as private forest has been the culmination of a decades-long struggle by environmentalists, to get the green cover outside of state domain preserved. Once notified, the government will proceed to protect the private forest even as land owners have been strongly opposing the inclusion of their properties in ‘private forests’.  Starting as early as 1997, the state government found itself at odds with the court on several occasions, as it set up at least four different committees with varying outcomes in getting the private forest identified. It is the 1996 directives of the Supreme Court in a writ petition that led Goa government to set up the Sawant Committee in January 1997 to identify private forests. The report was submitted by the committee two years later in December 1999. The Sawant Committee, comprising forest officials, identified 46.6 sq km area as private forest. However, the Committee itself stated in its report that the state government would have to carry out actual ground verification before it can finalise the report on private forests. The Sawant Committee also clarified that still more areas might have remained unidentified. Taking a cue from this, the Goa government maintained that many areas are yet to be identified, leading to the formation of another committee under Hemant Karapurakar in 2009. It is this development, which triggered the long-drawn battle in the courts between Goa Foundation and the state. In March 2001, Goa Foundation knocked on the doors of the Supreme Court. As per Goa Foundation, the state set up the Karapurkar Committee after being ‘prevailed upon by certain lobbies and vested interests’. The Apex Court found Goa Foundation’s contention valid that the new committee might re-examine and delete some private forest survey numbers as identified in the Sawant Committee’s recommendations. The SC then ‘restrained the Karapurkar Committee or any other person or agency from interfering with the Sawant Committee’s report’. Subsequently, the Karapurkar Committee submitted its report in December 2002, identifying additional 20.52 sq kms of private forests. At this point both committees had identified over 67 sq km as private forests in Goa. Just as the state was contemplating action of these two reports, the high court of Bombay at Goa in 2003 passed an order asking the state government to identify non-forest areas from forest areas on the basis of the Sawant and Karapurkar committees recommendations. The exercise taken up by the forest department as a result took five years to complete. Yet again, Goa Foundation challenged this forest department report in the high court. The same matter was then transferred by the high court to the NGT. In 2016, based on NGT’s order, the Sharma committee was formed. The state government formed yet another committee last year. Finally, the NGT bench Sheo Kumar Singh and Satyawan Singh Garbayal said that since the matter has been pending since long and the matter has been surveyed, identified and demarcated more than 4 times, the matter should come to end. The court then accepted the Sharma Committee report in toto.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/decades-long-struggle-comes-to-fruition-with-ngt-order-on-pvt-forests/articleshow/77663639.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Nagpur||Patient’s kin, DCHC trade charges on lack of facilities, fees||Nagpur: Ignorance of citizens about types of Covid hospitals, and the level of care they can offer, is leading to complaints of dismal facilities and overcharging. On Wednesday, the district collector had given permission to four hospitals while Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) allowed 16 private hospitals with oxygenated beds and ventilators to treat symptomatic Covid patients. On Thursday, a Mahal resident admitted at a Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC) at Kamptee alleged lack of facilities and overcharging in his less than 48 hour stay. The 55-year-old Mahal resident, a health official, was admitted at Asha Hospital on the night of August 17 night. His elder brother told TOI the hospital gave them a Rs1.96 lakh Covid package, of which 90,000 was deposited at the time of admission. “We couldn’t find a private bed anywhere in the city. A relative suggested Asha Hospital. We assumed it was well-equipped as nearly 2 lakh was charged. We were shocked when my brother’s condition worsened, and the hospital asked us to shift him. They said he needed a ventilator,” the elder brother said. Sources said the hospital didn’t make its ventilator available for its DCHC block. The relatives agreed to move the health official to a Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH) on Wednesday morning, but were stunned when Asha Hospital gave a bill of 53,000. “When we warned of calling the police, they negotiated it to 40,000. No bill was given but the transaction was recorded on a plain paper and my signature was taken,” the brother said. As per the package, the relatives claimed the charge was 13,000 per day for 15-day hospitalization with oxygen and ventilator support. Asha Hospital director Dr Saurabh Agrawal refuted the allegations, saying the billing was done as per government rates at 40,000 and bills was given. “We have 30 beds for mild and moderate patients. We organized the patient’s shifting to DCH when he needed higher level of care,” Dr Agrawal said. Asha Hospital also alleged that the patient’s relatives hurled threats they would return with 20 armed persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/patients-kin-dchc-trade-charges-on-lack-of-facilities-fees/articleshow/77662194.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||BAPS Neasden Temple celebrates silver jubilee||AHMEDABAD: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday tweeted images of his visit to the BAPS Shri Swaminarayan Mandir, London, popularly known as the Neasden Temple, which on Thursday, celebrates 25 years of its existence. “Neasden Temple marks its silver jubilee. The temple has been at the forefront of many community service initiatives. It has brought people together and inspired them to work for humanity,” PM Modi tweeted. “When I was Gujarat CM, I had the honour of visiting the temple,” he added. Regarded as a masterpiece of traditional Hindu design and exquisite workmanship that rises amid London’s iconic skyline, the temple was built using 5,000 tonnes of Italian Carrara marble, Gujarat’s Ambaji marble and the finest Bulgarian limestone, all of it being hand-carved in India before being assembled in London. “Back in 1995, about 50,000 people had participated in the opening ceremony of the Mandir. It was the first traditional temple in UK,” he said. Spread across a sprawling area, the Mandir was first envisioned by Yogiji Maharaj, the predecessor of Pramukh Swami Maharaj. On his visit to England in 1970, Yogiji Maharaj consecrated a small Swaminarayan mandir at the site of a disused church on 77 Elmore Street in Islington, north London. It was the first such Hindu temple in the UK. Over 3,000 volunteers inspired by Pramukh Swami Maharaj contributed to making the temple a reality. The temple was funded entirely by worshippers and well-wishers. Built according to ancient Hindu texts yet satisfying modern British building regulations, the temple incorporates features such as under-floor heating, a lift for the infirm and disabled, and two (marble staircase) fire exits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/baps-neasden-temple-celebrates-silver-jubilee/articleshow/77663577.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Trichy||Lockdown raises demand for ‘seed Vinayakas’ in Trichy||Trichy: With the state government laying out several restrictions in celebrating Vinayaka Chaturthi amid the lockdown, such as observing the festival within homes, “seed Vinayakas” have seen a surge in demand in Trichy city. Unlike the usual idols, these idols, though made of clay, have seeds of vegetable crops in them. Since these idols can dissolve in water they can be kept in the garden once the worship is over and watered so that the vegetables grow.Seed Vinayaka is produced by Vindhai Angadi, a Trichy-based startup run by two youths which makes seed pencils and pen. The idol’s making also follows the same pattern of the conventional one - using clay soil and a mould. But while preparing the idols, seeds of various vegetable and medicinal plants such as spinach, tomato and tulasi are inserted. “Instead of dissolving the idols in open wells or water bodies, customers can keep the idols in their backyard to grow and harvest the vegetables,” V Arun Kumar, co-founder of Vindhai Angadi, said. The idols are sold without using any artificial paints. They come with a flower pot in which the idols for growing the vegetables can be placed after completing the worship. The startup is marketing seed Vinayakas on social media platforms and provides door-delivery option too, something which has spurred the demand for the idol. Sales in Trichy city have witnessed a two-fold rise compared to last year’s. With people hesitating to step out for purchasing idols amid the lockdown, door-delivery of idols has come as a godsend for many people. “As the purchasing capacity of people is also down, the price has been reduced from Rs 200 to Rs 150 apiece. Customers who bought idols last year have extended their patronage this year too,” Arun Kumar added. Vinayaka idols with spinach seeds were found to be selling more as the spinach can be grown and harvested within a month. The vegetable seeds start to grow within a week or two if the idol is packed properly in the flower pot and watering is ensured. The startup can be reached at 81243-53680.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/lockdown-raises-demand-for-seed-vinayakas-in-trichy/articleshow/77664594.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 21, 2020||Goa||Bizmen meet new guv, seek legislative cure for mining||Panaji: The Centre and the state must make all efforts to restart Goa’s iron ore mining industry through a legislative cure, said the officials of Confederation of Indian Industry – Goa when they met governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. Chairman of CII-Goa Blaise Costabir along with vice-chairman Atul Jadhav paid a courtesy visit to Koshyari at the Raj Bhavan where they appraised the newly appointed governor about the state’s economic situation and the efforts of CII-Goa to revive the economy in collaboration with the state government. During the short meeting, CII officials informed Koshyari that the iron ore mining industry is an integral part of Goa’s economy. Costabir assured the governor that CCI would fully support the development of the state while also emphasising on resumption of sustainable mining operations. Goa’s 70-year old mining industry came to a halt in March 2018, after the Supreme Court quashed the renewal of 88 mining leases. The sector not only provides employment opportunities in the hinterland but also contributes forex to the nation. Industry stakeholders have repeatedly said that resumption of mining operations can improve the state’s depleted revenues and provide a much-needed economic boost. CII told the governor that nearly all the barges used for transporting iron ore are in poor share and in need of repair if mining activity has to resume. “It is important for Goa that a legislative cure comes which will help the barge industry to obtain loans to repair their barges for the coming season,” said a source. CII Goa has asked Koshyari to take up Goa’s cause before the Centre so that the ongoing mining could be resolved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bizmen-meet-new-guv-seek-legislative-cure-for-mining/articleshow/77663676.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Lucknow||‘Heinous crime’ graph dips further in UP this year||LUCKNOW: Amid allegations from Opposition about the rising crime graph in UP, the state police on Thursday released crime statistics from January 1 to July 31 for seven years—2013 to 2020. The comparative study of crime data in the corresponding period for the seven years indicates that the situation has improved in 2020. It also shows that police have been cracking the whip on hardened criminals with the National Security Act and Gangster Act. If crime statistics from 2013 to 2020 are compared, then the maximum depreciation in crime rate has been recorded for dacoity, with a 69% drop. In 2013, 123 cases of dacoity were reported while in 2020, only 38 have been reported from January 1 to July 31. In the later part of 2016 and initial period of 2017, the capital was hit by a spate of dacoities. In one of the most horrific attacks, a dacoity incident included the gang rape of an 11-year-old girl in Para by members of the Bawariya gang. Recently, the Opposition had also attacked the government for poor handling of kidnapping for ransom cases following the kidnapping and murder of Sanjeet Yadav in Kanpur and 25-year-old Brijesh Pal who was kidnapped for ransom and found murdered in Kanpur Dehat. However, if we make a comparison of such cases, then in 2013, 48 such cases were reported from January 1 to July 31, however this year, 15 cases have been reported in the same period showing a decrease of 69%. There has been a decline of 26% in cases of rape in 2020 compared to 2013. Other cases like loot and murder have also recorded a decline in 2020. UP ADG, law and order, Prashant Kumar attributed the decline in the rate of crime to absence of political interference in the working of police and complete transparency and merit for field postings of police personnel. The officer also added that though crime rate reduced drastically during the lockdown period, soon after unlock, crimes spiked again, hence that balance was maintained. “We had made all preparations anticipating the same so the crimes were again controlled,” he said. Kumar also said that senior officers of the rank of ADG are now supervising and monitoring cases, not only ensuring qualitative investigation but also reducing pendency. “In heinous cases of crime, and crimes related to women and children, police are arresting the accused and immediately registering FIRs,” he said. The officer also cited how placing of police response vehicles—both two-wheelers and four-wheelers—at hotspots of chain/purse/mobile loot and snatching have brought down loot cases by 56% in 2020 in comparison to 2013. Another officer at police headquarters said that the government had given impetus to modernisation of police and also increased its budget from Rs 20,000 crore to Rs 28,000 crore. “In the current regime, UP 112 was launched for all contingencies ahead of many other states. Also Insas was inducted, shedding Enfield rifles,” he said. The officer also said that almost 14 wanted criminals carrying cash rewards of up to Rs 2.5 lakh had been killed in encounters, following the fear of which over 5,000 had surrendered. “CM Yogi has directed that NSA be slapped in case of crimes which affect public order so that there is a feeling of fear among criminals and a feeling of safety among the public,” said additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi. “Life imprisonment was sentenced to 193 offenders, while in five cases, court announced death penalty. In the another 724 cases registered, court awarded imprisonment,” said Ashutosh Pandey, ADG prosecution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/heinous-crime-graph-dips-further-in-state-this-year/articleshow/77664601.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Kozhikode||53 more Karipur crash rescue volunteers +ve||Kozhikode: Of those engaged in the rescue work at Karipur airport after a plane crashed on August 7, 53 more tested positive on Thursday. The people are from Kondotty and Nediyiruppu areas. The people who were involved in the rescue operations were on quarantine after the incident. District collector, police chief, sub-collector, assistant collector, and other senior officials had contracted the disease. Two passengers — one who died and another injured — tested Covid positive. Meanwhile, the number of Covid-19 patients are steadily increasing in Malappuram district. The number of those who contracted the disease on Thursday is 356, of which 337 cases are from contacts. CPM, IUML workers clash, Perambra market shut District collector Sambhasiva Rao has imposed a ban in Perambra and has ordered the closure of the fish market following a clash between the CPM and the IUML workers. The collector has also asked the people involved in the clash to go on quarantine. “It has been directed to close the fish market in Perambra, which witnessed a clash, in the wake of the spread of Covid-19 till further order. Assembly of five or more persons will not be allowed in the wards 15 and five in the panchayat under Section 144 of the CrPC,” the Collector said. He also asked the district police chief, Kozhikode rural, to prepare the list of all the people involved in the clash. These persons have been asked to remain in room quarantine. Rapid Response Teams have been asked to ensure compliance and the police will monitor their movements. All those involved will be subjected to Covid-19 test. The collector has also banned all kinds of processions and marches in any part of the district. The clash erupted after the IUML supporters questioned CPM workers selling fish in the market. CPM supporters demanded that they also be allowed to sell fish in the market. Many people were injured in the clash that ensued. Injured from both sides have been admitted to hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/53-more-karipur-crash-rescue-volunteers-ve/articleshow/77660969.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Bareilly||Woman, paramour arrested for murder of her 19-year-old daughter||Bareilly: A woman and her paramour were arrested for allegedly strangling her 19-year-old daughter in Basti village under Subhash Nagar police station of Bareilly on Thursday morning. Police said the victim’s family members informed them that three assailants barged into their house and killed Usma (19) and attacked her mother Mukeesha with a sharp-edged weapon when they were sleeping in another room. Kin said they woke up to alarms raised by Mukeesha, but the accused had fled by then. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Shailesh Pandey said, “During the investigation, it came to light that the mother-daughter duo was in a relationship with the same man, Kaushar, who too lives in Basti village. He came to their house early Thursday morning and took Usma to another room, while other family members were sleeping. With the help of Mukeesha, he strangled Usma to death. Mukeesha then asked him to injure her. After the accused left, Mukeesha raised alarms and other family members woke up only to find Usma dead.” Police said the victim was pressing the accused to marry her, while Kaushar’s family was aware of his relationships and it would often result in arguments. “We resolved the case in three hours and arrested Mukeesha and Kaushar,” added the SSP. Police said they recovered the dupatta used to strangle the girl and a knife from the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-paramour-arrested-for-murder-of-her-19-year-old-daughter/articleshow/77660955.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||One held in fake billing scam||AHMEDABAD: The enforcement wing of the state goods and services tax (SGST) department arrested one Sanjay Mashroo late on Wednesday evening from Junagadh, for his alleged involvement in a fake billing racket. Mashroo is accused of floating eight bogus firms and preparing fake bills for Rs 304 crore to evade taxes worth Rs 15.21 crore, according to the SGST department. The issue came to light during raids conducted recently by SGST department officials at groundnut trading firms at 35 locations in Gujarat including Junagadh, Mangrol, Manavadar, Keshod and Dhoraji, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/one-held-in-fake-billing-scam/articleshow/77663604.cms||---
August 21, 2020||India||Islamophobic # removed, Twitter tells HC||HYDERABAD: Twitter on Thursday said offensive hashtags spreading hatred against Islam and seeking to project Muslims as spreaders of coronavirus had been removed, reports Sagar Kumar Mutha. Appearing for Twitter in connection with a petition, Supreme Court senior counsel Sajan Poovayya told a bench of Chief Justice of Telangana HC Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy that they had complied with the norms and urged the court to grant them two weeks’ time to file their counter. Advocate Khaja Aizajuddin, who filed the PIL as a party in person, said hatemongers had created several hate-filled hashtags against Islam and Muslims and Twitter allowed them to trend for a long time till the high court issued notices to the social media giant and central government authorities||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/islamophobic-removed-twitter-tells-hc/articleshow/77665578.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
August 21, 2020||Trichy||Trichy’s rank plunges, but city is still state’s cleanest||Trichy: Although Trichy city’s national rank took a nosedive from 39 in last year’s survey to 102 in 2020, residents can find solace in its unchallenged status of being the cleanest city in the state. However, that doesn’t discount the fact that this was Trichy’s worst-ever performance in Swachh Survekshan surveys so far. Trichy, which was classified under cities with 1 lakh -10 lakh population, came 102nd among 382 participant towns and cities. Although cleanliness rank of the city has been slipping consistently in the past five years, Trichy scored 3360.47 marks — highest for any Tamil Nadu city including Coimbatore (2337.12 marks) — to grab the state’s cleanest city tag. Since 2016, Trichy is being adjudged so, but this time under 1-10 lakh population category. A team from Swachh Bharat Mission had visited the city for inspection in January to ascertain the claims of the civic body on the cleanliness front. “Every year, the survey is getting tougher to improve the ranks as participants are increasing. Yet, Trichy continues to be the state’s cleanest city, it is a moment of pride for us,” Dr M A Aleem, member of Trichy district welfare fund committee, said. Analysis of the city’s score found that it scored poorly in the certification category. Under the category, cities are awarded 1,2,3,4,5, 6 and 7 stars based on 12 key components including open defecation free status, the status of stormwater drains, presence of recycling of demolition waste and construction. Trichy lost marks in most of the parameters and was given ‘no star’ status, thus, losing 1,300 marks. Trichy scored 200 out of 1,500 marks in the certification category, lower than the national average of 225 marks. Poor documentation of the city’s welfare projects and low number of citizen feedback also cost 1,000 marks for the city, else the civic body would have entered the top 10. “We are analysing our scores to rectify the lapses. Public cooperation is one of the reasons for us to be the state’s cleanest city,” Trichy corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichys-rank-plunges-but-city-is-still-states-cleanest/articleshow/77664609.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 21, 2020||Trichy||Active cases in Ariyalur rise two-fold in a month||Trichy: Ariyalur, the tiny central district with 7.55 lakh people, has been struggling to contain Covid-19 in the past one month with fresh cases witnessing an exponential rise. Remember, this was a district that managed to keep the numbers low until mid-July despite suffering a big setback in Koyambedu market cluster, thanks to tough vigil and testing. Lowering the guard such as failure to wear facemasks and unnecessary travel between urban and rural parts were blamed for the sudden surge in cases. From July 17 to 20, Ariyalur has been recording only 10-20 fresh cases a day. However, by the end of July, more than 50 fresh cases began surfacing a day, and since then there has been no letup. Local spread and inter-district movement of people for livelihood, including farmers to market their products and private sector employees to their work locations in Trichy, Perambalur and Thanjavur, were cited as reasons for the upsurge. Asymptomatic carriers had been spreading the infection. Within a month, containment zones in the district surged from 12 to 40 while random spread is reported in rural areas of the district. Poor public cooperation including failure to ensure social distancing in shops selling essential commodities was one of the major reasons for the increasing spread, health officials said. “We have doubled the RT-PCR testing, from 200 until last month to a minimum of 400-450 people in recent weeks. So, more cases surface,” a health official said. Active cases that were lingering around 160-200 in July has quickly escalated to 570 as on August 20. The district has added 1,250 fresh positive cases in the past one month alone, considered high for a small district. “Only 65% of people wear a facemask in Ariyalur town. Although we are penalising them, people are in no mood to listen. Local movement is causing the spread, it is a challenging task for us to educate the people about the seriousness associated,” N Kumaran, commissioner, Ariyalur municipality said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/active-cases-in-ariyalur-rise-two-fold-in-a-month/articleshow/77664621.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 21, 2020||Nagpur||Doc too tried anaesthesia before hanging self?||Nagpur: A needle prick mark spotted on the left upper hand of Dr Sushma Rane, who was a resident medical officer at a hospital in Dhantoli, suggests that she too had tried to inject herself with an anaesthesia drug but later decided to hang self as the dose was not sufficient to kill her. Sushma was spotted hanging in her room at their residence at Om Nagar on Monday while her husband, assistant professor Dhiraj, son Dhruv (11) and Vannya (5), were found dead on the bed in the adjacent room. At 11am, Dhiraj’s relative had seen Dr Rane lying on the bed beside husband and two children when she tried to peep in. Cops feel that Dhiraj and their two children were already dead by 11am after Sushma administered them heavy doses of anaesthesia drug. Sources from police said Sushma had called up the hospital, where she worked, asking for a bottle of anaesthesia drug under the pretext of injecting it to their domestic dog who was disturbing their sleep. Sushma had also taken her daughter to the hospital to make the staffers believe her. It’s reliably learnt that Dhiraj was pulled up by his college authorities last week after he was spotted consuming beer in the car in the parking area with music on. A source from the college, where Dhiraj was head of the department of computer science, recalled him as a talented faculty member but his image had taken a hit in the last one month after his drinking habits came to fore. As per a college source, some of the colleagues of Dhiraj also had a discussion with his wife following his regular absence from work. Police said Dhiraj’s addiction along with his habit of suspecting Sushma had turned the relationship between the couple sour. He had even diverted her calls to his cell phone and would ask each caller about his or her identity, said cops. Police have quizzed family members of Sushma and Dhiraj to gather more information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doc-too-tried-anaesthesia-before-hanging-self/articleshow/77662233.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Order reserved on PIL for names of Covid +ve||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Thursday heard a PIL and reserved its order on the demand that the authorities in Bhavnagar should continue to disclose names and addresses of those who test Covid-19 positive on a daily basis. The PIL posed a question whether the right to privacy should supersede right to health in this Covid-19 pandemic. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/order-reserved-on-pil-for-names-of-covid-ve/articleshow/77663644.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Bhopal||A heroic parent, Anand Mahindra tweets on daily wager’s 106km cycle trip for son||INDORE: “Mahindra, who?” Was the first reaction. Two seconds and a gasp later, the trembling voice asked: “Anand Mahindra, you mean? He is going to support my son’s studies?” Shobharam Parihar, the daily wager who cycled 106km to get his son to Dhar town in MP for his Class X supplementary exams, can’t believe that his “simple effort” to ensure his son’s dreams don’t die young has touched the heart of so many in the country. TOI’s report on the father and son’s epic journey has been shared widely on social media. Posting the TOI report on Thursday, the Mahindra Group chairman admired the father’s grit and tweeted: “A heroic parent. One who dreams big for his children. These are the aspirations that fuel a nation’s progress. At @MahindraRise we call it a Rise story. Our Foundation would be privileged to support Asheesh’s further Education.” A heroic parent. One who dreams big for his children. These are the aspirations that fuel a nation’s progress. At… https://t.co/FjvwUhI5l9— anand mahindra (@anandmahindra) 1597929799000When TOI spoke to Shobharam on Thursday evening (after a series of routed calls as the daily wager doesn’t own a mobile), he broke into tears. “If a child can study without the worries of roti-kapda-makan, his and the country’s future will be bright,” he said. Braveheart dad touched by kindnessAsheesh seemed to hug his father and comfort him when he was sobbing. “I have always believed that kindness keeps the world alive. It is only through kindness that such dreams can be kept alive,” said Shobharam. Father and son are now at a government-run hostel in Dhar where the administration put them up after their story went viral. Thanks to his father’s heroics, Asheesh has been able to write his maths paper and is preparing for two more. “I did what any other parent would do,” said Shobharam, grateful to the journalists who wrote about him, the officials who helped him, and strangers’ kindness that kept him going. Since buses weren’t running then, father and son had set out from their village in Manawar tehsil to Dhar on Monday afternoon and reached his exam centre at Dhar the next morning, just 15 minutes before the exam started. They had spent the first night at Mandu where strangers had opened their doors to them, and the second night in the open on a government building verandah before media reports alerted officials on Wednesday morning. Recalling his 106km cycling on rain-swept roads with trucks thundering past, Shobharam told TOI: “We were so tired and worried about reaching the exam centre on time. We had no shelter and almost no food. But that problem is solved now.” The administration has promised transport for the journey back . Every now and then, he admits with a laugh, he walks over and caresses the cycle that he keeps chained indoors in the hostel dorm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/a-heroic-parent-mahindra-tweets-on-daily-wagers-106km-cycle-trip-for-son/articleshow/77663680.cms||Sagar Choukse
August 21, 2020||Delhi||PG diploma in medical specialties lauded as a revolutionary measure||NEW DELHI: Association of National Board Accredited Institutions (ANBAI) has welcomed the central government’s decision to introduce postgraduate (PG) diploma courses in eight medical specialties under National Board of Examinations (NBE). According to Dr Devi Shetty, the patron of ANBAI, this move will help create more specialist seats in rural areas. “Every year, approximately 1,70,000 MBBS graduates apply for about 50,000 PG seats under Medical Council of India and National Board of Examinations. Those who aren’t selected waste two to five years attending coaching classes in Kerala or Kota and in the end, some even give up on becoming doctors,” Dr Shetty said. Adding a few thousand seats in PG diploma courses will immediately bring these doctors back to patient care in accredited government or private hospitals, he added. “It also gives them the option to apply for an MD or MS seat after completion of the course. It is an attractive alternative for bright young doctors from poor families, because the diploma course is available at a nominal cost, and they earn a stipend during the programme,” the ANBAI patron said. According to Dr Shetty, who is a renowned cardiac surgeon and the chairman of Narayana Healthcare, most public hospitals suffer from acute shortage of gynaecologists, paediatricians, family physicians, anaesthesiologists and radiologists. “If those hospitals introduce diploma training courses, the shortfall of medical specialists can be completely made up in two to four years,” he said. The PG diploma courses under the NBE include specialties, such as obstetrics and gynaecology, paediatrics, anaesthesiology, tuberculosis and chest disease, and radio-diagnosis. Dr Shetty said a woman dies during childbirth every 20 minutes in India. “We need to perform at least 4.2 million caesarean sections every year for 24 million pregnant women, and this requires at least 2,00,000 gynaecologists. But we have only about 40,000 practicing gynaecologists, of whom a significant number of them do not practise obstetrics, and most of them live in big cities. With the diploma, this huge shortfall can be bridged in a short period of time, dramatically reducing maternal mortality,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pg-diploma-in-medical-specialties-lauded-as-a-revolutionary-measure/articleshow/77663702.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Goa||Acquire pvt forests as land owners will suffer, govt urged||Panaji: South Goa Congress MP Francisco Sardinha on Thursday said the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) order for 46.11 sqkm to be earmarked as private forests would put land owners in a quandary as they would not be able to monetise their properties. He instead demanded that the state acquire all private forest lands. “People seem to fall in love with trees that other people have grown and now we hear about private forests,” Sardinha said. “The government might as well acquire these lands. Is the property owner supposed to live on leaves? Let the government acquire these lands and protect them for posterity.” NGT accepted 46.11 sqkm of land as private forest in Goa, rejecting the state government’s report to reduce the private forest cover to 41.2 sqkm. The Congress MP also appeared to disagree with those protesting over the three major infrastructure projects that will come up in the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park. “Among those protesting, some love trees and may have planted them, but most have never planted a tree in their life,” said Sardinha. He supported the widening of NH 4-A and the double-tracking of the South Western Railway. “I don’t speak about trees being cut because if 10 trees are cut, the government can plant 100. Wherever it is possible, roads must be made four lane. There are many accidents along that route,” said Sardinha, who was speaking after a ceremony to mark former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi’s birth anniversary. The veteran politician also appeared to take a dig at Congress’ younger members. “The young turks of our party should come forward, but must work for the party. These days, we have seen how some of them talk too much and work very little. If they work, our party will get stronger,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/acquire-pvt-forests-as-land-owners-will-suffer-govt-urged/articleshow/77663682.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Nagpur||Human rights panel notice to NMC for leaking Covid patient’s name||Nagpur: Covid-19 patient Sandesh Singalkar, ex-Air Force personnel, and spokesperson of city Congress committee, has complained to the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) against two NMC officials, who allegedly leaked his identity to a right-wing outfit activist Sumadhur Gokhale. Advocate Asim Sarode, representing Singalkar (who wanted to be named), said the SHRC has issued notice on Thursday to the two concerned officials and the activist, seeking replies before the next hearing on August 24. Singalkar, who tested Covid positive on August 16, was stunned to get a call from Gokhale on August 18. Gokhale identified himself as a member of the RSS, and offered services to him through the outfit’s Lok-Kalyan Samiti. Singalkar said in his complaint to SHRC, which is in possession of TOI, that Gokhale told him assistant municipal commissioner Ram Joshi provided him personal details of him and his family. Singalkar himself called up assistant municipal commissioner Prakash Warkhade to inquire how Gokhale was provided his number and personal details. Singalkar mentioned in his complaint that Warkhade too claimed to have shared details with Gokhale as he and his organization were extending assistance in the fight against Corona. Singalkar claimed the sharing of his and family’s personal data with Gokhale was violation of his right to privacy and also human rights, as it may lead to societal discrimination and ostracization. Singalkar has sought a written apology from NMC authorities, compensation of Re1, and a detailed inquiry by an officer of not less than a rank of assistant commissioner of police. He has also cited the United Nations’s call for protection of human rights with more concern during the ongoing pandemic. Claiming ‘medical records’ were ‘sensitive personal data or information (SPDI)’ under the Information Technology Act, the petitioner has said that it was the responsibility of NMC to protect them and it’s public disclosure is a violation of his rights. Adv Sarode said the right to privacy is an integral part of the right to life as expressed by the Supreme Court, which was breached in the disclosure of Singalkar’s identity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/human-rights-panel-notice-to-nmc-for-leaking-covid-patients-name/articleshow/77662225.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 21, 2020||Lucknow||Dozen bills on table: House set for fireworks amid biz||LUCKNOW: The ruling BJP and the belligerent Opposition are bracing for a major showdown on Friday when the proceedings of the monsoon session begin. On the first day on Thursday, the House started with condolences to departed ministers, members and former members. It is not the Opposition’s strategy to vociferously raise the law and order and corona crisis in the state that has alerted the ruling BJP, but the intelligence inputs that even some of the party MLAs might also embarrass the government on certain issues. For the ruling party, Friday is a big day as it has to introduce about a dozen bills to get them passed from the Assembly and send it to the Legislative Council for ratification.The Yogi government has promulgated about a dozen ordinances in the past six months to tackle the corona crisis and to ensure an industry-friendly atmosphere in the state through labour reforms. Besides, there are ordinances for the recovery of damages from rioters. To whatever extent the opposition would try to disturb functioning of the house by causing uproar on twin issues of law and order and the Covid crisis on Friday, the ruling party has no option but to rush through the bills for ratification in the Council as the next two days (Saturday, Sunday) would be holiday and after that the House would meet on Monday which would also be last day of the monsoon session. If the Yogi government is working overnight for getting its agenda approved on Friday, the Opposition is also determined to raise the law and order and the corona crisis with its full might. By staging a dharna outside the Vidhan Bhawan in protest against the law and order and stopping health minister JP Singh when he was entering the Assembly on Thursday morning, the Samajwadi Party has made its intentions clear that it would not make it easy for the ruling party on Friday. Earlier, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Speaker of the Legislative Assembly Hriday Narayan Dikshit, Samajwadi party’s Narendra Verma, Lalji Verma of BSP and Aradhana Mishra Mona of the Congress condoled the demise of two ministers Kamal Rani and Chetan Chauhan and members and former members. Tributes were also paid to Lalji Tandon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dozen-bills-on-table-house-set-for-fireworks-amid-biz/articleshow/77664620.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 21, 2020||Nagpur||BJP MLA moves HC for staling Akola devp works||Nagpur: Six-time BJP MLA Goverdhan Sharma moves the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court contending that the Maharashtra government had cancelled many development works in Akola sanctioned on September 9 last year. Through his counsel Tushar Mandlekar and Rohan Malviya, he stated that the government headed by CM Uddhav Thackeray had acted with prejudice to arbitrarily cancel development works by its decision of July 16. A division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor on Wednesday issued notices to urban development department’s principal secretary, Akola municipal commissioner and collector, and PWD superintendent engineer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-mla-moves-hc-for-staling-akola-devp-works/articleshow/77662241.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Bareilly||Non-Covid patients with SARI & ILI to be tested for tuberculosis||Bareilly: With Covid-19 pandemic resulting in decline in the reporting of number of tuberculosis cases, the state government has decided to test non-Covid patients with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and influenza-like illness (ILI) for tuberculosis. In Bareilly, the health department will test 2,030 Covid negative cases for tuberculosis.Officials said TB case notification has witnessed a decline because of suspension of out-patient departments (OPDs) during lockdown, lack of public transport and deployment of TB staff in Covid duties. In 2019, Bareilly had reported 16,450 TB cases from January to December. However, only 7,642 TB cases have been reported from January to July this year in the district. “TB cases witnessed a decline due to Covid-19. As Covid and TB have a few common symptoms, it has been directed to test non-Covid patients with SARS and ILI. During door-to-door survey for identification of suspected Covid cases, the health workers have identified patients with SARS and ILI. We have received details of such patients and our team will soon start testing them for TB. We are suspecting that we would be able to trace a few TB cases which were not reported during the lockdown period,” said Dr Sudhir Garg, district tuberculosis officer. As the aim of the Central government is to eradicate TB from the country, the health department has conducted several special drives in the past to trace TB patients. Besides, if any person alerts the health department about a suspected TB case and he or she is tested positive, the informer will get a reward of Rs 500 per case. Even a TB patient gets Rs 500 per month for nutrition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/non-covid-patients-with-sari-ili-to-be-tested-for-tuberculosis/articleshow/77660977.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 21, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: HC reserves verdict on PM Cares Fund plea||NAGPUR: Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Thursday reserved its judgment on the plea challenging appointment of SARC Associates for auditing ‘Prime Minister Cares Fund’. According to petitioner Arvind Waghmare, the appointment of an auditor before filling up vacant seats of three trustees is illegal and, therefore, should be cancelled. The petition was listed before a division bench of Justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor, who allowed the amendment to be carried out. Waghmare, a lawyer, had moved HC for utilization and public declaration of amount collected under the fund headed by PM Narendra Modi. Opposing the petition, assistant solicitor general Anil Singh termed it as a politically interested litigation filed with mala fide intentions. He stated that total transparency has been maintained in the fund account. The petitioner pointed out that three trustees weren’t appointed till date despite clear guidelines, but crores of rupees were being accepted. Being a donor to this fund himself, he insisted on appointment of other trustees for fortifying confidence of the general public. He prayed for nominating at least two opposition members from Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha to maintain transparency of the fund. He added that respondents were yet to declare information on the amount collected under it and how it was being utilized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-reserves-verdict-on-pm-cares-fund-plea/articleshow/77662246.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 21, 2020||Kochi||Only tower details are decoded by police: Govt||Kochi: The state government on Thursday informed the Kerala High Court that police only decode tower location of Covid-19 patients and suspects from the call data records (CDR) it obtains from service providers. Tower details are essential for effective contact tracing, the court was told. The submission was in the form of a statement filed by senior government pleader Suman Chakravarthy on behalf of state police chief in response to a PIL filed by opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. He is challenging a circular issued by the police chief on August 11 for collecting CDR of patients and suspects. As per the government’s statement, police receive CDR from service providers in comma-separated value (CSV) format and it is not possible to obtain tower details alone. “Upon receipt of CDR details from the service provider, which contains 13 columns, the 7th column which contains the First Cell Global Id alone is decoded by the Police with the data provided by the Cellular Service provider, to obtain the latitude and longitude. Since CDR is the only method of obtaining previous fourteen days tower location of Covid positive patients, the mentioning of CDR in Ext P-1 (circular) cannot be found fault with,” the statement filed before the court said. CDR that is maintained strictly confidential is used for the limited purpose of identifying places where a patient visited and is immediately destroyed, the government claimed in the affidavit. The CDRs so obtained are stored by the police and not by any third party, it added. When a person is confirmed as Covid positive, CDR of the 14 days before that date is obtained, according to the statement. The pandemic was successfully contained in the state during the first and second phases and the number of patients is very less in the third phase due to successful contact tracing and quarantining of contacts, the government points out. CDR has been used for such quarantining purposes in the state and no complaints of misuse have been raised so far, the government submitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/only-tower-details-are-decoded-by-police-govt/articleshow/77661014.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Trichy||19 held for running prostitution racket, 9 rescued in Thanjavur||Thanjavur: A prostitution racket, which was operating at various places in Thanjavur city, was busted during a midnight operation on Wednesday by three special police teams. Nineteen pimps were arrested and nine women were rescued. Police also recovered 31 mobile phones and Rs 31,080 cash from the accused. The accused were operating the flesh trade by renting seven individual houses under the guise of running companies and massage parlours. Acting on a tip-off, superintendent of police Deshmukh Shekhar Sanjay ordered to form three special teams headed by sub-inspectors Chandrasekar (Vallam), Keerthivasan (Kumbakonam taluk) and Thennarasu (Pattukottai taluk). The special teams organized raids at four houses and three fake spas in Kavery Nagar, Mooventhar Nagar, Mangalapuram, LIC colony, Municipal colony, New bus stand and Herbal Farm areas. The teams rescued the nine women, some of whom hailed from neighbouring states. The accused had indulged the women in flesh trade for quite some time. All the rescued women have been sent to the government home in Thanjavur. Police registered seven cases and remanded the accused in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/19-held-for-running-prostitution-racket-9-rescued-in-thanjavur/articleshow/77664630.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Madurai||HC refuses to reconsider ban on festivities||Madurai: The Madras high court on Thursday dismissed a plea which sought a direction to the Tamil Nadu government to permit Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations, stating that it was devoid of merits. The court observed that the decision was taken by the government in public interest considering the Covid-19 pandemic, and the same could not be faulted with. A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam observed that the court could take judicial notice of the fact that the spread of Covid-19 is fast and its potency to affect people with comorbid conditions is high. Though the petitioner pleaded his case of religious practices and sentiments, the court was of the considered opinion that the religious practices and sentiments should yield before the practical difficulties of Covid-19 pandemic, they observed. The judges said that unless it is brought to their notice that the decision taken by the government was malafide, the court is not inclined to interfere with the policy decision, and dismissed the petition. Earlier, during the course of hearing, advocate general Vijay Narayan submitted that the government had issued the GO dated August 14, wherein it had not banned the celebration but had only issued restrictions such as installation of idols in public places, procession and immersion of statues in waterbodies on account of Covid-19. The court was hearing the public interest litigation filed by B Ramaswamy, an advocate, who stated that instead of banning all celebrations, the government could have formulated rules and guidelines for the organisers to prevent the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-refuses-to-reconsider-ban-on-festivities/articleshow/77663714.cms||Kaushik Kannan
August 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Groundnut exports: Incentives sought||Ahmedabad: With groundnut production expected to jump substantially this year, the edible oil industry has made suggestions to the central government to provide more incentives for exports of groundnut and groundnut oil. The suggestion was made by the Solvent Extractors’ Association of India (SEA) in its August 18 interaction with the Union ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution about oilseed production and productivity. Going by the record groundnut acreage this kharif season, the oilseed’s production is expected rise substantially. The area under groundnut cultivation in Gujarat has jumped to 20 lakh hectares currently from 15 lakh hectares last year. “If exports of groundnut and its oil is not promoted, the prices of the commodity will take a hit and farmers will not get good return,” said a member of SEA. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/groundnut-exports-incentives-sought/articleshow/77663683.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Tahsildar’s wife misled ACB on bank locker||HYDERABAD: Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths are looking for arrested Keesara tahsildar E B Nagaraju’s wife. After the arrest of the tahsildar on August 14 night, the ACB sleuths conducted a surprise check at his house in Alwal and seized incriminating evidence. The tahsildar’s wife Swapna, who was present at the house during the searches and seizure of evidence, later became unavailable for ACB team who wanted to question her about a locker key they seized. After the seizure of Rs 1.1 crore cash during the surprise check at realtor K Anji Reddy’s friend’s house in Kapra in the presence of Nagaraju, Anji Reddy, Ch Srinath Yadav, a realtor and Rampally VRA B Sai Raj on August 14, the ACB team had seized Rs 8 lakh cash from Nagaraju’s car. Subsequently, ACB sleuths seized Rs 28 lakh unaccounted cash, about half kilo gold and a locker key from the house of Nagaraju during the intervening night of August 14 and August 15. “When we asked nagaraju’s wife, Swapna about the locker key, she told us that it was that of a locker at Canara Bank, Alwal. Later, when we checked at Canara Bank’s Alwal branch, we realised that that particular locker was checked when ACB booked a DA case against Nagaraju earlier and since then the locker has not been operated. The key we have seized does not belong to that locker. So, she deliberately misled us and subsequently we could not locate her as we seized her cell phone along with other material during the search,” an ACB official said. ACB sleuths checked all the banks in and around Alwal to find the locker, but they could not find a match. While trying to locate Swapna, ACB filed a petition seeking custody of Nagaraju to question him about various issues, including the locker key. ACB sleuths have written to the stamps and registration department to find details of the assets in the name of the tahsildar and his family members. Nagaraju is a native of Toopran, while Swapna, a housewife, is from Hyderabad. ACB is also planning to write to income-tax officials about the cash seized and the properties owned by the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tahsildars-wife-misled-acb-on-bank-locker/articleshow/77663723.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Police on high alert over intel on terror strike plan by Jaish-e-Mohammed||NEW DELHI: Police in Delhi and J&K are on high alert after receiving an input from an intelligence agency about an impending strike by a three-member death squad of Jaish-e-Mohammed over the Citizenship Amendment Act. According to a secret communication seen by TOI, three highly trained assassins belonging to north Waziristan, Bahawalpur and Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa allegedly infiltrated into India from Sialkot sector in mid-July. The informer also told the Indian intelligence that the code names given to the trio at the camp near Bahawalpur were Gul, Juma and Shakeel. However, they were given Afghan identities and related documents at the time of departure. The three have undergone a special three-month-long ‘Askari’ training, an advanced course in use of weapons, directly under the outfit’s de facto emir Mufti Abdul Rauf Ashgar. The input also stated that two Kashmiri residents (over ground workers) were given the task to help with reconnaissance in Delhi. However, the targets or the nature of strike is not clear yet. Sources said that it could be an assassination attempt, as per some intercepted chatter, but haven’t ruled out the possibility of JeM planning a blast outside J&K or have a non-military target. The recent furore over CAA and NRC has motivated several terror outfits to plan strikes in retaliation. Sources in security establishment say that Rauf Ashgar has been handling Mujahideens after his brother Maulana Massoud Azhar was diagnosed with a life-threatening ailment. While he has been undergoing regular treatment under the aegis of ISI, Ashgar has been actively planning anti-India activities in the valley. He is also learnt to be overseeing infiltration bids and coordinating logistics. Ashgar played a major role in the Pulwama and the Pathankot attacks and has been on the top-five list of terror outfit leadership that agencies are working on. The death of his nephews, Talha Rasheed and Usman Haider, in encounters with security forces in Kashmir allegedly had Ashgar seething in revenge and had prompted him to plan the Pulwama attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-on-high-alert-over-intel-on-terror-strike-plan-by-jem/articleshow/77663760.cms||Raj Shekhar
August 21, 2020||Trichy||Two seized guns go missing from police station in Thanjavur||THANJAVUR: Two unlicensed guns, which were seized from offenders and kept at a police station near Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district, were reported missing on Thursday. According to police, a 0.22 baby shot revolver and PP pellet air gun were missing. On information, deputy superintendent of police Ashokan conducted an inquiry. Meanwhile, superintendent of police Deshmukh Shekhar Sanjay ordered an inquiry. Further inquiries were on to find out the two missing weapons, he told reporters. It may be recalled that a police team from intelligence wing in the district raided the house of Dr Ramkumar, 42, of Maharajapuram near Thiruppananthal in the district on charges of possessing weapons without any valid license. Sakthivel, 35, of Vilanthakandam village, Aravindhan, 40, of Muttakudi were also held in connection with the case and police seized five air guns, a revolver, and two belt-fed revolvers and 67 bullets from them on March 19. During the investigation, it came to light that Ramkumar was indulged in illegal sale of weapons. Subsequently, all the four were arrested and weapons seized and kept at the police station, police sources said. Police had to produce the weapons before a court on Wednesday, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/two-seized-guns-go-missing-from-police-station-in-thanjavur/articleshow/77664659.cms||---
August 21, 2020||Trichy||Another Trichy-Hyderabad IndiGo flight daily from Sept 1||TRICHY: The Trichy International Airport is returning to its routine, as a new flight between Trichy and Hyderabad and some domestic services, which were suspended due to the lockdown, are scheduled to take off again. IndiGo Air will introduce a second Trichy - Hyderabad morning daily flight from September 1. The new flight (6E7226/6E7227) will depart from Hyderabad at 9.30am and reach Trichy at 11.45am. After a brief halt, the carrier will take off from Trichy at 12.05pm and reach Hyderabad at 2.15pm. The evening flight (6E7116/6E7117) from Hyderabad, which is arriving Trichy at 7.20pm and departing from here at 9.30pm will continue as usual, a senior official with IndiGo Air told TOI. Meanwhile, the suspended morning service between Trichy - Bengaluru will also resume operation from September 1. As per schedule, the flight (6E7234/6E7235) will depart from Bengaluru at 11.30am and reach Trichy at 12.25pm. It will take off at 1.05pm from Trichy and reach Bengaluru at 2.15pm. The evening daily flight, which is arriving in Trichy at 8.50pm and taking off from here at 10pm will continue, airport sources said. It maybe recalled that IndiGo had recently extended its Trichy-Mumbai service till October 23. Earlier, it was announced that the special flight would be operated till August 24. Meanwhile, Air India Express has commenced its special rescue flights on a daily basis to bring Tamils stranded in Singapore from August 20. The mission will continue till August 31, airport sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/another-trichy-hyderabad-indigo-flight-daily-from-sept-1/articleshow/77664657.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
August 21, 2020||Madurai||Sathankulam case: Court nixes bail plea of accused cop||Madurai: The Madurai principal sessions court on Thursday dismissed the bail plea of suspended constable S Chelladurai, who was arrested in connection with the custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks at Sathankulam in Tuticorin district.The petitioner’s counsel submitted that Chelladurai was not on duty at the time of occurrence as alleged by the prosecution. The petitioner was relieved from duty by the evening and thereafter reported to duty only the next morning.The special public prosecutor for CBI submitted that the case of the prosecution was that the petitioner caught hold of the deceased at the time of occurrence. The petitioner along with other accused brutally tortured and caused death to the deceased. He further submitted that the final postmortem certificate has been received, wherein it is stated that the deceased people would have died due to the complications of blunt injuries sustained by them.He submitted that the petitioner may tamper the witnesses if he is released on bail. Since the CBI has not completed the investigation, he objected to the grant of bail.Jeyaraj’s wife, Selvarani, who filed an intervening petition also objected the grant of bail.Taking into consideration the gravity of the offence and the fact that the investigation was not completed and the objection raised by the prosecution, Madurai principal sessions judge (in-charge) M Thandavan dismissed the bail petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sathankulam-case-court-nixes-bail-plea-of-accused-cop/articleshow/77663720.cms||---
