August 22, 2020||Chennai||Drug peddler attacks cop in bid to flee at Ayanavaram, shot dead||CHENNAI: Residents of the city struggling with the still raging Covid-19 pandemic on Friday woke up to the news of a drug peddler being shot dead by police in a thicklypopulated colony off New Avadi Road at Ayanavaram. Around 6.30am, a police officer said, the drug peddler, S Sankar alias ‘Ilaneer’ (tender coconut) Sankar, was picked up from a hideout and was being taken to a spot near New Avadi Road where he said he had hidden a large quantity of ganja (marijuana). Sankar suddenly attacked a member of the police team and began running away when the officers opened fire, hitting him in the chest and stomach. He was taken to the Government Medical College and Hospital where doctors declared him ‘brought dead’. A resident of an apartment complex near the shootout spot said he realized a man had been shot in an encounter after he found a several police personnel there and talked to some of them. The spot was barricaded off and a posse of police personnel posted. Soon after the encounter, senior officers including additional commissioner R Dhinakaran and joint commissioner (east) R Sudhakar visited the spot. A team of forensic experts collected a few pellets, a sickle and blood from the rubble where the clotted blood had turned brownish black. Sixth Metropolitan magistrate Sivasakthivel Kannan, who began investigation into the death, visited the mortuary where Sankar’s body has been kept. The city intelligence wing has details of all active rowdies categorized as ‘A’, ‘B’, and ‘C’. An officer who has been involved in tracking criminals for the past decade said: “Sankar had not been active, and had been staying in a hideout in the Ayanavaram area for the past several months now.” Inquiries revealed that over the past 10 years, Sankar had been in a live-in relationship with a woman named Rani after her husband deserted her. He had also been helping raise her children, the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/drug-peddler-attacks-cop-in-bid-to-flee-at-ayanavaram-shot-dead/articleshow/77683941.cms||Selvaraj A
August 22, 2020||India||India's Covid cases set to cross 3m, last million in just 16 days||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 pandemic is set to reach another grim milestone, with India on the verge of becoming the third country in the world to record 3 million cases. The country’s caseload is projected to cross that mark on Saturday, after more than 68,000 fresh infections on Friday took the tally to just 30,000 short of 3 million. India’s daily cases, at 68,682 on Friday, was the third highest till date, taking the total to 29,71,112, as per data collated from state governments. For the fourth day running, deaths from the virus remained over 950, with 958 fatalities taking the total toll to 55,858. When it hits the 3 million mark on Saturday, Covid-19 cases in India will have risen from the 2 million mark in just 16 days — the fastest rise among the three countries, the US and Brazil being the other two, which have recorded that many cases. The rise from 2 million to 3 million cases took 23 days in Brazil and 28 days in the US. Of the three countries, India took the most number of days to reach the 1 million mark (138 days). But since then, cases in India have risen the fastest. The country took 21 days to go from 1 million to 2 million cases, as compared with 43 days in the US and 27 days in Brazil. However, India’s death toll remains far lower than the other two countries. At the 3 million mark, the death toll in the US was over 1.3 lakh while fatalities recorded in Brazil at the same stage were just over 1 lakh. Meanwhile, active cases in India crossed 7 lakh on Friday, 15 days after going past the 6-lakh mark. By contrast, active cases had risen from 5 lakh to 6 lakh in just nine days. The slowdown in the rise of cases points to a much higher rate of increase in recoveries in recent days. On Friday, at least four states registered their highest single-day spikes in infections —Bengal (3,245 new cases), Gujarat (1,204), Haryana (1,203) and Madhya Pradesh (1,147). In MP, state cabinet minister Gopal Bhargava, former leader of the Opposition in the assembly, tested positive for Covid. He is the sixth minister, apart from the CM, to be infected by the virus. For the second day in a row, Maharashtra added over 14,000 cases — 14,161, the second highest for a 24-hour period — taking the state’s Covid-19 cases past the 6.5 lakh mark. Watch India to become third country in the world to cross 3m Covid cases||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-cases-set-to-cross-3m-last-million-in-just-16-days/articleshow/77683977.cms||---
August 22, 2020||India||LAC stand-off: India hopeful of progress after ‘useful’ talks||After four rounds of diplomatic talks on the LAC situation, India remains convinced dialogue is the way forward as it works with China to end the standoff. Contrary to the perception that Indian and Chinese officials have mostly been talking at each other, India sees the latest meeting on Thursday as "useful" and is hoping that it will lead to some progress on the ground, official sources told TOI. India and China Thursday held another meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC). This was the 18th WMCC meeting and the 4th in the middle of the ongoing standoff in eastern Ladakh. Read AlsoIndia, China to ‘sincerely’ work on disengagementWith the LAC disengagement stalled for some weeks now, India and China held another round of diplomatic dialogue on Thursday to break the deadlock that has persisted. The foreign ministry said both sides had agreed to sincerely work towards complete disengagement. Indian statement said that the two"It is wrong to say that the meetings have not served any purpose. There was a useful meeting on Thursday and hopefully it will carry the disengagement process forward," said a source. Both sides have underscored in the WMCC talks the importance of agreements reached between the foreign ministers and special representatives for, as India has said, early and complete disengagement along LAC. This understanding is yet to be put into action though with Chinese troops, as military sources have confirmed, not withdrawing from Pangong, Gogra and certain other areas. Read AlsoIndia slaps new curbs on visas, schools to stem China's influenceIndia is stepping up its curbs on Chinese activity in the country, adding extra scrutiny for visas and reviewing Beijing’s links with local universities, as relations between the two nations continue to nose-dive. The ministry of external affairs has been told that visas for Chinese businessmen,Efforts for de-escalation in the face of rival military build-ups in the Depsang-DBO area have also not succeeded. The deadlock has remained despite five rounds of talks between the senior commanders. The Indian army has asked PLA to restore status quo as it existed in April this year. Significantly, and unlike India, China has avoided mentioning early and complete disengagement in its readout of the meetings. Read AlsoLAC face-off: 20 soldiers die in worst China clash in 53 yearsTwenty Indian soldiers, including a Colonel, were killed and several others grievously injured in a violent physical skirmish with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley region of eastern Ladakh on Monday. The Indian casualties could go up further. Clashes lasted several hours till midnight with PLAIndia and China were initially said to have agreed on the "broad principles" for disengagement and based on that, as the government had said, some progress had been made. While India has emphasised on early disengagement in the talks, the government realises that the process is complex as it involves re-deployment of troops that can be made possible only through "mutually agreed reciprocal action". As both sides have said, there's a need to maintain close communication and have more meetings of the WMCC and also between the military commanders. Despite the deadlock, it's important for India that the meeting on Thursday reinforced the broad principles that the two countries had agreed on for disengagement. China said in its statement that the two sides agreed to "conscientiously" implement the consensus reached between the two foreign ministers and the special representatives on China-India boundary question and that they "enhanced mutual understanding" while positively evaluating the progress in the meeting. Watch India hopes to see progress with China, says LAC talks were ‘useful’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/useful-lac-talks-raise-pullback-hopes/articleshow/77684168.cms||Sachin Parashar
August 22, 2020||Business||Migrants power economy but quota moves shrinking job space||As efforts are made to bring the millions of migrant workers back to factories that power our economy, the paradox of states putting up policy pickets and trying to ring-fence jobs for locals is simultaneously playing out. Consequently, while industrialists hire cars and buses and book seats on trains, and even planes, to fetch their workers from faraway corners of the country, the employment field for migrants is shrinking. Since 2019, at least five states — Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Haryana and MP — have announced or approved reservation for locals both in government jobs and private industrial units. There are also others like Goa and Himachal Pradesh that encourage employment of locals through incentives to industries. Haryana’s reservation plan is the latest, with deputy CM Dushyant Chautala announcing on Friday that the government will introduce a bill in the assembly to give 75% reservation in private sector jobs to the state's youth. The promise was made by Chautala during the 2019 assembly election campaign and an ordinance to the effect was approved by the Haryana cabinet last month. Earlier this week, Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced that only "children of Madhya Pradesh" would henceforth be eligible for state government jobs. And while the pandemic’s impact on such policies — after the unprecedented upheaval it has caused in the job market — remains to be seen, there is the political factor. Madhya Pradesh is heading into byelections for 27 assembly seats and Chouhan’s announcement met with no opposition from his chief rival and predecessor Kamal Nath, who had, during his stint, said 70% reservation would be given to locals in private sector jobs. "At last, you have woken up to the issue of employment for youth after 15 years…" Nath reacted. In Maharashtra, one of India’s biggest migrant-receiving states, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government plans to introduce a law that will make it mandatory for the private sector to reserve 80% jobs for those domiciled in the state. "Domiciled", in this case, is defined as someone who has lived in the state for more than 15 years. Last December, the Karnataka government amended the Karnataka Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Rules, 1961 to make it mandatory for private industries to give "priority" to Kannadigas in clerical and shop-floor jobs. The rule said people residing in Karnataka for not less than 15 years who can read, write, talk and understand Kannada are eligible for these jobs. The government had announced it would follow up with a law defining the quantum of reservation but that is yet to happen. One state that did pass legislation for quota of up to 75% in both government and private jobs last year was Andhra Pradesh. The law, though, is yet to be implemented. Governments have powered through with these moves despite the legal questions. Reacting to Chouhan’s announcement, Congress MP and Supreme Court advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi told TOI, "Howsoever well-intentioned, a blanket ban permitting jobs to be held only by old and permanent residents of MP would be constitutionally (and I’m not talking politics here) invalid. The right to vocation, free movement and quasi-federal structure of the country allows some reservation and protective steps which are narrow, focused and targeted. A blanket ban would not be legally valid." Asked about the legal soundness of reserving jobs for locals, PDT Achary, former Lok Sabha secretary general and an expert on the Constitution, said, "There is a provision under Article 16 of the Constitution which provides for reservation on the basis of place of residence. States can make laws to provide reservations under this provision. However, by definition, the objective of quota is to reserve a portion of the total jobs for people or groups that are inadequately represented. Reserving all jobs is a move violative of other provisions of the Constitution that grant freedom of movement, among others, and is, therefore, legally invalid. Moreover, such a decision does not square with the idea of nationalism that is being pushed at present." The legal question apart, implementing such laws is not easy because of factors like skill sets, availability of cheap labour and local job preferences. Gujarat, for instance, has had a policy since 1995 that says industries, both private and public, which have received government benefits must provide 85% employment to locals. But the policy has remained on paper and even PSUs do not follow it. CM Vijay Rupani has on several occasions attempted to enact a law but has faced stiff opposition from industrialists. Gujarat, as one of India’s largest manufacturing hubs, is also one of the country’s biggest migrant-receiving states and employs 50 lakh migrant workers. For states heavily reliant on migrant workers, reservations will be a much bigger challenge than those who don’t. In Haryana, which has a huge requirement of technically skilled workers as one of India’s largest automobile manufacturing hubs, industrialists have, just like those in Gujarat, opposed job quota, saying it sent out the wrong message at a time when they were desperate to bring workers they have lost back to factories. At the other end of the spectrum is Tamil Nadu, another huge automobile hub, which has not felt the need for quota because of the abundant availability of technical manpower. "In fact, technical workers from Tamil Nadu are engaged by companies like Sri City SEZ in AP close to the Tamil Nadu border as well as those in Bengaluru. Hence, it is superfluous to have reservation for locals in Tamil Nadu," a senior official with the industries department told TOI. "Even without reservations, majority of industries employ up to 90% locals. Migrant workers are used predominantly in sectors like construction and textiles, which locals are not keen on," the official added. Most states, including Tamil Nadu, run courses to enhance skill sets of locals. Watch Migrants ready to work even as state quotas shrink job space||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/migrants-power-economy-but-quota-moves-shrinking-job-space/articleshow/77684602.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Mumbai||How Ganpati mandals are adapting in the times of COVID-19||If you have fond memories of visiting pandals to seek the blessings of Lord Ganesha, get set for a low-key Ganesh Chaturthi celebration this year, in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic. For one, the iconic processions that accompany the arrival and immersion of the idols will not be seen this year. Several sarvajanik mandals have chalked out new strategies to help devotees continue with tradition by following social distancing and other safety rules in the new norm. Here’s what’s in store this year… ‘We are organising a live online darshan’ Tech set-up to facilitate online darshanCity mandals that would earlier brace up for day-long queues of people, are now working out smaller crowd management techniques, which include restriction on the number of people allowed at a time in a pandal. The Lalbaug Sarvajanik Utsav Mandal of Ganesh Galli, one of the prominent mandals in the city, has a plan in place. “We have the tallest and oldest Ganpati mandal, which is 93-years-old. But this is the first time, it is going small scale with a four-foot murti of clay, which we plan to immerse in an artificial pond at the maidan. For the safety of devotees, we are also organising a live online darshan that they can watch from their homes. Coronaviruski vajeh se crowd management humara focus hai, so we won’t be allowing any queues. For those who do come here, we will have thermal temperature checks and hand out sanitisers and masks. However, people are being advised not to venture out in these times and to do the darshan from home,” says Swapnil Parab, secretary Mumbai Cha Raja, Ganesh Galli. Shrinking the height of Ganpati murtisThe theme and size of the mandap will also undergo a change. Says Rupesh Surve, secretary of Fort Cha Icchapurti Ganesh mandal, “Every year we make a 150x150 feet mandap, but this time, we have a 20x20 feet mandap with a two-and-a-half foot murti. If at all people do come here, we have placed a large screen outside, it can be seen by anyone on the road. We also have an ambulance on standby.” An artificial tank created at Andheri cha Raja maidan for visarjanKeshav Tondvalkar, chairman of the Azadnagar Sarvajanik Utsav Samiti, reveals the plans for the 53-year-old Andheri cha Raja. He says, “We wanted to make a mandal like the Rajwada in Baroda, but we dropped the idea due to the pandemic. We now have a swarg theme, where Bappa will be seen sitting on the stage with clouds above him. Also, the Ganesh idol, which is usually eight-and-a-half feet every year and gets made at Parel, is four-feet tall this time. Devotees will have to stand seven-feet away from the pooja murti this time or do an online darshan on our website.” Adds spokesperson Uday Salian, “This time there is no visarjan for Andheri cha Raja, which is usually taken around Andheri in an 18-hour ride as per tradition. The idol will be immersed in the artificial tank at the Andheri cha Raja maidan at sankashti, after midnight." A year without Lalbaugcha RajaA 11-day blood and plasma donation drive is being held on the venue of Lalbaugcha Raja this yearFor the first time in 86 years of its existence, Mumbaikars will miss seeing their Lalbaugcha Raja at the famous pandal in Lalbaug, Parel. Instead, there will be an 11-day blood and plasma donation drive held there. Affirms Sudhir Salvi, secretary, Lalbaugcha Raja Ganeshotsav Mandal, “There will be no Lalbaugcha Raja for the first time due to the COVID-19 pandemic. We did not plan on having a smaller pooja murti either, as people would still come here in large numbers knowing that Lalbaugcha Raja is here, regardless of the idol’s size. The footfall here touches 10-lakh devotees per day, but we didn’t want to take a chance in these coronavirus times.” He adds, “We got together with a hospital to organise plasma donation and also plan to give 112 families of martyred police personnel Rs 1 lakh each, during our blood donation drive.” There are similar plans for Girgaon cha Raja and Andheri cha Raja, which will also see a 10-day blood donation camp with donations to the needy. ‘Parampara nahi tootni chahiye’Giving finishing touches to Khetwadi cha GanrajThe Khetwadi cha Ganraj will also make changes to adjust to the new norms in its 62nd year. Says Shankar Harale, secretary, Khetwadi 12th Lane, Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav, “We have decided on a three feet-high murti. In addition to strict rules of masks and social distancing, there will be a 24-hour relay of the Ganeshotsav via a cable channel, so that all devotees, including senior citizens can enjoy it. We also plan to have shorter aartis and just like temples that close early, we are planning to close the darshan by 11pm, in order to prevent people gathering around the mandal at night.” Says Harshad Desai, managing committee member of Nikadwari Lane Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Mandal, which is in its 93rd year, “Our Girgaoncha Raja is one of the oldest Ganpatis and the heaviest. Eco-friendly for the past 93 years, this Ganpati is made of clay. The online darshan will be shown on our Facebook pages. We also have plans to allow people to avail of the prasad online. The celebrations are much smaller because of the pandemic, but they are on nevertheless. Parampara nahi tootni chahiye.” Advisory for Ganpati festival celebrations at a glance Pandals are to be sanitised thrice-a-day Only five karyakartas (10 during aarti) will be allowed inside at a time A sanitising machine must be installed at the venue Offering of flowers/garlands/prasad etc. is prohibited this year Height of idols installed by sarvajanik Ganesh mandals should not be more than four feet  No processions to be taken out before installing and while immersing idols Idols brought home cannot be more than 2-feet tall About 70 natural ponds have been designated for idol immersion Collection points have been set up in an open area in each ward for idols that will be immersed in the sea or natural ponds It is also advised to do the pooja at home before taking the idol for immersion||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/how-ganpati-mandals-are-adapting-in-the-times-of-covid-19/articleshow/77684282.cms||Ismat Tahseen
August 22, 2020||Chandigarh||When interesting courtroom incidents had everyone in splits||While courtroom decorum is sacrosanct and maintaining seriousness is a norm there, some interesting incidents highlight how humour and wit also play an important role in court proceedings. During a webtalk organised by Panjab University's alumni association on 'Wit and Humour from the Bar and Bench', various anecdotes and funny incidents were shared by the speakers. Prof Balram K Gupta, who is director (academics), Chandigarh Judicial Academy, shared some funny anecdotes and incidents from his years of practice which left everyone amused. Dr Gupta said that in any profession whether teaching, medical or legal, humour is a lubricant. Every teaching, if laced with humour and wit, can bring out the seriousness of the subject, thereby making it more absorbing. The session touched the aspect of fun in a serious way. The speakers kept switching and taking turns to keep the audience engaged and mesmerised. While witty incidents from the life of G Ramaswamy, former attorney general of India, and CK Daphtary, who was the first solicitor general of India kept everyone engaged, the participants got to know their witty side. Talking about an argument, the speaker said, "In the constitutional challenge to the Bombay Prohibition Act, when asked about the nature of the intoxicants which were declared prohibited under the act, Daphtary described them and, with a mischievous twinkle in his eyes. He added, "And then, my Lords, there are substances other than liquid refreshments which also intoxicate, and power is one of them”. Later, Dr Gupta also shared the famous remark 'A Republic without a PUB is a mere RELIC'. Many such anecdotes were shared with the participants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/when-interesting-courtroom-incidents-had-everyone-in-splits/articleshow/77684772.cms||---
August 22, 2020||India||Nagaland asks SC to divest Lokayukta of all powers||NEW DELHI: Exasperated by the “unjust and arbitrary” personal demands of Lokayukta Justice Uma Nath Singh (retired), who was to act as a ‘watchdog’ against corruption among political executives, the Nagaland government on Friday took the unprecedented step of requesting the Supreme Court to divest him of all powers. Justice Singh had retired as chief justice of Meghalaya HC. Nagaland advocate general K N Balgopal urged the bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian to entrust all pending cases to Upa-Lokayukta Mayang Lima. The bench sought the Lokayukta’s response in two weeks but not before asking Balgopal whether the state government, which had appointed Justice Singh as Lokayukta in February last year, and the assembly were powerless in reining him in. Trouble started within two months of getting appointed as Justice Singh sought permission to take up arbitration work in Synergy Ispat Pvt Ltd vs Barbara Elizabeth Simoes case despite clear prohibition for Lokayukta to take up any work other than those related to the statutory position occupied by him. In May last year, Justice Singh wrote a letter to the government saying he would function “online” from Delhi and even “engineered” a letter from the state chief secretary’s office, without the incumbent’s knowledge, to that effect. As the chief secretary withdrew the purported letter and ordered an inquiry as to how the permission letter came into existence, the Lokayukta wreaked vengeance by harassing “honest officers” by issuing indiscriminate notices, the state claimed. He demanded that the Kohima commissioner of police be present to receive and see him off at the airport every time. He also sought deployment of Army personnel for his protection. Balgopal said Justice Singh demanded allocation of the CM’s old bungalow as his residence. He then demanded that his photograph be displayed on government websites along with that of the governor and the CM. Justice Singh has courted many controversies in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nagaland-asks-sc-to-divest-lokayukta-of-all-powers/articleshow/77684991.cms||---
August 22, 2020||India||Police can obtain call data records of Covid patients: Kerala HC||KOCHI: The Kerala high court on Friday disposed of a PIL questioning the collection of call data records (CDR) of Covid-19 patients by the state police for contact tracing, but made it clear that the state government should ensure only the tower location details are used and confidentiality is strictly maintained. After considering opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala’s PIL challenging the DGP's August 11 circular to senior officers to go ahead with the proposal to collect CDRs, the division bench of Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly accepted police’s undertaking that the data would be used only for ascertaining the tower locations of Covid patients. On the petitioner’s plea to implead telecom service providers in the case, the court said the retrieval of CDRs should be seen and considered in the light of the daily spike in Covid-19 cases and the peculiar circumstances the state has found itself in because of that. The government had informed the court through a statement filed on behalf of the DGP that the police were only finding out the tower location of Covid patients and those suspected of having contracted the virus. Tower details are essential for creating route maps for effective contact tracing, the government contended. The statement mentioned that the police were getting CDRs from telecom service providers in “comma separated value (CSV) format” and that it was not possible to obtain tower details alone. The government also said in the affidavit that CDRs were being accessed in strict confidentiality, used for the limited purpose of identifying places an individual has visited and thereafter destroyed. No third party has access to the CDRs, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/police-can-obtain-call-data-records-of-covid-patients-kerala-hc/articleshow/77685275.cms||---
August 22, 2020||World||Judge rebuffs Trump again on tax records; appeals underway||NEW YORK: A federal judge turned down US President Donald Trump's newest move on Friday to keep New York City prosecutors from getting his tax records, but Trump's lawyers have already asked higher courts to step in. The developments came a day after US District Judge Victor Marrero ruled — as he had before in a case that has been to the US Supreme Court and back — that Manhattan's top prosecutor could subpoena the records for a criminal investigation. Trump's lawyers immediately appealed Thursday's ruling. They also asked Marrero to delay enforcement of the subpoena while the appeal plays out. Marrero said no to that Friday. “The president has not demonstrated that he will suffer irreparable harm” if the records are turned over for a grand jury probe that would keep them secret, he wrote. However, Trump's lawyers noted in a court filing Thursday that they were making the same request of an appeals court and the Supreme Court. “The president raises serious arguments,” Trump attorney William Consovoy wrote in an appeals court filing Friday, adding that it's “implausible” that Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus R Vance Jr "needs these records so badly that there's no time for appellate review". Vance's office, which has agreed to hold off enforcing the subpoena for a week, declined to comment Friday. Messages seeking comment were sent Friday to Trump's lawyers. Marrero has refused multiple times to block the subpoena. The US Supreme Court last month upheld one of his rulings, finding that the presidency in itself doesn't shield Trump from Vance's investigation. But the high court returned the case to Marrero's courtroom to allow Trump's lawyers to raise other concerns about the subpoena. They did, arguing that it was issued in bad faith, might have been politically motivated and amounted to harassment. Vance's attorneys countered that they were entitled to extensive records to aid a “complex financial investigation,” citing public reports of “extensive and protracted criminal conduct at the Trump Organisation.” Those arguments led to this week's flurry of rulings and appeals. Trump blasted the long-running quest for his financial records Thursday as a “continuation of the most disgusting witch hunt in the history of our country.” Vance, a Democrat, began seeking the Republican president's tax returns from his longtime accounting firm over a year ago, after Trump's former personal lawyer Michael Cohen told Congress that the president had misled tax officials, insurers and business associates about the value of his assets. The president has said he expects the case to end up back before the Supreme Court. Even if the tax records ultimately are subpoenaed, they would not automatically be made public, as they are being sought as part of a confidential grand jury investigation. Congress is also pursuing Trump's financial records, though the Supreme Court last month kept a hold on the banking and other documents that Congress has been seeking and returned the case to a lower court. Trump is the only modern president who has refused to release his tax returns. Before he was elected, he had promised to do so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/judge-rebuffs-trump-again-on-tax-records-appeals-underway/articleshow/77685321.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Business||Don’t wait for Kamath report to rejig loans: RBI to banks||MUMBAI: Reserve Bank of India governor Shaktikanta Das has said banks are expected to come up with board-approved restructuring plans for Covid-affected businesses by the end of the month and they need not wait for the K V Kamath committee's report. According to Das, the Kamath committee appointed by the RBI will come out with a report by September 6 and will only recommend financial parameters that banks must use for restructuring. "These will be only for business loans and not personal loans," said Das in an interview to news channel CNBC Awaaz. Some of the banks have already taken approval from their board. "We have already got our board approval for restructuring personal loans. For MSME and retail loans, we do not need any guidelines as there is already a scheme in place. We will put the standard operating procedures in place by next week and communicate to our branches so that they can start the process," said Union Bank of India chairman Rajkiran Rai. Das said, "As part of Covid resolution, banks can give moratorium on loan. It will depend on what the bank decides. Most banks will come out with a board-approved policy before the end of this month. They need not wait for the Kamath committee report." The governor sought to allay fears of hardening interest rates that had gained ground following the release of the minutes of the August 6 monetary policy committee (MPC) meeting. The governor also assured financial markets that the central bank would take all measures to ensure that the government borrowing takes place without disruption. He also said that the RBI was watching the financial markets and would take whatever steps that are required and had several instruments at its disposal. On resuming forecasts on macro numbers for the current financial year, Das said that the views of the new MPC members (who will join before the October policy) will have to be taken into consideration. He pointed out that at present there was a lot of uncertainty and any number that the RBI gives would be likely to change. But if there was some clarity with respect to the virus, the RBI could resume forecasts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/dont-wait-for-kamath-report-to-rejig-loans-rbi-to-banks/articleshow/77685456.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Engineer falls prey to tele-phishing||AURANGABAD: A 23-year-old computer engineer was duped of Rs 1.18 lakh after he fell victim to a tele-phishing scam, in which the suspect offered to upgrade his credit card limit. The victim got a call from a woman, who pretended to be a representative of the bank and revealed all his card details to her. Soon after this, three transactions of Rs 39, 390 each were made on the credit card. The victim who works in Ahmedabad returned to Aurangabad owing to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/engineer-falls-prey-to-tele-phishing/articleshow/77681263.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 22, 2020||Patna||Govt allows NMCH to start plasma therapy from today||PATNA: With the increase in its demand for treatment of Covid-19 patients, the state government has allowed the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) at Patna to start the convalescent plasma therapy. The decision was taken at the virtual meeting of ‘Patient Welfare Committee’ with the NMCH officials and chaired by Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal on Friday. NMCH will be the third such facility and the second Covid-dedicated hospital in the city to start plasma therapy. The training session has concluded at NMCH and the therapy would start on Saturday. The hospital has made all other arrangements to provide plasma therapy to those Covid patients who need it. The commissioner said Covid patients suffering from moderate and severely moderate symptoms would be given plasma therapy. He said blood sample will be collected from the cured and willing patients for plasma therapy at least 28 days after their complete recovery from the disease. Agarwal said as there is no facility for storage of blood plasma at NMCH, it will be collected at Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS)-Patna, which is a non-Covid hospital. “On Saturday, two persons who have recovered from the virus infection, will give their blood plasma at IGIMS and two Covid patients at NMCH will get the plasma therapy the same day. Total five people can donate plasma per day. As NMCH is the Covid-dedicated hospital, several patients admitted there need plasma therapy. With this new facility, the patients will not have to go to other hospitals,” Agarwal said. “Besides, the load of plasma therapy requirement will reduce in the other two health facilities — AIIMS-Patna and Paras HMRI. The therapy was first started at AIIMS-Patna, which has the capacity to collect blood plasma from 10 persons per day,” he added. Agarwal the plasma donors would be honoured by the district administration. The NMCH officials said interested plasma donors can contact the hospital’s help desk. Meanwhile, at AIIMS-Patna, altogether 210 people have donated blood plasma and 130 patients received the plasma therapy. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said 74 patients admitted there, including a few severe ones, recovered from the infection after the plasma therapy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-allows-nmch-to-start-plasma-therapy-from-today/articleshow/77682744.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 22, 2020||Kolkata||KMC medical officer dies in line of duty||KOLKATA: A medical officer of Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) posted at a civic clinic in Metiabruz died of Covid-19 on Friday. The death triggered panic among a section of civic doctors. Dibakar Das, the deceased, tested positive for Covid on Monday after he was admitted to a private hospital in Howrah. His condition deteriorated a couple of days later. According to his son Divyarup, also a physician, Dibakar was battling for life for past three days. “The fight came to an end after a massive cardiac arrest,” Divyarup said. According to KMC sources, Das (66) was given an appointment to run a KMC clinic in Metiabruz that was opened under National Urban Health Mission (NUHM). “He had joined our clinic as a medical officer after retirement from government service. He was dedicated to his duties and would rarely take leaves. He was active without caring for his protection amid this pandemic,” said a KMC health department official. A section of KMC medical officers are now worried over the growing Covid infection among their colleagues. Being a senior citizen, Das had the risk of getting infected as he was asked to run the OPD of the clinic. Metiabruz is a Covid-sensitive area and the clinic is being frequented by patients with Covid symptoms. “It is unfortunate that he was running the OPD and getting exposed to the virus,” said a KMC health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-med-officer-dies-in-line-of-duty/articleshow/77682880.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Patna||Number of hospitalised patients registers decline in Gaya||GAYA: Even as the number of Covid cases in the district is still on the rise, patients needing hospitalisation has, of late, shown a marginal decline. As per official data, the total number of Covid cases on August 1 was 2,132 and it went up to 3,723 on Thursday. The number of hospitalised Covid patients in the district was 36 on August 1. On Friday, the number of patients undergoing treatment at the Covid-dedicated Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College and Hospital (ANMMCH) here came down to 34, including 22 from Gaya district. ANMMCH deputy superintendent-cum-nodal officer for Covid Dr N K Paswan said of the 34 hospitalised patients, three each are in level one and level three wards. The remaining 28 are in the level two ward. Level three patients require ventilator support. “There is little room for complacency,” said Gaya DM Abhishek Singh. “The danger is far from over and post relaxation, the trend will have to be closely monitored,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/number-of-hospitalised-patients-registers-decline-in-gaya/articleshow/77682583.cms||Abdul Qadir
August 22, 2020||Business||Union Bk may raise Rs 10k cr||TNN Mumbai: Union Bank of India has reported a standalone net profit of Rs 333 crore for the quarter ended June. This is not comparable with the Rs 224 crore reported in the previous year as the results for the quarter include the financials of Andhra Bank and Corporation Bank that merged into Union Bank from April 1. Announcing the results on Friday, MD & CEO Rajkiran Rai said that Union Bank was looking at a capital-raise of Rs 10,000 crore. He said that in addition to meeting the statutory requirement, the bank would be looking to have an additional buffer of 1%. The bank was also in the process of selling its stake in IndiaFirst Life Insurance gained as a result of the merger of Andhra Bank with itself. The bank already has a stake in Star Union Daiichi Life Insurance and regulatory norms do not allow it to hold stake in two companies. Rai said that the merged bank was likely to save Rs 3,600 crore in three years as a result of the synergies arising out of the merger. Following the results, the bank has a tier-1 capital adequacy ratio of 9.5%, of which common equity tier-1 is 8.4%. Gross non-performing ratio improved to 14.9% compared to 15.6%. Net NPA ratio improved to 4.9% from 6.4%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/union-bk-may-raise-rs-10k-cr/articleshow/77683426.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Patna||Train services resume on Samastipur-Darbhanga route||PATNA: Train services on the Samastipur-Darbhanga section resumed on Friday after some respite from floods. The train services had been suspended since July 24 after floodwaters touched the garter of railway bridge number 16. Meanwhile, major rivers maintained a declining trend despite some of them still flowing above the danger level at many places in north Bihar. The Ganga was steady but above the danger mark at Gandhi Ghat and Hathidah in Patna district and Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur district. Sone river had a falling trend on Friday. Around 82 lakh people in 16 north Bihar districts have been affected by floods. Patna Meteorological Centre on Friday predicted rainfall with thunderstorms in several north Bihar districts with increased intensity from Saturday to Monday. Light rainfall occurred at one or two places over northeast, southeast, southcentral parts of Bihar and northwest, southwest & northcentral parts remained dry during the past 24 hours. Khagaria DM Alok Ranjan Ghosh said 1,50,216 people in 135 villages of the district were affected. Kosi and Bagmati rivers were flowing above the danger level with receding trend while Ganga and Burhi Gandak were also flowing above the danger level but remained static. A large number of flood victims of Khagaria block with their cattle heads have taken shelter on the NH-31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/train-services-resume-on-samastipur-darbhanga-route/articleshow/77682903.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Kolkata||ACP loses fight against virus, Covid claims ninth Kolkata cop||Kolkata: Assistant commissioner of police Uday Shankar Banerjee (54) died of Covid on Friday. He is the senior-most officer in Kolkata Police to lose the fight against the virus. He became the ninth policeman in the city and the 18th in Bengal to succumb to Covid-19. His wife, too, is Covid positive but stable. Serving as AC (central) and managing high-risk areas of Burrabazar and Posta, Banerjee was one of the foremost Covid warriors who fought from the front. He had been on duty till he fell ill, his colleagues said. Banerjee was on ventilation for the past 100-odd hours before he breathed his last around 3am at a hospital off EM Bypass. He was initially treated at another hospital near Jorasanko. He was shifted to the Bypass hospital after his condition deteriorated. While Banerjee didn’t have any serious medical history, doctors at the hospital claimed his lungs’ condition had deteriorated, thus requiring advanced medical intervention. More than 4,500 police personnel have been infected across the state, including around 1,700 from Kolkata Police. Around 1,500 have recovered. Banerjee has served as officer-in-charge at three different police stations, including Park Street and Behala, before being promoted as the ACP of Behala. He was transferred to the central division thereafter. Officers led by commissioner Anuj Sharma mourned his death. “Extremely saddened to share the news of untimely demise of an outstanding Officer ACP (Central Div) Uday Shankar Banerjee who was under treatment in hospital due to COVID-19 #TeamKP stands by the family of the deceased Officer #Sad #CoronaMartyr #RIP,” tweeted Sharma. Lalbazar brass has now instructed all senior officers to use the Niramoy app to keep track of the health condition of its personnel and follow the SOP prepared to tackle Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/acp-loses-fight-against-virus-covid-claims-9th-kolkata-cop/articleshow/77682871.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 22, 2020||Kochi||Leasing out Trivandrum airport: Kerala govt moves HC||KOCHI: State government has approached Kerala high court seeking a stay on central government’s decision to lease out operations of Trivandrum International Airport to Adani Enterprises Ltd. In a petition filed through senior government pleader P Narayanan, transport department has contended that the decision was taken by the Centre while a petition against the move is pending before the Kerala HC, after the matter was remitted by the Supreme Court back to the HC for a fresh hearing. Government has contended in its plea for stay that Centre’s decision is not in public interest and that the state government has ‘substantial proprietary and other rights over the landed property’ in which the airport is situated at Thiruvananthapuram. The lease in favour of Adani group has been approved by the Centre when the matter is sub judice, with the balance of convenience being in favour of the state government. As per the plea seeking urgent stay, the petition was originally filed by the state government challenging the request for proposal for concession regarding the operation, management and development of the airport. Through the original petition, state government hadcontending that it was entitled to preferential consideration over Adani group in view of the mandate under AAI Act. Centre had opposed the petition by arguing that it was premature as the lease has not been approved, Kerala government’s stay petition said. On December 18th last year, the high court dismissed the original petition by the state government as not maintainable. The state government approached the Supreme Court, which set aside the judgment and remanded the matter back to the high court to be heard on merits, state government’s plea said. It is in this case that the state government has now filed a petition seeking a stay on the decision to lease the airport’s operations to Adani group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/leasing-out-trivandrum-airport-govt-moves-hc/articleshow/77682873.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Patna||JD(U) & BJP hail poll panel guidelines, oppn sceptical||PATNA: The main opposition parties are still hopeful that the Election Commission (EC), which on Friday issued guidelines for the state assembly polls, would rethink before finalising the poll schedule. The ruling JD(U) and the BJP, on the other hand, have welcomed the EC’s decision. Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Congress felt that the EC would try to know the ground reality in the state before declaring the poll schedule. “We still consider that the situation is not conducive to hold elections in the state. Yet, if the EC goes ahead and announces the poll schedule, we, as a political party, will certainly participate in the process,” said Congress MLC Prem Chand Mishra. Mishra, however, added the Congress would adhere to the EC's guidelines for elections. “The party is busy in preparations for the ensuing polls. However, it’s a million dollar question how the EC will ensure social distancing norms at the polling booths,” he said. The RJD, which had vociferously demanded postponement of elections, said if the EC was satisfied with the safety measures for voters at the polling booths and also about the political party leaders during electioneering, the party has no objection to the elections.Senior RJD functionary Shivanand Tiwary said, “The RJD had made its stand clear on the issue by writing letters to the EC earlier. Even after that if the EC thinks it appropriate to conduct elections, political parties have no option but to follow the guidelines.” On the other hand, the ruling BJP and JD(U) have hailed the EC’s guidelines for the upcoming assembly polls. Deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi said the RJD’s repeated efforts to defer elections have been foiled. “The RJD has been demanding use of ballot papers in the elections to rig the polls. But the EC seems to have poured cold water on their plan,” Modi tweeted. JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said, “The party has welcomed the EC’s guidelines for the upcoming elections. We have said it time and again that the party will go by the EC’s directives.” Efforts to contact Lok Janshakti Party national president Chirag Paswan proved futile. VIP national vice-president Raj Bhushan Nishad said the first priority of the EC should be safety of the people grappling with coronavirus and floods and not the elections. “The EC should consider the matter in the larger interest of the common people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-bjp-hail-poll-panel-guidelines-oppn-sceptical/articleshow/77681109.cms||Ramashankar
August 22, 2020||Patna||Women celebrate Teej with fervour||PATNA: Clad in traditional attire with ‘mehndi’ on their palms, married women in the city celebrated Teej festival with great fervour on Friday. They sought blessing from Goddess Parvati for the well-being of their husbands and other family members and celebrated their womanhood by wearing ‘solah shringar (sixteen embellishments)’ on the occasion. Pallavi Sinha, a resident of Patel Nagar, who has been married for the past 11 years, said, “My in-laws, who stay in Buxar, used to visit us every year on Teej. But this time we requested them not to travel because of Covid pandemic. My mother-in-law couriered me a sari, jewellery and ‘shringar’ items which I wore during the puja. I took their blessing through a video call.” While some were blessed with the company of their loved ones, others had to celebrate the festival alone owing to safety concerns and travel restrictions. “Teej marks the celebration of marital bliss. This is the first time in six years that I am not with my husband on this occasion. He stays in Bengaluru and I had to come to Patna to look after my parents, who stay alone. I missed his presence while performing the rituals,” said Shilam Priya, a resident of Rajiv Nagar. Sharda Sharan from Boring Road, who stays in a joint family, said she celebrated Teej with great zeal along with her two sisters-in-law. “Festivals are to be celebrated with family. My sisters-in-law and I decked up in our best finery, glittering jewellery and bangles. We recited the Teej ‘katha’ and made ‘gujiyas’ together. It was a blissful experience.” The festival, marking celebration of the marital bond between Lord Shiva and Goddess Parvati, is of great significance to married women, more so if it is their first time. “I was a little nervous as this was my first Teej after marriage. However, my sister-in-law was very supportive throughout. She taught me the rituals and prayers. As a gesture of love, my husband also fasted with me on the occasion. I prayed to Goddess Parvati for the longevity and prosperity of my marital bond,” said Sonal Seema, a resident of Boring Road, who got married in February this year. Rupmati Devi, who has been celebrating the festival since the last 40 years, said, “Earlier, I used to observe ‘nirjala’ fast on Teej. However, due to old age and health concerns, I drank water after performing the puja this time. Although the sentiment of the festival remains the same, women should also take care of their health,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/women-celebrate-teej-with-fervour/articleshow/77681289.cms||Arunima Lal
August 22, 2020||Patna||Varsities gear up to hold pending exams||PATNA: With governor-cum-chancellor Phagu Chauhan approving the transitory regulation giving the universities the option to change the modality to be adopted for conducting the pending examinations during Covid-19 pandemic, all the universities have started chalking out strategies to hold the examinations at the earliest. Since the examination board of the university has been authorised to make any change in the existing regulations of examination conduct, universities are likely to convene the meeting of their examination board and take appropriate decisions for ensuring timely and smooth conduct of examinations. The decisions would, however, should be in consonance with the UGC guidelines and standard operating procedure. Patna University (PU) has also revised its admission schedule and announced the dates of entrance tests for admission to all its UG and PG courses for the session 2020-21. Now, it is chalking out the schedule of its pending examinations. PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha said examinations would commence after the second week of September. “First, the pending examination of one theory paper and practical examination of Degree Part III courses will be held, followed by Degree Part II and Degree Part I examinations. The dates of PG semester II and IV examinations (2019-20 session) will also be announced soon. All examinations will be held in conventional mode as per existing regulations,” he said. Patliputra University will also announce the dates of Degree Part I and Part II examinations shortly, according to its pro-VC G K Chaudhary. Some universities in flood-hit north Bihar are, however, planning to conduct online examinations with multiple choice questions to ensure timely completion of examinations and publication of results. However, a final decision on the mode of conduct of examinations is likely to be taken by all the universities soon, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/varsities-gear-up-to-hold-pending-exams/articleshow/77681211.cms||B K Mishra
August 22, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: May scrutinize accounts of private hospitals, says health panel chief||KOLKATA: The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC), set up in 2017 to fix accountability of private clinical establishments, may look into the expenditure and income of private hospitals in case of complaints against them. The commission is also coming out with a guideline for pathological tests required for Covid-19 treatment. WBCERC members will physically meet for the first time on Saturday evening to discuss issues related to Covid, including Covid treatment cost and patient management protocol. “We have certain plans regarding audit of hospitals. But we will cross the bridge when it comes. The cases or complaints we have received so far are exceptional in nature and do not reflect a general role of the private healthcare sector,” said Justice Asim Kumar Banerjee, WBCERC chairperson. “Right now, we are more focused on a coordinated approach of the government and the private sector to fight the pandemic. In a health infrastructure, both have important roles to play,” he said. “If there is a complaint, we will look into it and nobody will be spared for wrongdoings,” Banerjee said. The commission has so far come out with 10 Covid-19 advisories and a Covid-19 regulatory order. According to Banerjee, patients will also have to keep in mind that a private hospital will have higher charges. “Patients should have a fair knowledge of the charges before they are admitted to those hospitals. In case of a planned surgery, the hospital stay is for seven days on an average. But in case of Covid-19 patients, it usually goes up to 10-15 days. Now, if the patient has to get into ICU, ventilation or ECMO costs will definitely be steep,” he said. The commission has so far found out that there are two major heads of expenditure for a Covid-19 patient — investigation and medicines. The commission is planning to come out with a guideline for pathological tests and its draft is ready. AMRI Hospitals CEO Rupak Barua said allegations of over-billing at private hospitals are mostly unjustified. “Although there have been some sporadic incidents, these should be considered as exceptions. The high-ticket bills are for patients undergoing treatment on ventilator or on expensive support procedures like ECMO. Most of these patients are on extensive life support and organ support for days, which would have incurred considerable expenses, with or without the pandemic.” Saurabh Kumar Ghosh, a doctor and spokesperson for Nabajiban Hospital felt that the role played by the WBCERC has so far been beneficial to the healthcare sector. “Private hospitals can keep the bill size under control if it is not a very serious patient or the patient does not have any co-morbidity. Government regulations stipulate the number of PPE kits that can be charged each day. It has also capped the amount a doctor can charge from a patient per day. Such steps have been helpful in curbing malpractices,” Ghosh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/may-scrutinize-accounts-of-private-hospitals-says-health-panel-chief/articleshow/77682825.cms||Rohit Khanna
August 22, 2020||Rajkot||August 1 fishing season notice irks fishermen||RAJKOT: While the state fisheries department issued a notification announcing that fishing season this year will commence from August 1, weather-beaten seamen in Gujarat are not upbeat about it. Looking at the rough seas owing to the prevalence of monsoon, they had urged extending this date to September 1 as venturing into deep sea is not advisable. The pattern of rain is changing in Gujarat and the sea remains rough till the end of August. According to fishermen’s association, the sailors could not venture into the sea for the past 17 days owing to weather turbulences and one boat owner also had to bear Rs 2 lakh loss from the inclemencies. Gujarat fishermen, for the past couple of years, have been demanding extending ban on fishing for 15 more days till September 1. However, based on central government notification, the state fisheries department issued a notification in May this year, banning fishing at Gujarat coast from June 1 to July 31, 2020. President of Porbandar Machimar Boat Association, Bharat Modi said, “We believe that the central government revised the date of opening fishing season in the country to August 1 bowing to strong demand from south Indian states. Monsoon ends early in southern states, but the government should also consider that the monsoon pattern defers from state to state. They should decide accordingly.” Fearing lesser catch owing to south Indian fishermen coming closer to Gujarat coasts, fishermen here started fishing from August 1 even amid the unfavourable weather conditions. However, it proved to hazardous adventure as not only they risked lives in the choppy waters, they also could not get good catch. According to fisherman out of 20 days of August they could remain in sea for 3 days only. “We called our sailors from south Gujarat and other parts of the country and paid them salaries. We also spent money for fuel and after our boats went into the sea, we were asked to call them back because of rough weather. It had cost us a lot,” alleged Gopal Fofandi, president of Akhil Gujarat Machimar Mahamandal, an apex body of all fishermen associations in state. According to Gujarat fishermen, the government should extend the fishing dates to September 1 every year and even if they want fishermen of south India to venture early, they should be banned from venturing off Gujarat coast till September 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/august-1-fishing-season-notice-irks-fishermen/articleshow/77681784.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
August 22, 2020||Rajkot||School admissions for single girl child begins||RAJKOT: Parents with single girl child have a reason to rejoice. The Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) has launched a facility to issue them certificates for being parents of a single girl child in order to admit the kids to private schools for free of cost education under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (RTE) Act-2009. “The parents of a single girl child can get this certificate after filling up an application form and submitting an affidavit at City Civic Centre at RMC central zone office,” said a release issued by the RMC. The form can be downloaded from the RMC website. The applicants will have to append ration cards, address proofs and the birth certificates of their girl child. Apart from the single girl child, 25% seats are reserved under RTE Act for children from downtrodden and marginalized sections of the society in private schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/school-admissions-for-single-girl-child-begins/articleshow/77681820.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Patna||Patna: Five arrested in PACS chairman murder case||PATNA: Police have arrested five criminals, including a shooter, for their alleged involvement in the murder of Kavindra Yadav (45), chairman of Sarari panchayat primary agriculture credit society (PACS), who was shot dead at Shivala Chowk under the Shahpur police station area in western Patna on August 1. The criminals were arrested near a private BEd college at Shahpur late on Thursday night. Two countrymade pistols, including a semi-automatic one, 13 live cartridges and two bikes were seized from their possession. The arrested criminals were identified as Monu Kumar, Subhash Prasad, Ravi Kumar, Vishal Kumar and Manish Kumar. Yadav, an aide of BJP MLA Asha Devi, was shot in head from a close range. SHO of Shahpur police station Dheeraj Kumar said one Kariya alias Rakesh Kumar had promised Rs 1 lakh to Monu for killing Yadav over a land dispute. “Rakesh claimed ownership on four kattha of plot just in front of Yadav’s residence at Sarari. Another villager was also claiming ownership of the same plot. Since Yadav used to support the fellow villager, Rakesh planned to get him eliminated,” the SHO said, adding Rakesh is still evading arrest. The SHO added Rakesh paid Rs 30,000 in advance to Monu, who arranged other criminals. “It was Vishal who had shot Yadav. Manish had helped the shooter to identify the PACS chairman. Ravi was the one who was waiting on bike for Vishal. Manish’s residence is hardly a kilometre away from Yadav’s residence,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/five-arrested-in-pacs-chairman-murder-case/articleshow/77682940.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 22, 2020||Trichy||UGC urged to ask deemed univs to part with info under RTI Act||TRICHY: Consumer protection council, Tamil Nadu has urged University Grants Commission (UGC) to direct ‘deemed to be universities’ to appoint public information officers to furnish details sought under right to information act (RTI) 2005. Council secretary S Pushpavanam said he made the request after many of his RTI applications to these universities went unanswered. He said deemed-to-be universities were receiving funds from the government like any other university, but they have not been responding to RTI applications. “I could not follow them up through appeals as they did not have any public information officer and appellate information officer. Their web sites do not mention anything about RTI giving the impression that they have nothing to do with it,” he said. The council wrote to the UGC seeking a clarification in June and received a reply on July 30. The UGC attached a letter received from CIC, the apex body of RTI Act, in March 2007 which says the deemed-to-be universities were covered under RTI Act. “The very fact that the UGC had referred the matter to CIC shows that they wanted to be sure,” said Pushpavanam. “Although the CIC has written to UGC in 2007, the deemed-to-be universities have managed to suppress this till today by not mentioning anything about RTI on their web-sites,” said Pushpavanam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ugc-urged-to-ask-deemed-univs-to-part-with-info-under-rti-act/articleshow/77684966.cms||Sampath Kumar
August 22, 2020||Kolkata||Woman ‘kills self’ after mom’s death in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Mystery shrouds the death of a woman and her daughter, whose decomposed bodies were recovered from their Dum Dum residence on Friday evening. Aparna Das (65) and her daughter Baisakhi (25) used to live in a ground-floor flat of a two-storey house on Dum Dum Mall Road. Alerted by a stench coming from the flat, locals called the police. Cops from Dum Dum police station arrived at the spot and broke open the door to find the elderly woman’s body lying on the bed and her daughter’s body hanging from the ceiling of an adjoining room. Cops suspect the elderly woman, who had been suffering from age-related ailments, died earlier, after which the daughter committed suicide by hanging herself. According to locals, the family had been going through acute financial crisis after Aparna’s husband, a former private firm employee, died three years ago. Residents of the area added the elderly woman was bed-ridden and that they did not see her for over a couple of weeks “During the pandemic, the duo was given financial assistance with relief material by several organizations. The local civic authorities had also helped them,” a local said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/woman-kills-self-after-moms-death/articleshow/77684119.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
August 22, 2020||Kolkata||For Kolkata police, Ganpati a test case for Durga Puja celebrations||KOLKATA: Ganesha Puja, which heralds the beginning of the festive season, will now perhaps show the way for conducting the bigger pujas of the year. Hours after news came from Kumartuli about receiving 1,100 orders for Durga Puja, Labazar has silently asked officers to start preparing for it alongside the steps being taken for Ganesha Puja on Saturday. All police stations areas which have barowari Ganesha Pujas have been asked to ensure there is no crowding on Saturday. “This is like a test for us. Based on this, a lot of planning will go on for Durga Puja. As of now, we have requested all organizers not to allow crowding. The real test will be on Saturday when we see how many voluntarily accept our advice,” said an officer. A report will then be submitted to Lalbazar. A number of organizers utilized the lockdown on Friday to ferry Ganesha idols to the pandals. A few waited till the early hours of Saturday. “The markets will be another area to watch out for on Saturday as people will go out to buy essentials for the puja,” said an officer. As far as Durga Puja is concerned, the traffic guards have the biggest task to complete. Lalbazar has asked all traffic guards to report whether new parking arrangements can be made outside important pandals in order to maintain social distancing. “This will mean one-way lanes and separate entry and exit at pandals. In the past, we have found that we made major arrangements for pandals that no longer attract too many visitors and ignored new ones that have become quite popular. In south Kolkata, at least three major pandals will offer drive-in facilities keeping the Covid situation in mind while another has promised a Durga Puja on the move. We need to collate what each organizer is thinking for this year’s celebration before submitting our proposals for parking to Lalbazar,” said an ACP. Cops will also discuss the themes with the organizers. “Easy access is the key this year. We need to ensure social distancing at any cost. Durga Puja is still some time away, but the planning must begin now,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/for-police-ganpati-a-test-case-for-durga-puja-celebrations/articleshow/77682855.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 22, 2020||Patna||Take precautions against diseases like dengue: Doctors||PATNA: While the state is fighting Covid-19 pandemic and floods, doctors and medical experts in the city have warned of another disease lurking around the corner. As a few cases of dengue have been diagnosed in the city in the past week, Patna civil surgeon Dr R K Chaudhary said people should be cautious as the season for vector-borne diseases such as dengue, chikungunya and acute encephalitis syndrome (AES) is approaching. “Waterlogging is a common problem in rainy season. Stagnated water serves as a breeding ground for mosquitoes that transmit these diseases. Hence, people should take appropriate measures and not let water stagnate near airconditioners, coolers and around their surroundings,” Dr Chaudhary said. “At a time when the city is witnessing a large number of Covid-19 cases every day, instances of an additional disease such as dengue may aggravate the overall situation. Hence, we all need to be extracautious in the coming months,” he added. AIIMS-Patna nodal officer for Cocid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said while some of the symptoms of coronavirus, such as fever, headache and body pain, overlap with those of dengue, the line of treatment for both the diseases is extremely different and that may pose a serious concern. “While Covid patients require anti-platelet drugs in order to avoid the occurrence of thrombosis (blood clotting), those suffering from dengue are low on platelets and require platelet transfusion. If a person catches both the diseases at the same time, it will be a risky situation. Hence, extreme precautions need to be taken,” Dr Kumar said. Talking about the precautionary measures that people should take to avoid dengue, Indian Academy of Paediatrics (Bihar) president Dr Arun Shah said, “People should properly cover their bodies while stepping out. They should use mosquito nets at night and apply mosquito repellent during daytime. Any water stagnation in vicinity should also be checked upon.” In order to prevent the situation from escalating, Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has been pro-actively carrying out fumigation and sanitation drives in several areas of the city. PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma said, “We are doing chemical treatment of drains to prevent mosquito breeding. Along with Covid special sanitation drive, fogging is regularly being done on roster basis in each of the six circles.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/take-precautions-against-diseases-like-dengue-doctors/articleshow/77682691.cms||Arunima Lal
August 22, 2020||Patna||Two-day state BJP working committee meet from today||PATNA: A two-day state BJP working committee virtual meeting will begin on Saturday to discuss the strategy for the upcoming assembly election due in October-November. Former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis will address the meeting on Saturday, state BJP president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal said on Friday. “This will be the first working committee meeting of the party to be addressed by some top leaders through a digital platform before the forthcoming state election,” he said. All the BJP’s state ministers, legislators, members of Parliament, former legislators, district presidents and office-bearers will attend the meeting to be addressed by the party’s national general secretary (organization) B L Santosh. The meeting will conclude with BJP national president J P Nadda’s address on Sunday, Jaiswal said. “This is the first and the last meeting of the working committee before the assembly polls. However, the poll schedule is yet to be announced by the Election Commission,” he added. Jaiswal said the message of the senior leaders would reach around 76 lakh workers of the party across the state. “The BJP political proposals for the forthcoming elections would also be passed at the working committee meeting,” he said. In reply to a question, Jaiswal said it was the EC prerogative to hold elections and no political parties should interfere into its affairs. The BJP MP from West Champaran said the EC would ensure that the lives of the voters were not affected due to Covid-19 pandemic. “We expect from the EC to look into every aspect of the safety of the voters at the polling booths before giving a green signal to the election,” he said. He asserted that the BJP was prepared to face the election and preparations for the same had started much earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-day-state-bjp-working-committee-meet-from-today/articleshow/77681250.cms||Ramashankar
August 22, 2020||Patna||Excise officials foxed by bootleggers using J’khand police truck||PATNA: In a first-of-its-kind case in Bihar, excise sleuths stumbled upon a liquor smuggling racket which was using a vehicle auctioned by the Jharkhand Police to ferry alcohol inside the state. The excise officials were initially stunned to discover that the vehicle was registered in the name of Chhatra SP. “We were surprised to know that the owner’s name was mentioned as ‘SP Chatra’. So we wrote a letter to the SP seeking details about a pickup truck loaded with smuggled liquor manufactured in Arunachal Pradesh, which was seized from Baluahi bus stand in Khagaria on June 18,” Khagaria excise superintendent Krishna Murari told TOI. On Tuesday, more than a month after the letter was sent, the Khagaria district excise superintendent received a response from the SP of Chhatra informing him that the vehicle loaded with smuggled liquor they had seized did not belong to the Jharkhand police and was auctioned in 2016. “The SP provided us details of one Sarvar Alam, a resident of Line Mohalla under Sadar police station in Chatra, who had bought the truck at the 2016 auction,” Murari said, adding they are now trying to nab Alam. Murari said he believes that Alam had purchased the truck for the sole purpose of liquor smuggling. “His intentions become clear with the fact that even after four years, he didn’t get the vehicle ownership changed,” Murari added. “It might also be possible that he had purchased a few more police vehicles in the auction only for liquor smuggling. We have written to the DM to confiscate the trucks,” he said. Murari said in almost all liquor smuggling cases in the state, either stolen or auctioned vehicles whose owners had not changed, are getting seized. “This is so because it masks the identity of those running the gang or using the vehicle for smuggling making it impossible for investigating agencies to reach them,” he said. Murari said 495 bottles of Indian made foreign liquor seized. “A total of 55 cartons amounting to 1,320 litres of liquor manufactured in Arunachal Pradesh smuggled inside Bihar from Jharkhand,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/excise-officials-foxed-by-bootleggers-using-jkhand-police-truck/articleshow/77681269.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 22, 2020||Patna||Contract employees to be roped in for poll duty||PATNA: The Election Commission of India (ECI) has decided to rope in state government employees on contract in the upcoming assembly elections due for October-November this year. The ECI issued a directive to the state chief electoral officer (CEO) on Thursday, asking him to finalise the modalities for engaging the employees on contract in the electoral process. The directive came as additional polling personnel would be required to man around 34,000 extra polling booths likely to be set up for the assembly election. The total number of polling booths in the state has gone up to 1.06 lakh. Authoritative sources said additional an 1.80 lakh polling personnel would be required to conduct free and fair elections amid Covid-19 pandemic. Social distancing norms have to be maintained at all the polling booths. Earlier, CEO H R Srinivasa had directed all the district magistrates to furnish details about the employees on contract in the state. The DMs were told to submit the requisite information to the CEO office by August 5. The names of the employees, the departments in which they were posted, addresses, posts, basic salary and pay scale were sought by the commission for the purpose. The number of electors at each polling booth has been restricted to 1,000 this time. When contacted, additional chief electoral officer (ACEO) Baiju Nath Prasad said he would make comments only after going through the directive of the ECI. “I am yet to go through the letter of the ECI in this regard,” he told this newspaper over the phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/contract-employees-to-be-roped-in-for-poll-duty/articleshow/77681128.cms||Ramashankar
August 22, 2020||Patna||1,700 CAPF personnel set to return from J&K||PATNA: With assembly elections round the corner, more than 1,700 Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) personnel, who were shifted to Jammu & Kashmir before the abrogation of Article 370, are set to return to Bihar within a fortnight. The return of these CAPF personnel became possible after Union ministry of home affairs on Wednesday decided to immediately withdraw 10,000 security men from Jammu & Kashmir. These CAPF personnel were resourced from across the country, including Bihar, where there had been a major deployment of Sashatra Seema Bal (SSB) personnel for guarding the Indo-Nepal international border. SSB IG (Patna frontier) Sanjay Kumar said at least 10 companies of the paramilitary force are now set to return to the state for redeployment. CRPF (Bihar sector headquarters) public relations officer M K Singh said at least seven of their companies would return to the state. “The railways will arrange special trains for movement of security forces,” a senior CRPF officer said. “The return of the security personnel will further strengthen anti-Maoist operations in Bihar,” he added. The officer said since the CAPF personnel are returning to the state just before assembly elections, it would thwart any attempt by the Maoists to thwart peace. A senior SSB officer said the return of security personnel would also put an end to skirmishes at Indo-Nepal international border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1700-capf-personnel-set-to-return-from-jk/articleshow/77681181.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 22, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: New tax regime may push up IMFL prices, fears liquor sector||KOLKATA: There is growing apprehension in the liquor industry that several popular IMFL brand prices may go up after the proposed tax-structure revision though there is also a buzz about light beer prices coming down. Excise department officials, however, refused to comment on “industry speculation”. “We are yet to complete the process of calculations and negotiations. Things will become clear only after we finalize the tax structure,” a senior official told TOI on Friday. Incidentally, the state has decided to abolish the 30% additional sales tax on liquor introduced on April 9 and change the entire excise structure by introducing a slab -based tax based on product value. The new tax structure will be based on ex-distillery price (EDP) and ex-brewery price (EBP). There will be 16 slabs based on declared EBP of beer while for IMFL, there will be 22 slabs based on declared EDP. “The declared EDP and EBP should not be more than that of other states and, if it is higher, then the company has to justify that according to the new structure,” said a source in the liquor industry. Sources said the price of some IMFL brands may go even higher than the post-April 9 level when the 30% additional tax was imposed. The price increase could be 9% from current level for rum while for some whiskey brands it would be 20% more than the current level. In the new structure, tax on various IMFL will range from Rs 330 to Rs 4,500, taking excise duty and additional excise duty together. The tax will range from Rs 132 and Rs 690 for strong beer while for mild beer it could range from Rs 106 to Rs 552. “Lager beer duty would be 25% less than strong beer, so there is a possibility of a price drop for lager beer. There is also a possibility of a price drop for wine,” a liquor industry source said. Incidentally, in the new policy, distribution margin would be 2.5% while retail margin would be 5.9%. IMFL and beer industry in the state were facing a major crisis following the Covid-induced lockdown and steep increase in sales tax. For the beer market, there has been an average fall in sales of over 85% while for IMFL, the average fall in sales is around 30% in the months April, May, June and July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-tax-regime-may-push-up-imfl-prices-fears-liquor-sector/articleshow/77682861.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Patna||Gang-rape video of a 50-yr-old woman goes viral in Patna||PATNA: A two-week-old gang-rape video of a 50-year-old woman went viral in Patna on Friday. Police traced her to a village under Gaurichak police station area. She was brought to the police station where she recorded her statement on Friday. Gaurichak SHO (in-charge) Rajesh Kumar Mandal told TOI over the phone that the incident took place around 15 days back. “We received the viral video on Friday and only then came to know about the incident. We contacted the local panchayat mukhiya who helped us trace the victim,” he said. Mandal, quoting the victim, said she was returning to her village from town area when the incident took place. “Soon after she alighted from an autorickshaw, a bike-borne person offered her a lift. She told him that she was going to her village to which the biker said he was also going that way and gave her a lift,” the SHO said, adding the survivor is a housewife. Mandal said on the way he made calls to several persons. “The survivor told us that the biker took her to a secluded place where at least six more persons also reached. Four of them raped her while three fled after one of the accused started recording video,” he said, quoting the victim. The SHO said the victim told police that she didn’t inform the police nor told about the incident to anyone fearing social stigma. “We brought her to the police station for further investigation and registering of an FIR. The victim said she knows the name of one person and can identify him,” Mandal added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gang-rape-video-of-a-50-yr-old-woman-goes-viral-in-patna/articleshow/77683003.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 22, 2020||Business||NCLT will check SBI's pleas against Anil Ambani for recovery of Rs 1,200 crore||MUMBAI: The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in Mumbai on Thursday appointed a resolution professional (RP) Jitender Kothari to recommend whether to admit State Bank of India’s twin insolvency petitions against Anil Ambani to recover Rs 1,200 crore of loans guaranteed by him. The NCLT’s common order appointing an RP was sought to be stayed by Ambani’s senior counsel J J Bhatt. The application was rejected by the tribunal, following an objection by senior counsel Venkatesh Dhond. SBI’s twin petitions for appointment of an RP under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code was heard by the NCLT bench of Mohammed Ajmal and R Duraisamy, which passed the order. Read AlsoWhere have RCom’s assets disappeared in 2 years, asks Supreme CourtAs the net worth of Anil Ambani-led RCom nosedived from over Rs 37,000 crore to around Rs 10,000 crore in the last two years, the Supreme Court on Monday asked where did the assets of the company “disappear” and sought response from RCom's resolution professional.In 2016, Reliance Communications (RCom) and Reliance Infratel borrowed Rs 565 crore and Rs 635 crore respectively from SBI to refinance debt on the back of a personal guarantee from Ambani, chairperson of Reliance Group, along with other securities. “Both RCom and RITL defaulted around January 2017. The accounts were retrospectively declared as non-performing assets (NPAs) with effect from August 26, 2016, pursuant to risk-based supervision during 2017,” the NCLT order noted, after hearing Dhond for SBI and Harish Salve for Ambani. Ambani is seeking advice on appealing against the order before the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal, a spokesperson said. He pointed out that the appointment of an RP does not amount to an admission of SBI’s insolvency application. “The NCLT has declined SBI’s request for a restriction on Ambani from dealing or appropriating his assets, to the prejudice of the interest of SBI. The claim against Ambani, after verification and determination of maintainability, would be considered at a later date by NCLT,” he said. The spokesperson added that the order of the NCLT will have no bearing on the operations of Reliance Infrastructure, Reliance Power and Reliance Capital. SBI had sought to enforce the personal guarantee and issued a demand notice in February 2020, seeking repayment. Receiving no response, it approached the NCLT on March 12, just before the country went into lockdown to battle the Covid-19 pandemic. Ambani contested enforcement of the personal guarantee, claiming an understanding between the bank and personal guarantor that the lender would first invoke the corporate guarantee provided by RCom and RITL before invoking the personal guarantee. He claimed that the personal guarantee was to be invoked only if there was a shortfall. Ambani’s counsel challenged the proceedings against personal guarantor while a debt resolution plan for the companies are pending consideration. Read AlsoJio-RCom spectrum sharing deal not connected with AGR liability: ReportReliance Jio's four-year-old telecom spectrum sharing deal with Reliance Communications (RCom) is not connected with the latter's past statutory dues that pertain to the period prior to 2016 when Jio wasn't even in operation, sources close to the company said.The tribunal in its 22-page order termed Ambani’s submission was “eristic” as “the law doesn’t envisage that the insolvency resolution of the personal guarantor should follow only when the process of corporate insolvency resolution of the corporate debtor has come to an end”. The tribunal also observed that the “retrospective declaration” of NPA from August 26, 2016, even before loan agreements were entered into, “seems rather incongruous, akin to the adage ‘putting the cart before the horse’”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nclt-will-check-sbis-pleas-against-anil-ambani-for-recovery-of-rs-1200cr/articleshow/77683493.cms||Swati Deshpande
August 22, 2020||Patna||Bhagalpur prisoners make 25,000 face masks||BHAGALPUR: The jail inmates in the district are busy manufacturing face masks to protect people from the coronavirus. The objective is to engage them in creative activities besides helping them earn as well, said Sanjay Kumar Chaudhary, jail superintendent at Special Central Jail and Shahid Jubba Sahni (SJS) Central Jail at Bhagalpur. He said the manufacturing cost of a double layer cotton mask is Rs10. Nearly 25,000 face masks have been supplied to various state government establishments, including 5,000 to SJS Central Jail (Bhagalpur), 3,000 to Khagaria district jail, 2,000 to police lines through SSP (Bhagalpur) office, 6,000 to police lines through Naugachia SP office and 1,500 to Begusarai SP office. The jail officials and staff besides the inmates also wear the face masks manufactured there, Chaudhary said and added that the priority was to fulfil the demands at the district jails at Sheikhpura, Lakhisarai, Jamui, Munger, Khagaria, Begusarai, Banka, Bhagalpur and Naugachia. It He said the jail administration has endeavoured to provide necessary raw materials and training to the inmates for manufacturing masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhagalpur-prisoners-make-25000-face-masks/articleshow/77682633.cms||Kumar Rajesh
August 22, 2020||Patna||Human trials of Oxford University’s Covishield vaccine to begin at RMRI||PATNA: The RMRI in Patna will soon start phase 2 and 3 of human trials of Covishield, a vaccine under development by Oxford University in collaboration with the British-Swedish multinational company- AstraZeneca. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-Delhi has approved 17 institutes across the country for the clinical trials of phase 2 and 3 on Covishield, including the RMRI. The Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), manufacturer of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine (ChAdOx1), which is called Covishield in India, has selected the institutes that would undertake a clinical trial in collaboration with ICMR- Delhi. Both phases will be random, observer-blind and controlled study to evaluate its immunogenicity (the ability of a foreign substance, such as an antigen, to provoke an immune response in the body of a human) and safety. Dr Pradeep Das, director of RMRI-Patna, said altogether 160 healthy people both men and women (above 18 years of age), would be selected for the trial. “The clinical trial will be carried out on an OPD basis, meaning the participant will not need admission. The voluntary participants will get 0.5ml intramuscular injection on day one and day 29. The follow-ups will be done on day 59 and again on day180 to access the study of outcomes,” he told this newspaper. A scientific journal- The Lancet in its recent publication about the results of phase 1 and 2 of trial mentioned that the preliminary results showed that the vaccine induces strong immune response with no safety concerns. The human trials are on in the UK, Brazil, USA and South Africa. Researchers are currently assessing whether the vaccine will be effective in combatting Covid-19. “The researchers observed that the vaccine provoked a T- cell response within 14 days of vaccination and an antibody response within 28 days. During the follow-ups, we will analyze the toxicity and efficacy of the vaccine. People who have already developed antibodies against the Covid will not be allowed to participate in the trials,” Dr Das said. He added: “We will complete the clinical trial in seven months. OIn the first month, we will enrol the volunteers for the trials. The ICMR- Delhi and SII will give Rs 55 lakh fund to the institute for the trials.” The other selected institutes include KEM Hospital-Mumbai, PGIMER- Chandigarh, Jehangir Hospital- Pune, AIIMS- Delhi, ICMR-Regional Medical Research Centre- Gorakhpur, Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences,-Sewagram and Government Medical College- Nagpur among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/human-trials-of-oxford-universitys-covishield-vaccine-to-begin-at-rmri/articleshow/77682795.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 22, 2020||Business||SBI MF chief is MD of SBI||TNN Mumbai: The appointments committee of the Cabinet has approved SBI Mutual Fund MD Ashwani Bhatia’s appointment as MD, State Bank of India. His appointment is until his retirement in May 2022. The MD of the SBI MF is equivalent to the position of deputy managing director. Bhatia’s appointment is in place of P K Gupta, who completed his term earlier this year. His appointment was earlier recommended by the Banks Board Bureau, which shortlists candidates for senior positions in public sector financial institutions. With this appointment, the government has filled most of the vacancies in banks. The current term of SBI chairman Rajnish Kumar will end in October. The candidates include the four managing directors with the other three being Dinesh Kumar Khara, Arjit Basu and C S Setty. There is a strong likelihood that the government may grant an additional term for Kumar. The former chairman Arundhati Bhattacharya was also given an extension for over a year to complete the process of the merger of five associate banks with SBI. Bhatia started his career with SBI in 1985 as a probationary officer. Before taking charge as MD of SBI MF, he was chief general manager in SBI and was in-charge of revamping of the corporate credit structures and processes in the bank. Earlier, he was president and chief operating officer at SBI Capital Market and chief general manager (SME) at SBI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-mf-chief-is-md-of-sbi/articleshow/77683388.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Patna||Poor paperwork reason behind ‘dirtiest’ tag: Gaya civic body||GAYA: As per the ‘Swachh Survekshan’ results announced on Thursday, Gaya has been declared as the ‘dirtiest town’ in the category of urban areas with a population of less than 10 lakhs. Six of the ten dirtiest towns in the country in this category are from Bihar, including Bhagalpur, Biharsharif, Saharsa and Buxar. The ‘dirtiest’ tag has caused deep embarrassment to the Gayaites on account of its being an international tourists and pilgrims’ destination. “It (Thursday) was a sleepless night for most of us,” said deputy mayor Akhauri Aunkar Nath Srivastav @ Mohan Srivastav. “It is introspection time for all of us. However, the situation is not as bad as has been depicted and the report appears to be biased,” he added. Municipal commissioner Sawan Kumar also had a similar view. “Documentation deficit, and not performance deficit, was the main cause behind the embarrassing ranking, as the municipal body could not load all the information required by the surveyors,” he said. Moreover, the surveyors put too much importance on solid waste management, an area that continues to trouble the Gaya civic body. Skill shortage was another area of concern, he added. A change in the present system of local self government is required, said DK Jain, president of the Grand Chord Passengers Association. “The municipal councillors are, most of the time engaged in manipulations and the mayor and his deputy’s priority remains to save their respective chairs. Direct election for the mayor’s post is needed,” said Jain. MK Himanshu, secretary of the Gaya Bar Association, attributed it to the prevailing corruption in the municipal body. Each household, on paper, has been given two dustbins for waste deposit and door-to-door collection. Most of the households in his ward no 36 have neither got the dustbins nor regular waste collection is done, he alleged. It is a matter of real shame, said Dr Ram Sewak Prasad Singh, president of the Gaya chapter of Indian Medical Association. “However, we the citizens should also share the blame as civic sense deficiency is all too obvious,” he said. Activist Md Moosa too attributed it to the accumulated inefficiency and corruption in the municipal body. On account of permanent encroachment, most of the city’s drains remain clogged causing almost perennial waterlogging in several areas. The municipal body, besides indulging in wasteful expenditure, does not properly utilize its resources. Kedarnath Market, located on a prime land, has virtually been reduced to a garbage dump, said Moosa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/poor-paperwork-reason-behind-dirtiest-tag-gaya-civic-body/articleshow/77683149.cms||Abdul Qadir
August 22, 2020||Patna||‘50% of country’s freshwater dolphin population in Bihar’||PATNA: Around 50% of the total freshwater dolphin population in the country is found in Bihar, principal secretary (environment, forest and climate change) Dipak Kumar Singh said at a webinar organized by the Press Bureau of India (PIB) on Friday. “Gangetic dolphins are a flagship species of the riverine ecosystem and its conservation is crucial to the welfare of Ganga river ecosystem. Human induced environmental factors such as illegal poaching, water pollution and lack of awareness should be checked upon in order to improve the overall aquatic habitat,” Singh said while stressing the need to create awareness regarding its conservation among local farmers, fisherman and schoolchildren. “Gangetic dolphins are primarily poached for its oil and meat. The oil is used as a fish attractant by local fishermen. The state government has started spreading awareness among local fishermen of Bhagalpur and adjoining river banks in order to curb this practice,” he added. The announcement of Project Dolphin by PM Narendra Modi during his Independence Day speech this year has given a booster shot to the state government for ramping up the conservation of Gangetic dolphins. The Ganga flowing along Patna and Bhagalpur is home to around 1400 Gangetic dolphins, which have also been listed as an endangered species by International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). Gopal Sharma, scientist and officer-in-charge at Zoological Survey of India-Patna, said, “To tackle the threats facing Gangetic dolphins, we are working on several measures such promoting the use of an alternative to dolphin oil, curbing illegal poaching and restriction on the use of detrimental fishing nets.” Additional principal chief conservator of forests Prabhat Kumar Gupta was among many others who participated in the webinar. Earlier this week, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi had sought the Centre’s support to establish a Dolphin Research centre on Patna University premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/50-of-countrys-freshwater-dolphin-population-in-bihar/articleshow/77683075.cms||Arunima Lal
August 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat extortion, Sri Lanka kidney extraction||AHMEDABAD: Police investigating the sale of his kidney by a school teacher in Banaskantha, in order to pay of his debts to two moneylenders, have now unearthed a bigger scam with links to other Indian states such as Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. This is because the nephrologist from Colombo who had coordinated the deal for the kidney of the schoolteacher, Rajaji Rawat (35), a resident of Tharad, was also involved in the selling kidneys for people from Hyderabad. A Banaskantha police officer said Rawat had in 2012 borrowed Rs 3 lakh from a moneylender, who kept recovering money from him. To pay off this loan and interest, Rawat in 2013 borrowed Rs 5 lakh from another moneylender, but he too kept recovering money from him. Rawat then decided to sell his kidney and searched the internet. He found the contact number of Dr Monik Sanjeewa from Colombo and contacted him to sell his kidney. In March 2014, Rawat went to Colombo where Sanjeewa arranged his accommodation in a guest house near Nawaloka Hospital. His kidney was sold off for Rs 15 lakh and he returned to India. He then paid off both moneylenders but both of them kept demanding more. As Rawat could not pay any more, he was beaten by their aides. He approached Tharad police who began an investigation. They found that Sanjeewa was also involved in the selling of kidneys of people from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. “Hyderabad police had also filed a complaint against Sanjeewa, who had been registered with the medical councils of India and Sri Lanka in 2003. His name and that of three other Sri Lankan doctors figured in the kidney racket,” said a police officer. “We suspect that other persons from Surat, Vadodara and Ahmedabad in Gujarat were involved in kidney sale deals, regarding which an investigation has been launched,” added the officer. He said this kidney sale is linked to the selling of kidneys by people from Pandoli village in Anand as one of the accused is common in both cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/guj-extortion-lanka-kidney-extraction/articleshow/77683348.cms||Ashish Chauhan
August 22, 2020||Pune||PMR records 3,324 Covid cases, testing count tops 6 lakh||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added more than 3,000 cases for the second straight day on Friday, taking its tally to more than 1.39 lakh. Besides, the region’s testing count breached 6 lakh-mark in the last 24 hours. The region recorded 3,324 cases on Friday, including 1,536 in PMC limits. Besides, 65 patients succumbed to the infection on Friday, taking the death toll in PMR to 3,426 so far. Most of them suffered from co-morbid conditions like hypertension and diabetes, a health official said. As many as 2,348 patients were discharged in PMR on Friday. With this, the total recovery count in PMR has risen to more than 1.05 lakh. As per the data provided by the district health office, active patients count increased to 30,673 on Friday evening, including 18,518 patients admitted in various hospitals as well as Covid care centres, and 12,155 patients in home isolation. In the 24 hours ended Friday night, the region had conducted 12,245 tests. Testing per million population is now over 62,000 in Pune district, away above the state and national average. Health officials said testing had been on the rise for the last two months, especially in the hotspots and micro containment zones. A report released by the PMC stated that the number of critical patients stood at 793 in municipal limits, of whom 483 were on ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-records-3324-cases-testing-count-tops-6-lakh/articleshow/77684078.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 22, 2020||Rajkot||Historysheeter, girlfriend arrested with 7.6kg ganja||RAJKOT: A couple was arrested with 7.6 kg ganja (marijuana) worth Rs 45,000 from near old collectorate office in Rajkot on Thursday night. The accused were identified as Imtiyaz Sheikh (35) and his girlfriend Yasmin Shelat (34). “We had received a tip-off that Sheikh and Shelat had gone to Surat to fetch ganja. When they alighted from the bus and were on their way to Rukhadia Colony, we caught them,” said R Y Rawal, inspector with Rajkot special operation group. Sheikh had made Shelat carry her son while transporting the contraband so that they do not grab attention, he added. “Sheikh is a history-sheeter involved in as many as 16 criminal cases ranging from physical assault to threatening and robbery. Sheikh has been jailed twice under Prevention of Anti Social Activities (PASA) Act,” added Rawal. During his interrogation, Sheikh said that after he was released on bail from jail in a loot case, he urgently needed money. Hence, he decided to smuggle the contraband from Surat taking help of Shelat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/historysheeter-girlfriend-arrested-with-7-6kg-ganja/articleshow/77681933.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Rajkot||Three members each of two families killed in two separate accidents||RAJKOT: Six persons including two women and an infant were killed in two separate accidents reported from Bhachau in Kutch district and Lakhtar in Surendranagar district on Thursday night. Three persons were killed when their SUV rammed into the rear of a parked truck near Vagad Welfare Hospital on the outskirts of Bhachau. “As there were no indicators on at the rear of the truck, the driver of the SUV could not see it, resulting in the crash,” said C B Rathod, sub-inspector with Bhachau police station. The deceased were identified as Amrut Halani (65), owner of an angadia firm, his younger brother Bhudarji Halani (63) and Bhudarji’s wife Parvati Halani (60). “The Halani family was returning to Gandhidham from Deesa where they had gone to attend the funeral ceremony of a relative on Wednesday. The accident left the SUV mangled and the bodies stuck inside. We had to cut the SUV into pieces to extricate the bodies,” added Rathod. While Amrut was the president of Lohana Mahajan Samaj, Bhudarji was into the business of transportation. Meanwhile, between Kadu and Olak villages of Lakhtar taluka in Surendranagar district on Surendranagar-Ahmedabad Highway, a couple and their three-month-old nephew were killed when the autorickshaw they were travelling in had a head-on collision with a truck coming from the opposite direction. “The deceased were identified as Tribhovan Dodia (32), who was driving the rickshaw, his wife Pinky Dodia (30) and their nephew Khayansh Dodia. However, Khayansh’s parents — Haresh Dodia (30) and Sneha Dodia (28) — survived with injuries,” said Y F Chudasma, sub-inspector with Lakhtar police station. Also, Surbhi Solanki (20), the younger sister of Sneha, survived with injuries, he added. “The deceased were the residents of Vadaj area of Ahmedabad. They were on their way to Vadhwan to take blessings for Khayan from their family deity,” added Chudasma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-members-each-of-two-families-killed-in-two-separate-accidents/articleshow/77681898.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Rajkot||Two brothers held for minor’s rape in Lakhpat||RAJKOT: Two brothers were detained on Friday for allegedly raping a 17-year-old girl in Dayapar village of Lakhpat taluka in Kutch district. Police said the accused, Iqbal Qadi (21), had abducted the survivor at knife-point on his motorcycle from her house in Atada village of Lakhpat taluka on Tuesday. “After taking the girl to the outskirts of Dayapar village, Iqbal allegedly raped her. After committing the crime, Iqbal called his brother Majid Qadi (20), who dropped the survivor home on his bike,” said A M Ghelot, sub-inspector with Dayapar police station. Both Iqbal and Majid threatened to kill the survivor and his family members, if she complained about the incident, he added. “We nabbed the accused from their residence in Dayapar village. At present, we have detained them. However, we will be formally arresting them once they undergo Covid-19 test,” added Ghelot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-brothers-held-for-minors-rape-in-lakhpat/articleshow/77681742.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Patna||Bihar’s Covid recovery rate highest at 78%, tally crosses 1.17L||PATNA: Altogether 2,461 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Bihar on Friday, taking the total caseload to 1,17,671 in the past 24 hours. The state health department also reported 14 more Covid fatalities, after which the coronavirus death toll in the state has gone up to 588. Among the fresh casualties, six are from Saran followed by four in Begusarai, two in Gaya and one each in Khagaria and Madhubani. No new death reported from Patna in the official data provided by the health department. As the recovery rate in Bihar reached 78%, the highest in the past two months, the positivity rate has decreased with more testings in the state. Bihar’s recovery rate is 4% more than the national average of 73.9%. “With a high discharge rate, the state’s active cases dropped to 25,242. Altogether 91,841 people have recovered so far across the state, 3,628 of them in the last 24 hours. The state’s recovery rate has surged to 78%. The number of tastings has crossed 22- lakh in Bihar (sic),” health minister Mangal Pandey posted on his Twitter handle. “With 1,12,422 samples tested in a day, the cumulative testing figures have reached 22,28,516,” health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said in the daily Covid briefing on Friday evening. A 93-year-old woman was among the 3,628 people discharged from the hospitals on Friday. The woman from Mithila Colony came to AIIMS-Patna on July 26, she spent nearly a month in the hospital before being released. According to AIIMS-Patna officials, she is the eldest among all Covid fighters. She was on NIV (non-invasive ventilation) for a few days when her condition deteriorated. The woman has hypertension, suffered from fever and breathlessness during the infection. AIIMS-Patna director Dr PK Singh said more and more geriatric age group patients are coming and the hospital has been taking a holistic approach for their care and treatment. Patna reported 308 new Covid cases on Friday, taking the tally to 18,402. With 15,132 recoveries in the district so far, the active cases stood at 3,154. The death toll stood at 116 in Patna on Friday. Other districts, which reported the maximum number of Covid- 19 cases, include Muzaffarpur (161), East Champaran (139), Madhubani (134), Araria (116) and 103 each in Katihar, Nalanda and Saran. Three Covid patients died at AIIMS- Patna on Friday, including a 15-year-old girl from Ghordaur village in Patna. Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid, said a 63-year-old female from Bihta and a 56-year-old man from Madhepura were among the deceased. A 75-year-old woman from Mahavir Colony in Bahadurpur died due to Covid at NMCH-Patna. Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer for Covid, confirmed the death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihars-covid-recovery-rate-highest-at-78-tally-crosses-1-17l/articleshow/77682822.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 22, 2020||Patna||Many cured patients return to hospitals with other Covid-induced ailments||PATNA: Several Covid-19 patients, who recovered after a long battle with the virus in isolation wards, are returning to the hospitals with coronavirus-spawned complications such as psychological problems, secondary ailments, low oxygen saturation and other flaring up of chronic diseases. A 47- year- old resident of SK Puri, who recovered from Covid about 25 days ago, now suffers from shortness of breath and chest pain. “Soon after the recovery, even a short walk at home made me fatigued and increased my heart rate. Initially, I thought it might be because of post- Covid recovery, but after the ECG I was diagnosed with symptoms of heart inflammation,” he said. Another Covid-recovered patient said, he now suffers from pleural effusion (water in the lungs). “At the time of Covid infection, I was suffering from mild fever and cough. But I recovered from it by taking prescribed medications at the hospital. But after returning home, I realized that sometimes I feel a contraction in the chest and bouts of breathlessness. Now, I am a little better after treatment at a non-Covid hospital,” the 52- year- old city resident said. Health experts have claimed that Covid-19 not only has influenza-like effects, but it also affects organ tissues, including heart, lungs, kidney, brain and digestive system. Dr Rajiv Ranjan Prasad, former president of India Medical Association (IMA), Bihar, told this newspaper on Thursday that as per a study, only 10% people who have recovered from the Covid virus have chances of a relapse. “Initially, the virus has 90% infestation in the oral and nasal cavity. But the virus further spreads to other organs. Due to thickening of the blood, it impacts other organs as well,” Prasad said. He added, “Secondly, some people have developed a fear psychosis post-Covid recovery. Besides, we do not know the impact of non- Covid medicines and their helpfulness in treating Covid patients.” At AIIMS-Patna, a total of five patients were re-admitted after they suffered from secondary ailments post Covid recovery. Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19, said around 1,400 patients have recovered from the hospital. “Five patients approached us again with other ailments like a renal problem, prosthetic gall and respiratory inflammation. But after the institute became a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, we are only admitting Covid positive patients,” he said. “Many Covid recovered patients are still approaching us after months, with health problems like a chest infection, heart ailments, respiratory problem, stroke, vasculitis and kidney chronic disease. We send these patients to non- Covid hospitals or patients with symptoms to isolation centres. It has more impact on comorbid patients,” Dr Sanjeev said. Dr PN Jha, nodal officer for Covid at PMCH said several patients contact the hospital administration with psychological problems. “We admitted four patients again in a non-Covid ward and counselled them. They develop fear psychosis after recovery from Covid. So far, 153 patients recovered from the hospital. Some patients also approached with symptoms related to lungs and kidney,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-cured-patients-return-to-hospitals-with-other-covid-induced-ailments/articleshow/77682491.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 22, 2020||Pune||550 doctors for on-call services in rural Pune||PUNE: The state health commissioner has cleared a Rs 18.4 crore plan for procurement of ambulances for each of the 92 primary health centres (PHCs) in rural Pune. The Indian Medical Association (IMA), too, has committed services of 550 private doctors, including physicians, surgeons and anaesthetists for on-call services to Covid care centres (CCCs), dedicated Covid health centres (DCHCs) and dedicated Covid hospitals (DCHs) across 13 tehsils in the district. Zilla Parishad chief Ayush Prasad had appealed to the IMA for medical manpower. “These doctors have already started attending to patients at all our 79 CCCs, DCHCs and DCHs across the district,” he told TOI on Friday. “The health officers at respective talukas have been assigned the task of allocating duties to doctors as per the requirement. The doctors will also visit our PHCs and attend to all types of patients,” he said. “With this, the total strength of doctors is now around 800 and is adequate for the time being to meet our requirement. Besides, a jumbo Covid care facility is being established in city limits and the same will also help us in treating critical patients,” Prasad added. For the new ambulances, funds are being made available from the central government’s 14th Finance Commission allocation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/550-docs-for-on-call-services-in-rural-pune/articleshow/77684103.cms||Sandip Dighe
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Kathi held in 2nd case for derogatory post||Hyderabad: The cybercrime police on Friday arrested Telugu film critic Kathi Mahesh in yet another case for making derogatory comments on Lord Ram. On August 14, the cybercrime police arrested Mahesh for an offensive post on Facebook on Lord Ram. He was produced before the magistrate and sent to judicial remand for 14 days. On Friday, while he was lodged at Chanchalguda prison, the cybercrime police moved a petition before the court for prisoner transit remand in another case registered against Mahesh in February. “We had registered a case against Kathi Mahesh in February based on a complaint lodged by Umesh Kumar, a businessman. The complainant alleged that Mahesh made derogatory comments on Lord Ram in a speech which is available on YouTube. The court has remanded Mahesh in judicial custody in the second case,” cybercrime ACP KVM Prasad said. Police said that Mahesh has moved bail petition in the case booked against him. Before his arrest last week, Mahesh had told the police that his post was meant to be a satire about a priest who had attended the ground-breaking ceremony of a place of worship and later tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kathi-held-in-2nd-case-for-derogatory-post/articleshow/77684068.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Poor Swachh ranking result of GHMC’s failure on key fronts||HYDERABAD: The state capital failed to make it to the top cleanest cities in the country this year in the latest Swachh Survekshan rankings announced on Thursday. As per the rankings of the national survey, Hyderabad slipped to 65th rank from 35th rank it got last year. The city competed with 100 cities. According to the rankings, which were released by the Centre on Thursday, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has been awarded the No.1 rank in the “Best Mega City in Citizen Feedback” (above 40 lakh population), whereas in the ‘Above 10 lakh population’ category for overall performance, it was positioned at 23rd compared to 47 other metros. The methodology of ranking under the citizens’ feedback category is based on the number of responses. The positive or negative responses are not taken into consideration. In the Swachh score card, the Swachh Bharat Mission officials pointed out flaws in the GHMC’s handling of door-to-door garbage collection, onsite composting and sweeping in public areas and awarded the civic body 500 marks out of 1,500 in certification parameter. Surprisingly, in the direct assessment parameter where sanitation in public places is inspected, Swachh Bharat Mission officials contradicted themselves and awarded 1376.3 marks out of 1,500 to the civic body. When contacted, GHMC commisioner DS Lokesh Kumar said, “In sanitation, there is always a scope for improvement. If we compare GHMC’s rank with other corporations with more than 10 lakh population, we stood 23rd.” He said that the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation is planning on improve sanitation in commercial hubs in the city. “Measures that will be implemented will be announced by municipal administration and urban development minister KT Rama Rao. Steps will be taken to improve sanitation in residential areas too,” he added.  This year, the cities were ranked out of a total of 6,000 marks, with four sub-categories of 15,000 marks each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/poor-swachh-ranking-result-of-ghmcs-failure-on-key-fronts/articleshow/77684066.cms||Nabinder Bommala
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||DRI sleuths seize truck with 1,400kg ganja worth Rs 3.5cr||Hyderabad: Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) sleuths intercepted a goods carrier truck at Panthangi toll plaza on Vijayawda-Hyderabad highway on Thursday and seized 1,427 kilos of ganja worth Rs 3.5 crore. Acting on specific information, DRI Hyderabad team intercepted a goods carrier truck coming from East Godavari district at Panthangi Toll Plaza. “On the first look, it appeared like the vehicle was carrying worn out tyres but when we inspected the vehicle closely, a specially designed cavity behind driver’s and the cargo area was found. Several bags of ganja were concealed in that cavity,” said a DRI official. The police arrested the truck’s driver, who confessed to DRI officials that he was taking the contraband from East Godavari to Uttar Pradesh. Along with the contraband, DRI also seized the truck and arrested the accused under the NDPS Act, 1985. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dri-sleuths-seize-truck-with-1400kg-ganja-worth-rs-3-5cr/articleshow/77684073.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Pune||Row over PMC tender for burial||PUNE: Social organizations have raised questions on the need for a tender, worth Rs 26 lakh, floated by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for burial of patients deceased due to Covid-19. The social organizations, which are voluntarily conducting the burials, have objected to the move since many groups are currently undertaking the work free of charge. The organizations staged an agitation at the PMC headquarters at Shivajinagar seeking a withdrawal of the tenders. The groups include Mulnivasi Muslim Manch and Christian Charitable Trust. As per the tender, the contracted agency would carry out the burials for six months. “The issuance of tenders is wrong and unethical. People are ready conduct the last rites free of cost. The civic administration should not ignore them,” said Anjum Indamdar of Mulnivasi Muslim Manch. Assistant medical officer Kalpana Baliwant confirmed that the PMC has started the process to withdraw tender.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/row-over-pmc-tender-for-burial/articleshow/77684117.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Bareilly||Magisterial teams examine top 20 fertiliser buyers in the district to track misuse||Pilibhit: Four magisterial committees examined the top 20 buyers of fertilisers in seven blocks of the district, which concluded on Friday afternoon, following state government orders. Afterwards, the drive will enter a second phase, in which, the use to which the purchased fertiliser is put in, is to be carried out.According to authorities of the agriculture department, the drive is primarily aimed at detecting misuse of fertilisers in black marketing, smuggling or the use of urea in other illegal activities.As per district agriculture officer, Dr Vinod Yadav, the official teams inspected records of POS (point of sale) machines at IFFCO (Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Limited) e-bazar, KRIBHCO (Krishak Bharati Cooperative Ltd) sale centres, UPPCF (UP Provincial Cooperative Federation) centres, in addition to 14 cooperative societies and some individual fertiliser shops, and found that the maximum amount of urea sold to one person was 1,540 bags.“The department is making preparations to feed the inspection report into the state administration portal. In the next phase, official will verify the agricultural land-holdings of the individuals who purchased such heavy stocks of fertilizers,” said Dr Yadav.The inspection was based on sale proceedings carried out between April 1 and July 31. The total opening stock of fertiliser at inspected establishments was 84,631 metric tonnes, of which 77,108 metric tonnes was sold, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/magisterial-teams-examine-top-20-fertiliser-buyers-in-the-district-to-track-misuse/articleshow/77680362.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Gurgaon||Part of wall collapses at Bandhwari plant, leachate spills into Aravalis||Gurgaon: Leachate again seeped into the Aravalis on Thursday after part of the boundary wall of the Bandhwari waste-to-energy plant collapsed due to rain. While the concessionaire insisted it was “rainwater” and not leachate, environmentalists said the plant has been polluting groundwater for some time now and poses a threat to wildlife and people living in nearby areas. A visit to the site by TOI on Thursday showed a stream of leachate flowing into the Aravalis, exposing the tall claims by the concessionaire, Ecogreen Energy Pvt Ltd, that they are treating leachate in the plant and it cannot mix with groundwater. The black-coloured contaminated water was flowing into several small ponds in the forest area over a spread of 1km, emanating a pungent smell. Ecogreen, however, refuted all claims of leachate discharge. “Due to heavy rainfall, a portion of the wall collapsed, but leachate was not discharged into the Aravalis. We have repaired the wall now. We are taking care of the plant and it has been designed in such a way that no leachate can spill out. It has been raining for the past two days. The rainwater thus collected is dark in colour, which has been mistaken for leachate,” an Ecogreen representative said. A recent survey of the area by the wildlife department had revealed that Ecogreen was “intentionally” spilling thousands of litres of leachate from the Bandhwari landfill onto mining pits in the eco-sensitive Aravalis, resulting in the continued contamination of groundwater of five nearby villages. “In the last one year, several new ponds have come up, which are collecting leachate and thus leading to groundwater contamination,” said Sunil Harsana, an environmental activist who lives in a nearby village. The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has also collected samples from these ponds to evaluate the status of groundwater and confirm if it is leachate. The results, however, have been pending for the last 20 days. “We have not received the results of the samples yet,” said Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, HSPCB. Environmentalists said their requests to authorities to take action over leachate over the year went unheeded and the rate of destruction has increased manifold over the years. “We have been repeatedly informing the civic bodies regarding the spillage, but no strict action has been taken against Ecogreen. Only the amount of waste at the plant has grown over the years,” said Vivek Kamboj, an activist. “Dumping of leachate and other waste in the Aravalis poses a serious health hazard to people in neighbouring cities of Gurgaon and Faridabad, as they are at a higher elevation along natural water drainage and groundwater recharge areas. This destruction and dumping is also destroying the wildlife in the area,” said Vaishali Rana Chandra, another activist. TOI had on August 16 reported that the state wildlife department was planning to cancel the no-objection certificate (NOC) issued to Ecogreen for the operation of the waste treatment plant for dumping leachate in the Aravalis. The department had also written to the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) and the municipal commissioner’s office regarding the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/part-of-wall-collapses-at-bandhwari-plant-leachate-spills-into-aravalis/articleshow/77669709.cms||Ipsita Pati
August 22, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Cash in Swapna Suresh’s locker not commission, says court||KOCHI: Ernakulam principal sessions court on Friday dismissed the bail petition of Swapna Suresh, observing that it was prima facie clear that the amount found from the bank locker of Swapna Suresh was not acquired through commission for executing deals for the UAE consulate as stated by the petitioner. The court made the observation despite the defence counsel arguing that the liquid cash kept in the locker were commissions received by Swapna. “But it is pertinent to note that the statement of Santhosh Eapen of Unitac Builders recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA Act would show that no amount was given to the petitioner as claimed by her. In another statement, he stated that he gave commission to all three accused, including the petitioner, through bank transfer into the bank account of M/S ISOMONK trading company with Axis Bank, Sasthamangalam branch, and not to the petitioner as claimed by her,” the court observed. Accused Sandeep Nair too had admitted to the facts, it stated. “Thus, it is prima facie clear that the amount found in the bank locker is not acquired through commission as stated by the petitioner,” the court further observed. The order states that the investigation conducted so far revealed that the accused, including the petitioner, had sourced gold in large quantities from abroad. The court also pointed out that the Section 24 of the PMLA act, which deals with burden of proof, cast a reverse burden on the accused. Swapna’s counsel pointed out that the gold ornaments and cash found in the locker were gifted by her father at the time of marriage, states the order. In conclusion, the court observed that prima facie there were materials on record to show the involvement of the petitioner in the crime. “The petitioner is an influential lady. Granting bail to the petitioner at this stage may affect the smooth progress of the investigation and the possibility of the petitioner influencing the witnesses and interfering with the investigation cannot be ruled out. So, considering the gravity of the offences and the stage of investigation, I am of the view that the petitioner cannot be released on bail at this stage,” sessions judge Kauser Edappagath stated while dismissing the bail plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cash-in-swapnas-locker-not-commission-court/articleshow/77682890.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Bareilly||Over 2,000 turn up for 116 posts at Covid hospital in Bareilly||BAREILLY: Over 2,000 applicants turned up for a walk-in-interview for appointment of doctors, nurses, pharmacists, lab technicians, ward boys and sweepers at Covid-19 level-2 (L2) hospital on a temporary basis on Friday. As a large number of people came at the collectorate to apply for 116 posts at the Covid hospital for four months, social distancing norms were flouted. Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, “A panel headed by district magistrate conducted the interview. The staff will be hired for a maximum of four months and the panel will take a final decision on the number of months.” The 300-bed hospital is being upgraded to Covid-19 L2 hospital on the direction of chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Though the authorities had earlier decided to make it operational from August 21, it was delayed. Officials said the L2 hospital will become functional from next week. The officials further said they have set up an Intensive Care Unit (ICU) with 10 beds, 14 ventilators and 100-beds with oxygen supply. Apart from doctors and supporting staff who will be hired temporarily, the existing staff will be deployed at the hospital to work in three shifts. When the construction of the 300-bed hospital began during the regime of Samajwadi Part, it was planned to be a government-run multi-speciality hospital. However, after the building was almost ready this year, the district administration and the health department in Bareilly planned to shift district hospital here and constituted a committee to check its flexibility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/over-2000-turn-up-for-116-posts-at-covid-hospital-in-bareilly/articleshow/77680382.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Kolkata||‘Zoo workers might have stepped on live wire’||Kolkata: Investigators probing the death of two labourers in Alipore zoo on Thursday morning hinted that the two had possibly stepped on a live wire. They were working on the area opposite the elephant enclosure, where Tarini Ghosh and Pradip Das were electrocuted and died. Another labourer, Litan Das, who was also electrocuted and put on life support, was brought out of ventilation on Friday. Doctors said he had started responding to the treatment. Investigators said according to preliminary probe, it looked like a case of accident where the labourers might have torn high-tension underground electrical cable lines while digging up the ground on earlier occasions for installation of the iron poles. On Thursday, they had possibly stepped on it. “A clearer picture will be available when our committee members and empanelled engineers visit the site. Friday being a lockdown day, the inquiry committee could not work,” said Asis Samanta, the zoo director. Officers at the Watgunge PS said they are yet to receive any complaint of negligence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/zoo-workers-might-have-stepped-on-live-wire/articleshow/77684150.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Bareilly||38-year-old man shot dead while sleeping on terrace in UP's Budaun||BAREILLY: A 38-year-old man who was sleeping on the terrace of his house was shot dead in Kalora village under Dataganj police station limits in Budaun district on Thursday night. Ramautar, a native of Bareilly, had gone to Budaun to meet his relatives. Police have sent the body for postmortem. Station house officer of Dataganj police station Ajit Singh said, “The family of deceased has claimed that they had a land dispute with a fellow villager. They have accused Itvari and his sons- who are in their 20s—for shooting Ramautar dead. On their complaint, we have lodged an FIR against the three accused under section 302 (murder) of the IPC. We are investigating the matter and action will be taken accordingly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/38-year-old-man-shot-dead-while-sleeping-on-terrace-in-budaun/articleshow/77680377.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Bareilly||Land survey in Pilibhit to award ownership titles to genuine refugees, displaced people||Pilibhit: Following an order by the state government, a joint team of forest and the revenue departments in Pilibhit district will conduct a survey to ascertain the status of land which refugees from East Pakistan and displaced people have been cultivating for years without any revenue titles in their name. Pilibhit's district magistrate Pulkit Khare said, "The survey envisages two categories of people. The first includes those 163 families who were rehabilitated in Indo-Nepal border villages -- Bamanpur Bhagirath and Tatarganj -- under Puranpur tehsil in the 1960s after they were displaced from Nanakmata, now in Uttarakhand state, as their agricultural land was acquired for the construction of the Nanak Sagar dam.” Under the second category, the administration would look into the claims of those refugees from East Pakistan who were given asylum in India in 1971, when around 2.5 acres of land was given to each family to till. “The exercise is aimed at awarding the ownership titles of lands to such families," said the DM. Khare added the administration would verify displacement by documents concerned. Cases of those who have no valid proof of their migration or displacement would be referred to the state government for its decision. “Huge tracts of land under the possession of such families has been claimed as forest property by the Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) authorities as well as the forest and wildlife division. The joint survey will also help segregate the forest area from revenue department's land. The decision whether the ownership titles on forest lands can be awarded to displaced families, will be subject to discretion of the state government,” said Khare. Naveen Khandelwal, deputy director of PTR, said the refugees had illegally taken possession of as much as 1,180 hectares of forest land in 12 villages. Divisional forest officer of North Kheri forest division, Anil Patel, said the families had occupied 2,000 hectares of forest land in Tatarganj and Bamanpuri Bhagirath villagers in Pilibhit. Community leaders of the refugees told TOI that their present population in the district was over 70,000 and they were living in over 30 villages spanning Puranpur, Kalinagar, Pilibhit sadar and Amaria tehsil circles. Thakur Das Mandal, a resident of Chandia Hajara village under Puranpur tehsil, told TOI that most of the refugees at his village were yet to get land allotment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/land-survey-in-pilibhit-to-award-ownership-titles-to-genuine-refugees-displaced-people/articleshow/77681615.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Dog found dragging away baby’s body||Hyderabad: A stray dog was found dragging away the body of a dead baby girl dumped inside a garbage bin in LB Nagar on Friday. Police suspect the child was abandoned by her family immediately after birth. Commuters in the area noticed the dog dragging away the child’s body and alerted the police. “The baby was found dead and the body was shifted to Osmania General Hospital. We are checking CCTV footage to identify the persons who abandoned the baby,” said inspector, LB Nagar, Ashok Reddy. A case was registered against the accused under IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dog-found-dragging-away-babys-body/articleshow/77684075.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC seeks state’s stand on law to protect cotton farmers||HYDERABAD: Wondering why the cotton farmers are forced to come to courts seeking the implementation of a state law that was promulgated to protect them, the Telangana high court on Friday asked the state government whether it would implement its Telangana Markets Act or if it would prefer to follow the Centre’s new ordinance on the same. The bench of Justice A Rajasheker Reddy and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy sought reply from the state within three days on the issue. The bench was hearing a PIL filed by G Ranjit Kumar, chairman of Nadigadda Rytu Hakkula Porata Samithi, a farmers outfit in Jogulamba-Gadwal district, who wants the court to stop the exploitation of cotton farmers by the seed companies. He complained about the state government’s inaction on the matter and sought a directive to the government to ensure that the seed companies abide by the laws and rules. He also informed the court about the Centre’s recent ordinance, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020, brought in on June 5, 2020, which is aimed at providing a national framework on farming agreements to protect and empower farmers. However, the required rules have not been formulated by the state for implementing the central law, he said. N S Arjun Kumar, counsel for the petitioner, said that the Telangana Markets Act, 1966 makes it mandatory for seed firms to enter into a written agreement with farmers, but the seed firms are not making these agreements with the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-seeks-states-stand-on-law-to-protect-cotton-farmers/articleshow/77684079.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Kozhikode||MYL reiterates corruption in Malayalam univ land acquisition||Kozhikode: Muslim Youth League (MYL) has come up with fresh allegations of corruption in the acquisition of land for Thunchath Ezhuthachan Malayalam University at Tirur in Malappuram district. MYL state general secretary P K Firos said state government hurriedly issued order to allot the remaining amount for acquiring land despite expert committee stating that construction work cannot be carried on the land. He said MYL will take legal action against the move. He said state government has in fact challenged its people by issuing order to allot the remaining amount to the land owners when demands were raised to take back Rs.9 crore which has been granted of the total Rs 17.6 crore earmarked for land acquisition. He alleged that the main motive of CPM was to make profit by acquiring land for the varsity at higher prices. He also alleged that the land was acquired from relatives of an MLA supporting LDF and relatives of an LDF candidate who had contested from Tirur constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/myl-reiterates-corruption-in-malayalam-univ-land-acquisition/articleshow/77682933.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Farmer held for killing his friend||Hyderabad: A 46-year-old farmer was arrested in a murder case registered at Chowdariguda police station in Rangareddy district. On August 15, the accused, Anjaiah, a farmer in Kasulabad village of Rangareddy district, had bludgeoned his friend, Raju, 40, to death with a stick when he was asleep at the former's house. After committing the murder, Anjaiah cut the body into three pieces and dumped them at different places in the village to avoid getting caught. However, while dumping the body parts, Anjaiah had accidentally dropped his wallet containing his Aadhaar card at the site. Based on the evidence, police arrested him from his house on Thursday night. Anjaiah confessed to having killed Raju as he suspected him of stealing his Rs 1,000. “Raju slept at Anjaiah's house on August 12. The next day Anjaiah realised that Rs 1,000 were missing and suspected Raju. On August 15, when Anjaiah questioned Raju over the missing cash, Raju abused him, following which Anjaiah killed the victim," Shadnagar (Rural) inspector MGS Rama Krishna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farmer-held-for-killing-his-friend/articleshow/77684108.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD’s MGNREGA scam allegations baseless: Min||Chandigarh: Punjab rural development and panchayats minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa rejected SAD president Sukhbir Badal’s allegations about Rs 1,000 crore scam a Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme, saying there was not an iota of truth in them. Bajwa termed Sukhbir’s allegations as politically motivated, saying the state government had ensured proper utilisation of funds under the scheme for the development of villages. He alleged that SAD’s wrongdoings had marginalised it from the political scenario of Punjab and now Sukhbir wanted to discontinue the scheme with the help of his alliance with the central government. The minister cautioned the SAD president against putting obstacles in the welfare of Punjabis as his false allegations could cost dear to 2.5 lakh needy families, out of which 68% are Dalits. Sukhbir made allegations of Rs 1,000 crore corruption but he was not aware that the government had sanctioned a budget of Rs 800 crore under MGNREGA for this year, said Bajwa. Out of the total budget, only Rs 390 crore had been spent and till the formation of government in Punjab in 2017, it had spent only Rs 520 crore on material, he added. “I want to ask Sukhbir, if a government had spent only Rs 520 crore than how could the scam figure touch Rs 1,000 crore? Sukhbir is holding a responsible position and it is not good for a person in that position to spread rumors for personal benefits,” said Bajwa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sads-mgnrega-scam-allegations-baseless-min/articleshow/77684163.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Kolkata||Covid tests through visa firm||Kolkata: VFS Global that provides visa facilitation services to multiple countries, has launched online appointment bookings to collect swab samples for Covid-19 tests in Kolkata. As borders re-open and travel restrictions ease, several countries are seeking pre-departure Covid-19 tests. VFS Global said it launched the Covid-19 RT-PCR sample collection service for customers in Kolkata. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-tests-through-visa-firm/articleshow/77684167.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Amritsar||Sikh holy book printed in Canada, row erupts||AMRITSAR: Various Sikh bodies across the world are questioning the alleged printing of Guru Granth Sahib by a Canada-based Sikh society and the permission to print it. Canada-based British Columbia Gurdwara Council (BCGC) spokesperson Moninder Singh on Friday said they had issued a notice to Ripudaman Singh Malik, who was acquitted for his role in the 1985 Kanishka airplane bombing, and Balwant Singh Pandher of Satnam Parchar Religious Society (SPRS), Surrey, British Columbia, for violating the Akal Takht directives on the printing of Guru Granth Sahib saroops (copies). On April 9, 1998, then Akal Takht jathedar Bhai Ranjit Singh had issued an edict to ban the printing of saroop, gutka (a small sized missal or breviary containing chosen hymns or banis from Sikh scriptures) and pothi (sacred book containing gurbani or scriptural texts and of a moderate size, larger than a gutka) by all private publishers and authorised only Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) to do so. However, a concession to print the saroop and other holy books (mentioned in the edict) by a private publisher was given. It could be done only after an approval from the SGPC and the Akal Takht. The BCGC has directed both Malik and Pandher to handover all saroops of Guru Granth Sahib printed by SPRS and the material used for the purpose to Guru Nanak Sikh Gurdwara, Surrey, by 4pm on August 22. Taking cognisance of the violation of the Akal Takht edict, the American Sikh Council (ASC) has announced support of the coalition of gurdwaras of western Canada against the printing of the Guru Granth Sahib by any individual or entity. An ASC official said they were concerned about the reports of printing of their holy book by a Canadian Sikh society. “Apparently, Malik set up a printing press inside Pandher’s home in order to start printing the Guru Granth Sahib. As of today, they may have printed over a dozen copies to test their venture,” claimed ASC. “The real question is who gave them the authority to take up such a task?” he added. Despite repeated attempts, Malik could not be contacted for his comments in the matter. He also did not reply to a text message sent to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/sikh-holy-book-printed-in-canada-row-erupts/articleshow/77684160.cms||Yudhvir Rana
August 22, 2020||Pune||Curb spread in PCMC limits: Ajit Pawar||PUNE: Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao on Friday said deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has directed the administration to focus on testing and ensuring enough bed availability in the rural areas and Pimpri Chinchwad to keep a check on the Covid-19 morbidity. “Though the overall caseload in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits is reducing, the deputy CM has directed the administration to initiate same efforts in the rural belt and areas under the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s (PCMC) jurisdiction,’’ he said. The total number of vacant beds in Pune district has gone up to over 7,000 by 9pm on Friday. Rao said the number of beds had improved further with additional facilities from the Army Institute of Cardiothoracic Sciences and talks were on with more private hospitals and government facilities to ramp up infrastructure. Pawar’s direction assumes significance because when the Covid-19 cases were gradually rising from 1,000 to 2,000 a day a month ago, the number of infections in the PCMC limits and rural areas hovered around 300-400. On Friday, the PMC limits registered 1,536 Covid-19 cases, closely followed by 1,038 in the PCMC areas and 505 in the rural belt. On July 21, the PMC limits had registered 1,432 cases and the number was 560 in the PCMC areas and 295 in the rural belt. Rao said, “Many fringe and peri-urban areas are witnessing cases and there is a need for stricter implementation of the rules.” He told TOI that while the overall discharge rate of patients in Pune district was over 70%, there was an urgent need to concentrate on the aspect in the PCMC limits and the rural areas. The administration has been told to check the admission and discharge of patients from these hospitals, besides ensuring admission of timely admission of all critical patients to hospitals. Another round of meeting has been scheduled on Monday and the administration has been told to concentrate on the new hot spots, such as Baramati, Haveili, Shirur, Chakan, and concentrate on controlling the death rate in these areas. Pawar also said at the meeting that though the Covid-19 mitigation work was on, the administration should also focus on the development projects pending in the district. Rao said the administration has been told to give a detailed presentation on the status of the three Metro lines, Pune-Nashik railway line and land acquisition for the Purandar airport project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/curb-spread-in-pcmc-limits-ajit-pawar/articleshow/77684165.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Online pandal hopping in Hyderabad this year||HYDERABAD: Ganesh festivities will be held across the city on Saturday, albeit with certain restrictions on the pandals and number of devotees being allowed. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, many organizers of Ganesh Chaturthi have decided to install smaller idols and have transitioned to virtual darshans, pujas and celebrations. Keeping in view the pandemic, the Marathi community in the city, for the first time in many years, has decided not set up huge Ganesh pandals. “We will be installing smaller idols this time and only priests and core committee members will be allowed to attend the pujas. For other devotees, these pujas will be streamed online,” said Saroj Gharipurikar, member of the governing council of the Maharashtra Mandal in the city. The mandal has also decided to conduct cultural programmes such as musical events, speeches on Bal Gangadhar Tilak marking his 100th death anniversary on August 1. Smaller idols were the cynosure of all eyes considering that the government urged people to celebrate the festival at home. “Usually, ever year, we get a four to six feet idol for our house. But this time, since we are not sure of what will be the protocol in place for Visarjan, we decided to install a much smaller idol that can be submerged in a bucket,” said Vidith Naik, a resident of Kondapur. To avoid crowding in market areas, many individuals, NGOs and resident welfare associations held contactless clay distribution within their premises. “I distributed 15 clay Ganesha planters to my colleagues. It was an attempt to send a message on environment consciousness . In a way, I also helped the local artisans,” said Meena Ravindran, deputy chief executive at Nuclear Fuel Complex. Members of PraHari Trust Organization distributed 1,000 clay idols at apartments in twin cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/online-pandal-hopping-in-city-this-yr/articleshow/77684098.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Govt, oppn spar over festival guidelines||HYDERABAD: With the BJP, VHP and Bajrang Dal leaders trying to corner the KCR government over restrictions for Ganesh Chaturthi, the ruling TRS has come out with a counter-strategy stating that the state government is following only the guidelines issued by Government of India (GoI) on festivals which attract gatherings. TRS leaders said the state BJP, VHP and Bajrang Dal members should prevail upon PM Narendra Modi-led BJP government to relax norms for celebration of festivals without any Covid-19 restrictions, instead of trying to derive political mileage by accusing the TRS government. There are clear-cut guidelines from GoI to not to give permission to mass gathering events due to which festivals of all communities are being celebrated mainly at home by residents and not in public places, they said. “Festivals such as Ugadi, Sri Rama Navami, Good Friday, Ramzan, Shab-e-Qadr, Bonalu, Bakrid have been celebrated mainly at home by people and not at public places,” endowments minister A Indrakaran Reddy said. Even the Independence day celebrations on August 15 and Telangana State Formation Day on June 2 were kept a low-key affair. “Even the Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations and Muharrum mourning should be observed at their homes by people,” he appealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-oppn-spar-over-festival-guidelines/articleshow/77684141.cms||Roushan Ali
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||MEIL emerges lowest bidder for Zojila pass project||Hyderabad: Infrastructure player Megha Engineering & Infrastructures Limited (MEIL) has emerged as the lowest bidder (L-1) for the long-pending Zojila pass tunnel project in Jammu Kashmir-Ladakh with a bid of Rs 4509.5 crore. The Hyderabad-based company was among the three players that submitted bids for the project in July end this year to the National Highways and Industrial Development Corporation (NHIDCL). Apart from MEIL, infrastructure giant Larsen & Toubro and Ircon were in the fray for the prestigious project, bids for which were opened on Friday. The proposed 33-km Zojila pass tunnel project is to be constructed in two sections. While an 18.5 km road will be constructed from Z-Morh tunnel to Zojila tunnel in the first section, the second section will see the construction of a 14.15 km two-way, horseshoe-shaped tunnel that is 9.5 metres wide and 7.57 metres high across Zojila pass on the Sonamarg-Kargil section of NH-1, MEIL said on Friday. MEIL will have to complete the complex EPC project, which involves construction of a single-tube tunnel with bi-directional traffic in the most critical weather conditions and difficult terrain, in just 72 months, said MEIL director Ch Subbaiah. The Zojila pass is situated at an altitude of 11,578 feet on the Srinagar-Kargil-Leh national highway that remains closed for nearly six months due to heavy snowfall, cutting Ladakh off from the rest of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/meil-emerges-lowest-bidder-for-zojila-pass-project/articleshow/77684118.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||TSHRC takes note of reports on mortuary||Hyderabad: The Telangana State Human Rights Commission (TSHRC) on Friday took suo-motu cognizance of media reports on the dysfunctional freezers in the mortuary of Government Hospital, Khammam, which is resulting in the decomposition of the bodies, and directed the collector and district magistrate, Khammam and the hospital superintendent to submit their reports by September 18. The news reports said that the dead bodies were being kept in the open for up to 15 days due to the freezers going defunct, and that this was emanating foul smell and leading to the decomposition of the bodies. The human rights commission also observed that as per the media reports, the resident medical officer (RMO) of the hospital had admitted to keeping the bodies in the open. The RMO also cited the non-availability of technicians in the district to repair the freezers, but added that the hospital will soon get them repaired.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tshrc-takes-note-of-reports-on-mortuary/articleshow/77684136.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Varanasi||Properties of Mukhtar’s another aide seized by cops||Varanasi: The police confiscated properties worth over Rs 26 lakh of Mohammad Salim, a gangster and aide of jailed don Mukhtar Ansari, in Varanasi and Chandauli districts on Thursday. Salim, who ran an illegal fish trade, was arrested with his two associates from Banglow-51 of Cantonment area during a raid in June. Salim had given guarantee for Mukhtar’s bail in a murder case 20 years ago. He had also contested 2012 Assembly election on the ticket of the don’s erstwhile political party Qaumi Ekta Dal. According to SSP Amit Pathak, the accused ran an organized gang involved in illegal activities. The confiscated properties included a house in Pt Deen Dayal Nagar in Chandauli, an SUV and bank accounts in three banks. During raid in Salim’s Banglow-51 in Cantonment area the police had seized 6.50 quintals illegal Mangur fish, 5.50 quintals of other banned species of fishes, stock of eggs, two vans for transportation of fish and eggs, a SUV and two motorcycles. During investigation it came to light that Salim worked in collaboration with Mukhtar for past 20 years in illegal fish trade. He not only supplied banned Mangur fish in Varanasi and adjoining markets of east UP but also extorted money from the fish traders. He had taken Banglow-51 in Cantt area on lease, where he had created a pond to store fishes of banned species.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/properties-of-mukhtars-another-aide-seized-by-cops/articleshow/77683188.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||HC relief for PVP venture||Hyderabad: Telangana High Court has asked the director general of GST Intelligence to unseal the lockers of Safetrunk Services Private Ltd, Jubilee Hills. In an interim order on August 11, Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and Justice T Amarnath Goud directed the GST officials to unseal the lockers. The court also permitted the petitioner and their customers to operate the vaults, pending disposal of the writ petition. The court observed that the respondents, prima facie, could not have sealed the main door of the strongroom with emergency exit door as well as all the vaults which are operated by Safetrunk. GST Intelligence sleuths probing a GST case of a real estate company inspected the lockers of Safetrunk Services and sealed them. Safetrunk Services, owned by the Potluri group, then approached the High Court. Industrialist Potluri Vara Prasad told TOI, “The high court order is self-explanatory.” He said Safetrunk is one of the smaller ventures of their business group. “They (GST officials) could not establish non-compliance of our group,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-relief-for-pvp-venture/articleshow/77684162.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 22, 2020||Kochi||Idukki dog squad adopts Kuvi||Idukki: After Pettimudy landslide claimed the family that raised Kuvi, the local dog that helped recover the body of baby Dhanuska finally found a new home. Government officials said that the dog squad in Idukki adopted the animal. Personnel from the squad, people’s representatives came to Pettimudy late on Friday and collected the dog. Earlier, Ajith Madhavan, a dog trainer from Idukki dog squad, had expressed his willingness to adopt Kuvi and had met collector H Dineshan, Devikulam sub-collector S Prem Krishnan and MP Dean Kuriakose to discuss the adoption process. “Kuvi will be taken in by the dog squad on humanitarian grounds. But the department will not provide training or take Kuvi for dog squad duty. If Kuvi is to become an official member of the squad, we need a special order,” said a police department official. Dhanuska was the youngest daughter of Pratheesh Kumar, whose body was recovered last week. His wife Kasturi and elder daughter Priyadarshini are still missing. The sole surviving member of the family, Karuppayi, identified the girl as her grandchild and said Kuvi was their pet. The dog had spent a week looking for the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/idukki-dog-squad-adopts-kuvi/articleshow/77682976.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Faridabad||Haryana brings weekend curbs as Covid cases spike||GURUGRAM: The state government has decided to enforce closure of establishments dealing in non-essential items during weekends as Covid-19 cases are spiking in the state. Following the order of the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA), Gurugram is also headed for a weekend lockdown. All public and private offices, except those providing essential services, will remain shut on Saturdays and Sundays. Moreover, shopping malls and shops, barring those selling essential commodities, will not be allowed to operate during weekends. MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh on Friday instructed civic body officials to ensure that the order is implemented in private offices, markets, malls and shops which deal in non-essential services. “I have already constituted five enforcement teams that will check shopping malls, bazaars, private offices and shopping complexes. Our teams will start make residents aware of the order via public address system from Saturday so that people know about the new weekend lockdown rules,” said Hariom Attri, joint commissioner-3, MCG, adding that chemist shops and stores selling groceries and vegetables will be allowed to operate. All offices and shops except essential will remain closed in Haryana on every Saturday and Sunday due to #COVID__19— ANIL VIJ MINISTER HARYANA (@anilvijminister) 1598011949000MCG commissioner told TOI that the civic body’s office is exempted from this order as it provides essential municipal services. Essential services provided by public offices like GMDA will also be operating during weekends. GMDA chief VS Kundu said though the development authority’s office is not open on Saturday and Sunday, the staff working on essential services like drainage and sewage will be at work round the clock and will be available during weekends also. The new lockdown order, however, has come as a setback for shop owners. “The government while sending out the new order showed no concern about traders and shop owners. The shopkeepers, whose daily sale of products used to cross Rs 50,000, now earn only Rs 7,000-8,000 a day. The markets had started showing signs of recovery since people were coming out to purchase. But the new lockdown order will hamper our sales as a majority of people step out for shopping on Saturdays and Sundays. The government should have at least convened a meeting with traders before imposing the order,” said Kanhaiya Lal Pahwa, president, Haryana Vyapar Mandal, Gurugram. The order will also be implemented in Faridabad. Watch Haryana brings weekend curbs as Covid cases spike||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/new-weekend-lockdown-curbs-from-today-shopping-malls-pvt-offices-not-allowed-to-operate/articleshow/77686032.cms||Vishakha Chaman
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt’s revenue doubles despite coronavirus crisis||HYDERABAD: Thanks to the loans raised and state’s share from the central tax pool going up, Telangana has been able to maintain 18% of revenue in the first three months of the financial year despite the Covid-induced economic crisis. Details of the state’s income in the first three months released by the Comptroller and Auditor general have shown that the share of loans, grant-in-aids and state’s share of central transfers accounted for 53%. This was almost double than last year’s income during the same period. Between April-June 2019, loans, grant-in-aids and state’s share of central taxes accounted for only 26%. Though the state had fund availability due to loans and other means, tax revenue, however, has taken a hit. There was 15% shortage of the budget estimates in revenue generation. Last year, revenue estimations had touched 20% of the total expectations made in the budget. “The lockdown period has dented the revenue,” an official pointed out. According to the data revealed in the CAG report on revenue and expenditure of Telangana in the first quarter, expenditure had gone up from last year during the same time. Officials said there was a 3% jump in expenditure in this financial year when compared to the last year. The budget expenditure in the first three months stood at 20.86% as against 18% in the last financial year around the same period. However, there was a drop in the capital expenditure from last year. It was 21% last year, which was now shrunk to 11% in the first three months of this financial year. Due to the loans that were raised by the state government, fiscal deficit was high in the first three months of the financial year, experts explained. The deficit is now 56% when compared to 26% in the first three months of financial year 2019-20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-govts-revenue-doubles-despite-coronavirus-crisis/articleshow/77684147.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 22, 2020||Kolkata||State plans Police Day on Sept 1||Kolkata: The state is planning to observe Police Day on September 1 and all DMs have been asked to anchor it from districts, as the chief minister Mamata Banerjee will conduct the meeting through video conference from Nabanna. Senior cops, however, felt that though DMs are normally the head of police in the districts, they have not been associated with any police function for long and now the Bengal government is attempting to focus on it. Moreover, an official said the DMs are being given more power after Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar tweeted alleging that Bengal is turning into a police state. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-plans-police-day-on-sept-1/articleshow/77684181.cms||Debasish Konar
August 22, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana brings weekend curbs as Covid cases spike||GURUGRAM: The state government has decided to enforce closure of establishments dealing in non-essential items during weekends as Covid-19 cases are spiking in the state. Following the order of the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA), Gurugram is also headed for a weekend lockdown. All public and private offices, except those providing essential services, will remain shut on Saturdays and Sundays. Moreover, shopping malls and shops, barring those selling essential commodities, will not be allowed to operate during weekends. MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh on Friday instructed civic body officials to ensure that the order is implemented in private offices, markets, malls and shops which deal in non-essential services. “I have already constituted five enforcement teams that will check shopping malls, bazaars, private offices and shopping complexes. Our teams will start make residents aware of the order via public address system from Saturday so that people know about the new weekend lockdown rules,” said Hariom Attri, joint commissioner-3, MCG, adding that chemist shops and stores selling groceries and vegetables will be allowed to operate. All offices and shops except essential will remain closed in Haryana on every Saturday and Sunday due to #COVID__19— ANIL VIJ MINISTER HARYANA (@anilvijminister) 1598011949000MCG commissioner told TOI that the civic body’s office is exempted from this order as it provides essential municipal services. Essential services provided by public offices like GMDA will also be operating during weekends. GMDA chief VS Kundu said though the development authority’s office is not open on Saturday and Sunday, the staff working on essential services like drainage and sewage will be at work round the clock and will be available during weekends also. The new lockdown order, however, has come as a setback for shop owners. “The government while sending out the new order showed no concern about traders and shop owners. The shopkeepers, whose daily sale of products used to cross Rs 50,000, now earn only Rs 7,000-8,000 a day. The markets had started showing signs of recovery since people were coming out to purchase. But the new lockdown order will hamper our sales as a majority of people step out for shopping on Saturdays and Sundays. The government should have at least convened a meeting with traders before imposing the order,” said Kanhaiya Lal Pahwa, president, Haryana Vyapar Mandal, Gurugram. The order will also be implemented in Faridabad. Watch Haryana brings weekend curbs as Covid cases spike||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/new-weekend-lockdown-curbs-from-today-shopping-malls-pvt-offices-not-allowed-to-operate/articleshow/77684294.cms||Vishakha Chaman
August 22, 2020||Surat||No pandals, but Ganesha Utsav organizers to hold blood camps||SURAT: In an official notification banning installation of Ganesha idols in pandals, temporary structures in residential societies or in public places owing to Covid-19, Surat police commissioner Ajay Tomar has urged people to install the deity inside homes. Ganesha Utsav begins on Saturday and will end on September 1. “No one will also be allowed to immerse the idols in lakes, waterbodies, rivers or any other natural water sources in the district. No procession will be allowed during installation or immersion ceremonies. People will have to install idols as home and immerse these at home only,” the notification stated.Surat’s additional district collector Sanjay Vasava too has issued same notification for Surat district. However, even as constructing pandals have been prohibited this year, many Ganesha Mandals in the city will continue to organize blood donation camps like every year during the festival. “Due to Covid-19, we aren’t allowed to set up Ganesha pandals this year. But, we will continue with our tradition of holding blood donation camps in public places sans pandals as blood blanks are running dry owing to the pandemic scare,” said Raju Patel, councillor from Ichhanath-Dumas area. “Every year, we organise around six blood donation camps and collect nearly 50 units of blood from each camp. This year, we will organise four camps in Ichhanath, Dumas and Bhimpore areas in the city,” Patel added. Last year, Surat Raktdan Kendra had organised 30 camps and collected 1,853 blood units during the 10 days of Ganesha festival. According to According to the blood bank’s officials, 16 such blood donation camps have been organized by various mandals even this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/no-pandals-but-ganesha-utsav-organizers-to-hold-blood-camps/articleshow/77681682.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Allahabad||Siblings shot at, 5 detained||Pratapgarh: A 28- year-old officiating gram pradhan and his brother were allegedly shot at by two men over a political rivalry in Pratapgarh on Friday. Police said that the two men — Ashish Tiwari and his elder brother Vashishtha Tiwari (30) — were attacked inside their home in Poore Devjani village, under the limits of Kandhai police station. Pratapgarh police said that Ashish and Vashishtha were attacked around 6am when the two brothers were sitting near the boundary of their house. They managed to flee the scene. SP (Pratapgarh) Anurag Arya said, “Five persons have been detained for interrogation. Ashish had been appointed the gram pradhan just 12 days after the former village head was sent behind bars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/siblings-shot-at-5-detained/articleshow/77682864.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Couple arrested for cheating||Hyderabad: A couple was arrested by the Central Crime Station’s detective department team for cheating atleast 20 people on the pretext of providing them a huge percentage of interest on their deposits. Posing as directors of a financial services firm, the couple, collected around Rs 13 crore from the victims between April 2019 and June 2020. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/couple-arrested-for-cheating/articleshow/77684166.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Varanasi||BHU VC allows free hosp treatment for students||Varanasi: Succumbing to the widespread protest by the students wings over controversial remarks on Banaras Hindu University founder Bharat Ratna Mahamana Madan Mohan Malaviya, vice- chancellor Prof Rakesh Bhatnagar on Thursday late evening allowed free OPD registration for students at the university hospital for treatment. The VC also issued a statement saying that it was unfortunate and painful that his remarks hurt someone due to misunderstanding. “BHU is my ‘karmabhoomi’ (place of work), and Mahamana Malaviya is my source of inspiration. I follow his ideals and values, and I have a great respect for him. No one can even think about disrespecting him,” said the VC adding that the BHU has been playing a vital role of nation building since its inception. He made an appeal to the students to follow the path shown by Mahamana and also assured the students that saving students’ interest is the duty of the university. Earlier in the day, massive protests erupted on the campus over VC’s remarks after an audio clip of a telephonic conversation between VC and a student went viral. The students associated with Samajwadi Chhatra Sabha (SCS), Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) and National Students Union of India (NSUI) staged demonstrations at different places on the campus demanding resignation of the VC. In the audio clip, the VC was heard saying, “Mahamana planted many mango trees on the campus. If he would have planted some tree of money, we would have given everything for free,” when the student demanded revival of the provision of free treatment of students in the university hospital. Turning down his demand, the VC had said that it was not possible to provide free treatment due to fund crunch. Explaining his point, the VC said that the university’s annual electricity bill is Rs 66 crore, while a fund of Rs 60 crore is provided by the UGC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-vc-allows-free-hosp-treatment-for-students/articleshow/77682983.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Varanasi||BHU entrance exams from Aug 24-31||Varanasi: The Banaras Hindu University is all set to conduct its entrance examinations for admission to various undergraduate and postgraduate courses. The university has made elaborate arrangements at test centres spread across the country to ensure that examinees don’t face any issues in undertaking the exams. According to BHU spokesperson Rajesh Singh, the first phase of entrance exams will take place between August 24 to 31. Entrance examinations for all postgraduate and a few undergraduate programmes will be conducted in this phase. The second phase of entrance exams will take place between September 9 to 18, which will see entrance exams for remaining undergraduate programmes. Admit cards are being issued to the candidates through the entrance examination portal. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the university has taken a number of measures to ensure safety of candidates. The Standard Operating Procedure for conduct of tests issued by the Union ministry of education will be strictly followed at examination centres within BHU. All the test centres outside BHU and Varanasi, have also been issued the SOP for conduct of UET/PET. The SOP will have to be strictly adhered to by the centres. Physical distancing during the exams will be ensured by ensuring at least a distance of two meters between two candidates in the seating arrangement. All the tables and chairs of the centre will be sprayed with disinfectant. Availability of sanitizer bottles and liquid soaps will be ensured and rooms will be cleaned after every shift. BHU has provided additional funding (almost double as compared to last year) to the centres so that they are able to incur the additional cost in order to make arrangements complying with the Covid-19 guidelines. There will be observers at all centres while a central observer team will also be monitoring the overall conduct of exam in line with Covid-19 guidelines. For hassle free conduct of entrance tests, the BHU vice-chancellor has written to the district magistrates of the concerned districts where examination centres have been set up. A letter has also been sent by the department of higher education, ministry of education to the chief secretaries of the concerned states for necessary action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-entrance-exams-from-aug-24-31/articleshow/77683384.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Allahabad||ADJ court grants bail to 2 Tablighi Jamaat attendees||Prayagraj: A local court on Friday granted bail to two member of Tablighi Jamaat, namely Ashraf of Kerala and Shahzan Ali of West Bengal, who were accused of hiding in a local guest house at Prayagraj and were allegedly involved in the spread of Covid-19. Additional district judge Veerbhadra Singh allowed the bail application of the two Jamaatis after hearing counsel of concerned parties. Earlier on June 2, the court had granted bail to Prof Mohammed Shahid, a suspended faculty of Allahabad University and eight other Jamaatis who are accused in the case. Prof Shahid was arrested on charges of arranging the shelter for foreigner and Indian Tablighi Jamaat members and at a local guesthoue in the city and had not informed the police about it. In March, Prof Shahid had attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet at Nizamuddin in New Delhi along with many of the foreigners and Indian Jamaatis. It is alleged that he had concealed this information from the police, besides arranging for the foreigners' stay in local guesthouse. An FIR was registered against Prof Shahid and several others on April 1, 2020 under the Epidemic Act in Shivkuti police station of Prayagraj and he was arrested on April 21. Later, he was suspended by the university administration. After investigation, the police had submitted charge sheet against accused persons under sections of Indian Penal Code, Epidemic Act and Foreigners Act. However, chargesheet was filed against Prof Shahid under section 120B (Conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code. The court granted bail under these sections. In present case, the counsel for the petitioner contended that both the applicants were only working as guide to the foreign nationals. Further, they were not involved in spread of coronavirus in any manner. He also contended that both of them had been languishing in jail since April 21 and their case was not heard as courts remained closed due to the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/adj-court-grants-bail-to-2-tablighi-jamaat-attendees/articleshow/77682930.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
August 22, 2020||Varanasi||Music lovers pay tributes to shehnai maestro||Times News Network Varanasi: Music lovers and fans of the Shehnai maestro Bharat Ratna Ustad Bismillah Khan paid rich tributes to him at his memorial in Fatman graveyard on his death anniversary on Friday. Apart from the Ustad’s family members, former MLA and Congress leader Ajay Rai was among the first visitors to the memorial to pay floral tributes. Death anniversary of shehnai maestro is organised every year by a group of local residents led by Shakeel Ahmad. After paying tributes, Rai said that the government should come forward to conserve maestro’s house as a museum for the music world. He expressed his pain over the demolition of the room in which Ustad lived and used to do his riyaz (practice). Days before the death anniversary, maestro’s room on the upper floor of the house situated in Hadaha Sarai locality was demolished by his own kin to develop the house as a commercial complex. However, the demolition has been stopped by the Varanasi Development Authorities (VDA) after getting information. The VDA has asked the kin to take appropriate permission from the municipal corporation for demolition, and get the map approved from the VDA before starting any construction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/music-lovers-pay-tributes-to-shehnai-maestro/articleshow/77683000.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Allahabad||Over 360 cops in Covid grip inPrayagraj range, one succumbs||Prayagraj: At least 367 policemen have tested positive for coronavirus in four districts of the range, including Prayagraj, Pratapgarh, Fatehpur and Kaushambi till August 20. While 213 policemen have recovered, 153 others are still undergoing treatment or in self-quarantine. An inspector-rank official posted at Pratapgrah district succumbed to the virus at SRN hospital, Prayagraj, on August 16. With a Covid count of 159, Prayagraj police are the worst hit. While Kaushambi recorded the lowest of 31 cases till August 20, Pratapgarh and Fatehpur clocked 97 and 80 cases among cops respectively. In Pratapgarh, 97 policemen, including four inspectors, five sub-inspectors, seven head constables, 32 constables, one computer operator, three followers, one home-guard, 40 reserve police force personnel have been infected. While 66 others are hospitalised or quarantined, 30 cops recovered in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/over-360-cops-in-covid-grip-inprayagraj-range-one-succumbs/articleshow/77682943.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Bareilly||Stripes show dead tigress with snare in neck not from UP, U'khand: Foresters||Bareilly: A wounded tigress that died of starvation and thirst as its neck was constricted by a plastic wire snare was neither from Dudhwa nor Pilibhit Tiger Reserve in UP or any Uttarakhand forest, UP forest department officials said on Friday. Unable to find any match with its stripes in their database, the foresters now believe that the big cat may have migrated from a forest in Nepal or could have been “hiding in a social forestry region” when the last tiger census was being conducted at Dudhwa's Mailani range in January. The tigress's carcass was found not too far from it. Having faced flak for failing to spot the injured tigress roaming about in the forests of Dudhwa for 10 days before its death, the foresters are being very careful in their response to the matter. They have sought help from World Wildlife Fund-India to identify its origins. Anil Patel, DFO, DTR (buffer) told TOI, “We will now check with Nepal forest officials to know if this tigress had migrated from there. We will be taking support from WWF as they are working closely with the Nepalese towards wildlife conservation there. “The other possibility is that the tigress may have taken shelter in the sugarcane fields at the time of tiger census and was never captured by any camera trap. We have intensified patrolling in the forest areas and forest watchers have been instructed to report movement of any tiger in their respective beats,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/stripes-show-dead-tigress-with-snare-in-neck-not-from-up-ukhand-foresters/articleshow/77680510.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 22, 2020||Varanasi||Old man killed in land dispute in Siddharthnagar, 6 arrested||Gorakhpur: A 70-year-old man was killed in a land dispute between two groups on Thursday night in Trilokpur police station area in Siddharthnagar district. On Friday, when the body reached Hathpara village, two groups of people started agitating. However, the police intervened while the ADM, ASP and MLA along with other officials reached the spot and controlled the situation. Police said Dhruvraj Chowdhary, 70, had a land dispute with one Shafi Mohammad of the area. During a clash between two groups on Thursday evening, Dhruvraj was injured and later succumbed to injuries. As his body reached the village after postmortem on Friday, his supporters started raising slogans against the police and also burnt hay-stacks. Soon, the two opposite groups clashed and the incident started taking communal colour. Later, on the written complaint of the family of the victim, police registered a case against 12 people and arrested six. “My father died due to a land dispute in which the tehsildar, kanoongo and lekhpal didn’t help,” claimed Mahesh Choudhary, son of the deceased. “A case of rioting and attempt to murder and murder against 12 people has been registered. We have already arrested six people and soon the other accused will be arrested,” ASP Mayaram Verma said. “The tehsildar, kanoongo and lekhpal have been suspended and a team has been constituted to probe their role in the matter. On the basis of the report, action will be taken against them,” ADM Sitaram Gupt said. MLA Raghvendra Pratap Singh also reached the village. He said, “I came to know that some youth were involved in rioting and arson. I have requested chief minister Yogi Adityanath to give financial help to the victim’s family as they are very poor. The CM has assured financial help after the report of the district magistrate is submitted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/old-man-killed-in-land-dispute-in-siddharthnagar-6-arrested/articleshow/77683193.cms||Arjumand Bano
August 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||‘No age is too young to dream of civil service’||Thiruvananthapuram: No age is too young for any person to start preparing for civil service examination, said retired civil servants-cum-mentors at Mission Admission webinar on civil service, organized by Times of India in association with Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham on Friday. An intense longing and dogged resilience are essential for people seeking to crack the civil service exam. “Anything and everything that you have done or not done from your birth to the time you attend the exam can come into play. It’s not specialists UPSC is looking for. You need not to be a scholar or a genius to crack the exam. But consistent efforts to understand everything under the sun and effectively articulate what you know are what really matters,” said former Indian diplomat T P Sreenivasan. Newspapers, he said, were the only source of current affairs during his school-college days. Careful reading of newspapers from masthead to imprint is still an effective way to keep oneself abreast with the developments across the world, he said. Viswanathamritha Chaitanya, head of Amrita IAS Academy, said the ability to achieve equanimity and equipoise were important for the examination which requires dedication of long hours to studies over a considerably long period. “Preparation begins at the time when someone decides to chase the dream. Why the examination is hard is only because duties and responsibilities civil servants will have to perform demand that level of understanding and dedication. It’s a job with constitutional protection,” he said. To a question, Sreenivasan said people’s ambition to wield power was the main reason why many top rank holders preferred IAS and IPS over IFS these days. “People are more interested in flags and beacon lights. Foreign service is for people who are interested in lifelong learning, the ones who likes to know the culture and characteristics of different place. And introvert person can become a successful IFS officer,”he said. KS Rajendra Kumar, former additional chief secretary of West Bengal and former chairperson of WB staff selection commission, said preparations for the exam may not be directly contributing to the work a civil servant will be doing in his career, but it would always help the person to face challenges and solve problems in a better way. Dr Arun S Nair, who recently cracked the civil service exam, said his experience as a medical student in a government medical college helped him to win in his second attempt. “Medical science itself is an optional subject and it’s an added advantage. Plus, the course is demanding and by the time you pass out of medical college, you would have achieved most of the qualities essential for a candidate to prepare for the civil service,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/no-age-is-too-young-to-dream-of-civil-service/articleshow/77682996.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Varanasi||Corona norms violated in SDM’s b’day bash||Gorakhpur: A video of the birthday party of SDM Kaptanganj in Kushinagar district in which people are seen openly violating corona protocol has gone viral on social media. However, no official reaction has come in the matter so far. On Friday, SDM Kaptanganj Arvind Kumar was transferred to Padrauna along with three others. The transfers were termed as routine. Kumar’s birthday was celebrated on August 16 and a large number of people in the party could be seen without mask or wearing it in an improper manner. Even after repeated attempts to have their reaction, the DM and SP of Kushinagar did not take the calls. The video is hugely viral on social media and has become talk of the town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/corona-norms-violated-in-sdms-bday-bash/articleshow/77683226.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Kochi||Audit reveals serious lapses by corp||Kochi: Auditors for local bodies have found many discrepancies, including mismanagement of funds, in the accounts of Kochi corporation for the 2018-19 fiscal. The auditors also found irregularities in collection of taxes using receipts issued by the corporation. As per the details divulged by the auditors, Kochi corporation maintains 69 bank accounts. Of these, balance amount of at least 18 bank accounts is zero, the annual financial statements of the local body show. Though the auditors had sought the passbooks of all the 18 accounts, the corporation authorities gave the passbook of only one of the accounts. When the auditors went through the passbook, it was found that there is a balance of Rs 38,108 in the account. As the civic body didn’t provide the remaining 17 passbooks, the auditors couldn’t check whether there are any anomalies or mismatch in the balance amounts maintained in those accounts. Similarly, the statements of loan availed from Hudco have not been presented before the auditors despite repeated demands. The loan repayment amount has been shown in the annual financial details as interest towards loan. So, the principal amount to be paid to the bank doesn’t match with the annual financial statements of the corporation, the auditors found. “The audit findings have brought the financial irregularities and inefficiency of the ruling front to the light. Most of the taxes are being collected by bill collectors of the corporation using bill books. The auditors have unearthed irregularities in tax collection using the bill books (receipt books). Had the taxes been collected online, the irregularities could have been avoided. But the authorities wilfully delayed the implementation of online services for paving way for financial anomalies,” said V P Chandran, secretary, LDF parliamentary party, Kochi corporation. Auditors had demanded the corporation authorities to give all the receipt books used during the fiscal to get a clear picture of tax collection, but the corporation failed to provide it, the auditors say. Over the past four years, corporation authorities had been using receipts with the serial number starting from 1 to 1,000. As the receipts with the same serial numbers are being used for four years, the actual income collected using the receipts couldn’t be ascertained. Moreover, the local body didn’t give all the receipt books to the auditors, they say. The annual financial statements of the corporation show an increase in the revenue collection. But, a crosschecking of the actual revenue records showed that there is decline in the revenue during the fiscal compared to the previous year. Annual financial statements also reveal that the corporation failed to collect taxes and other revenues in an efficient manner. As per the annual financial details maintained by the corporation, Rs 63.39 crore is pending as non-tax revenue collection. When tax revenue is included, the pending amount rises to Rs 91.77 crore. As the local body doesn’t maintain basic documents to cross check the revenue collection, the auditors could not ascertain the revenue erosion suffered by each segments of the local body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/audit-reveals-serious-lapses-by-corp/articleshow/77680520.cms||---
August 22, 2020||India||Covid patients can vote in Bihar polls||In the first assembly polls and bypolls to be held since the outbreak of Covid-19, the Election Commission has asked for gloves to be provided to every voter for signing the voter register and pressing the EVM button. Issuing broad guidelines for the Bihar elections due in October-November and other by-elections, the EC on Friday allowed public gatherings and rallies, subject to adherence to Covid-19 norms. In a bid to facilitate maximum participation, voters who display high temperature on being scanned at the entry to a polling station, as well as quarantined Covid-19 patients, will be allowed to cast their votes in the last hour of polling, subject to preventive measures. The broad guidelines to be followed during election rallies and gatherings will be decided by state and district administrations. These may include use of PPE kits and social distancing. Covid-positive patients and suspected cases under home or institutional quarantine will also have the option of voting via postal ballot. As of now, postal ballots can be used by disabled voters, senior citizens and those engaged in essential services. The ‘Unlock 3’ guidelines of the home ministry, applicable till August 31, bar large congregations and political functions. These will, however, be reviewed closer to August 31. Public gatherings may be held in grounds to be identified by the district election officer, with clearly marked entry and exit points. As per sources, 44 such grounds have already been identified in Bihar. Circles will be marked in these grounds to ensure minimum six-feet distance between those attending. DEO and district police shall ensure that maximum attendees do not exceed the limit prescribed by the state disaster management authority for public gatherings. As per the EC guidelines, only a group of five persons can carry out door-to-door campaign. Convoy of vehicles in roadshows must be broken after every five vehicles, with a 100-metre gap and 30-minute interval between two sets. The EC norms prescribe mandatory sanitisation of polling stations, preferably a day before the poll. All voters will be subjected to thermal scanning at entry points to polling stations. If they show high temperature, their reading will be taken again and if still high, they shall be provided with a token/certificate to come back for voting in the last hour of polling. Similarly, quarantined Covid-19 patients can vote in the last hour of polling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-patients-can-vote-in-bihar-polls/articleshow/77685556.cms||Bharti Jain
August 22, 2020||Ajmer||Anasagar Lake to have lakefront, bird park & botanical garden||AJMER: The old Vishramsthali on Pushkar Road will soon be developed as a lakefront with bird park and botanical garden as well as a cycle track. The plan was prepared before the lockdown and now the administration will spend Rs 6.36 crore for its development. To boost tourism, the district administration came out with the plan to develop the surroundings of Anasagar Lake. The aim is to provide space for picnic and a spot for bird watchers to study different migratory birds. The old Vishramsthali was used by devotees to stay during the yearly Urs of Khwaja Moinuddin Chisty, but later the Vishramsthali was shifted to Kayar on Jaipur Road. The spot was also used for yearly NCC camps. Officials said there will be a new lakefront along with the bird park. “People can visit the place with families. It will attract a lot of tourists too,” added the official. There is already a chaupati around Anasagar, which was developed as a footpath and people use it for jogging too. The official added that there will also be an activity park with cycle track, pathway and botanical garden. “Rs 5.46 crore will be spent on the development of lakefront,” added the official. A study was conducted at Anasagar Lake to profile the species of migratory birds landing at the lake during winters. “A bird habitation zone will be developed, so that more species of birds visit Anasagar. The project is similar to Keoladeo bird sanctuary and Rs 90 lakh will be spent for the purpose,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/anasagar-to-have-lakefront-bird-park-botanical-garden/articleshow/77684225.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Surat||Rapid testing at Surat’s two entry points||SURAT: In order to check Covid-19 infection among people entering Surat city, Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has started two rapid testing centres at two entry points of the city — near Valak crossroads in Kamrej, and another at Bhatiya crossroads near Palsana. “Industrial activities have slowly picked in the city and people including migrant workers have started returning to the city for work. To ensure that Covid does not spread, we have started screening centres at entry points of the city where people will be first screened by thermal gun and if needed, rapid test will be conducted on them,” said an SMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rapid-testing-at-surats-two-entry-points/articleshow/77681758.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Delhi||Women students from St Stephen’s turn mentors||NEW DELHI: Disha Kashyap, third-year student of Delhi University’s St Stephen’s College, recalls how confused she was after completing her Class XII. She knew science was her passion, but didn’t want to pursue either engineering or medicine. She struggled to find a mentor then. With a lot of difficulties, she had made the choice to study chemistry. Cut to the present day, she, along with around 20 of her batchmates from different science disciplines in the college, is guiding women students from underprivileged backgrounds to pursue a career in the field of science and research. “WoMentor,” a group formed by them about four months back, is working with 50 students of Kendriya Vidyalaya, Janakpuri and INA. “We are in constant touch with the students exposing them to different research areas. Most of them in classes XI and XII join the science stream only to become engineers or doctors without giving it a thought,” said Kashyap, adding “gender parity in the field of science is skewed”. WoMentor has been mentoring the students through videoconferencing, webinars and phone calls ever since the coronavirus crisis began. “I studied at Sanskriti School so I had the privilege of getting counselling on the career options. But not everyone has that kind of access. Hence, we at WoMentor decided to work with children of government schools,” added Kashyap. One of such students is Nityanjali who studies at KV, Janakpuri. According to the mentors, Nityanjali is inclined towards neuroscience. “So, we have been sending her books and interesting videos to give her a perspective if she is really interested in the subject. Science researches are not so easily accessible,” said Kashyap. Neetu Singh, faculty at IIT-D Centre for biomedical engineering, has been guiding the mentors and encouraging students. “Scientists like me don’t come out and share what difficulties we faced without personal life and choices. One needs to ask what you like and research gives one the ability to learn about anything,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/women-students-from-stephens-turn-mentors/articleshow/77684222.cms||Shradha Chettri
August 22, 2020||Varanasi||Cops arrest murder accused after MLA’s tweet to CM||Gorakhpur: Gorakhpur’s Sadar BJP MLA deleted his tweet to the chief minister regarding delay in police action in murder of a BJP worker’s relative in Gorakhpur after Lakhimpur Kheri police arrested the accused. MLA said that he resorted to tweet chief minister Yogi Adityanath regarding the case on Thursday after none of the officials took any action. He deleted the tweet after the accused was arrested on late Thursday night. “On August 17, I called additional chief secretary to the government and DGP Hitesh Chandra Awasthi for five times but no action was taken. Finally I resorted to tweet the CM after which the officials gave me assurance of action on the phone. After the requisite action was taken and Lakhimpur Kheri police arrested the accused and concerned SHO was called at police lines, I deleted the tweet,” said BJP MLA Radha Mohan Das Agarwal . Gorakhpur’s BJP worker, Mahendra Kumar’s brother-in-law Ajit Pratap was killed in Lakhimpur Kheri on June 25. “Ajit was standing on the balcony of his flat when one Shanu Khan started firing during the wedding celebration of his neighbour Mustafa’s daughter. One bullet hit Ajit and he died. His body was lying in the flat for two days. After some neighbours noticed stench from the flat they informed police. The postmortem report revealed that the bullet injury caused the death,” said Mahendra. Ajit’s brother Arvind asked me to help after he was disappointed by everyone and I sought help from the BJP MLA, he added “It is the duty of MLA to stand for the rights of people and party workers and the CM has also instructed the MLAs and MPs to not let any injustice or exploitation occur in their respective areas,” said the MLA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cops-arrest-murder-accused-after-mlas-tweet-to-cm/articleshow/77683278.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Jaipur||With fair cancelled, low-key prayers at Ramdeora temple||JAISALMER: The Ramdeora Fair, which attracted thousands of devotees every year at Ramdeora town in Jaisalmer, may have been cancelled due to the pandemic fears. But, priests offered prayers at the ‘samaadhi’ of Baba Ramdev on Thursday, on the occasion of ‘Bhadva Shukl Dwitiya’. In the history of over 600 years of the temple, this is perhaps the first time that the famous Ramdeora fair has been cancelled, which sees a massive footfall of around 60-70 lakh people from different parts of the country. This time, however, Jaisalmer district collector Ashish Modi and SP Ajay Singh wrote a letter to district collectors and SPs across the country informing them about the cancellation of the fair and requested them to stop the devotees from coming to the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/with-fair-cancelled-low-key-prayers-at-ramdeora-temple/articleshow/77684220.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Meerut||Army jawan from Muzaffarnaga found dead in LoC in Poonch sector||Muzaffarnagar: Mohit Kumar (23), an Army jawan hailing from Gadi Nowabad village, under Bhorakalan police station of Muzaffarnagar, was found dead at a forward post along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch sector of Jammu and Kashmir on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. His family in Muzaffarnagar was informed about his death in the morning. Ajay Balyan, the deceased's cousin, said Mohit was from 16 Grenadiers and was attached with 39 battalion of Rashtriya Rifle when he was posted in Poonch earlier this year. He was selected in 2015 at an Army recruitment camp in Muzaffarnagar and got his first posting in Rajasthan. Mohit was the youngest son of Tarachand, a farmer with a small land holding. His older brother is handicapped and the family was dependent on Mohit, added Balyan. As information of his death spread in the village, a number of residents and officials rushed to Mohit's house. Sub-divisional magistrate of Budhana Kumar Bhupendra said they were in touch with Rashtriya Rifle officials and were awaiting arrival of the body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/army-jawan-from-mnagar-found-dead-in-loc-in-poonch-sector/articleshow/77680567.cms||Mohd Dilshad
August 22, 2020||Ajmer||Ajmer municipal body’s tenure comes to an end||AJMER: The tenure of elected body of Ajmer Municipal Corporation ended on Friday and now the state government will appoint an administrator till the new body is elected. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the local body elections have been postponed till October 15. The mayor’s seat has been reserved for SC woman this time and political parties are now searching a new face for the post. For the first time, Aam Aadmi Party has become active in the city. The party is gearing up for the upcoming local body elections. AAP divisional in-charge Kirti Pathak recently launched a campaign for testing the oxygen saturation levels among the residents of various wards in the city. The party is targetting mostly slum areas. Meanwhile, the Congress has not started any preparation for the elections. Dalit leaders are looking for their wives and relatives to contest the upcoming elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/ajmer-municipal-bodys-tenure-comes-to-an-end/articleshow/77684232.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Jaipur||DRDO successfully test-fires Pinaka missile system at Pokhran||JAISALMER: DRDO on Thursday conducted testing of indigenous multi-barrel rocket launcher (MBRL) system developed Pinaka missile at Pokhran field firing range amid the present challenges from Pakistan and China. This artillery rocket system hit and demolished the targets. Earlier, the guided system was not there in Pinaka and now it has been equipped with it. One more testing was done on Wednesday. For the first time advance navigation and control system has been put in Pinaka, with which the missile has become efficient to identify its target and hit it. in the trials, the rocket proved itself in both standards. With this, the firepower of Indian Army will increase. The weapon has a state-of-the-art guidance kit bolstered by an advanced navigation and control system. It is a major boost to Make In India, in which the rocket has been fully manufactured by a private company on which dependency of Ordinance Factory Board will not be any more and decision can be taken quickly. Few officers of DRDO and artillery were present. According to reliable sources, the firepower is being strengthened looking to the present challenges that India is getting from China and Pakistan. At present, trials are being conducted to increase its range. Earlier, this missile could hit a target at a distance of 40-75km and now efforts are being made to increase its range to 120km. Pinaka missile on Thursday was fired from Pinaka launcher system. The indigenous Pinaka that has the capacity to fire 12 guided rockets in 44 seconds was tested at Pokhran firing range and testing was successful. Sources said six Pinaka trials were fired as part of final development trials. The rockets are manufactured by Economic Explosives Ltd. (EEL) and this is 1st munition of it kind made by the private sector in India. Earlier, these types of munitions are imported and manufactured by the public sector with repeated complaints of failure by the armed forces. Now as a part of make in India drive and push for the private sector in defence manufacturing, this is going to be a game changer. An order of 2 additional Pinaka regiments has been under process since 2017, which will be made by L&T and Tata Aerospace and Defence for an estimated Rs 4,500 Crore. Sources said that in Thursday’s testing Pinaka rocket according to its prescribed standard hit and demolished the target. Complete watch was kept on the rocket through telemetry system. The route, speed and turn were tested and it proved as per its standards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/drdo-successfully-test-fires-pinaka-missile-system-at-pokhran/articleshow/77684236.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Goa||Plasma stock dwindling, please donate urgently: Goa minister||PANAJI: Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Friday appealed for more former Covid-19 patients to donate plasma, as there are only 14 packs remaining to treat patients. “We appeal to people who have recovered from Covid-19 to donate plasma,” said Rane, who highlighted that it was plasma therapy that saved Ayush minister Shripad Naik from the “throes of death”. Rane said the combination of Remdesivir plus plasma is working well, and again appealed to ex-Covid patients to come forward to donate plasma so that more lives can be saved. “At one time we were worried (about Naik),” Rane said about the minister’s condition before being administered convalescent plasma therapy (CPT). So far, 61 persons have donated plasma, but only 14 packs are currently available. Naik, who tested positive last week, is under treatment in Manipal hospital, and since CPT, his condition has improved dramatically, sources said. A team from AIIMS had also flown down to review his treatment. “Today there was a request from a private hospital for plasma, and we immediately dispatched (a packet) to save a life”, he said, explaining the necessity for more donors to come forth. A senior GMC doctor said that not many people are coming forward to donate plasma despite their appeal. GMC staff have been deployed to contact recovered patients and convince them to donate plasma. A vehicle is also sent to pick them up if required, he said. “Yet, people fear to donate plasma,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/plasma-stock-dwindling-please-donate-urgently-rane/articleshow/77685028.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Kanpur||Man kills wife & her mother in Kannauj, surrenders to police||Kanpur: A man on late Thursday night hacked his wife and mother-in-law to death at his house in Haudapurwa village over alleged marital discord. On Friday morning, he went to the Sadar Kotwali police station in Kannauj to confess to the crime. He told the cops that since the day one of their marriage, he used to have regular arguments with his wife over domestic issues. “On Thursday night, he said that he had an argument with his wife and got infuriated when his mother-in-law interfered and took her daughter’s side and tried to prove him wrong. The man claimed that he got agitated and later attacked his wife and mother-in-law both with a sickle repeatedly. When they fell unconscious and succumbed, he dragged and threw their bodies in the backyard of the house,” police said. The incident was reported on Friday morning, when Pawan (28) himself reached the police station with a sickle and asked them to visit backyard of his house where his wife, Savita (24) and mother-in-law Kalwati’s (65) bodies were dumped. He told the cops that an argument had broken out between him and the two over domestic issue on late Thursday night. Subsequently, a police team was dispatched to the spot, where we found the brutally hacked bodies of his wife Savita and mother-in-law Kalawati. The police registered a homicide case under Section 302 of the IPC against the accused, Pawan. “We have taken him into custody,” said Circle Officer Sadar Sheshmani Upadhyay and added, “We have learnt that the couple used to fight with each other since the day one of their marriage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-kills-wife-her-mother-in-kannauj-surrenders-to-police/articleshow/77683442.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
August 22, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Passion in care for seniors? Now, online course to groom you!||UDAIPUR: With changing family structure and modernisation, the elderly population is facing inevitable challenges to live their life respectfully and combat loneliness and negligence. For those having a natural inclination to care for seniors and willingness to become a caregiver, here is a vocational course to groom you. Maharana Pratap University for Agriculture and Technology (MPUAT) has introduced a month-long online course in geriatric care assistance for unemployed youths and entrepreneurs. The course will be conducted by the department of human development and family studies of the College of Community and Applied Sciences (CCAS). Applications would be taken till August 27 while the course would commence from 31st, college authorities said. “At present, the population of senior citizens in Rajasthan is nearly 1.04 crore. Ageing in India is exponentially increasing due to the impressive gains that society has made in terms of increased life expectancy. With the rise in elderly population, the demand for holistic care tends to grow. It is projected that the proportion of Indians aged 60 and older will rise from 7.5% in 2010 to 11.1% in 2025” says Gayatri Tiwari, the department head. Due to the increasing number of nuclear families, a section of the family, primarily the elders, are confronting the problems of physical (health and housing), psychosocial and financial support. “Psychosocial problems of elderly are a major concern in today’s fast changing scenario particularly in our country where brain drain or migration of youth is a common phenomenon till date. Care giving for the elderly can be a demanding task and after completing our course, the candidate will be able to take care of aged people in physical, mental and socio emotional dimensions,” Suman Audichya, professor of the department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/passion-in-care-for-seniors-now-online-course-to-groom-you/articleshow/77684238.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Kanpur||Distant nephew of gangster Vikas Dubey surrenders in court||KANPUR: Ashutosh Tripathi, a distant nephew of slain gangster Vikas Dubey who was carrying a reward of Rs 5,0000 on his head, surrendered before the anti-dacoity court in Mati, Kanpur Dehat district on Friday. He was wanted in connection with the Bikru ambush. Ashutosh was one of the accused who have been absconding and Special Task Force (STF) and district police were looking for him and others since the Bikru ambush on July 2 & 3 night. Eight policemen, including deputy superintendent of police Devendra Kumar Mishra, were shot dead, besides six others including a civilian were injured by gangster Vikas Dubey and his aides when they had gone to arrest him in connection with an attempt to murder case lodged at Chaubeypur police station by a local Rahul Tiwari. Additional government counsel Prashant Mishra told reporters that Ashutosh, a resident of Basen village of Chaubeypur, accused in the killing of eight policemen in Bikru ambush, surrendered before the anti-dacoity court at Mati in Kanpur Dehat on Friday. His advocate had moved an application for his surrender before the special court, he said and added that he has been sent to jail in 14 days judicial custody. SP Rural Brijesh Kumar Srivastava said police will soon move an application in court to procure his remand. “We will move an application before the court requesting for his remand so that he can be interrogated with regard to Bikru ambush besides to gather inputs related to other members of Vikas Dubey’s gang who are still on run,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/distant-nephew-of-gangster-vikas-surrenders-in-court/articleshow/77683429.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
August 22, 2020||Jaipur||Missing village pradhan sends email to Barmer SP||JAISALMER: The pradhan of Samdadi panchayat samiti in Barmer Pinky Choudhary (25), who had left her home three days ago along with her 5-year old son, on Friday sent an email to the SP and informed that she has not gone missing but left her house at her own will. She accused her father-in-law of forcefully making relations with her and alleged harassment by her husband. She would soon give her statement in the police station, she added. Pinky’s father gave a missing report at Samdadi police station on Friday. In the report he mentioned that three days ago she left her in-laws’ house and later there was no information about her and her mobile was also switched off. Barmer SP Anand Sharma confirmed that they had lodged a missing report. He added that Pinky had sent an email informing that she had left home at her own will. SP said that when Pinky comes to the police station then we will take action after recording her statement. If she lodges report against her father-in-law and husband, then action will be taken. At present, police are trying to find out from where the mail was sent and making efforts to contact her. It is to be mentioned that Pinky got married seven years ago to Harshan Choudhary. Her mother-in-law and father-in-law also stayed with them. She achieved the feat of becoming village pradhan at a very young age.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/missing-village-pradhan-sends-email-to-barmer-sp/articleshow/77684247.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Meerut||Over 10lakh pirated NCERT textbooks worth Rs 35cr and meant for Delhi, Pune seized||MEERUT: Over 10 lakh freshly-printed pirated NCERT books kept in a warehouse in Meerut was seized by UP Police’s Special Task Force (STF) on Friday. According to a conservative estimate, the value of these books exceeds Rs 35crore, an STF official said. The books were likely to hit markets of Delhi, Pune and other cities, a source said. Demand of the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) books spiked after the Union ministry of education, formally HRD, made them mandatory for all schools affiliated to CBSE. These books are published only in government authorized printing houses. But, several unauthorized printing presses take advantage of the high demand and bring out the pirated copies. Although these books are identical to the original copies, they are made of poor quality paper and ink which are hazardous to children’s health. The Friday’s haul was hidden in a godown in Meerut’s Partapur area. “The firm is registered in the name of Anita Gupta, a resident of Meerut. STF has detained 5 staffers present at the godown and interrogation is underway. We are yet to trace the owner of the firm,” Brijesh Singh, deputy superintendent of police (STF) said on Friday evening. According to the STF sleuths, a preliminary probe has indicated that these duplicate books were to be sold to distributors in several states, including the national capital. Questing of the detained staffers took police to the printing press in TP Nagar area, barely 5km from the godown where consignment was seized. “Suspects were alerted about the raid at the godown and they tried to set the books and machine on fire in the premises where printing used to take place. We have seized six printing machines,” another STF sleuth said. Both the premises have been sealed and further interrogation is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/over-10lakh-pirated-ncert-textbooks-worth-rs-35cr-and-meant-for-delhi-pune-seized/articleshow/77680583.cms||Piyush Rai
August 22, 2020||Jodhpur||Refund Rs 70,000 to son of accused in Bhanwari case: Rajasthan high court||JODHPUR: The Rajasthan high court on Friday directed the state government to refund Rs 70,497 to the son of the accused in the abduction and murder of Bhanwari Devi. The court ruled that providing security to a prisoner or an undertrial is the responsibility of the state. The accused is Amarchand, the husband of Devi. Justice Dinesh Mehta, while allowing the application by Amarchand, directed to do the needful within eight weeks of the order stating that the state cannot justifiably recover the amount of security/police aid. Petitioner’s counsel Yashpal Khileri said that Amarchand had been granted an interim bail from October 5-7, 2019 and was made to deposit Rs 70,497 by the police for assistance/custody during bail period. Khileri also argued that the applicant or his family was not in a position to bear the cost of police custody, demanded by the superintendent of police and submitted that because of the time taken in determination and deposition of the said amount, the applicant could avail the bail only for two days. Though, the respondent counsels protested the arguments of petitioner’s counsel stating that the son of the applicant was in government job and rebutted that he was unable to bear the cost. They justified the recovery of the cost. But the court, turning down the respondents’ arguments, granted the prayer of the applicant to refund the cost recovered by the police and stated that the state was asked to provide police assistance to the applicant pursuant to the directions given by this Court. The court ruled “Unless the Court directs the amount of security/police assistance to be recovered from the applicant, the State cannot recover any amount towards security or police assistance from any accused or his family.” The court also ruled that “Normally, while granting interim bail to an accused, the Court does not release him in police custody. Police custody is ordered if the Court apprehends that the accused would flee and/or there is threat of life to the accused”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/hc-refund-rs-70k-to-son-of-accused-in-bhanwari-case/articleshow/77684249.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Goa||Goa sees highest single-day recovery of 477 cases, 9 deaths||PANAJI: The state’s Covid-19 death toll shot up to 135 on Friday after nine persons succumbed to the virus, the highest fatalities in a single day since the pandemic began. However, Goa also recorded 477 recoveries, the highest in a day so far. The state’s active tally dropped to 3,809, after 385 new cases were detected. Goa has been scrambling to upgrade its health infrastructure for treating severely-ill Covid-19 patients, as fatalities have skyrocketed this month. Although nine deaths were reported on Friday, some of them died on Thursday. Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital dean Dr S M Bandekar told reporters that the mortality rate in the state is around 1%. He also said that some patients reported to hospital very late, and in some cases the delays have been 10 days. “Most patients were presented to us very late with florid pneumonia,” he said. “If such patients are treated with Remdesivir and plasma in the first week of infection, the disease can be conquered.” He also said that it is a misunderstanding that GMC isn’t treating patients well. Health minister Vishwajit Rane, meanwhile, said that the state’s efforts are focussed on reducing casualties due to the virus. The youngest death reported on Friday was a 32-year-old man from Dona Paula. He had comorbid conditions and died at the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital in Bambolim. Since last week, the state’s lone tertiary care hospital is also treating Covid-19 patients. Apart from the 32-year-old from Dona Paula, four other men too died at GMC on Friday — a 53-year-old from Chimbel, a 45-year-old from Nuvem, a 63-year-old from Ponda and a 58-year-old from Majorda. The ESI-Covid hospital in Margao reported four deaths, Three men — a 59-year-old from Betki, a 38-year-old from Chimbel, a 70-year-old from Margao — and a woman — a 70-year-old from Margao, died at the facility. Bandekar said that there are 64 Covid-19 patients currently being treated at GMC. While the ESI hospital, which has 220 beds, has 202 patients, the sub-district hospital, Ponda, has 28 patients. On Friday, Porvorim, Margao, Navelim, Mapusa, Ponda and Panaji continued to register significant spikes in infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-sees-highest-single-day-recovery-of-477-cases-9-deaths/articleshow/77685046.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||BMW hit-and-run case: Vismay Shah surrenders to jail in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Five years after he was punished with a 5-year jail term in the 2013 BMW hit-and-run case for killing two youths, convict Vismay Shah finally surrendered to jail on Friday after exhausting all his appeals and remedies to stay out. Sources said that Shah approached the trial court at the Mirzapur rural court campus with an application to accept his surrender, but the court asked Shah to surrender before jail authorities since his jail warrant was sent in 2015, immediately after his conviction . Shah, in his surrender application, submitted that he has tested negative for Covid-19 and that since he has been suffering form hypertension and back pain, he should be provided with a western-style toilet and a bed in prison. After the trial court convicted Shah, the Gujarat high court and the Supreme Court too upheld his conviction. However, due to the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, the court allowed Shah to remain outside and his surrender to jail authorities to serve his remaining jail term got delayed. He is yet to serve nearly four years, because he remained behind bars for nearly 13 months as an undertrial. Meanwhile, Shah’s efforts to settle the dispute with the families of two deceased youths – Shivam Dave and Rahul Patel – also hit the headlines. The family of a victim withdrew its appeal for more severe punishment for Shah after he paid compensation in an out-of-court settlement in 2017. Shah also hit headlines after he along with his newly wedded wife was caught allegedly boozing in a farmhouse near Adalaj in December 2018. After a monthlong stay in jail, the high court released him on bail on condition of social service. He served in an orphanage and an old age home for six months as his bail condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vismay-shah-surrenders-to-jail/articleshow/77683690.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Delhi||Cops track down stalker via IP address in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A man has been arrested for allegedly stalking a woman and creating a fake Facebook profile of her with morphed pictures. The accused also allegedly sent the morphed pictures to the woman’s fiance, who then ended the relationship with her. Police tracked the accused and found that the man, who owns a jeans production unit, was married and had befriended the woman on social media. The woman told the cops that she discovered the photographs on social media when her ex-fiance ended the relationship. The accused had also put up the fake profile and the woman’s phone number on other sites, following which the woman started receiving lewd messages. She approached the cops and an FIR was registered. The accused, Mohammad Danish, was tracked down to his residence using the IP address of the profile and arrested. Danish told the cops that he wanted to marry the woman a few years back but she had turned him down. He created the profile and morphed the pictures for “revenge” even though he had married.  Danish’s phone has been seized and sent for analysis. Police are trying to establish whether he was blackmailing other women too as they found other profiles on his phone as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-track-down-stalker-via-ip-address/articleshow/77684248.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Parents protest demanding fee waiver at Central Park||JAIPUR: It has been over five months since the schools have been shut, but the issue of fee submission continues to haunt parents. Hundreds of parents protested at Central Park on Friday demanding fee waiver since there are no physical classes going on. Parents of many private schools of Jaipur, part of All Rajasthan Private School Parents Forum, gathered at the park with placards and shouted slogans demanding fee waiver. Sunil Yadav, president of the organisation, said, “Most of us have suffered losses during lockdown. We want relief from payment of fee by the schools as they do not have to provide any facility to our children in schools. In the name of online classes, school can’t charge us 100% fees.” At present, the Rajasthan government has deferred school fees till the schools re-open. In April, the government deferred the fees for three months and now until schools re-open. Another parent, Pooja Bhardhwaj said the government has deferred the fees, but that means when the school re-opens, parents have to pay the entire fees in one go. “This will be unnecessary burden on us and we want the government to give some final decision regarding this,” Pooja said. Reacting to the ongoing protests, Damodar Goyal, president of Society for Unaided Private Schools of Rajasthan, said, “If parents do not want to give any fees because schools are not functioning, then they can’t expect us to provide any online classes to their wards. Teachers’ salaries are being reduced or withheld due to non-payment of fees, now they are also refusing to teach. So, it is neither practical nor possible, that at one end parents are refusing to pay the fee on the pretext of no school, but at the same time they are expecting schools to provide teaching (online).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/parents-protest-demanding-fee-waiver-at-central-park/articleshow/77684256.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Udaipur||Patwari held in Udaipur for taking bribe||UDAIPUR: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Friday arrested a Patwari red-handed for taking bribe of Rs 4,000 at his office in Kanore Patwar Mandal in Udaipur. The complainant Prakash Chaudhary, a resident of Surajpole Darwaja, Kanore, wanted to get a mutation on the record of his land but the Patwari Jitendra Parik demanded Rs 4,000 from him as bribe for the task. “The complainant is an LIC agent and had purchased agricultural land from one Jagdish Chandra, the land was on his wife Meena Kumari's name. He wanted a mutation for getting the plot transferred from the seller,” ASP, ACB Udaipur Sudhir Joshi informed. When the Patwari did not heed to Chaudhary's request without being paid the bribe, he complained to us which was verified. On Friday when Chaudhary gave him the money, the ACB team led by inspector Sonu Shekhawat caught the corrupt Patwari red handed. The accused originally hails from Jobner, Jaipur and was posted at Kanore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/patwari-held-in-udaipur-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/77684261.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Chennai||TN: Drink, don’t dance when pubs reopen||CHENNAI: Clubs and pubs across the state may soon reopen, but tipplers could have little to cheer. They will not be able to tip glasses with friends at the counter, shake a leg on the dance floor or request disc jockeys to play their favourite music as they sip their sundowners. Anticipating a nod from the Centre to throw open such watering holes, the state excise department is drafting a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) aimed at rewriting rules on drinking in bars to contain the spread of Covid-19. The SOP will stress on limiting the number of people inside bars, clubs and pubs by 50% of the capacity to maintain social distancing. Each customer will have just 90 minutes to quench his/her thirst and will have to reserve tables in advance. Pub-hoppers cannot sample the tipple of their choice at the counter and can make only table orders. The number of bar tenders will also be slashed, with those on duty working for 15 days before staying at home for the next 15. They will have to undergo a Covid-19 test before resuming duty. Visitors should also furnish mobile phone numbers at dedicated counters at the entrance for contact tracing. Among groups of drinkers, at least one person should share his/her mobile number that will be cross verified. Doors of bars will remain open and air-conditioners switched off, with pedestal or ceiling fans the only cooling option. Such restrictions, say official sources, are necessary as bars are vulnerable to the spread of virus. “We are expecting the Centre to allow reopening of bars in the coming months. So, we are in the process of preparing the SOP for bars attached to hotels and clubs, besides pubs,” a state government official told TOI. Discotheques and dance floors will be out of bounds for the time being, he added. Of the 1,100 bars operating in hotels and clubs in Tamil Nadu, nearly 450 are located in Chennai. Bars attached to state-owned Tasmac outlets will also follow a similar SOP, though the focus will be largely on maintaining hygiene and on the number of people entering the facility to ensure social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/drink-dont-dance-when-pubs-reopen/articleshow/77812325.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
August 22, 2020||Ludhiana||8 die, 462 test +ve for corona on Friday||Ludhiana: Nine persons, including eight from Ludhiana district, died of Covid-19 in various hospitals of the state, even as 462 persons from the district tested positive on Friday.According to the local media bulletin, nine deaths were reported on Friday, of which eight were in Ludhiana. Of the eight, seven had suffered from other health complications as well — 39-year-old man from Bahadurke Road, who had also diabetes, 40-year-old woman from Tandhari Khurd, who was diabetic too, 90-year-old man from Mundiyan Kalan, who had BP and was heart patient, 47-year-old man from Tajpur Road, who had diabetes, jaundice and heart problem, 62-year-old man from Jagraon, who was diabetic, had blood pressure (BP) and kidney problem, 60-year-old woman from Bajra village, who had diabetes and BP, and 70-year-old man from BRS Nagar, who had diabetes and BP. The other Covid-19 casualty was a 35-year-old man from Lohara.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said with eight deaths, the total number of deaths from the district has risen to 288 and 67 out of district/state deaths have been reported in Ludhiana hospitals.Dr Bagga also said till date 98,107 suspects have been tested for Covid-19. He added that of the 462 patients from Ludhiana who tested positive, 117 have influenza like illness (ILI), 129 are positive cases contacts, 84 OPD cases 84, 14 police personnel, seven health care workers, six international travellers, eight pregnant women, 86 tracing in process, eight under-trial and three preoperative cases.Local health department officials said till Friday, the number of patients from Ludhiana district has been 8,148. With addition of 23 cases from outer districts/states, the number of cases from outer districts/states has risen to 826.The civil surgeon said on Friday, 3,149 samples were sent for testing. He added that till now 5,523 Covid-19 positive patients have recovered in Ludhiana, which constitutes 67.78% of the total cases.Meanwhile, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said there are 2,334 active patients in the district at present. He added that so far 30,185 have been home quarantined in the district and at present, there are 5,265 being isolated. “On Friday, 496 persons were sent for home quarantine,” the DC added.5 cops test +ve, Dehlon PS closed till Aug 24Ludhiana police have shared on its Facebook page that “On August 13, health worker Mastan Singh had gone to motivate a local dera for corona testing, as there were rumours that the dera members were coughing. But he was beaten up by them and we arrested three accused on that day. Later, during testing two of the accused tested positive. Unfoirtunately, five police personnel belonging to the raiding team of Dehlon police station were also found positive. All are fine and asymptomatic. Due to this we have closed Dehlon police station for public dealing for three days till August 24”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/8-die-462-test-ve-for-corona-on-friday/articleshow/77681818.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Goa||Sudin, Churchill discharged, Ravi tests +ve||Panaji: Former deputy chief minister Ramkrishna Dhavalikar and former CM Churchill Alemao, who had tested positive for the virus two days ago, were on Friday discharged from hospital. However, another former chief minister, Ponda MLA Ravi Naik, tested positive for Covid-19. Sources said that Dhavalikar and his wife, who tested positive on Tuesday, was admitted to Manipal hospital that same day. The next day, Alemao and his wife tested positive, and were moved to the same hospital. As their condition improved, they were discharged on Friday, and will observe home quarantine. Meanwhile, Tivim MLA Nilkant Halarnkar, who tested positive for Covid-19 two days ago, was admitted to Manipal hospital on Friday, and his condition is stable. Ravi Naik and his son Ritest both tested positive on Friday. “Only father and son went for the test, as the Ponda MLA had a mild fever,” a source said. Both are in home isolation. Meanwhile, Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik continues to be in the same private hospital, and his condition is improving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sudin-churchill-discharged-ravi-tests-ve/articleshow/77685071.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Kanpur||Elderly couple murdered in Mahoba district||Kanpur:An elderly man and his wife were hacked to death in their sleep on Thursday night at Shri Nagar locality in Mahoba district. The murdered couple are Gangadeen (60), and Bhuman (57). The police said that Gangadeen retired six months ago. “He used to work as a gangman in railways in Madhya Pradesh,” police said. On Friday morning, son Prem Chand went to his parent’s room and found no response despite repeated knockings on the door. He later alerted neighbours, who broke open the door and found the couple lying in a pool of blood. They then called the police who reached the spot. They took away the bodies and sealed the house. Police said their throats were slit with some sharp weapon. Several injury marks were spotted in different parts of the bodies. “A forensic team visited the spot and collected samples. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem. A probe is on,” said superintendent of police Mani Lal Patidar. “Prima facie, it looks like someone known to the couple may have committed the murders,” he added. Meanwhile, local residents blamed the police for the gruesome double murder. “The police have become careless regarding the safety of citizens. There’s hardly any patrolling in the area and as a result such an incident has happened in our locality,” said a group of locals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/elderly-couple-murdered-in-mahoba-district/articleshow/77683461.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Jaipur||Abused minor flees home in Delhi, rescued in Kota||KOTA: A 17-year-old girl, who was living with her uncle’s family in New Delhi, was sexually abused by her cousin brother for years. She somehow managed to escape from her house in New Delhi and reached Kota three days back. She was rescued by volunteers of Child Line on Thursday. They produced her before Child Welfare Committee (CWC) that ordered for her quarantine and counselling to know her whereabouts. “The girl, who is still in a state of deep shock and terror, bears severe marks of torture and thrashing all over her body,” chairperson, CWC, Kaniz Fatima said. She was sent for medical examination on Thursday and the report is awaited, she added.  In initial counselling with the minor, she narrated her ordeal during stay with her uncle’s family after death of her father around five years ago, Fatima said. “The minor’s mother had died while she was very young. She revealed that she was held captive in her own house and alleged that her cousin, who lived in the same house, would beat, harass and sexually abuse her,” the CWC official said.  “She was forced to do all types of work at home. Her cousin would beat, harass her and rape her at night. This continued for years after the death of her father around five years ago, the minor stated to CWC,” Fatima said. The girl had even complained to her Bhabhi (Sister-in-law) but she turned a deaf ear to her complaints, she added. The cousin wanted to occupy the minor girl’s house in New Delhi and the property left by her father, she added. Around three days ago at night, she somehow managed to escape from her house in New Delhi while her cousin was asleep. She took out Rs 1,000 from his pocket and boarded the first bus she found and reached Kota bus stand on Tuesday. In Kota, she took an auto to reach the railway station where an auto driver misbehaved with her. But a dhaba owner near the railway station came to his rescue and took her to his home, where he lived with his wife and five daughters. The dhaba owner informed Bhimganjmandi station police about the girl on Thursday morning following which the police reported the matter to Child Line.  “On information by Bhimganjmandi police station, the volunteers of Child Line rescued her and produced her before CWC on Thursday,” said Alka Ajmera, Child Line coordinator. CWC ordered counselling of the rescued minor and sent her to 14-day quarantine, CWC chairman Kaniz Fatima said. Once the counselling with the minor girl is over, action against the accused uncle and cousin would be initiated, she said. The minor is a native of New Delhi and she incidentally reached Kota, she further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/abused-minor-flees-home-in-delhi-rescued-in-kota/articleshow/77684254.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Jaipur||Don’t communalise Covid, Rajasthan health minister urges opposition||JAIPUR: Medical and health minister Ragu Sharma on Friday rejected the charge of the Opposition that he had politicized the debate on Covid-19 by accusing the Centre. He was replying during a debate on Covid-19 management in the assembly. The minister on the other hand alleged that the BJP members are trying to communalize it by frequently naming Tablighi (Jamaat) and asked the Opposition to desist from it during this crisis. “The Centre had provided 1,300 ventilators to the state. Out of which, 945 have been dispatched to the districts. The state medical department had also purchased 315 ventilators. But hardly 40 are in active use now,” he said. The minister said the government had given new appointment to 12,500 staff during the Covid period and the recruitment of 6,300 community health officers and radiographers are on. Now, plasma therapy of Covid patients has also been made free of cost, he said. Sharma replying to the charge of Opposition that the people are not getting the benefit of Centre’s health insurance scheme, he said that the people are getting uninterrupted benefits of the health insurance scheme. He informed that 6.98 lakh people have been benefited under this scheme from December 13, 2019 till date. He said out Rs 384 crore to be paid as premium, Rs 128 crore has been paid and Rs 151 crore will be paid soon. Opposition leader Gulab Chand Kataria, highlighting the poor condition of Covid hospitals, emphasized the need for radical improvement at such centres. He said there is need for separate rooms for serious patients and non-serious positive cases. Similarly, Kataria said CCTV cameras and TVs should be installed at the centres so that there could be monitoring system of the staff and patients could get some relaxation watching TV. He alleged that the condition of some quarantine centres gives the impression of persecution centres and people refuse to go there. The Opposition leader asked why the government discontinued with the practice of providing quarantine facility to the nurses and health workers when the Covid cases are on an explosive situation. He suggested the constitution of an expert committee which periodically visit these centres and take stock of the situation as horrifying tales are being heard from some of these centres. The government tabled nine bills in the house on Friday but could not be passed due to paucity of time. Speaker CP Joshi then adjourned the house till Monday 11 am following consensus in the house for extending the sitting of the house for another day. The house will take up these bills on Monday. House to take up nine Bills on Monday The Rajasthan Agricultural Produce Markets (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020 The Rajasthan Police (Amendment) Bill, 2020 The Rajasthan Goods and Services Tax (Third Amendment) Bill, 2020 The Rajasthan Excise (Amendment) Bill, 2020 The Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Bill, 2020 The Rajasthan Stamp (Amendment) Bill, 2020 The Rajasthan Goods and Services Tax (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020 The Rajasthan Special Courts (Repeal) Bill, 2020 The Rajasthan Legislative Assembly (Officers and Members Emoluments and Pension) (Amendment) Bill, 2020||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dont-communalise-covid-health-min-urges-oppn/articleshow/77684260.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Surat||‘Factory quarantine’ for returning workers||SURAT: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has come up with a novel policy of ‘factory quarantine’ of migrant textile workers who are found to be infected after returning to Surat for work. This policy comes as a major relief to harassed mill owners who will have to provide these workers with food and other facilities while the workers can operate the machines during their stay at the powerloom units itself. Workers with mild symptoms and testing negative in the antibody test will be placed under the seven days quarantine in their factories itself. This decision was taken by civic chief Banchhanidhi Pani during the meeting with textile industry stakeholders and Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry on Friday. Pani told TOI, “The concept of factory quarantine, which is part of institutional quarantine, is launched for the first time in the weaving units. Symptomatic workers will be put under factory quarantine for seven days but they can continue to operate machines in that unit.” Earlier, the SOP required the textile clusters to set up Covid-care centres for quarantine of infected workers, which the industry opposed due to the absence of community halls in the clusters. Powerloom sector has installed capacity of 7 lakh powerloom machines employing over eight lakh workers. Pani further said that textile clusters will form ‘Suraksha Kavach Committees’ and appoint ‘captains’ in the powerloom units having over 25 workers. These captains will train workers on social distancing, mask and sanitisation (SMS) and also ensure that quarantined workers do not move out of the unit. “One person will be put under quarantine in one section of the unit to enable himto independently operate the unit during that period. If any symptoms are witnessed after completion of the quarantine period, the captains will have to inform the civic body for further testing of the worker,” Pani added. Ashish Gujarati, president of Pandesara weavers’ association said, “Workers were seen not interested in returning to Surat for fear of quarantine and testing. With the introduction of ‘factory quarantine’, workers can stay in the unit for seven days and work too. It is a big relief for the industry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/factory-quarantine-for-returning-workers/articleshow/77681881.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Delhi||Corporations plan desealing policy for residences||NEW DELHI: The three municipal corporations will soon be coming up with unified guidelines for desealing of residential properties that were recently allowed to be opened by Supreme Court. The first to benefit would be sealed stilt parking lots, which were deemed misuse and an unauthorised construction by the monitoring committee. Desealing camps would be organised by the civic bodies and no application fee would be charged for the purpose. This was announced by the three mayors and Delhi BJP Adesh Gupta on Friday. The mayor of North Delhi Municipal Corporation, Jai Prakash, said that Supreme Court had given clarity on the jurisdiction of the monitoring committee. “We will deseal all residential properties that were not used for commercial purposes. A simplified process will be rolled out and owners will not have to pay the Rs 1 lakh application fee, which was mandatory earlier. We will be setting a time limit within which officials will have to act. After that, the properties will be deemed desealed,” he added. There are around 2,800 such properties under north corporation. East corporation mayor Nirmal Jain said every zonal executive engineer would be made the nodal officer for the process. “There are 559 sealed properties in Shahdara South zone and 274 in Shahdara North. The commissioner has been asked to simplify the procedure of desealing,” he added. Anamika Singh, SDMC mayor, said the process of gathering data had been initiated. “A scheme will soon be launched. A common policy will soon be unveiled in consultation with law officers and the Delhi BJP leadership,” she added. Gupta, who was a former mayor of north corporation, said that since the beginning Delhi BJP had opposed the monitoring committee doing work outside its jurisdiction. “The monitoring committee was formed to prevent commercialisation of residential areas and to check misuse of government land. Around 6,000 residential properties will benefit from desealing,” he added. Former Delhi BJP president and MP Manoj Tiwari said for the last 10-12 years arbitrary sealing was troubling the public. He added, “We fought sealing and apprised Supreme Court about the problems being faced by people. As a result, the court said that the sealing done in residential areas was unjustifiable.” Vishal Ohri, general secretary of Local Shopping Centre Federation, said their shops had been lying sealed despite them paying the application fee and conversion charges. “We hope that the court will also review sealing carried out in local shopping centres,” he added. Supreme Court, while ordering desealing of residential properties, had clarified that its order did not “at all mean to belittle the yeomen service done by the monitoring committee for protection of Delhi”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpns-plan-desealing-policy-for-residences/articleshow/77684284.cms||Paras Singh
August 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Six-day lockdown in Baran from today||KOTA: Amid the rise in corona positive cases in Baran, the district collector on Friday ordered enforcement of 6-day lockdown from August 22 in the periphery of Baran municipal council. Medical, emergency services and functioning of recently launched Indira Rasoi will remain unaffected from the lockdown. With the detection of 24 fresh cases on Friday, Baran district now has a total of 419 cases with 20 deaths, however, 230 patients have been discharged after treatment and 169 are still undergoing treatment. Baran city had witnessed a two-day lockdown on August 18-19. In continuation of the order no. 5900-5920 dated August 17, 2020, for two-day lockdown on August 18 and 19, the lockdown in periphery of Baran municipal council is extended for six days from August 22 to 27, the order issued by Baran collector Indra Singh Rao on Friday stated. Banks and liquor shops will remain closed during the lockdown, while ATM kiosks will remain functional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/6-day-lockdown-in-baran-from-today/articleshow/77684262.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Goa||Goa yet to finalise 200 sqkm more of private forest area||PANAJI: Over 46 sqkm of private forest land in Goa may have been approved by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), a major development given that it is first such parcel to be accepted as private forest in the state. However, at least another four times this area or 200 sqkm was identified as additional tracts by the Thomas and Araujo committees for North and South Goa, respectively. Reports by these committees are yet to be finalised by the state government. In fact, last month, the deadline for land owners to file objections or representations over preliminary identification of their properties as private forest was extended to August 31, 2020. The NGT order approving 46.11 sqkm of private forest in Goa was based on the findings of the Sawant and the Karapurkar committees, later reviewed and confirmed by the Sharma committee. The committees headed by retired forest officers V T Thomas and F X Araujo worked between 2012 and 2017, identifying new survey numbers with private forests, which were not covered by the earlier panels. Environmentalist Abhijit Prabhudesai, who was part of the Araujo committee, said 100 sqkm of additional private forest was identified in South Goa itself, with a similar area found by the Thomas committee in North Goa. Although yet another panel was constituted by the state government to review findings of the Thomas and Araujo committees this January, Prabhudesai said that the committees’ reports for South and North Goa is in line with the 2019 report of the Forest Survey of India (FSI), Dehradun. “As per FSI, there is at least another 800 sqkm of forests, including private forests, yet to be identified in Goa. This leaves the unidentified forests open to be axed and interfered with. According to the Goa government itself, the state is 66% forest and only around 30% is protected area. The other half of the forest is not protected. So, 46.11 sqkm of private forest approved now by the NGT is only a small portion of area yet to be confirmed as forest,” Prabhudesai said. He claimed the state government has been dragging its heels on identifying and demarcating areas as per the Thomas and Araujo committees. “It has been three years already. The areas identified by the Thomas and Araujo committees will amount to only around 200 sqkm of forest yet left to be identified in Goa,” Prabhudesai said. The criterion to identify private forests applied by the Goa government in the case of all committees, beginning with the Sawant committee that was formed in 1997 is that 75% of the tree composition of such lands should be of forestry species. The other criteria state that the area should be either contiguous to government forest lands or if in isolation, the minimum area identified should be 5ha and canopy density should not be less than 0.4%. The state government’s contention all along, when it comes to finalising survey numbers under private forest, has been that it will have implications for owners of these private lands. V T Thomas, who headed the Thomas committee, said the NGT order was a welcome one. He said the quantum of the area already approved by the NGT as private forest should be notified as such by the state government as early as possible. “Without the notification, this 46.11 sqkm of forest cannot be protected. I do not think there is any scope for appeal left there now and the state has to move for the notification by stating the dos and don’ts in these areas,” Thomas said. He said the state government should also move to finalise the findings of the Thomas and Araujo committees. “Nobody has said anything or gone to the NGT about subsequent committee findings. Those too have to be finalised in due course,” Thomas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-yet-to-finalise-200-sqkm-more-of-private-forest-area/articleshow/77685089.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
August 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Police hand over Rs 2.6 crore fine collection to health dept||Times News NetworkLudhiana: The Ludhiana Police has handed over to the Punjab health department Rs 2.60 crore collected in fines from the pandemic rule violators. The amount was collected from March 23 to August 18. The maximum amount (Rs 2.52 crore) was collected from those not wearing a mask.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “Since March 23, the city police have issued 56,098 challans to violators for different offences, like not wearing a mask, spitting at public places and failing to ensure physical distancing. The collection of Rs 2.60 crore has been deposited in the account of Punjab health department. A notification was issued by the state government for this. Challan books were given to us by the health department.”While the police department is collecting fines for the health department, the other departments are not doing it. Regional Transport Authority’s Amarinder Singh Malhi said, “We are not depositing fine collection in the health department account.” For not wearing a mask, 53,605 people were challaned, 301 criminal cases registered and 370 people were arrested.For spitting at public places, 2,196 people were challaned and Rs 2.26 lakh collected in fine.For ignoring social distancing norm, 256 people were challaned, a fine of Rs 4.96 lakh collected, 191 criminal cases registered and 250 offenders arrested.So far, the Ludhiana Police has registered three criminal cases, arrested two persons, issued challans to 41 and collected Rs 77,500 in fine for home quarantine rule violation. Five criminal cases were registered and four people arrested for allowing gathering of more than 30 people in wedding functions. One case was registered for letting more than 20 people gather at a ‘bhog’ ceremony. Besides, 417 criminal cases were registered and 471 people arrested for violation of night curfew. As many as 23 cases were registered for protests by political parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/police-hand-over-rs-2-6-crore-fine-collection-to-health-dept/articleshow/77681824.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Factories out of night curfew ambit, but shopkeepers in a fix||TNNLudhiana: Even as the factories have been spared from the new restrictions announced by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases, shopkeepers are a confused lot. As per the new instructions issued on Friday, the closure time for shops, malls, restaurants and liquor vends has been fixed at 6.30pm and non-essential shops were ordered to remain closed on Saturday and Sunday. But factories have been kept out of the purview of these restrictions.However, confusion prevails over another order of the government that says that on weekdays only 50% shops dealing in non-essential items will be allowed to open. For, till now there is no clarity from the administration on how this will be finalised.Welcoming the decision, Rahul Ahuja, chairman of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Punjab, said, “For smooth functioning of industry and to ensure all compliance with law, it is recommended to get passes for workers issued at the factory end as well. As far as the movement of commercial vehicles is concerned, it too has been kept out of the purview of the restrictions, which means we can freely transport goods any time and any day. At the same time, it is my sincere advice to all the industrialists to ensure proper safety measures within their factories as cases of coronavirus are on the rise.”Speaking to the TOI, Gurdeep Singh Gosha, president of Business Bachao Morcha, said, “We are not against any kind of decision taken to contain the coronavirus spread, but the government orders are very confusing. Till now it is not clear how the authorities will make sure that only 50% shops dealing in non-essentials will open from Monday to Friday. The government should make its orders clear so that there is no confusion and shopkeepers and traders know about their turns to open shops.” The DC could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/factories-out-of-night-curfew-ambit-but-shopkeepers-in-a-fix/articleshow/77681831.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Jaipur||Corona raises heat in Rajasthan assembly, session adjourned thrice||JAIPUR: The assembly that resumed on Friday to discuss the economic impact of Covid-19 in the state had to be adjourned thrice following heated arguments between the ruling party and the opposition members. Parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal accused BJP MLA Kali Charan Saraf of politicising the debate on Covid. Saraf had made some direct allegations — which were later expunged from the House proceedings — against Dhariwal. As other ministers came in defence of Dhariwal, the Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria and transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas got into acrimonious arguments, while other members of the treasury and the Opposition benches stood up shouting and gesturing at each other. Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya, who was in the Speaker’s chair then, had to adjourn the House for 30 minutes at 12.19pm. Rajendra Pareek replaced Malviya when the House resumed but he too had to adjourn the proceedings twice as the pandemonium continued. Finally, Speaker C P Joshi returned from his chamber to take charge of the House proceedings at 2pm as chaos continued even after three adjournments and ordered to expunge everything said by Saraf and other members during the arguments until then. Joshi, however, gave Saraf another opportunity to speak, asking him to start afresh without making ‘political’ allegations. Earlier in the day, the debate on Covid and its impact on the state was opened by health minister Raghu Sharma, who highlighted the Ashok Gehlot-led government’s efforts in checking the spread of the virus and the relief provided to the needy. The opposition members argued that the ground reality was different from what the health minister claimed, as neither proper treatment nor promised ration was reaching the poor. Health minister Sharma said the accuracy of antigen tests in detecting Covid patients was doubtful. Sharma said the rising number of positive cases was not much of a concern as the state had a high recovery rate (above 76%) and low mortality rate (1.38%) compared to the rest of India (73% and 1.92%, respectively). “We strengthened our health infrastructure during the lockdown. Rajasthan has 8,090 oxygen-supported beds and 1,672 ICU beds for Covid patients,” said Sharma. He added that plasma therapy was available in five districts, while Jhalawar and Ajmer would soon have it. Sharma said two injections costing around Rs 40,000 each were being provided to Covid patients from poor families free of cost. BJP MLA Anita Bhadel highlighted how the officials were neutralising government’s efforts by not letting the relief reach the needy. Bhadel told the House that e-mitra servers remained shut for up to eight hours a day once the poor got themselves registered for free ration. “These registrations were later cancelled citing technical reasons while the poor, who were unaware of all this, kept waiting for the ration,” Bhadel said. She stressed, “The system is corrupt and making money in the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/corona-raises-heatin-house-sessionadjourned-thrice/articleshow/77684272.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Jaipur||Recommend new buildings for replacement of existing poll stations: Rajasthan chief electoral officer||Jaipur: During a meeting with the political parties on special summary revision of photo electoral rolls, chief electoral officer (CEO) of Rajasthan Praveen Gupta on Friday asked them to recommend the names (of buildings/institutions) if they wanted to replace the existing polling stations with new ones anywhere in the state. Nahar Singh of BJP said, “He wanted us to recommend the names of new polling stations, if we feel those are better than the existing ones, for replacement. For example: if any other building or institution is better in shape than the existing polling station, or if they are closer (to where the voters stay) than the existing one.” “He also said the election department is trying to collect as much data as possible about persons with disabilities (PwDs) in the state. It would help them in ferrying as many PwDs as possible during elections so that the voting percentage can increase,” he added. The Congress party was represented in the meeting by Satyendra Raghav. Gupta gave instructions to the officials to streamline the existing polling stations and shift them to new buildings, if need be. He said the election department will provide training to booth level agents (BLAs), appointed by political parties, at the district level. According to the schedule of summary revision, the draft publication of voters’ lists will be done on November 16 and the final publication will be issued on January 15, 2021. With the state election commission postponing the polls to 129 nagar palikas to October 20, they have asked the district election officers (collectors) to submit a weekly Covid report to the Commission after seeking details from the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/recommend-new-buildings-for-replacement-of-existing-poll-stations-rajasthan-chief-electoral-officer/articleshow/77684268.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Stung financially by Covid, parents shift kids from pvt to govt schools||JAIPUR: The loss of livelihood of lakhs of families in the pandemic is forcing them to shift their wards from private schools to state-run schools. Parents of wards in lower- and middle-income level schools are making a beeline before the government schools in the midst of a session.  Even the government has asked the private schools not to ask for fees till they re-open, but the financial insecurity and uncertainty is so high that parents heading out of private schools in order to save some money. Government officials have confirmed that the final figure of such admissions in the session would be in thousands. This year, state schools are receiving rush in admission request in classes other than entry-level is migration from private to government schools. A government senior secondary school in Malpura, Tonk is known for its 100% result in Class X and XII has received over 100 such applications. “All these applicants were enrolled in private schools in Malpura and even some from Jaipur. Based on my interaction with these students or parents, it is clear that pandemic has robbed off many more people of their livelihood than we think or read in news reports,” said Girdhar Singh, principal of the school, who is hoping that the number will double by the next month. TOI spoke to a few parents who have shifted their children in a nearby government school from a low and middle-income level school. Abdul Gaffar, a father of two children, has shifted his daughter from a private school in Ramgaj Bazaar to a government school in Gangauri Bazaar. He is a travel guide and unable to generate a single penny from March 15 is barely meeting the daily needs. “The monthly fee of my daughter was just Rs 550 but considering that I will remain jobless for a few more months, I am left with no option but to reduce my expenses wherever possible,” said Gaffar, who has a slight idea that government schools have improved significantly in the last few years. The trend will rise manifold and will continue in the next session also, says Kishen Mittal, secretary of Swayamsevi Shikshan Sanstha Sangh, a body of schools affiliated with Rajasthan Board of Secondary Schools. He said every school in the state is facing the migration due to the loss of livelihood is evident. “But, it is leaving thousands of schools in jeopardy. On an average, 60-70% parents have not paid the fees as we have entered into the second quarter. The way the government is encouraging parents not to deposit fees, almost 5,000 schools are likely to shut down by next year. These parents then have no choice but to send their wards to government schools,” said Mittal. The admission process in state-run schools are still on and schools with good facilities, infrastructure and a good result are being chosen by such parents. Such schools are Mahatma Gandhi English Medium Schools, Vivekanand Model Schools The migration is not limited from low-income schools to government schools but also from high-end schools to middle-income level schools. Damodar Goyal, president for the society for private unaided schools in Rajasthan says that several students have disappeared from elite schools. “Those changing schools due to transfer or any other reason seek TC and other exit documents. But, in the case of those families who suffered due to pandemic are going without even informing schools,” said Goyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/stung-financially-by-covid-parents-shift-kids-from-pvt-to-govt-schools/articleshow/77684279.cms||Shoeb Khan
August 22, 2020||Nagpur||Over 60k teachers have lost their jobs in state: Associations||Nagpur: Over 60,000 teachers in Maharashtra have lost their jobs with few lakhs facing salary cuts, according to different schools; associations. All of them say this is a direct result of parents not paying fees, for which they blame the state education department’s ‘anti-education’ stand. Rajendra Dayma, president of Independent English Schools’ Association (IESA) said the economic impact will increase in the weeks ahead. “On an average, fee collection is below 40% and now schools have run out of funds to stay afloat. Today, over 60,000 teachers are jobless because of fee defaults. Also, add 50,000 jobs of non-teaching staff to that list,” said Dayma. He added that salary cuts have been implemented in over 90% of schools. “The salary cuts range from anywhere between 20%-50%. Good teachers, whose presence is desperately needed by schools, did not lose much but all the others had to take a hefty cut,” said Dayma. Subhash Chandra Kedia, honorary secretary of Unaided Schools’ Forum (USF), said that the government’s bid to micro-manage private schools is proving to be a disaster. “The government’s confusing stance on fee payment and then on duration of online classes caused havoc. How can quality education be imparted with so many restrictions? If education is to be limited, compounded with low fee collection, then the staff requirements will obviously go down,” said Kedia. Maharashtra English Schools Trustees’ Association (MESTA) president Sanjay Tayde-Patil pegs the job loss number a bit higher. “We estimate the job cuts to be over 80,000. Many of them were primary breadwinners of their families. They are now left to fend for themselves. The economic cycle is connected because once a parent stops paying, it will ultimately affect their child’s teacher. Also, this year no new hiring will be done, which means anywhere between 30,000-50,000 trainee teachers will be added to the jobless pool,” said Tayde-Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-60k-teachers-have-lost-their-jobs-in-state-associations/articleshow/77684276.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 22, 2020||Jaipur||Employees’ unions urge CM Ashok Gehlot not to deduct salaries||JAIPUR: As the state government is mulling a day’s salary cut every month for all government employees looking at the economic crisis in the state in the aftermath of the lockdown and the ongoing Covid situation, the employees’ unions on Friday wrote to chief minister Ashok Gehlot urging him not to deduct the salaries. The employees’ unions, including All Rajasthan State Employees’ Joint Federation, have demanded release of pending salaries (15 days) for the month of March. Tej Singh Rathore, state general secretary of the union, said, “We will donate two days’ salaries only if our pending salaries are released.” “We also proposed that non-financial demands of different cadres should be met. After this, we will cooperate with the state government. The government should slash the expenses of ministers and MLAs,” he added. They had a meeting with chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup and ACS (finance) Niranjan Arya on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/employees-unions-urge-cm-not-to-deduct-salaries/articleshow/77684273.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Mysuru||Yediyurappa offers bagina to Cauvery, Kapila rivers||Mysuru / Mandya: Days after the major dams in the Cauvery basin reached their maximum capacity, chief minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday offered puja and bagina to Cauvery and Kapila rivers at KRS and Kabini dams respectively. The CM thanked gods for the bounty, which he said will help the farming community. This is the fifth time Yediyurappa has offered bagina to the rivers. He said the government is committed to implement the Mekedatu dam project while he announced Rs 8.48 crore funds to replace the16 crest gates of KRS dam. “Our government is focusing on irrigation projects across the state and have spent Rs 74,000 crore on 28 irrigation projects,” he said. The CM said the government was planning to increase cultivable area in irrigated areas coming under major reservoirs across the state. Mandya district minister K C Narayanagowda, Mysuru district minister ST Somashekar, Mandya MP Sumalatha, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha, MLAs Ravindra Srikantaiah, Annadani and M Srinivas were present. After visiting KRS dam, the CM offered pooja to Kapila river near HD Kote. He also launched Rs 50 crore worth projects including a bridge across the river just downstream of the Kabini dam and development of road from HD Kote handpost. Meanwhile, Hassan district minister K Gopalaiah and law minister JC Madhuswamy offered bagina to Hemavathi river at Gorur in Hassan district. The dam has reached its full capacity for the third consecutive year. JD(S) MLAs HK Kumaraswamy, CN Balakrishna and AT Ramaswamy accompanied them. Won’t scrap this year’s Dasara fete: CM Mysuru will host its annual Dasara festival this season amidst the Covid crisis. Chief minister Yediyurappa on Friday cleared the air saying the government is not looking to scrap this year’s Dasara festival. However, he indicated that the celebrations will be scaled down and it could be a simple Dasara given the constraints owing to the pandemic. He told reporters at HD Kote that Dasara high power committee headed by him will meet and chalk out the details. With this, the confusion over the celebrations scheduled in the second week of October has been cleared paving the way for Mysuru authorities to plan for the Naada Habba. Foresters, who put the plan to bring Dasara elephants to Mysuru on Hold, can now resume their annual Dasara-related activities. Water resources minister Ramesh L Jharkhiholi on Friday said exchanging information between officials of Maharashtra and Karnataka before releasing water from their dams to downstream areas of Krishna and Bhima rivers helped both states to prevent loss of life, property during this year floods in North Karnataka districts. He was speaking after releasing a yearbook called “Jalayagna”, an annual calendar of achievements brought out by his department during the bagina offering ceremony held at KRS in Mandya district here. Protesting farmers held Mysuru and Mandya police on Friday arrested scores of farmers who tried to barge into KRS and Kabini dams accusing the BJP government of adopting anti-farmer policies. Farmers who tried to enter KRS dam were stopped by police at Katteri and Belagola. The farmers had planned to hold a black flag demonstration. The farmers accused the government of failure to contain illegal mining at Baby Betta reserved forest which is posing a threat to the safety of the reservoir as explosives are used by miners. Farmers also protested at Shiramalli junction near Kabini dam in HD Kote. State Sugarcane Growers Association president Kurbur Shantakumar said the farmers’ right to protest has been curtailed by the government. Members of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha held a demonstration at HD Kote junction. Meanwhile, Mandya MP Sumalatha Amabreesh sought the CM’s intervention to curb illegal mining in the vicinity of KRS dam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/yediyurappa-offers-bagina-to-cauvery-kapila-rivers/articleshow/77681869.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Minor raped, hunt on to nab accused||Hyderabad: Ten days after a 16-year-old girl was raped by a 22-year-old youngster in her Jiyaguda home in Kulsumpura, police on Friday launched a manhunt for the accused. A case under section 376 of the IPC and Pocso Act was registered against the youth, who is a neighbour. Police said the offence was committed on August 12. “We have launched a manhunt to arrest the accused. The girl was sent to a Bharosa centre for counselling and medical examination,” Kulsumpura inspector P Shankar said. The accused forced his way into the house when she was alone. The girl was a school dropout. A relative of the girl said the accused had started stalking her in July. “Later, he obtained her cellphone number and was calling her. On August 12 when she was alone at home, he entered the house with a knife. He threatened the girl and raped her. He warned her with dire consequences if she informed any one about the assault,” he said. In another case, Nacharam police arrested a 47-year-old private firm employee in Erragadda on the charges of sexually exploiting a woman after promising to marry her. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/minor-raped-hunt-on-to-nab-accused/articleshow/77684259.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan sees over 1,300 Covid positive cases for six days in a row||JAIPUR: The state is witnessing over 1,300 Covid-19 cases for the six consecutive days. With 1,335 fresh infections on Friday, the total count mounted to 67,954 in the state. Twelve deaths were also reported on Friday, taking the total tally to 933. Besides, the state capital saw 151 positive cases “We have started random sampling and also taking samples from the rural areas which is the reason why there has been a spike in the number of cases for the past 30 days. Earlier, we had witnessed more than 1,200 cases, now, it has increased to 1,300 cases. With the increase in cases, we are also witnessing increase in the number of persons getting discharged,” said an officer with the medical and health department. As per the data released by the medical and health department, out of the total 12 deaths in the state, three deaths were reported from Jaipur followed by two deaths from Tonk, while one deaths each was reported from Bharatpur, Bikaner, Jalore, Rajsamand, Sikar and Udaipur. “All these patients had co-morbidity and were those who had symptoms and were ignoring it,” said the officer. Jodhpur on Friday got 175 corona positive cases and was followed by Sikar which witnessed 173 cases. “Sikar is a surprise as there is a sudden increase in the cases. It has come from a particular pocket where the district authorities with medical team have followed the SOPs and intensified sampling and containment,” the officer added. With 151 fresh cases the Jaipur got its total count of 8315 Covid-19 positive cases. “With three deaths in the city the total number of persons died of Covid-19 in Jaipur took the toll to 248,” said an officer. In Jaipur cases came from post colonies like Bani Park, Vaishali Nagar, Jawahar Nagar, Jhotwara, Sodala, Tilak Nagar and other areas. “Cases have also been reported from Rajasthan High court and Central Jail,” said an On Friday cases came from every district in the state. Meanwhile, out of the 20,62,109 samples 67,954 found Covid-19 positive. “Out of the total cases, we now have 14,525 active cases. So far 52,348 persons have been discharged from hospitals,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-sees-over-1-3k-positive-cases-for-six-days-in-a-row/articleshow/77684283.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Meerut||Criminal facing 15 cases held after encounter in Baghpat||MEERUT: A criminal facing at least 15 cases was arrested after a police encounter in Baghpat district on Friday. The encounter took place in Singhawali Ahir area of Meerut. After a tip-off, police had put barricades and started checking vehicles in the area. And during the checking, two motorcycle-borne men tried to flee after opening fire, police said. “A police encounter followed. One criminal managed to escape while the other was arrested. The arrested accused, Zaheer, got injured in cross firing and one motorcycle and two live cartridges were seized from his possession. He has at least 15 cases filed against him,” said Baghpat SP Abhishek Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/criminal-facing-15-cases-held-after-encounter-in-baghpat/articleshow/77681887.cms||Ishita Bhatia
August 22, 2020||Nagpur||‘Community spread has begun in city... citizens need to follow norms’||While asking all citizens to stay safe, Maharashtra energy minister and guardian minister of district Nitin Raut admitted community spread of Covid-19 had begun in the city and projection of 50,000 cases by next month could be a reality if citizens failed to cooperate. He, however, ruled out any possibility of a lockdown stating that it couldn’t be a solution to stop the spread of virus. The guardian minister spoke at length on various other issues related to pandemic and how administration under him was coping with it. Excerpts: Q. With over a thousand cases everyday, is the situation deteriorating? A. The situation is alarming. In Nagpur, community spread is evident while cases are coming down in Mumbai and Pune. Fifty thousand cases could be a reality. The recovery rate too has improved due to commendable work by the administration. However, citizens must cooperate by strictly following the norms. Even political parties should back us in our fight against the virus. Unfortunately, I am not getting any positive response from them. I had even contacted Union minister Nitin Gadkari and he agreed to attend an all-party meet, but then no response came. Q. You have ruled out possibility of another lockdown... A. The people are already in dire straits, first due to demonetization, then GST and now pandemic. The (BJP-led NDA) government has pushed a majority of citizens into bankruptcy due to its wrong decisions. Many of them, including those in the media, have lost jobs or their salaries were cut. One solution can be partial lockdown on weekends. Our master plan to reduce cases and mortality rate is already implemented. Q. You plan to have 1,000-bed jumbo Covid hospital? A. The preparations are underway for it at Mankapur. The government would provide 50% while the remaining would be chipped in by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). We are also seeking mining funds and some money from district planning committee. I urged people to donate to the cause for purchasing ventilators and other equipment. We had planned a similar facility at Radha Soami Satsang but it isn’t feasible as its toilets are far away and rains may create troubles. Q. Many private hospitals providing Covid treatment are under scanner... A. We have received many complaints against them. Ideally, they must first ask patients whether they want to get treated at government rates or are ready to pay private charges. They are not following guidelines and charging excessively. The government has reserved some beds in all hospitals, but latter are charging same rate from all patients. NMC has acted against a few of them by imposing penalties and also recovering excess amounts charged from patients. I had arranged a meeting with the divisional commissioner today, but he went into self-quarantine after some members of his staff tested positive. Q. What about shortage of beds in hospitals? A. With over 1,000 patients coming everyday, there’s bound to be a shortage. They don’t want to get treated at government hospitals (GMCH and IGGMCH). How can we accommodate them when there’s shortage? The government hospitals are in a far better position than private ones, as they have had experience of last four months. Even the recovery rate is good there while the death rate is less. Q. The traders are upset with mandatory Covid testing for them... A. I will be talking to NVCC and other organizations. Getting tested is in their interest as they come in contact with many outsiders throughout the day. We are not forcing them but everyone must care about the safety of their family. Now, in the monsoon, there are chances of spread of other diseases and all should take care by eating Vitamin C and zinc tablets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/community-spread-has-begun-in-city-citizens-need-to-follow-norms/articleshow/77683232.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 22, 2020||Goa||Sarvajani Chaturthi celebrations in Sattari for one and a half days||Valpoi: All sarvajanik (community) Ganesh celebrations in Sattari taluka have been reduced to one and a half days this year. This decision was taken at a meeting convened by Sattari mamlatdar Dashrath Gawas, who is also the chief officer of the Valpoi Municipal Council (VMC). Representatives of various Sarvajanik Ganesh mandals from Sattari attended the meeting along with officials of a few government departments. The mamlatdar said that only a few persons would be allowed to accompany the Ganesh idols for immersion, strictly adhering to social distancing norms. VMC chairperson Akhtar Shah urged the representatives of Ganeshotsav mandals to abide by the guidelines issued by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sarvajani-chaturthi-celebrations-in-sattari-for-one-and-a-half-days/articleshow/77684315.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Goa||Mhadei water disputes tribunal gets another extension for a year||New Delhi: The Mhadei inter-state water disputes tribunal, constituted 10 years ago to resolve water-sharing dispute among Goa, Karnataka and Maharashtra, has got another one-year extension as refusal of the states to accept its final award forced it to rework the report so that it is acceptable to all. The ‘Jal Shakti’ (water resources) ministry has notified the extension of the Tribunal till August 19, 2021. It’s the third extension to the Tribunal after submission of its final award in August, 2018. Both Goa and Karnataka have challenged the final award of the Tribunal in the Supreme Court on different grounds. Besides Mhadei tribunal, four other tribunals have also been regularly getting extensions in absence of provision of any deadline to finish the task under the existing law. These four tribunals are on Ravi & Beas rivers (constituted 34 years ago); Krishna river (constituted 16 years ago); Vansadhara river (constituted 10 year ago); and Mahanadi river (constituted two years ago). If the Centre had succeeded in pushing through the Inter-State River Water Disputes (Amendment) Bill, 2019 in Rajya Sabha, it wouldn’t have needed to grant extensions to such Tribunals year after year. The bill, passed in Lok Sabha in July last year, has been awaiting Rajya Sabha’s nod. Once the 2019 amendment bill gets through Parliament, all existing tribunals will be subsumed under a single standing tribunal and it will have to settle disputes in a time-bound manner. The bill seeks to introduce a mechanism of disputes resolution committee (DRC). The disputes will be referred to tribunal only if the DRC fails to resolve it within 18 months. The decision of the bench of the single tribunal will be final and binding on the states concerned. It will have the same force as an order or decree of the Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mhadei-water-disputes-tribunal-gets-another-extension-for-a-year/articleshow/77685097.cms||Vishwa Mohan
August 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Dist is second in prevalence of antibodies in containment zone||SERO SURVEY Ludhiana: When it comes to the percentage of people in containment zones who have been exposed to Covid-19, Ludhiana district has the second highest number. This has come out in the recent sero survey of the Punjab government in association with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The survey was Punjab’s first exclusive one and conducted in five containment zones from August 1 to 17 among a systematically selected random sample population of 250 in each segment.The survey found that antibodies against the Covid-19 infection were found in 27.7% of people in containment zones in Punjab. Amritsar district had highest antibodies prevalence in the containment zone at 40%, whereas Ludhiana district had 35.6% and SAS Nagar 33.2%.Dr Alok, who was part of the ICMR team that did such a survey, said Ludhiana sero survey was conducted in Prem Nagar containment zone, and 250 samples were taken to analyse prevalence of antibodies. “The survey helped us in getting a picture of how many have been exposed to the disease and how many have got immunity. On the basis of the information, strategy is decided, like the number of contacts of positive patients to be sampled, among others,” he said.He indicated that the decision of the chief minister to increase the curfew hours in the state was also guided by the survey.ICMR official said teams from PGI, Chandigarh, and ICMR participated in the survey and as part of national sero survey they had collected samples from 10 places in Ludhiana district.State health secretary Hussan Lal told The Times of India that the survey would help them in planning their strategy in controlling the pandemic. He added that the situation in Amritsar has been somehow controlled because initially they did a lot of contact tracing, but Ludhiana faced a problem because of the migrant population moving in and out.“So, Ludhiana picked up more infection quickly and suddenly,” said the health secretary, adding that the chief minister has on Thursday announced doubling of testing capacity and three times the contact tracing (as of now it is 3.5 persons per positive patient but it will be increased to 10).”Health department officials said with more testing and tracing of patients, the fatalities are expected to drop as patients will be detected early.Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said they have been carrying out aggressive sampling and contact tracing and hope that cases would decrease. The officials said even as five containment zones in five cities were chosen where the highest number of cases were reported, as per the survey in the remaining parts of the cities, the Covid-19 prevalence would be lower. They added in rural areas the prevalence would be much lower than the urban ones, as per the survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dist-is-second-in-prevalence-of-antibodies-in-containment-zone/articleshow/77681892.cms||Shariq Majeed
August 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Need a plasma donor? Call on police helpline||Ludhiana: A Covid-19 patient in need of plasma can approach Ludhiana Police on its helpline number to get a donor.The Ludhiana Police on Thursday arranged a donor of AB+ blood group for a virus-infected patient.Additional deputy commissioner of police (special branch) Rupinder Kaur Sra has been appointed as the nodal officer for this work.Sra said, “People in need of plasma can contact at police control room number 7837018500. The number is available 24x7. As of now, we have arranged plasma for one patient. We have a list of 53 cops, who have recovered from the disease, willing to donate plasma.”About the donation procedure, Sra said, “Only two things are required for a person to donate plasma: first, the blood group of the patient and the donor should be the same and secondly, the donor must have antibodies in his body. After a screening at hospital, doctors decide if a person is fit to give plasma.”To date, over 200 cops have contracted the virus.“Even after recovery, not all of them have antibodies in their bodies. Over 50 cops of Ludhiana commissionerate are willing to donate plasma. We have tied-up with cops of other districts too. The donor for the patient for whom we have arranged plasma is a Patiala cop. We contacted Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, and made arrangements,” she added. With residents not coming forward to join the cause, the police plan to hold an awareness drive. “More people should come forward and help patients fighting Covid-19. Besides, people who want to donate plasma can also approach the police on this helpline number,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/need-a-plasma-donor-call-on-police-helpline/articleshow/77681877.cms||Payal Dhawan
August 22, 2020||Jaipur||Govt plans to create database of migrants returning to previous workplaces||Jaipur: With the migrant workers gradually leaving for their previous workplaces, the state labour department is planning to create a database of migrants who are returning to their workplaces after having arrived in Rajasthan during the lockdown period. It is believed that at least 30-40% workers have gone back. “Many migrant workers, who have come to state, would want to return to their previous workplaces as the Covid situation normalizes. Many have even returned to their previous workplaces. Those who wish to go back, if they inform it to us on their own, their names will be deleted from the existing database,” said a labour department official.“If they don’t do so own their own, after a couple of months, we can plan a drive to find out how many of them have remained dormant (have not used the portal) and how many have gone back to their previous workplaces. This will be a gradual process and can be done at a later stage. As of now, there is no such depository in the department,” the official added.On August 21, the labour engagement in the state was 15.82 lakh, which is a sharp dip from 53.45 lakh in mid-June. A meeting was held with the employers’ associations and industries to resolve their issues with regard to accessing data on Raj Kaushal portal on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-plans-to-create-database-of-migrants-returning-to-previous-workplaces/articleshow/77684280.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Waste segregation starts from October||CHANDIGARH: Source segregation of garbage at people’s doorsteps is set to start by October with Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) placing a tender of around Rs 35 crore to purchase 390 twin-bin BS-6 vehicles to lift dry and wet garbage separately. CSCL is purchasing these garbage collecting vehicles through GeM (Government E-Marketplace) portal and bearing the expenses. The tender will open on September 14. Since the inbuilt twin-bin vehicles will have two bins of green and blue colour for dry and wet waste, the civic body authority will not have to install any additional accessory. Soon after arrival, the vehicles will be pressed into service throughout the city to lift segregated garbage. The Centre allowed only BS-6 vehicles for the purpose as these are more environmentfriendly than others. During bidding at the GeM portal, the eligible company will be selected. “As the MoU has already been signed with the door-to-door waste collectors’ association of the city, collectors will be employed on these vehicles. They will work in accordance with terms and conditions signed with the authority. They will be provided proper dress and safety equipment required while lifting garbage from their respective areas,” sources said. The segregation exercise started last year after the purchase of small twin-bin vehicles. However, segregation could not be implemented due to the tussle with door-to-door garbage collectors. The tender of the vehicles has been placed. Soon after getting these vehicles, segregation will be started in the city in October. These twin-bin vehicles will be instrumental for source segregation. They will improve waste collection and its transportation mechanism in the city. The vehicles will be of 3.2 cubic metres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/waste-segregation-at-source-to-start-in-october/articleshow/77683186.cms||Deepak Yadav
August 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||PM Modi may visit Gujarat on his birthday||GANDHINAGAR: Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to visit Gujarat on his 71st birthday on September 17. Nitin Patel, the deputy chief minister of Gujarat and the spokesperson of the state government, said the PM may inaugurate the UN Mehta Hospital building. Patel visited the newly built facility on Friday. “The state government has acted in line with PM Modi’s vision of developing UN Mehta Hospital and the new building on the Civil Hospital campus in Ahmedabad.” Patel said. “The Rs 300 crore UN Mehta Heart Hospital building and the 1,200-bed Civil Hospital facility are ready and the PM is expected to inaugurate these buildings.” Patel added that when Covid-19 cases were being reported earlier this year, both the newly constructed buildings were used to treat coronavirus patients. Although Patel did not specify the date on which the buildings will be inaugurated, sources in the state government said they believe the PM will choose his September 17 visit for the formal opening. The PM has been visiting his home state on his birthday to seek the blessings of his mother Hiraba who lives in Gandhinagar with her younger son. The PM is also likely to dedicate to the people a few civic projects in Ahmedabad, North Gujarat, and a series of projects at the Statue of Unity (SoU) in Kevadia in Narmada district. The PM last visited Gujarat in February, when US President Donald Trump and his family arrived in Ahmedabad. The PM was expected to visit Ahmedabad some time subsequently to inaugurate UN Mehta Hospital and the new building on the Civil Hospital campus. But the Covid pandemic deferred that plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pm-may-visit-state-on-his-birthday/articleshow/77683549.cms||Kapil Dave
August 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||62% of active Covid cases in Gujarat from four districts||AHMEDABAD: With 1,205 new cases reported on Friday, the state has 14,320 active cases, which account for 17% of total cases so far. The share of discharged and deceased patients is 79.6% and 3.4%, respectively. Ahmedabad (3,399), Surat (2,557), Rajkot (1,607), and Vadodara (1,371) districts account for 62% of the active cases in the state. Gujarat, in the 24 hours ending 5pm on Friday, added 1,204 new cases, taking the total of cases so far to 84,466. This was the state’s highest one-day tally and the first day of 1,200 daily cases, 26 days after it first recorded 1,100 cases in a day. The new cases include 251 from Surat, 179 from Ahmedabad, 120 from Vadodara, and 97 from Rajkot. With the update, Surat district crossed 18,000 total cases, whereas Ahmedabad inches closer to 30,000 cases and Vadodara 7,000 cases. Dangs recorded eight cases in a day, 20% of its total cases so far. The state also recorded its highest one-day number of tests and discharges. The state carried out 72,858 tests in 24 hours, taking the total to 16.2 lakh. A total of 1,324 patients were discharged, taking the total to 67,277. Gujarat recorded the deaths of 14 patients as the death toll mounted to 2,869. It was the lowest daily death toll for the state in 36 days. The deaths included five from Surat, three from Ahmedabad, two from Vadodara, and one each from Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Anand, and Panchmahal. Surat’s death toll is now at 580, whereas Rajkot has seen the deaths of 75 patients so far. The discharged patients included 340 from Surat, 308 from Jamnagar, 167 from Ahmedabad, and 132 from Rajkot. As on Friday evening, Gujarat has 4.66 lakh persons under quarantine, out of which 723 are in facility quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/62-of-active-cases-in-state-from-four-districts/articleshow/77684308.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Ludhiana||2 die in separate road accidents||Ludhiana: Two persons have died in separate road accidents in the district, the police said.In the first incident, a speeding truck crushed to death 28-year-old Rajat Sharma of Ashok Nagar on Dhandra Road on Thursday. After the accident, the truck driver fled the spot leaving his vehicle behind.A case has been registered on charges of rash driving and causing death by negligence against the accused driver, identified as Tara Chand of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, at the Sadar police station.Rohit Kumar Sharma, brother of the deceased, said Rajat was returning home on his bike after dropping his wife at her school in the morning when the truck hit him from behind. Rajat fell on the road and the truck ran him over. As people rushed to his rescue, the truck driver slipped away. He was taken to a hospital, but succumbed to the injuries.In another case, a labourer died when a speeding SUV crushed him to death near Sherpur Khurd on Thursday. The deceased has been identified as Madhav Parsad, 56, of Bal Singh Nagar in Daba of the district.Lakshman Parsad, son of the deceased, said his father was going on his cycle to the factory where he worked as a labourer. As he reached near Sherpur Khurd, a Mahindra Bolero hit him from behind and he died on the spot. Investigating officer from Moti Nagar police station ASI Charan Singh said a case has been registered against the accused, identified as Sushil Kumar of Transport Nagar. He would be arrested soon, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-die-in-separate-road-accidents/articleshow/77681906.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: NGT fines Palghar units, treatment unit Rs 160 crore for water pollution||MUMBAI: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has ordered 102 industrial units and the operators of the common effluent treatment plant in Tarapur MIDC area of Palghar to collectively pay up Rs 160 crore for restoration of the environment damaged by the discharge of untreated effluents into drains, creeks and the sea. This includes Rs 75 crore as a ‘Super Fund’ to meet expenses of remediation. There are 1,216 units of textile processors, steel processors, chemicals, dyes and dye intermediates, pharmaceuticals, pesticides and others located inside the industrial estate. This is the second such order obtained by a local fishing community in Maharashtra challenging the environmental pollution in the vicinity of their villages. The earlier order was won by the fishing villages of Mahul and Ambapada in Mumbai. Accountability of the CETP and the 102 units in terms of damage recovery cost was fixed after a hearing. The recovery from each unit varies from Rs 90,000 to Rs 11 crore while the damage recovery cost from the CETP operators has been fixed at Rs 70 crore. The untreated chemical effluent released in the region has impacted the lives and livelihood of residents of 18 fishing villages from Tarapur to Kelve. While the villagers had complained to the state environment department, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board and MIDC, none of the agencies took cognizance. In 2016 when dead fish surfaced yet again on the adjoining seas, the Akhil Bharatiya Mangela Samaj Parishad representing the 18 villages approached the National Green Tribunal (NGT) for action against the polluters. The NGT in September 2019 appointed a five-member expert committee to ascertain the extent of damage, cost of restoration of the environment and individual accountability of the CETP operators and the industrial units. It had at the time ordered the larger units to deposit Rs 1 crore each, the medium-sized ones Rs 50 lakh each and smallscale industries Rs 25 lakh each as interim compensation. The CETP was directed to deposit Rs 10 crore with the Central Pollution Control Board. The report submitted to the NGT examined the performance of the CETP from April 2011 to November 2019. It found drains and groundwater in and around Tarapur MIDC were contaminated due to effluent discharge. “The creeks and sea also have impact due to discharges from CETP and other units in Tarapur MIDC… the reports reveal that there has been consistent violation with respect to effluent flow and quality both exceeding the inlet design parameters; outlet effluent quality exceeding the prescribed outlet standards; and overflows from CETP to surroundings. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has also monitored the CETP jointly with MPCB on various occasions during 2007 to 2013 and in January, 2018. The results of such joint monitoring also reveal that the CETP did not meet the prescribed discharge standards,” says the NGT order. The CETP availed subsidy from government and collected membership fee and treatment fees from member units but has consistently violated the prescribed standards under the Consent to Operate granted to them by MPCB,” reads the NGT order. The order states that the CETP and the industries were made aware of roles and responsibility through Environment Clearance/Consolidated Consent and Authorisation and thus the ‘polluter pays principle’ is applicable and they can be penalised for breach of terms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ngt-fines-palghar-units-treatment-unit-rs-160-cr-for-water-pollution/articleshow/77685126.cms||Clara Lewis
August 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Clouds rain trouble for hapless Zirakpur residents||MOHALI: As Zirakpur flounders every monsoon, residents say it has earned the epithet of “floodpur.” Many regret buying houses in the town, which lacks civic amenities. Zirakpur was flooded on Friday after the Chandigarh Met department recorded 50mm of rainfall at their Airport observatory, closest to Zirakpur in the past 24 hours. The inundated roads belied the claims of Zirakpur MC of having cleaned the storm water drainage system. Residents and people working in Zirakpur complained of waterlogging after every spell of rain. Many residents said refrigerators, washing machines and furniture get damaged due to flooding of houses and shops in Bhabat village, Lohgarh, Badal Colony, Shivalik Vihaar and other affected areas. Navjit Singh Miglani, a resident of Zirakpur said, “We live with waterlogged roads, unscheduled power cuts, potholed roads, garbage dumps, smoke from stubble burning and utter chaos. We regret buying a house in Zirakpur as there seems to be no end to our woes.” Another resident urged the Punjab chief minister to grant two-month leave to Zirakpur or supply boats for commute. Kamal Kumar, a trader on Zirakpur-Chandigarh road said, “This is an annual problem. A few hours of rain is enough to disrupt normal life. Water seeps into our shops, making life miserable. The storm water brings slush and garbage, which leads to foul smell for days.” With the Zirakpur-Patiala intersection under the flyover flooded, traffic jams were seen on this stretch. Traffic police personnel were seen managing traffic in knee deep water. Vehicles were seen stranded in the waterlogged road under the flyover. Along with storm water, sewerage and garbage also entered houses in many parts of Zirakpur. The sewerage ‘nullah’ flowing along the roads got flooded, said residents. Once the water receded, residents had to clear mud and garbage, which settled on the floor of houses. The unsanitary conditions triggered fears of diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-zirakpur-rain-brings-flood-of-woes/articleshow/77683192.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
August 22, 2020||Surat||Reverse train demand struck down||Municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani on Friday turned down textile industry’s demand for running reverse Shramik special trains to bring back migrant workers to Surat. “It is not possible to run Shramik trains now. For us, health of the city is important,” he said. President of SGCCI, Dinesh Navadiya, however, kept up the demand for running the trains as only 15% of Surat’s units have been able to restart post lockdown owing to shortage of hands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/reverse-train-demand-struck-down/articleshow/77681926.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Surat||62% of active Covid cases in Gujarat from four districts||AHMEDABAD: With 1,205 new cases reported on Friday, the state has 14,320 active cases, which account for 17% of total cases so far. The share of discharged and deceased patients is 79.6% and 3.4%, respectively. Ahmedabad (3,399), Surat (2,557), Rajkot (1,607), and Vadodara (1,371) districts account for 62% of the active cases in the state. Gujarat, in the 24 hours ending 5pm on Friday, added 1,204 new cases, taking the total of cases so far to 84,466. This was the state’s highest one-day tally and the first day of 1,200 daily cases, 26 days after it first recorded 1,100 cases in a day. The new cases include 251 from Surat, 179 from Ahmedabad, 120 from Vadodara, and 97 from Rajkot. With the update, Surat district crossed 18,000 total cases, whereas Ahmedabad inches closer to 30,000 cases and Vadodara 7,000 cases. Dangs recorded eight cases in a day, 20% of its total cases so far. The state also recorded its highest one-day number of tests and discharges. The state carried out 72,858 tests in 24 hours, taking the total to 16.2 lakh. A total of 1,324 patients were discharged, taking the total to 67,277. Gujarat recorded the deaths of 14 patients as the death toll mounted to 2,869. It was the lowest daily death toll for the state in 36 days. The deaths included five from Surat, three from Ahmedabad, two from Vadodara, and one each from Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Anand, and Panchmahal. Surat’s death toll is now at 580, whereas Rajkot has seen the deaths of 75 patients so far. The discharged patients included 340 from Surat, 308 from Jamnagar, 167 from Ahmedabad, and 132 from Rajkot. As on Friday evening, Gujarat has 4.66 lakh persons under quarantine, out of which 723 are in facility quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/62-of-active-cases-in-state-from-four-districts/articleshow/77686808.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Rajkot||62% of active Covid cases in Gujarat from four districts||AHMEDABAD: With 1,205 new cases reported on Friday, the state has 14,320 active cases, which account for 17% of total cases so far. The share of discharged and deceased patients is 79.6% and 3.4%, respectively. Ahmedabad (3,399), Surat (2,557), Rajkot (1,607), and Vadodara (1,371) districts account for 62% of the active cases in the state. Gujarat, in the 24 hours ending 5pm on Friday, added 1,204 new cases, taking the total of cases so far to 84,466. This was the state’s highest one-day tally and the first day of 1,200 daily cases, 26 days after it first recorded 1,100 cases in a day. The new cases include 251 from Surat, 179 from Ahmedabad, 120 from Vadodara, and 97 from Rajkot. With the update, Surat district crossed 18,000 total cases, whereas Ahmedabad inches closer to 30,000 cases and Vadodara 7,000 cases. Dangs recorded eight cases in a day, 20% of its total cases so far. The state also recorded its highest one-day number of tests and discharges. The state carried out 72,858 tests in 24 hours, taking the total to 16.2 lakh. A total of 1,324 patients were discharged, taking the total to 67,277. Gujarat recorded the deaths of 14 patients as the death toll mounted to 2,869. It was the lowest daily death toll for the state in 36 days. The deaths included five from Surat, three from Ahmedabad, two from Vadodara, and one each from Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Anand, and Panchmahal. Surat’s death toll is now at 580, whereas Rajkot has seen the deaths of 75 patients so far. The discharged patients included 340 from Surat, 308 from Jamnagar, 167 from Ahmedabad, and 132 from Rajkot. As on Friday evening, Gujarat has 4.66 lakh persons under quarantine, out of which 723 are in facility quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/62-of-active-cases-in-state-from-four-districts/articleshow/77686807.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Vadodara||62% of active Covid cases in Gujarat from four districts||AHMEDABAD: With 1,205 new cases reported on Friday, the state has 14,320 active cases, which account for 17% of total cases so far. The share of discharged and deceased patients is 79.6% and 3.4%, respectively. Ahmedabad (3,399), Surat (2,557), Rajkot (1,607), and Vadodara (1,371) districts account for 62% of the active cases in the state. Gujarat, in the 24 hours ending 5pm on Friday, added 1,204 new cases, taking the total of cases so far to 84,466. This was the state’s highest one-day tally and the first day of 1,200 daily cases, 26 days after it first recorded 1,100 cases in a day. The new cases include 251 from Surat, 179 from Ahmedabad, 120 from Vadodara, and 97 from Rajkot. With the update, Surat district crossed 18,000 total cases, whereas Ahmedabad inches closer to 30,000 cases and Vadodara 7,000 cases. Dangs recorded eight cases in a day, 20% of its total cases so far. The state also recorded its highest one-day number of tests and discharges. The state carried out 72,858 tests in 24 hours, taking the total to 16.2 lakh. A total of 1,324 patients were discharged, taking the total to 67,277. Gujarat recorded the deaths of 14 patients as the death toll mounted to 2,869. It was the lowest daily death toll for the state in 36 days. The deaths included five from Surat, three from Ahmedabad, two from Vadodara, and one each from Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Anand, and Panchmahal. Surat’s death toll is now at 580, whereas Rajkot has seen the deaths of 75 patients so far. The discharged patients included 340 from Surat, 308 from Jamnagar, 167 from Ahmedabad, and 132 from Rajkot. As on Friday evening, Gujarat has 4.66 lakh persons under quarantine, out of which 723 are in facility quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/62-of-active-cases-in-state-from-four-districts/articleshow/77686806.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Nagpur||Doctor, 32, on Covid-19 service dies in Chandrapur||Nagpur: A 32-year-old doctor deployed at Warora sub-district hospital in Chandrapur district died of coronavirus infection on Friday. This is first death of frontline Covid-19 warrior who got infected while on duty. Deceased doctor was native of Rajura in Chandrapur district. He was on contract under National Health Mission and working at Covid Care Centre in Warora since its inception. He developed symptoms on August 6 and had tested positive. He was shifted to Covid Care Centre at forest academy in Chandrapur. His condition deteriorated by August 12 and he was shifted to ICU at Covid Hospital in the city. He breathed his last on Friday afternoon. Guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar has expressed his condolence to the family of deceased doctor. He stated that administration officials, medical officers and full-time frontline workers were dedicatedly serving the patients. They should also take care of their own health. District collector Ajay Gulhane, who himself is in isolation, has extended his condolence and called upon the medical officers and staffers to take due care while handling the patients. Vidarbha region reported 40 Covid-19 deaths on August 21. Nagpur once again was highest with 28 deaths. These include 24 from Nagpur city, two each from Nagpur district and other states. Amravati reported four deaths, Washim and Akola two each, while Chandrapur, Bhandara, Wardha and Yavatmal reported one death each. Vidarbha’s toll reached 1,083. Number of new cases is growing every day. On Friday, 1,677 cases were reported, a new high. These include Nagpur (1,228), Amravati (118), Chandrapur (57), Wardha (47), Gondia (44), Yavatmal (40), Bhandara (35), Washim (35), Buldhana (34), Akola (33), and Gadchiroli (6). Vidarbha’s total cases reached 39,982. For the second day in a row, recoveries were more than 1000. With Nagpur (700), Amravati (103), Yavatmal (66), Washim (53), Akola (34) Gondia (29), Bhandara (19), Buldhana (18), Chandrapur (15), Gadchiroli (15), and Wardha (14), total 1,066 recovered – taking total to 22,470. Recovery rate of Vidarbha is 56.87%, still less than Maharashtra and national average both of which are more than 70%. AMRAVATI: Four Covid deaths and a spike of 118 cases today took the district’s toll to 107 and case count to 4,334. A 20-year-old youth from village Shirala in Chandur Bazar was among the four who died. He joined a youth of same age from Morshi, whodied on Aug 11, as the youngest Covid casualty of the district. Besides him, a 48-year-old female from Lokmanya square in Walgaon, a 74-year-old male from Ambavihar in Ravi Nagar locality here and a 60-year-old male from Ambagate breathed their last on Friday. With 103 patients getting discharge today, the number of recovered patients reached 3,118. This left 1,109 active cases, including 27 taking treatment in Nagpur and 321 in home isolation. The rural belt today reported 26 cases that took its count to 1157. CHANDRAPUR: A spike of 57 new cases taking the Covid-19 total to 1,306 on Friday. In all 15 new patients were discharged during the day raising the total of to 866. This has left 458 active patients under treatment in district. Death toll has reached 13. New found patients include 22 from Chandrapur city, 14 from Ballarpur, seven from Bhadrawati tehsil, three each from Rajura and Ghugus, four from Korpana and one each from Sindewahi and Bramhapuri tehsils. AKOLA: The district reported two deaths on Friday. A 74-year-old man from Balapur Naka old city in Akola, who was admitted in critical condition on August 19, died on Friday. A 42-year-old woman from Barshi Takli who was admitted since August 17 also died. This took total number of deaths in Akola to 143. Akola conducted 434 tests on Friday, out of which 33 tested positive. Now, Akola has 3,388 Covid-19 cases, 2,914 of them have recovered, and 331 are under treatment. WASHIM: A 69-year-old man from Karanja Lad who had tested positive in Akola on August 15 died during treatment. Another 53-year-old man from Shirpur Jain who had tested positive in Aurangabad and died on August 18 has been added to Washim district’s tally. Now, Washim has 25 deaths, including one suicide. On August 21, total 35 persons tested positive and 53 recovered. Washim has 1,352 total cases, 962 recoveries, and 365 patients under treatment. YAVATMAL: A 60-year-old man from Ambedkar Ward in Pusad tehsil died in Yavatmal. This took total toll of district to 65. 40 new patients tested positive while 66 recovered and were discharged. With this, Yavatmal district case total reached 2,524, including 1,664 recovered and 795 under treatment. Of these, 620 are admitted in GMCH while 175 are in home isolation. BHANDARA: One patient died during treatment in Bhandara district. This was second day in a row when Bhandara reported a Covid-19 death and its toll has reached 11. Total 35 new patients were reported while 19 recovered. Bhandara now has 730 patients with 440 recovered. Total 279 patients are under treatment. GONDIA: 44 new cases were added to the tally of district while 29 patients defeated corona. Of the new infected, 40 hail from of Gondia alone and remaining are from Tirora and Arjuni-Morgaon tehsils. Now, Gondia has 947 cases with 696 recovered and 12 deaths. Total 239 patients are under treatment. WARDHA: A 77-year-old man from Arvi died due while 47 more persons tested positive on Friday. 14 patients recovered were discharged. This was the second day when large number of Covid patients were reported in district. Now the total active cases have reached 175. They are from Pulgaon (13), Selu (11), Wardha (6), Hinganghat (6), Karanja (5), Arvi (3) and Ashti (3). 265 test reports were received on Friday. The toal count reached 559 with 372 recoveries. GADCHIROLI: Six persons tested positive while 15 recovered on Friday. Due to this, number of Covid-19 patients under treatment in Gadchiroli is down to 116. The district has 872 Covid-19 cases so far with 755 recoveries. BULDHANA: Total 35 new cases were detected in Buldhana while 18 patients recovered on Friday. This took total cases in district to 2,471, including 1,589 recoveries and 41 deaths. Now, 841 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doctor-32-on-covid-19-service-dies-in-chandrapur/articleshow/77684288.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Glitch in GST portal fixed, taxpayers can file for refunds||Ludhiana: A day after TOI reported how assessees and tax professionals were unable to access the GST data for the month of July 2017 due to a glitch in the GST portal, the Goods and Services Tax Network (GSTN) has resolved the issue. Delay in accessing data could have delayed the process of filing applications for refunds.Confirming the fixing of technical error in the portal, Ludhiana deputy commissioner, state tax (DCST) Tejbir Singh Sidhu on Friday said now the data for July 2017 and the corresponding months has started reflecting on the portal and the taxpayers can file for refunds.Sidhu said, “Ever since we came to know about the glitch, our officials were constantly in touch with the officials of the GSTN (Goods and Services Tax Network) authorities. Finally, it has been resolved and all the assessees, who are desirous of filing for the refunds for July 2017, are requested to do so before August 31.”Ankur Gupta, a city-based chartered accountant, said, “This is a big relief for the taxpayers. With the deadline to apply for the refunds for July 2017 drawing close, if the problem had persisted, the refunds for this month would have become time-barred and the taxpayers would not have been able to claim it in their bank accounts. We are thankful to the state taxation department for taking up this matter and getting it resolved.”Once refunds become time-barred, the businesses have to get the same adjusted against their future transactions, which is never the preferred option of most of the taxpayers.Another taxation professional Santosh Kumar Rath said, “It is our request to the GSTN authorities to make the portal more user-friendly and ensure that such glitches do not occur in the future, as it causes immense trouble to both taxpayers and tax professionals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/glitch-in-gst-portal-fixed-taxpayers-can-file-for-refunds/articleshow/77681902.cms||Mohit Behl
August 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Pandemic delays PUTA polls, voting arrangements changed||Chandigarh: Ahead of Panjab University Teacher Association (PUTA) elections, there will be a change in the number of polling stations. Voting hours will be increased and results will be announced the next day. The tenure of the present PUTA panel ended on August 21 but announcement of the schedule has been delayed because of the pandemic. The present team will continue till the election of new members. Vijay Nagpal, returning officer, PUTA elections said he would announce the schedule shortly after a meeting with association members. There are around 650 to 675 voters for PUTA elections. Instead of five tables, eight will be set up this time to cast votes. Polling stations have been set up in auditoriums and five booths have been set up on stage for offline polling. The pattern of polling booths will be the same but more polling stations will be set up to maintain social distancing. Election officials have proposed to allow only 20 to 25 persons to cast vote in each polling station. Usually, polling time is 8am to 2pm and result is announced in the evening. But this time, election might take longer and result will be announced the next day. The final decision will be taken by the returning officer as and when elections are announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pandemic-delays-puta-polls-voting-arrangements-changed/articleshow/77683198.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Teach lessons on Covid prevention, schools told||CHANDIGARH: The education department has asked government, government-aided and recognised schools to introduce lessons on hygienic practices to prevent Covid infection during online sessions, a step taken following the spurt in the cases. District education officer Harbir Singh Anand issued a letter to principals and heads of all schools on Thursday. “We all are aware the virus is spreading at an alarming rate and can be controlled by spreading awareness and taking precautions. Principals are directed to introduce lessons during online teaching on hygienic practices to prevent the infection,” Singh said in the letter. Class or subject teacher or counsellor will be given appropriate instructions by the heads. “Lessons can be in the forms of small videos and audio clips, recorded lecturers, text messages, information brochures and posters,” the department officials said. A compiled class-wise detailed report of the action taken by schools need to be submitted to the office of DEO weekly, according to the directions. The first report is to be submitted by August 30. Counsellors and teachers, however, claimed they have been guiding students on the issue since day one, saying they will now make it a regular feature. “We have been sharing various guidelines being issued by the ministry of health with students. They were told to download Aarogya Setu and use home-based immunity boosters, as suggested by the government. Students are regularly being informed to ensure they wear masks, maintain social distancing and wash hands at regular intervals,” said one of the counsellors working in government schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/teach-lessons-on-covid-prevention-schools-told/articleshow/77683235.cms||Kamini Mehta
August 22, 2020||Mysuru||Kodagu villagers suffer without pvt buses||Madikeri: Villagers in Kodagu district are suffering with private buses being off the roads — the bus operators have stopped plying their fleet owing to losses during the pandemic since March. The problem has aggravated as KSRTC too is not extending bus services to villages. In Balele hobli, 25 buses were plying till March. Two KSRTC buses, which served the villagers in May, stopped their service abruptly. Karmadu Shri Rama Sangha (Igguthappa) office-bearers Kottangada Manjunath and Katimada Shivappa have urged the district administration to provide buses immediately. The villagers of seven villages under Garvale panchayat in Somwarpet taluk are mostly involved in agriculture and apiculture, and these villagers must visit Somwarpet and Madikeri cities for business. Three KSRTC buses were running on this route to ferry passengers to and from Surlabbi, Mankya, Hammiyala, Kumbaragadige, Mutlu, Garvale and Kikkaralli, but all these buses are off the roads now. “In the absence of buses, the villagers are forced to pay Rs 350-Rs 400 every time they hire autorickshaws,” said Chamera Palangappa of Garvale. The villagers too have requested the district administration to restore the bus service, saying it is a question of their livelihood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/kodagu-villagers-suffer-without-pvt-buses/articleshow/77681910.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Delhi||CA among 2 held for forming shellfirms to conduct illegal activities in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing has arrested two people, including a chartered accountant, on the charges of forming shell companies allegedly by procuring director identification number (DIN) on the basis of fabricated documents and photographs. Those companies were then allegedly used for money laundering, entry operation and other illegal activities, said joint commissioner (EOW) O P Mishra. The arrested men have been identified as Mukesh Kumar from Ganga Vihar and Sudhanshu Bansal from Laxmi Nagar. Kumar has studied up to Class IX while Bansal practices accountancy. They have been produced before the designated court. Further investigation is in progress to unearth a “bigger conspiracy”, police said in a statement. The case is being investigated by the IT department and ED as well. According to the police, the Registrar of Companies (ROC) had filed a complaint in 2015 against four companies which had donated Rs 50 lakh each to Aam Aadmi Party. “These were Goldmine Buildcon Pvt. Ltd, Skyline Metal and Alloys Pvt. Ltd, Sun Vision Agencies Pvt Ltd and Infolance Software Solutions Ltd. According to ROC, these entities donated the sum on April 5, 2014,” joint CP Mishra said. According to ROC, the four companies were bogus and not located at the addresses mentioned in the records. They stated in the complaint that there was a huge infusion of money in these companies by way of ‘share premium amount’ but their source was not disclosed. The ROC had issued notices to all the directors of these companies but none of them except one Deepak Aggarwal (one of the directors in Skyline Metal and Alloys Pvt. Ltd.) appeared. He stated that the signatures and photograph on the basis of which the DIN number was issued in his name do not belong to him. Eventually, an FIR was registered on November 21, 2015 under sections of criminal conspiracy, fraud and forgery and a team under ACP Virender Sajwan and inspector Afsar Raza was assigned to investigate. The documents were sent for forensic audit. Recently, the cops received the forensic report which confirmed that the various documents relating to Deepak Aggarwal submitted to the ministry of corporate affairs for issuing the DIN bore his forged signatures. The photograph on the DIN form did not belong to him either. It was also found that the forged documents for procuring DIN in the name of Deepak Aggarwal were submitted under the DSC (Digital Signature Certificate) of chartered accountant Sudhanshu Bansal. An inquiry revealed that all the directors of the four companies — namely Yogesh Kumar, Mohit Kumar, Dharmender and others — were employees of one Mukesh Kumar. The probe also confirmed that the four companies did not exist at the address available with the ROC. The trail of the money indicated that the fund for donation to Aam Aadmi Party was generated from the account of Antara Purukul Senior Living Ltd., a subsidiary company of ‘Max Group’, Mishra added. Reacting to the report, Aam Aadmi Party said it was committed to honest and transparent politics and has changed the political discourse in India in the past eight years of its existence. “AAP will never compromise on its integrity. This is a six-year-old case which has been investigated by almost all agencies. So far, nothing amiss has been found against AAP by any of the agencies. AAP has cooperated with all agencies and will continue to cooperate with them.” A Max India spokesperson said: “We have been needlessly dragged into this investigation. Antara hired a contractor through local contacts in Purukul for mud excavation for its senior living community. Given the basic nature of the job, it is normal not to do detailed diligence on contractor’s background, or his intended use of payments received from us.” “We have provided to the police clear proof of the work executed and fairness of payment. We are clear that we have done nothing wrong. We have no other association with the individuals concerned beyond a one-time work contract in the past,” the statement added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ca-among-2-held-for-forming-shellfirms-to-conduct-illegal-activities/articleshow/77684320.cms||Raj Shekhar
August 22, 2020||Patna||Conduct more tests to curb virus spread: CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday asked health officials to increase the number of RT-PCR tests across the state to check the further spread of Covid-19 virus. While holding a review meeting on Covid-19 with health officials and district magistrates through video conferencing, the CM also asked officials to ensure availability of more RT-PCR machines so that the testing speed could be ramped-up. Making a presentation on the Covid-19 scenario before the CM, the health department principal secretary Pratyay Amrit said, “A 500-bed Covid hospital at Bihta would become functional from August 23. He said this hospital is coming up with PM Cares fund. A similar hospital would soon become functional at Muzaffarpur as well.” Amrit further informed the CM that the first Covas-8000 machine would arrive in the state by September 3. It would increase the number of RT-PCR tests by 3,600 per day. The principal secretary also informed the CM that around 1.15 lakh tests per day were being conducted in the state to detect maximum possible cases. “Till August 7, a total of 8.3 lakh samples for Covid-19 were tested. Today, the number of samples tested has risen to 22.3 lakh. Similarly, on August 7, the recovery rate in the state was 64.4%. Today, this recovery has risen to 78.05%, which is 4% more than the national recovery rate (74.3%),” Amrit told the CM at the review meeting. He also informed that 13 districts, out of total 38, have reported more than 10% positivity rate. The CM further asked officials to keep updating the data related to Covid-19 and chalk strategies as per the findings of such data. The DMs of Begusarai, Muzaffarpur, Saharsa, Bhagalpur, Patna, Madhubani and East Champaran also made presentations about the status of Covid-19 in their districts and the steps being taken to check the spread of infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/conduct-more-tests-to-curb-virus-spread-cm/articleshow/77683268.cms||Madan Kumar
August 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali bags 100% potable water target in rural homes||MOHALI: In the 16th edition of #Ask Captain, Punjab chief minister Captain Amrinder Singh lauded the efforts of Mohali district, which has become one of the first nine districts in India to achieve 100% target of providing drinking water connections to rural households. The CM replied to a query by Mohali resident Harman Virk on the Rajpura to Mohali railway line project and informed that according to the new policy of railways, the state government has to provide land as well as bear 50% of the project cost. This amounts to an expense of nearly Rs 400 crore. He said as the line has to start from Chandigarh and go to different destinations in Rajasthan, it is an interstate project. Therefore, the ministry of railways has been asked to review the project in this light. He also replied to queries from other parts of the state on issues like paddy season procurement, SYL and agricultural ordinances, among others. During the live session earlier, the CM appealed to people to take the Covid-19 crisis seriously, wear masks, wash hands, observe social distancing and get tested in case of symptoms. Testing and timely treatment is very important, he asserted .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-mohali-100-rural-homes-have-drinking-water-connections/articleshow/77683213.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
August 22, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: NRI booked for triple talaq over video call||BHOPAL: A Bhopal woman has accused her husband, who is the general manager of a 5-star in Bengaluru, of giving her ‘teen talaq' over video call and abandoning her after 19 years of marriage. She says he is not even allowing her to meet her two minor children. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan took cognizance of the case and assured the survivor that the MP government will make the best possible effort to provide her justice. The CM tweeted that he has discussed the matter with DGP Vivek Johri and directed him to coordinate with Bengaluru Police and take appropriate action. “After fighting for years, the Union government, led by PM Narendra Modi, promulgated a law to abolish triple talaq and give self-respect and justice to Muslim sisters, but some people are still violating the law,” he tweeted. The woman approached Koh-e-Fiza police station in Bhopal on Wednesday and filed a complaint against her 47-year-old NRI husband. She accuses him of giving her talaq over a WhatsApp video call on July 31 “over a demand of Rs 25 lakh”. He has kept their two kids, aged 5 and 13, with him and is not allowing her to talk to them, she says. Police have registered a case under Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019. The survivor’s brother told TOI that she got married to a Bhopali in 2001. He used to work at a restaurant in Bengaluru in those days and then moved to Singapore and Malaysia, before getting Singapore citizenship in 2004. He is now the general manager of a five-star hotel in Bengaluru. “After the Corona pandemic, his salary was cut by around 50% and he started pressuring his wife to bring Rs 25 lakh from her family in Bhopal to settle a loan he had taken to buy a flat in Malaysia and some other things,” said the brother. When his sister protested, he allegedly “threw her out of the house” around 3.30am on June 10 without any mobile phone, debit card or cash. According to the complaint, her mother was in the Bengaluru house at the time, and he said he would “release her only after getting the money”. “My sister somehow managed to go to a friend’s home and informed us,” said the survivor’s brother, adding that he managed to bring her and their mother to Bhopal three days later. The accused released the mother but kept the kids with him, says the complaint. She alleges that her husband changed all her banking passwords and on July 20, told her over video call that she wouldn’t be allowed to talk to her children until she brought the money. The survivor’s brother said that on July 31, her husband called her again on WhatsApp video call and pronounced triple talaq, saying he wanted to “get on with life”. On August 2, the survivor’s family members went to Bengaluru to try to resolve the matter, but the accused called police and lodged a complaint of house trespass. “After spending a night and two days, I somehow managed to call a friend and arranged a lawyer for bail. We returned to Bhopal on August 15 and lodged a complaint at Koh-e-Fiza police station,” he said. Investigating officer SI Richa Tripathi said police have recorded the woman’s statements. A team may be sent to Bengaluru to arrest the accused, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nri-booked-for-triple-talaq-over-video-call/articleshow/77683200.cms||Arun Singh
August 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Man booked for running over dog with car||Piyush Sarna Mohali: In a horrifying incident which was captured on a CCTV camera in Mohali, a stray dog was run over by a car in Phase 3B1 on Thursday. Mohali police immediately registered a case against the unidentified car driver. Aman Sethi and Sahib Kunwar Singh, volunteers of the ‘Mowgli Aid’ organisation said the incident took place at around 4pm when a white coloured car “deliberately” mowed down a white male street dog with the aim of causing maximum damage to the animal. They said the driver ensured that the vehicle crushed the dog completely. They said the driver’s intentions were further exposed when he did not stop to check the condition of the dog. They said the dog died 20 minutes after being run over by the vehicle, after which they submitted a written complaint with the SHO, Mataur. The CCTV footage of the incident which the volunteers procured from a house nearby has been circulated on social media. Aman Sethi said, “The incident took place on a narrow road and the person should have driven the vehicle carefully. People should not be irresponsible. We can’t be inhuman.” Sub-inspector Amandeep Singh, investigating officer of the case said “A case has been registered. It was a Haryana registered car and the miscreant will be traced soon. Further investigation is on.” A case was registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. Karanveer, another volunteer said, “ There is no local SPCA in Mohali or rescue service. Everything depends only on volunteers. We were lucky to source evidence and footage but most of the time, that's not the case. I hope this case sets an example and local authorities take action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-booked-for-running-over-dog-with-car/articleshow/77683269.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Student expelled after spat with guard||AHMEDABAD: A first year student pursuing his masters in surgery at Gujarat Cancer and Research Institute (GCRI) has been expelled from the hostel by the Gujarat Cancer Society Medical College (GCSMC) after he allegedly got into an altercation with the security guard. The GCRI does not have hostel facilities to accommodate all its students and first year students are put up at the GCSMC’s hostel. The student was allegedly found to be having a party with friends late at night and got into an argument with the hostel’s security guard who complained to the rector. The hostel authorities allegedly found a liquor bottle in the student’s room after the incident. Dr Kirti Patel, director of GCS Medical College said they received a complaint about misconduct by the student based on which they have expelled him from the hostel. “We have also informed the GCRI director about the incident,” he added. GCRI, located on the Civil Hospital campus has seen similar incidents in the past too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/student-expelled-after-spat-with-guard/articleshow/77684339.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid spreading to gam areas||AHMEDABAD: After the Walled City, Covid cases are now spreading to the densely populated old gam areas of the city and residential areas of low-income groups. The AMC, after micro-containing 1,000 families in Samratnagar in Isanpur on Friday, announced Prajapati Vas in Amli Gam, and Rohit Vas in Lamhba Gam as micro-containment zones. AMC officials said 8-10 cases were reported from Prajapati Vas in Amli, a middle-income group area. The AMC micro-contained about 75 families. In all, 229 people are in the micro-containment in Prajapati Vas, Amli Gam in North West zone. Another 70 houses are in Rohit Vas in Lambha Gam. So far, Covid cases were found spreading in housing societies and some stray incidents were reported from slum areas. But this week, there has been an increase in cases in congested residential areas of low-income or middle-income groups, which is a worrying trend, said AMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-spreading-to-gam-areas/articleshow/77684328.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Lucknow||With posters, cops to name, shame goons in Ayodhya||AYODHYA: The district police will name and shame criminals in their villages and localities by pasting posters on neighbourhood walls with their photograph and history-sheet. Over 1,000 posters of top 10 criminals have been printed in the first phase of the operation with their photos and crime history. Beat constables and outpost sub-inspectors have been assigned the job of putting up posters in localities of the goons. The list will be followed up with other criminals involved in anti-social activities like chain snatchers, petty thieves, gamblers and drug addicts. Talking to TOI, Ayodhya DIG Deepak Kumar said, “Records of these criminals will now be open to public and not restricted to police files. This will trigger social boycott of criminals, who are bound to feel guilty once ostracized. I want to strengthen community policing and this is the first step to name and shame criminals so that they think twice before breaking the law. We will roll out the operation from Saturday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/with-posters-cops-to-name-shame-goons-in-ayodhya/articleshow/77684353.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
August 22, 2020||Gurgaon||Wall collapses on shanties after rain, auto driver dies, wife injured||Gurgaon: An auto driver from West Bengal died and his wife sustained injuries when a wall collapsed over their jhuggi near a Unitech building in Sector 33 on Thursday morning. The couple was asleep when the wall came crashing down due to heavy rain. The deceased, identified as Sujjaudin (35), had been living with his wife Junena (33) in Gurgaon for the past three years. The Sector 33 area has about 50 jhuggis, out of which 8-10 are along the wall. As all their neighbours had vacated the place, only one jhuggi along the wall was occupied, by the couple, that had stayed back during the lockdown. The station house officer (SHO) of Sadar police station, inspector Dinesh, said after the wall collapse, the couple were rushed to the Civil Hospital in Sector 10 where Sujjaudin succumbed to his injuries. His wife is still under treatment. “The jhuggis had come up on a plot surrounded by walls. Water accumulated in the last two days, which seems to have weakened the base of the wall, following which it collapsed,” the SHO said, adding that no complaint has been filed yet. In another incident, a boundary wall at Emaar Emerald Hills, a residential society in Sector 65, collapsed due to continuous rain. Some of the cars parked along the wall were damaged. “With just two days of rain, the boundary wall collapsed. It shows the quality of construction done by the developer,” said a resident of Emerald Hills. TOI tried to reach Emaar for a comment, but there was no response. Meanwhile, panic gripped the residents of Sector 46 as an under-construction five-storey building tilted after two days of heavy rain. A police team from Sector 50 rushed to the spot, vacated nearly a dozen families living in adjoining buildings and closed the two roads leading to it as a precautionary measure. Surender Singh, SHO, Sector 50 police station, said the building is located on a corner plot. The construction work was almost complete, he added. Later, a team from HSVP and other departments reached the spot and used a crane to support the building. “The crane has been installed to provide temporary support till a permanent solution is found,” an HSVP officer said, adding that they will check the building’s structural stability and design.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/wall-collapses-on-shanties-after-rain-auto-driver-dies-wife-injured/articleshow/77669880.cms||Bagish Jha
August 22, 2020||Nagpur||Covid patient found running shop as monitoring becomes lax||Nagpur: Family members of some positive patients who are in home isolation are reportedly avoiding testing and continuing to run shops. With steep rise in cases, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) zone offices are finding it difficult to monitor all patients and their high-risk contacts. As per information available from a shopkeeper in Khamla and Cotton Market, younger brother of two positive patients continued to run his shop for a week and later tested positive. A source told TOI that five brothers and their family members reside in two adjacent buildings in Khamla. Three of them run a wholesale shop at Cotton Market that is visited by over 200 retailers from across the city. After NMC made it mandatory for all shopkeepers to test, two got tested and were found positive on August 13. They opted for home isolation. Their younger brother continued to run the shop and did not get himself tested. He went for test on August 18 only when NMC team visited their house. He also tested positive on August 19. NMC team again went to their house on August 20 only to find the younger brother was in shop, local sources said. One of the two who had tested positive earlier was also present in the shop on August 20. He claimed he had tested negative from a private laboratory. “The brothers got themselves tested again from a private laboratory at Pratap Nagar through Rapid Antigen test where one tested negative,” local shopkeepers said. The civic body has time and again clarified that negative result of Rapid Antigen test needs confirmation. The shopkeepers added, “Remaining two brothers had tested negative and are running their shops in other areas.” NMC had allowed home isolation to asymptomatic positive patients and home quarantine for all high-risk contacts. But it is mandatory for high-risk contacts to get tested immediately and undergo a 14-day home quarantine even if they test negative. When contacted, one of the three positive persons denied being in the shop. “My younger brother went to the shop to bring some material for our home,” he said. One member of another family in Khamla tested positive. This family runs a kirana shop in ground floor which is now being run by other members. Confirming such violations, president of Pujya Sindhi Panchayat Khamla, Narayan Ahuja, told TOI, “NMC should ensure testing of all high-risk contacts and monitor them. Shopkeepers should realize their responsibility towards society and avoid such behaviour.” Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe said FIR will be registered against such violators. “Covid-19 will spread further if such violations are going on,” he said. NVCC president Ashwin Mehadia said he did not receive any such complaint. “We expect all shopkeepers and businessmen to comply with all guidelines of the Central government,” he said. A few days ago, Mundhe had made it mandatory for all shopkeepers and their staffers to get tested. There is strong opposition from shopkeepers to the move.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-patient-found-running-shop-as-monitoring-becomes-lax/articleshow/77683292.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 22, 2020||Mysuru||Poor occupancy leaves KSRTC reeling under heavy losses||Mysuru: The Mysuru rural and urban divisions of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) have suffered enormous losses owing to the pandemic. On average, KSRTC’s Mysuru Urban division, with its fleet of 400 buses, collected Rs 35 lakh from the sale of tickets daily prior to the enforcement of the lockdown, which has now plummeted to Rs 8 lakh. “We are operating only 200 buses across Mysuru city,” said division controller S P Nagaraj. The total losses that the Mysuru Urban division has incurred since the start of the Covid-19 crisis in the last week of March till August 18 is estimated to be around Rs 9 crore. Although KSRTC restarted operations following a near two-month long lockdown, persistent fear among citizens has resulted in poor patronage, and the state-run corporation is struggling to recover operational costs. “Poor occupancy has resulted in the KSRTC sustaining heavy losses. But ridership has improved in the past few days, much to our relief. Once colleges and schools reopen, revenue collection may see an upswing,” Nagaraj said. The situation is almost as grim with KSRTC’s Mysuru Rural division. Against collecting Rs 75 lakh in sales of tickets, which was the division’s average daily revenue prior to the Covid-19 crisis, the rural wing of KSRTC Mysuru is making only Rs 22 lakh, confirmed rural division controller Ashok Kumar. “We are operating only half of our fleet. We resumed sleeper services to Belagavi, Bidar and a few pilgrimage centres such as Dharmasthala and Gokarna, but few people are willing to travel. Occupancy is very low even on the AC Airavat buses to Bengaluru,” sources said. As part of its measures to ensure social distancing, KSRTC appealed to passengers to book tickets online, which would avoid crowding at bus terminals. “However, this has not helped increase ridership,” said Ashok Kumar. 38 KSRTC staff in rural division infected KSRTC’s Mysuru Rural division controller Ashok Kumar said that as many as 38 personnel in the wing had tested positive for the novel coronavirus. “Nearly half of them recovered from the infection, and have resumed duty. Around 10 of our employees have been quarantined at home while the rest are undergoing treatment at Covid care centres,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/poor-occupancy-leaves-ksrtc-reeling-under-heavy-losses/articleshow/77681953.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Celebrations@home: Ganesh Chaturthi, Samvatsari today||AHMEDABAD: Ganesh Chaturthi and Samvatsari — two major festivals of Hinduism and Jainism — will take place today, but due to the Covid-19 epidemic, the celebrations will largely be confined to homes. City-based experts said that the Chaturthi starts from 11.04pm on Friday and will continue till 7.59pm on Saturday. “However, the entire day will be auspicious for the Ganesh sthapan (bringing Lord Ganesha home),” said Ravindra Saptarshi, priest of a Ganesha Temple. “The fourth day of the month of Bhadrapada is celebrated as Ganesh Chaturthi as the Lord comes to the homes of devotees and stays for 1.5 days, three days, five days, seven days or 11 days. Due to the epidemic, we suggested that devotees make eco-friendly idols which can be immersed at home.” Saturday is also Samvatsari for various sects of Jains. For Digambar Jain sects, Das Lakshan Parva will start from Sunday. The last day of Paryushan is celebrated with ‘Micchami Dukkadam,’ (forgive me), as part of pratikraman ritual of Jainism. Leaders of various sects said that the customs such as reading of Barsa Sutra will take place online for the devotees world over. Jain Acharya Padmasagarsuri said that the essence of Paryushan is in forgiveness. “It’s to be one with all the beings of the world, be humble about our follies, and promise not to repeat our mistakes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/celebrationshome-ganesh-chaturthi-samvatsari-today/articleshow/77684376.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Admn refuses to allow Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: Maharashtra Mandal in Sector 19 will not hold Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations this year as their request for the Puja has been turned down by the district magistrate. Mandal members had made all preparations and festivities were all set to begin from Saturday, albeit on a low-key note due to Covid-19 restrictions. They had sent a letter to the DC office requesting for permission on July 23. On Friday evening, they received a response stating that their request cannot be “acceded to.” While waiting for the response from DC office, the mandal made all preparations and issued guidelines for devotees. Unlike past years, a smaller idol was brought from a local market and the procession to the Ghaggar river was cancelled. The immersion was to be conducted in Maharashtra Bhawan. This disappoints many people as Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations were marked by decoration of public places, daily Prasad offerings, Aarti gathering, food, cultural programmes, souvenirs and immersion procession over the 10 day long festivities. This year, the mandal did not even print cards due to the pandemic. Only prayers were organised and people were allowed darshan from glass windows only. With the letter from the DC office, even the low-key celebrations will not be organised, members of the Mandal said, adding that Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations will be restricted to people’s homes. Idol makers have adapted to the circumstances and are making small earthen idols, which do not need a water body and can be immersed in a bucket of water. Phool Chand Chaaran, who hails from Rajasthan and runs an idol-making workshop on the Zirakpur-Ambala road said, “We are only making earthen Ganpati idols with pure clay. The clay was specially brought from the Ganga river bed in Haridwar before the lockdown was imposed because of its ease of dissolution and sacredness. The idol dissolves in an hour and the clay can be used in gardening and even in flower pots.” Phool Chand added, “Since there are no gatherings this year, we have decided not to make idols in excess of 3-feet in length. Customers are also demanding clay idols.” However, the pandemic has hit the business of idol makers. Raju Srivastav, who sells idols in Maloya said, “We used to make and deliver idols at shops besides routine sales. But this year, the sale has gone down by almost 30% to 40%.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pandemic-cloud-hangs-on-ganesh-chaturthi-celebrations/articleshow/77683305.cms||Kamini Mehta
August 22, 2020||Gurgaon||Roads cave in and traffic crawls; don’t step out, cops tell residents||Gurgaon: From roads caving in to crawling traffic, the nightmare of Wednesday’s deluge spilled over to Thursday morning even as the waterlogging in most areas of the Millennium City failed to recede. To prevent casualties and enable civic authorities to carry out repair work, the Gurgaon traffic police issued an advisory, urging residents not to step out unless it’s absolutely necessary. Two of the worst-hit locations were IFFCO Chowk and Sector 23A, where roads caved in and traffic diversions had to be put in place, reducing the number of functional lanes. At IFFCO Chowk, a wide area of the carriageway cracked in the morning. Cops rushed to the spot to cordon off the area and issue alerts to the agencies concerned. The Gawar Construction, the private agency responsible for the maintenance of the road, deployed its officials to initiate the repair work. The officials claimed that with such heavy waterlogging, “any road would succumb to some minor structural damages”. “It’s not that the road has caved in or some big gaping hole has developed. Due to such heavy waterlogging, the upper layer had gotten weak as the water kept seeping in. And when the waterlogging cleared, the road cracked up. We are scraping off the layer and a fresh layer of gravel will be put. Two layers of bitumen will also be laid,” said an official of Gawar Construction. Similarly on Sector 23A main road, a big 15ft wide and 10ft deep gaping hole had developed on Thursday morning. When the residents of the area were out in the morning to assess the situation of waterlogging and roads, they noticed that a portion of the road that had been broken for over a year now had collapsed. “There was some water leakage from the drain that runs beneath this stretch. Due to that leakage, the portion of the road was constantly losing its strength and a disaster like this was just waiting to happen,” said Bhawani Shankar Tripathy, a local resident. According to GMDA, a master drain had suffered damages during the smart grid project and the water leakage had been making the structure weak. “First, the leakage issue will be fixed. Thereafter, the cavity will be cleaned and fresh bitumen will be laid to strengthen the portion. All of these may take 2-3 days, depending on weather conditions and speed of work by other agencies that are also involved in the repair work,” said a GMDA official. Further, the traffic on Thursday morning crawled across the city as most of the stretches remained inundated. The vehicular pressure on the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway near Narsinghpur on the Delhi-Jaipur side, Sohna road, Bilaspur Chowk and Signature Towers, in particular, was high. In an advisory, the traffic police urged the residents not to come out unless it’s very urgent. “Due to incessant rains in Gurugram since yesterday, there is waterlogging in some places. So, we request all of you to leave the house only when necessary work is done. Sorry for the inconvenience,” read the advisory. The request, cops asserted, was not only to support the several maintenance and repair work being carried out by civic bodies but also to avoid tailbacks and any possible road casualties as most of the areas remained inundated even on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/roads-cave-in-and-traffic-crawls-dont-step-out-cops-tell-residents/articleshow/77669869.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
August 22, 2020||Vadodara||Criminal nabbed 65 days after he fled||Vadodara: Sixty-five days after he disappeared from Wadi police station in the city, the crime branch finally arrested notorious criminal Azharuddin Sindhi alias Ajju Kaniyo on Friday. Ajju, who has 41 offences registered against him, was nabbed along with his accomplice from Mehsana after the crime branch sleuths got a tip-off about him. He has been handed over to the Wadi police station.According to the police, Ajju had fled from the city immediately after leaving the police station. “He knew that once he went absconding, the police would be searching for him in every nook and corner of the city. So he left the city and headed towards Mehsana where he got help from a local contact,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). Ajju rented a flat in Kadi town near Mehsana and began staying with his accomplice Mohammed Qureshi.“When Ajju left Wadi police station on the night of June 14, Qureshi helped him flee on his two-wheeler. They both then settled in Mehsana. Ajju had, in fact, once visited the city some time back but left immediately,” Jadeja told TOI. The cops are finally breathing easy as Ajju is a historysheeter who is accused of offences like attempt to murder, extortion, rioting, loot and assault.Ajju was detained four times under Prevention of Anti-Social Act (PASA) and was even externed twice. He was also accused in a communal riot that broke out in the city in 2007. The notorious criminal was brought to the Wadi police station on June 14 in connection with an extortion case filed against him. The cops took him to SSG Hospital for Covid-19 tests and later brought him to the Wadi police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/criminal-nabbed-65-days-after-he-fled/articleshow/77682008.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Lucknow||16 more corona deaths in Lucknow; patient dies due to delay in shifting||LUCKNOW: The Covid death toll mounted to 262 in the city with 16 more patients succumbing to the infection in the past 24 hours. The deaths included a railway employee who died while being shifted from a private hospital to SGPGIMS. The critically ill railway employee was admitted on Thursday and on the request of patient’s family, chief medical officer had directed to shift him to SGPGI. However, family claimed that the ambulance arrived late and there was delay in shifting. The patient suffered a cardiac arrest while being shifted to the ambulance and died. His angry family members created ruckus in the hospital. “Police pacified the family members of the deceased patient,” said Dr Virendra Yadav of the hospital. Health officers said the deaths on Friday also included some patients from other districts who were undergoing treatment in Lucknow hospitals A 50-year-old woman from Bharatpuri died of lung failure within an hour after admission to KGMU. “She was also diabetic,” said spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh. A Charbagh resident (72) died at due to Covid-19 induced double pneumonia, said health officials. SGPGIMS officials, however, refused to share any detail. At Era’s Lucknow Medical College and Hospital, a 52-year-old resident of Indiranagar died due to double pneumonia. “She was a chronic kidney patient,” said medical college principal Prof MM Fardi. A 40-year old man from Rajabazaar, who was suffering from diabetes, died due to lung failure at TSM College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/16-more-corona-deaths-patient-dies-due-to-delay-in-shifting/articleshow/77684392.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Agra||SNMC to develop advanced pathology for Covid-19 patients||Agra: The SN Medical College in Agra has started working on a plan to set up an advanced pathology for diagnosis of health issues related to Covid-19 patients. For this, four modern machines have been acquired from a company authorized by the state. These include high-performance liquid chromatography, fully automated biochemistry analyzer, hormone analyzer, point of care testing and Elisa reader. Presently, there is no centralized system at the hospital for conducting various tests related to the Covid-19 patients. For major tests, samples of the patients are sent to Delhi. Doctors at the SNMC were having problem in conducting plasma therapy on Covid-19 patients due to lack of required machines and infrastructure to conduct mandatory tests before the therapy. It was taking several days for the test reports to arrive from Delhi and Lucknow. Principal of SNMC Dr Sanjay Kala said, “We have started working on a plan to develop a dedicated pathology lab to conduct various tests required for proper treatment of Covid-19 patients in critical condition. In the next seven days, we will be able to conduct all major tests, including hormone analysis, chromatography, coagulation profile etc., at the new pathology lab developed on the second floor of the new surgery building. All the four advanced diagnosis machines will be received in the next 2-3 days.”“For at least the next two months, the tests will be conducted completely free of cost for Covid-19 patients. The tests which will be provided, will be free of cost up to Rs 15,000 in market,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/snmc-to-develop-advanced-pathology-for-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77681970.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Bhopal||CM announces ban on idol immersion at public places||Bhopal: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, on Friday announced that immersion of Ganesh idols at public places will also remain banned. Installation of Ganesh idols at public places has already been banned and there is a ban on Muharram procession as well.Addressing a Coronavirus review meeting through video conferencing, Chouhan said "collection points" for Ganesh idols should be set up in each ward, where people could immerse the Ganesh idols.He appealed to people to observe festivals at home, maintaining the Covid-19 guidelines.It was informed at the meeting that recovery rate in the state has gone up to 76.1%. There are 10,293 active Coronavirus patients in the state and positivity rate is 4.47%. Tests of 13,789 people per million is being conducted. However, in Shahdol, positivity rate is 6.52 % and in Umaria 7.30%. CM asked for strengthening facilities at Shahdol medical college and said a team of experts be sent there. He asked to pay special attention to Damoh district also and said testing in Sehore district should be increased. It was told at the meeting that maximum of 227 patients were found in Indore on Friday followed by 140 in Bhopal, 121 in Jabalpur and 117 in Gwalior.It was informed at the meeting that a significant number of patients in Indore are getting themselves treated in private hospitals. Chouhan asked officials to see that they are not over-charged. He further asked for proper care of patients home quarantined.ACS, health, Mohammad Suleman said the mortality rate due to Coronavirus has significantly dropped in the state. It was 0.6% between August 18 to August 21. On an average, the mortality rate is 2.34%.A whopping 36% of MP’s entire Corona tally has come in August alone — 16% in the last eight days — indicating how fast the virus is still spreadingThere are 3,913 active containment zones in the state at present. Till August 20, Madhya Pradesh has recorded a total of 17,687 fresh cases and 304 deaths. As on July 31, the case count was 31,806 and the death toll was 867 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-announces-ban-on-idol-immersion-at-public-places/articleshow/77683249.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Mysuru||Ganja cultivator held||Hassan: A 50-year-old man was arrested for allegedly growing 21kg of ganja at his farm in a village of Alur taluk on Thursday evening. He was reportedly distributing ganja to the students of a nearby private engineering college. The accused had two acres of farmland about a kilometre from the college wherein he had grown coffee, pepper, and silver oak tree. Among these plants, he was growing ganja plants for more than two years. Excise DC Gopalakrishnegowda said they had information about the accused selling ganja packets six months back. “After the college closed due to Covid-19 lockdown, the investigation slowed down. We cracked the case through his chain of close associates to whom he was selling ganja,” he said. The accused was arrested on Thursday evening at his farmland and the ganja plants were destroyed, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/ganja-cultivator-held/articleshow/77681964.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Goa||Truck fined for spilling iron ore||Poinguinim: A Karnataka-bound iron ore laden truck proceeding towards Ponda was fined by Canacona police on Friday for negligence after its contents spilled out along the NH 66 at Dapot-Mashem, Canacona. Traffic was held up for 15 minutes and had to be diverted after villagers and personnel from the fire station cleared the road. mamlatdar, he directed the police and fire personnel to rush to the spot and clear the road. Canacona PI Tukaram Chawan said that the truck driver has been fined while the vehicle has been seized. The truck driver, identified as Sunil, said that the hind lock must have accidentally got unlocked at a speed breaker resulting in iron ore spilling on the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/truck-fined-for-spilling-iron-ore/articleshow/77684411.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Patna||Man held with heroin worth Rs 75 crore in Patna||PATNA: The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) sleuths arrested one Kishan Lal (50) with 3kg heroin near Patna Junction on Friday. The seized contraband is worth Rs75 crore in the international market, DRI sources said. “He is a native of Lasudia village in Mandsaur district of Madhya Pradesh. He owns 20 bigha land and used it solely for cultivating opium,” sources said. “One Master ji from Raxaul in East Champaran had contacted Kishan a month back for 3kg heroin,” sources said. Kishan was waiting to hand over the consignment to him when he was nabbed. DRI sources said he reached Patna by a truck from Rajasthan. “He was supposed to receive part payment here and rest through hawala transaction,” the sources said. They said the drug was packed in five transparent packets. “Kishan was arrested by Narcotics Control Bureau with 4kg heroin in Chennai in 2002. He was in jail for eight years,” the sources said. Kishan came in contact with Master ji in Chennai jail where the latter was also lodged in another case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1-held-with-3kg-heroin-worth-rs-75-crore/articleshow/77683341.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Girl happy with real parents||AHMEDABAD: Last year, an 11-year-old girl – who had both biological and adoptive parents — was sent to a child protection home, after the Ahmedabad-based adoptive parents realised that the child was not orphaned as they were told. A year on, the girl is happily staying with her biological parents. City-based couple Kamaljeet and Sheeba Mahendiratta had to go through an arduous legal process before a court ordered that the 12-year-old be handed over to her biological parents around Diwali last year. TOI highlighted the plight of the two families last August. “It took about three months of legal procedures, after which the court ordered around Diwali last year that the girl be handed over to her biological parents. It was a happy ending for both families,” Kamaljeet Mahendiratta said. The girl’s biological mother Hema Tepri, who lives in Ludhiana, said, “We are really thankful that we got the girl back.” The Mahendirattas adopted the girl child through Child Adoption and Resource Agency (CARA) in June 2018 and brought her home in September 2018.. After about six months, the girl told them that her parents lived in Ludhiana . The adoptive parents then began a quest and tracked down the parents. The girl had gone missing andher parents had filed a missing persons’ complaint .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/girl-happy-with-real-parents/articleshow/77683453.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Delhi||Love thy neighbour? Village submerged in waste water from Gurugram||NEW DELHI: It’s an unseemly sight. Hundreds of acres of farmland in Rawta, the last village in Delhi this side of the Haryana border, lie submerged under dark-grey sewage and the stink hangs heavy in the area. The 5,000 residents are now wary of rains, because the malodorous mess flows from Gurugram to the village due to the absence of a boundary wall on the Najafgarh drain. The flooded fields also have an economic aspect, with villages claiming they invest Rs 25,000 per acre in the affected fieldsThe problem has existed for 20 years, but the magnitude of the problem has just gone up. Earlier, around 120 acres of farmland was affected, but this year sewage has almost entered homes. “Out of 1,000 acres of village land, 70% is under water and almost 10% of the houses within the extended village boundaries have been inundated,” claimed farmer Rajnish Phalswal. Standing before his 1.5 acre of now destroyed paddy field, Phalswal said that more than 700 acres of freshly sown rice fields have also been destroyed by the waste flowing in from Gurgaon. “Since the village residential area is at a slight height, our houses haven’t all been affected by the sludge so far. But one more spell of heavy rains in Gurugram and we will be submerged in sewage,” the farmer sighed. Paras Tyagi, who runs the Centre for Youth Culture Law and Environment, an organisation working on issues related to Delhi’s villages, revealed that waste water had been flowing into the farms at Rawta since early 2000, but the successive governments hadn’t resolved this problem through the building of appropriate infrastructure. “This year, the problem has worsened perhaps due to the construction of several structures along the length of drain up to the Yamuna,” said Tyagi. “After 1990, when the panchayat system was abolished in Delhi, it is painful to see that rural areas aren’t able to access support from the state government because there’s no local leadership.” With stagnation of waste water has come a looming fear of a public health crisis in the form of dengue and other water-borne diseases. Kripal Singh, village resident, said that all the flats in Gurugram localities like Dharampura channelled their sewage into the Najafgarh drain. “Rawta villagers have been suffering from skin problems for 15 years now because of the dirty water in their fields and homes,” Singh said. The flooded fields also have an economic aspect, with villages claiming they invest Rs 25,000 per acre in the affected fields. “Many farmers took loans in June to sow rice on 70-80 leased acres,” said Birender Tokas. “Delhi government should come here and see the extent of damage to our source of income.” Tyagi himself was quietly caustic when he said, “When the change in land use for 90 acres for the revamping of the central vista catches everyone’s attention, don’t Delhi’s villages also deserve a hearing?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/joeled/articleshow/77684367.cms||Paras Singh
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Srisailam hydel station fire: Thick smoke proved deterrent in ops||HYDERABAD: The bodies of the nine deceased at Srisailam Left Bank underground hydel station were retrieved hours after the fire broke out as the rescue teams had to find their way inside the tunnels of the underground power plant through thick smoke. The plant is at a depth of 1.5 km. “It took hours because of smoke clogging. As the power was suspended, the exhaust fans were not functional and it was dark. We used smoke clearing equipment to make our way in. By morning, we covered almost one kilometre. The last 500 metres were tough,” said the regional fire officer, Papaiah V. The district fire officer of Gadwal, Sridas, said that the structure only has one entry and exit, apart from one emergency exit. “We entered through the main entrance and opened the emergency exit to create ventilation, which was some 500 metres away from the entrance,” he said. According to officials, the first body was recovered at 1.15 pm, while by 5 pm all other bodies were pulled out. “There were two emergency windows to disperse the smoke. Six bodies were found near the window. Three others were found inside the power control room,” added Sridas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/thick-smoke-proved-deterrent-in-ops/articleshow/77685125.cms||Aditi Mallick
August 22, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Waterlogged lanes a nightmare for residents||JAIPUR: Broken and waterlogged roads in Jhotwara area have become a headache for the residents. Since the arrival of monsoon, slippery roads have made it difficult for the residents to drive on these roads. Karan Maheswari, a resident of Ganesh Colony, said, “Since the monsoon has arrived, all the lanes of the areas are waterlogged and it is difficult to drive here. We have to be careful while getting out of our houses.” Near Dawas Puliya, Hirapura, around 30-feet broad main road is filled with water and drivers have to be very careful. Vinayak Saini, a shopkeeper, said that there have been times when the vehicles get stuck in traffic for 15 minutes due to waterlogging. “Nothing new this year. When it rains heavily, water level rises up to my shop stairs. We have to put stones in front of our shop to prevent water entering inside,” said Saini. In Girdharipura slum area, on August 14, many houses submerged in water and people have to be shifted to safe places. Around 20 houses, situated in a low-lying area in Girdharipura, were inside water for four days before water dried down naturally. “Municipal corporation officials came with two mud-pumps to get water out of the houses but they found no place to discard the water. Finally, the team went back and after few days water dried down. People remained in the government school and now back to their houses to start their life back,” said Manoj Kumar, resident of Girdharipura area. Officials every year makes tall promises but at the time of need they are nowhere to be found. For the last one month, sewage line of Dhanka Basti are choked and sewage water has spread on the roads. People are finding it difficult to breath due to the foul smell in the environment. Many times, complaints are filed in the help line but no one paid any heed to their problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/waterlogged-lanes-a-nightmare-for-residents/articleshow/77684399.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan traders up in arms against ‘one nation, one market’ policy||JAIPUR: About 247 krishi mandis of Rajasthan staged protest on Friday against the Centre’s new policy ‘one nation, one market’. Traders alleged that this is a discriminatory policy that will affect their business. However, farmers in the state have said that this policy will empower them to sell their products on better rates in the market without giving commission to the middlemen. On June 5, 2020, the Centre issued an ordinance ‘The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020’. Under this ordinance, the government allowed farmers to conduct inter-state and intra-state trade and online trading platform as well without being dependent on the farmers market. All the mandis in the state were shut down on Friday and businessmen gathered chanting slogans against the ordinance. Businessmen alleged that they will incur huge loses because of this. Babulal Gupta, chairman, Rajsathan Khadya Padarth Vyapaar Sangh said, “This is a complete discriminatory policy of the Centre. Under this ordinance, from now onwards, a farmer do not have to sell his products in mandi but can go into open market. So, it means that anyone can open a shop outside the mandi without paying ‘mandi tax’ or ‘mandi fee’. This will benefit the businessmen outside but we will face heavy loses.” However, when TOI contacted farmers, majority of them are in favour of this policy. Farmers said that this will end the decades of exploitation they have been facing in the mandis. “This will help us get rid of the middlemen who used to work for commission and would take our produce on cheaper rate but would sell it in higher price. This policy is actually empowering the farmers and people protesting it are the one who thinks their monopoly will now end,” said Mithalal Meena, a farmer from Sawai Madhopur. Similar views were expressed by Manilal Labana, president of Bhartiya Kisan Sangh from Barmer. “Protest are being organised by businessmen for selfish interest. They don’t want their monopoly to end and keep earning profit on the stake of farmers. At the time of drafting of this ordinance, we sent our recommendations and our happy with the results.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-traders-up-in-arms-against-one-nation-one-market-policy/articleshow/77684398.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: ‘Realty now a better bet than high gold prices & equities’||JAIPUR: With gold prices shooting up, equities overvalued and oil price outlook having no big promise, the beaten down, bottomed out real estate sector should be the ideal destination for investors. While this is viewed as a new hope, the builders have no choice than to depend on end-users to drive the market that is held hostage to lack of economic activities, jobs, and surplus income at the hands of the working class. “We expect the real estate sector demand to emerge from now onwards because there are no other asset classes as cheaper as real estate,” said Ashutosh Sharma, member of Credai-Rajasthan Youth Wing. Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (Credai)-Rajasthan is the first chapter of the industry body in the country to organize a virtual expo to overcome the challenges of Covid-19 that prohibits gathering of over 50 people. Covid-pandemic may be a coincidence, but there is a desire to select a house with less time, while not missing out on options and price range. Anushka Jain, Credai-Rajasthan Youth Wing member, said, “In the current times, buyers are looking for an accessible and less time consuming way to search for properties of their choice. Keeping this and the social distancing norms in mind, Credai Rajasthan has organised online global expo 2020, designed in keeping with the needs of the actually buyer.” In fact, property developers also want clients who are actual buyers. As per the organisers, the virtual platform meets the objective. Mohit Jain, Credai-Rajasthan, Youth Wing member, said, “In the virtual expo that started from August 15, we might have received less visitors compared to the physical expo, but there are more actual buyers for sure. Out of the 12,000 visitors, the leads are fairly decent despite the times are being challenging. In this mode, the prospective buyers are not pushed into deals. They sit at their homes and look at the houses at their leisurely pace with nobody to unnecessarily influence them.” Jain said that the prices of properties are already at rock-bottom and there is less scope for any reduction in prices despite the scope that some builders provide for small give-aways. “Now, there is a far better transparency in the market. The builders have become realistic. So, the scope for over-leverage and higher speculation is virtually non-existent. Builders want to sell their properties at margins that are bare minimum,” added Jain.Pick up in real estate sector holds key to revival of many other industries. As per industry expectations, the chance of prices correcting is less than appreciation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/realty-now-a-better-bet-than-high-gold-prices-equities/articleshow/77684412.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Nagpur||Insurers making massive deductions in Covid mediclaim bills||Nagpur: Getting Covid-19 is not the only shock for patients in the city. While private hospitals are refusing cashless treatment for those having insurance, a second shock follows when insurance companies finally settle the bills. The reimbursement patients are getting from insurers is coming only with hefty deductions. TOI learnt from a cross section of insurance brokers and agents dealing in health insurance that as much as 40% of the amount claimed by the patients from insurance companies is not reimbursed. This is mainly because close to half of the bills has expenses that are not covered by policy. The deduction from claims on account of hospitalization for other ailments does not go beyond 10% to 15%. Hefty room rents charged by the hospitals is one of the major reason. Private hospitals roped in for Covid-treatment have to charge at government rates for 80% of their beds. For the rest, hospitals can fix their own prices. Very high rates are being charged for these beds, said a source. The insurer does not pay for the additional charge. “A private hospital has displayed room rent both at government rates applicable for 80% of the beds and rest of the capacity. For beds covered under government rates the charges are Rs4,000 a day. For remaining rooms they range from Rs15,000 to 25,000 a day,” a source said. Another major component not paid by the insurance company is for drugs other than those officially recommended under the Covid-treatment protocol. The hospitals are prescribing a number of other drugs that are officially not part of the protocol. Termed as experimental drugs, the insurance companies are also striking off their cost from the claim amount, a source said. There are instances in which the hospitals have also charged for disposing of the material like PPE kits, said an advisor. These are also not reimbursed. The hospitals here are refusing cashless treatment to ensure cash flow on their side. It takes at least a week for the insurers to process the claim and release the funds to the hospital. Instead, hospitals get ready cash if the patients pay upfront. Even the PPE kits are covered for up to Rs440 to 750 per kit though the actual amount billed is much higher. Situation better in Mumbai The situation is better in Mumbai where hospitals are allowing cashless treatments. According to details of a bill shared with TOI, a 62-year-old female patient had to pay around Rs10,000 as advance. The total bill came to Rs2.40 lakh out of which Rs1.50 lakh was approved under cashless scheme. The room rent was Rs1,500. Out of the deductions, Rs81,000 accounted for consumables alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/insurers-making-massive-deductions-in-covid-mediclaim-bills/articleshow/77683414.cms||Shishir Arya
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Asst engg who died had battled Covid||Hyderabad: The assistant engineer of Srisailam Left Bank power station, D Sundar Naik, who died in the fire mishap at the hydel plant, had conquered Covid-19 while being in home isolation a month back. The 33-year-old belonged to Jagni Thanda of Chivvemla mandal in Suryapet district. An engineer, he was selected for the post of assistant engineer in TSGenco five years back and was posted at Srisailam plant. He was living in the quarters of the department at Srisailam with his wife and two daughter. Naik was infected by coronavirus in the first week of July and had gone to Jagni Thanda, where he was in home quarantine. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asst-engg-who-died-had-battled-covid/articleshow/77685130.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Produce 3-year case records of termination of pregnancy: Punjab and Haryana HC||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the PGIMER, Chandigarh, to produce the number of cases of medical termination of pregnancies beyond 20 weeks performed by the institution from January 1, 2017, to December 31, 2019, due to deformities in foetus. HC’s Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu passed these orders while hearing a plea filed by a 24-year-old woman from Nawanshahr district of Punjab. The petitioner, wife of a paramilitary jawan, became pregnant in March and on August 10, when the second stage of ultrasound was done, it was diagnosed that the foetus was suffering from ‘hysrocephalus, spinal widening, Dandy walker syndrome’. On August 17, she had approached the PGI for medical termination of pregnancy but the authorities refused to conduct the procedure as her pregnancy was over 20 weeks. According to the petitioner if she delivers the baby in current circumstances, some of the complications that are likely to be faced include baby’s chances of having cerebral palsy (due to abnormal brain development), seizures and not being able to walk. In her plea, she has sought directions to constitute a board of doctors for a medical termination of pregnancy keeping in view the medical complications. The PGI would now file its reply on the issue on August 28. The Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act prohibits termination of pregnancy where the length of the pregnancy exceeds 20 weeks. No remedy is provided for, in the Act, if any deformity/disease or any terminal problem happens to the foetus after the prescribed 20-week period. In recent years, the HC has been flooded with petitions where women with abnormal foetus approached it for termination and HC has been permitting the same on recommendations of the PGI medical board. However, recently, a single bench of the HC had sought the assistance of Centre, Punjab, Haryana and UT Chandigarh for change in the statute. “So far, science and technology have not been so advanced as to prevent the development of any complication/disease or deformity in the foetus after a period of 20 weeks. In such a situation, if such a disease, deformity or complication develops after 20 weeks, then if this provision remains in the statute book, the would-be mother/ woman is bound to lose her life, along with the life of the foetus/stillborn child, unless she happens to be already on operation table of the medical practitioner to take advantage of relaxation provided by Section 5 of the Act,” the HC observed in its order passed on August 7. The matter is still pending with the HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/produce-3-yr-case-records-of-termination-of-pregnancy-of-over-20-weeks-hc-tells-pgi/articleshow/77684400.cms||Ajay Sura
August 22, 2020||Lucknow||Ivermectin back in stores but could cost Rs 2- Rs 90 per tablet||Lucknow: After remaining off the shelves for a few days, Ivermectin 12mg, which is prescribed to Covid-19 patients and those exposed to infection risk, is back in the market. However, much to the disbelief of people, it comes with a huge price variation—from Rs 2 to Rs 90 per tablet—depending on the brand, a quick survey by TOI found on Friday. On the other hand, the chief medical officer’s office has procured 10 lakh tablets—the generic version—of the drug at 27 paise per tablet for distribution in government hospitals. CMO Dr Rajendra Prasad said, “We are buying generic drugs directly from the company, hence it is cheap. The ones in the market are costly because they are branded. However, we are planning to make generic variants available at Jan Aushadhi Kendras.” Chemists said that they ran out of stocks a few days ago because of panic buying, but fresh supplies have arrived and they are selling on prescription to check hoarding. Many people are opting for the costlier versions as they don’t want to take chances. “In Aliganj, a chemist placed two brands—one for Rs 2 per tablet and another for Rs 90. He explained that the cheaper version was locally made and the costlier one produced by a top brand. I chose the branded one as one cannot take risk while dealing with coronavirus,” said Subhodh Singh. For those who have isolated themselves at home after coming in contact with an infected patient, getting the medicine through home delivery or by sending an acquaintance to buy the drug has become difficult because many chemists demand doctor’s prescription. Shops in Patrakarpuram were selling the medicine priced from Rs 6 to Rs 45 per tablet and in Aashiana and LDA Colony, a strip of two tablets was for Rs 160-Rs180. A dose of the drug was available for Rs 2 in some stores in Aliganj and near IT College, while in Charbagh, Chowk, Hazratganj and Kaiserbagh, the range was Rs 22-Rs 45. Meanwhile, Food Safety and Drug Authority officials inspected a number of medical stores in the city to check the availability of Ivermectin. FSDA said action will be taken against those caught selling the drug at a price more than MRP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ivermectin-back-in-stores-but-could-cost-rs-2-rs-90-per-tablet/articleshow/77684406.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Jaipur||Pvt agencies can’t use words like ‘detective, investigation’||JAIPUR: Private security agencies will no longer be able to use words like “detective, investigation, surveillance, intelligence, interrogation, facility and labour suppliers” with their names. The state government has issued a notification banning the use of these words by private security agencies. It also stated, license renewal of a private security agency will not be issued if the prohibited words are used. 'Fix problems of 1.25L pensioners’ Director of social justice department O P Bunkar on Friday asked district officials to run a special campaign to fix the problems faced by 1.25 lakh pensioners in the state due to errors in their accounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pvt-agencies-cant-use-words-like-detective-investigation/articleshow/77684423.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Covid outbreak at KGMU; VC tests positive||LUCKNOW: King George's Medical University - which has been leading the battle against the pandemic in the state — found itself in the grip of a Covid-19 outbreak with 10 more officers and staff, including vice-chancellor Lt Gen Bipin Puri and medical superintendent Prof BK Ojha, testing positive for the disease. This has taken the KGMU tally to over 184 since the outbreak, of which 50% have come in a week. Of total cases so far, 106 are doctors - 18 are faculty members, four senior residents and 84 junior residents. Others include 18 nurses, 63 paramedics and non-medical staff. TimesViewThe ripple effect of any disturbance in KGMU will be felt in the entire state and even beyond as both Covid and non-Covid patients are referred here from across UP and adjoining states for treatment. It is also ICMR’s nodal centre for Covid-19. University authorities must ensure that safety protocols are followed, but it is also the responsibility of the patients and attendants to keep the campus secure. Shifting of the Covid-19 facility would only help when precautions are followed in letter and spirit.The VC and three employees of his office tested positive on Friday. Head, microbiology department, Prof Amita Jain, who had been leading the team is also under treatment after testing positive four days ago. KGMU turns into Covid pandemic hotspotDescribing the situation in KGMU as “alarming”, teachers in the university blamed lack of safety protocols on the campus for the outbreak and demanded immediate preventive measures. It that does not happen, the ripple effect, they said, will be felt in the entire city as a huge number of patients, of Covid and others, get treatment here. Covid-19 has infected about 184 people at KGMU, including 106 doctors. Half of the people have contracted the disease in the past seven days. Many family members of staffers have also been found to be infected. In fact, an employee died on Wednesday after getting infected. Several departments including the administrative building that houses offices of various officers and that of the vice-chancellor have been closed for sanitization. Some department heads and officers said that running healthcare services in such a “vulnerable situation” was becoming increasingly difficult. “KGMU is leading the battle against coronavirus from the front, but imagine the repercussions if it becomes a super spreader. Not only will non-Covid patients visiting the campus and employees be at risk, but we might carry the infection to our families as well when we go back home after work,” said a senior professor. Similar views were expressed by many teachers and employees. The fears are not unfounded as a TOI reality check on Friday found overcrowding at most places on the campus. Employees, patients and their attendants were seen roaming around freely without any social distancing and masks. Some were even spitting around. Social distancing was also absent in all three triage areas where all patients including suspected Covid-19 cases report first for screening before being referred to various departments. Very few had face covers. Some who had masks were not wearing them properly. Though doctors and health workers wear PPE kits, the risk of virus spread always remains because of close proximity, said teachers. KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh said that the problem is because of a large influx of patients as the university offers specialised treatment in almost all areas. However, he said, things will improve in a week’s time when the Covid-19 facility will be shifted to the RALC building which is located about a kilometre away from the main campus. All patients will then be registered and screened there before being referred to other places, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kgmu-turns-into-covid-pandemic-hotspot/articleshow/77684445.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 22, 2020||Pune||Pune gets entire monsoon quota with bountiful August rains||PUNE: After a worrisome and rain-deficient July, a bountiful August with frequent good spells fulfilled the entire monsoon quota of rainfall for this year for the city, and augmented storage in the dams that supply water to Pune. Two locations in Pune, Shivajinagar and Lohegaon, have so far received excess rain of over 162.4mm and 262.1mm, respectively. Shivajinagar received 572.6mm total rainfall from June 1 till 8.30am on August 21 as against the normal of 410.2mm for this period. The seasonal June to September average monsoon quantum for this location is 566.3mm. Lohegaon has received a bigger bounty of 602.8mm from June 1 to August 21. The normal or average rain for the location is 340.7mm for this period. Its June to September monsoon quantum is 486.2mm. More rain is likely with another 40 days for the monsoon to end. The good rainfall in August has kept in abeyance till Ganeshotsav the Pune Municipal Corporation’s decision on alternate day water supply for the city. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune told TOI that after August 12, the city got good rain for 8-10 days, continuously. The ghats and catchments of dams continued to get isolated heavy to very heavy rain, even extremely heavy rains, followed by isolated heavy rain from August 15-18. “There was another good spell during the first week of August when Pune dams got double to triple digit rains on a couple of days. A couple of low pressure systems have formed over the Bay of Bengal in August, which pushed up rain amounts received in Pune city and district significantly,” he added. The four dams that supply water to the city are also nearing 100% storage. The total storage was 94.8% till Friday evening. A two-day spell for the city and the ghats which began on Friday is likely to push the dam storage further up as heavy to very heavy rain and even extremely heavy rain was forecast in isolated locations in the ghats of Pune district till Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/city-gets-entire-monsoon-quota-with-bountiful-august-rains/articleshow/77684424.cms||Neha Madaan
August 22, 2020||Goa||Daily wage workers want regularisation||Margao: Fourteen daily wage labourers led by the Shadow Council for Margao on Friday protested the failure of the Margao Municipal Council (MMC) in honouring the appointment letters given to them for regularising their services and non-payment of their wages for the last four months. Savio Coutinho of the Shadow Council told reporters that the protesting daily wage workers, who had put in 15 to 20 years of services in waste collection and drain cleaning work, were issued appointment orders regularising their services in December 2019. “However, even though they completed all the procedures, including the submission of joining report along with the medical fitness certificate in January 2020, the MMC continued to exploit them by paying the same daily wages up to April 2020,” Coutinho said. While the MMC served them in order on June 2020 to the effect that the earlier order pertaining to their appointment was kept in abeyance, an office memorandum dated August 17 stated that these workers have been appointed as daily wage workers for a period from May 2 to June 30, Coutinho further pointed out, adding that they haven’t been paid for their wages for the last four months. The workers have made representations to the Margao Municipal Council, urban development secretary, labour commissioner, human rights commission and director of municipal administration pleading for justice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/daily-wage-workers-want-regularisation/articleshow/77684513.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Mysuru||17,000 farmers upload crop details on govt survey app||MYSURU: Over 17,000 farmers of the district have uploaded the details of crops cultivated by them in the ‘Farmers Crop Survey App 2020-21’. Sources in the agricultural department told TOI that the app, first of its kind in the state, was developed by the e-governance department of Karnataka. The farmers can download the app from Google Playstore and upload the pictures of their crop along with other details. Earlier, the government collected the details through a survey called “Bele Sameekshe” by hiring youths who completed PUC/SSLC. Now, the farmers can directly enter the details of the crops they have cultivated with a few clicks from their own mobile handsets after downloading the app. The last date for entering the details for the crop survey is August 24. “If farmers are unable to conduct surveys of crops on their own, they can seek the assistance of private individuals to document the details after August 24. Based on the crop condition, compensation or insurance amount will be released by the government directly into the accounts of the beneficiary,” said Dr Mahantheshappa, joint director of agriculture. The details uploaded by the farmers will be verified by the officials, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/17k-farmers-upload-crop-details-on-govt-survey-app/articleshow/77682019.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Families protest over meagre compensation||Hyderabad: The families of the victims in the Srisailam power plan fire mishap resorted to a sit-in demonstration at the plant site in Amrabad, Nagarkurnool, late on Friday night, saying that they were hurt over the ‘paltry’ ex-gratia announced by the state. The furious families stopped TRS MP P Ramulu of Nagarkurnool constituency and TRS legislator Guvvala Balaraju of Achampet constituency at the hospital where the post-mortem was being performed and expressed their resentment. “All of those who died tried to save the power plant till the very end of their lives. That was their commitment. How can their sacrifice be measured? The ex-gratia amount that has been announced is not only insulting to them but has hurt the families,” a relative of one of the engineers who died said. The families are demanding nothing less that Rs 1 crore as compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/families-protest-over-meagre-compensation/articleshow/77685139.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 22, 2020||Jaipur||Bribery case: ACB recovers Rs 9 lakh from engineer’s house in Jaipur||JAIPUR: A day after a junior engineer working at the revenue wing of the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) was arrested for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 9,000 near a private hospital on Sikar Road, the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) recovered nearly Rs 9 lakh from his house. He was produced in an ACB court on Friday from where he was remanded in judicial custody. An ACB team on Thursday arrested Ankur Mishra, a junior engineer (JEn) working at JMC for accepting a bribe of Rs 9,000. He demanded the bribe from a complainant in lieu of giving a positive report to get land patta (land deed) that belonged to him. “In the searches, we have found nearly Rs 9 lakh from his house. He has been questioned on this source of money. We will also investigate if we can make a separate case of disproportionate income against him,” said a senior ACB officer.  “We produced him in a court from where he was sent in judicial custody,” said Pushpendra Singh, additional SP, ACB, who led the trap against the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bribery-case-acb-recovers-rs-9-lakh-from-engrs-house/articleshow/77684433.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Solar companies protest against the new land tax||JAIPUR: Solar and wind power developers are receiving notices from state finance department for payment of land tax of Rs 2 per sq mtr imposed on them for the first time effective from April this year. The industry, which has been resisting the tax, has asked for time, even as it is raising the issue with Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation Ltd (RRECL) citing that the projects set up were through competitive biddings and the tax liability was not factored into cost analysis. RRECL managing director Anil Gupta said they have received representations from the industry and are examining the tax provisions and also benefits available under Rajasthan Industrial Promotion Scheme, 2019 (RIPS-19). “We are looking into aspects like if the solar power developers could be liable for the tax, given the fact that certain exemptions are provided in the RIPS, 2019. After examining all the aspects, we will present the industry’s case before the finance department through energy department,” Gupta told TOI. A back of the envelop calculation shows that the solar and wind projects would have to shell out about Rs 55 crore annually due to the land tax. The calculation takes into account a conservative size of 5 acre per megawatt for both solar and wind, whose cumulative installed capacity in the state is over 12000 MW. The industry representatives said that solar and wind requires are parcels of land unlike other industries. The larger capacity, the bigger spread out of the area, because it is all about capturing the solar rays, they said. “Solar industry is different from other industries in the sense it needs huge tracts of land. That’s why levying land tax on solar or wind power projects defies all logic,” said Rajasthan Solar association in a statement. The industry body said, “Our members have received notices from the finance department (Tax Division) to deposit land tax and its subsequent annual return, which was not part of the earlier input cost working. Further the state’s solar policy having not clarified any aspect on this land tax, our members are unaware of this. And hence the exciting solar projects have not been set up under this new tax liability.” In another letter to RRECL, National Solar Energy Federation of India (NSEFI), said, “Furthermore, owing to the current scenario due to Covid-19 and the various restrictions on movement and transportation currently in place, our member Companies will be unable to mobilize personnel or agent or advocate for the said hearing, on such short notice. Since, the companies have received the notice very recently, we on their behalf, seek adequate timeline to enable them collate all the supporting documents and information for the purpose of the hearing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/solar-companies-protest-against-the-new-land-tax/articleshow/77684431.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Delhi||Give AAP reins of corporations for a clean city, says Saurabh Bharadwaj||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party’s chief spokesperson and Greater Kailash MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj on Friday said that citizens of Delhi should give the responsibility of municipal corporations to AAP in the municipal elections in 2022 so that the party can build the cleanliness model for Delhi like education and health. Bharadwaj targeted Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which runs all three municipal corporations of Delhi, for the poor ranking in the Swachh Survekshan 2020. East Delhi Municipal Corporation stood at the 46th spot among 47 cities with a population of 10 lakh or more, and the north corporation was only marginally better in the 43rd place. Even the south civic body ranked an unimpressive 31st. “After Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the Swachh Bharat campaign, the Union government took the decision that every year a cleanliness survey will be done across the country. This year, Delhi’s head was bent in shame due to the BJP-run civic bodies,” Bharadwaj said. Speaking to the media earlier in the day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also said that it is a matter of regret that the capital of the country has ranked so low in the Swachh Survekshan and requested the municipal corporations to work properly to ensure cleanliness. Delhi BJP’s spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that he didn’t want to get involved in the “dirty ranking bogey being raised by AAP functionaries. “I feel today is the time to respect the hard work put in by safai karamcharis during the last six months of the Covid pandemic,” Kapoor said. “At a time when people feared touching their own home’s garbage, these karamcharis have ensured a habitable city for us. “AAP functionaries are saying that the people want Delhi government to take over the sanitation services. I want to ask them, why does the entire city turn into a pond everytime it rains? Delhi Jal Board is responsible for this situation. People want DJB services to come under the corporations again as it was till 1997,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/give-aap-reins-of-corpns-for-a-clean-city-says-bharadwaj/articleshow/77684434.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Chandigarh||5 excise officials arrested, 7 more booked||Patiala: In a major operation against tax evasion, the Punjab Vigilance Bureau (VB) on Friday booked 12 officials of the excise and taxation department and four private persons and arrested six of them, including five officials. Disclosing this here, Vigilance Bureau chief director-cum-ADGP B K Uppal said in connivance with private transporters, these officials caused huge losses to the state exchequer. The bureau has registered two cases in this regard under the provisions of the IPC and the Excise Act at the Vigilance Bureau Flying Squad-1 police station at SAS Nagar. Uppal said that Muktsar excise and taxation officer (ETO) Varun Nagpal, Faridkot ETO Satpal Multani, Shambhu ETO (mobile wing) Kalicharan, Amritsar ETO Japsimran Singh, inspector Ram Kumar (Jalandhar) and a munshi of Somnath Transport Shiv Kumar were among the accused arrested in connection with the two cases. In the first case, DETC Simran Brar, Fazilka ETO Ved Prakash Jakhar, Faridkot ETO Satpal Multani, Kalicharan – ETO (mobile wing, Chandigarh) at Shambhu, Muktsar ETO Varun Nagpal, Fazilka ETO Ravinandan, Moga ETO Piyara Singh and Vijay Kumar Prashar of Khanna have been named. In the second case, Amritsar ETO (now at Patiala) Sushil Kumar, Amritsar ETO Dinesh Gaud, Amritsar ETO Jap Simran Singh, Amritsar ETO (mobile wing) Lakhbeer Singh, Inspector Ram Kumar, Somnath Transport’s munshi Shiv Kumar and one Pawan Kumar are the accused. Revealing their modus operandi, Uppal said Vijay Kumar, who runs a transport business in Ludhiana and Khanna cities, in connivance with these officials, transported goods of various traders into and out of Punjab paying less or no tax at all. He also generated fake bills for tax evasion, which were overlooked by the officials during checking and in return, they received large amounts as bribes. The vigilance chief said during the investigation, it came to light that Vijay used various mobile phones to inform officials of the excise and taxation department in Ferozepur, Fazilka, Moga and Faridkot about the bribe paid to them. During his conversations, he would also take names of various officials and employees of the department and maintain a record of the call data in his computer. In the course of investigation, the name of Sri Sai Transport owner, Shinda Prasher, also surfaced. He has also paid lakhs of rupees as bribe to the officials of the department to get his goods transported to Jalandhar and other places with the help of fake bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5-excise-officials-arrested-7-more-booked/articleshow/77684429.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana transport minister orders action in tax collection fraud||CHANDIGARH: Haryana transport minister Mool Chand Sharma has ordered strict action against the person, who allegedly committed a fraud in the name of depositing motor vehicle tax (road tax) online. A case has also been registered against the accused at Bawal police station in Rewari district. Taking a serious view of the alleged fraud, the minister has also asked the officers of the regional transport authorities (RTAs) of various districts to keep a close watch on such activities to prevent recurrence of such frauds. Sharma said some people have opened private ‘shops’ (kiosks) in states like Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, which share borders with Haryana, for submission of motor vehicle tax online. They take money from the vehicle owners and make a false receipt and do not deposit the amount in the government treasury. He said owing to such irregularities, the government faces losses and the vehicle owners are also cheated. Giving details of the latest such incident reported from Bawal, Sharma said a person complained that on August 18, he had got a tax of Rs 8,500 deducted at a kiosk in Rajasthan. The person collecting the tax gave him a receipt, but when the bus reached Jaipur, during the checking, no record of the said receipt was found and it turned out to be a fake receipt. The minister said an investigation would be conducted into all such private shops and strict action would be taken whenever cases of tax evasion or fraud with vehicle owners come to light.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-min-orders-action-in-tax-collection-fraud/articleshow/77684456.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Bhopal||CM’s NRA announcement creates confusion among 30L jobless youths||Bhopal: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s recent announcement to offer jobs through national recruitment agency (NRA) has created confusion among 30 lakh unemployed youths registered in Madhya Pradesh. Though the government recruitment agencies including the professional examination board (PEB) or Vyapam have not held any exam so far this year, it is not clear whether these agencies would be dismantled to pave way for NRA in the state. The agency, which was announced by Union minister of Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar on Wednesday, will conduct a common eligibility test for various positions in the government. Chouhan immediately announced that MP will be the first state to provide jobs based on the marks obtained in the NRA test, he also appealed to other states to follow suit. Though over 93,000 jobs are vacant in the government, there are hardly any job offers for even the highly qualified unemployed youth across the state. Raju Vishwakarma, a PHD in economics and willing to work even as a class three or four employee, said, “Where are the jobs. Why is recruitment not being done in higher education department, police or even for engineers in the state? Everywhere people are working on ad hoc basis.I would like the government to reveal the details of the NRA exams.” Controller PEB Dr AKS Bhadoria said, “ We also had exams for the posts of higher secondary and middle school last year.” However, no one in the government recruitment agency is able to tell about the number of posts for which the exams were held”. When asked about the fate of the NRA, Bhadoria said, “I cannot comment. Government will make some decisions.” KK Singh, chairman PEB was not accessible. Similarly, no one was available in the MP Public Service commission to comment. Chairman of the Commission professor Bhaskar Choubey did not talk. His PA said the secretary of the commission will respond . Despite repeated efforts, the secretary was also not available for comment. When contacted, commissioner employment, Dhanraju S said, “ I don’t have figures of the government recruitments. There are more than 30 lakh people who are registered in MP. But we can’t say whether they are still jobless, as many people get jobs and they continue to be registered.” However, highly placed government sources said that over 93000 jobs were vacant in the state by March 2019 and in the last one year, the “ number has definitely increased.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cms-nra-announcement-creates-confusion-among-30l-jobless-youths/articleshow/77683375.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
August 22, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow's Covid-19 tally breaches 20,000-mark; 2 doctors among 620 cases||LUCKNOW: The city’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 20,000-mark on Friday with 620 more persons testing positive for the novel coronavirus infection. The spike being witnessed in August can be gauged from the fact that the first 10,000 cases had come in 148 days after the outbreak and they doubled in next 16 days. Of total 20,387 cases reported till Friday, 12,209 (60%) have come this month. As many as 744 patients also recovered on Friday, taking the total number of recoveries to 13,557 so far. Fresh cases included two patients admitted in the emergency ward of the SPM Civil Hospital and two doctors deployed there. A seven-month-old baby girl under treatment in the paediatrics intensive care unit of the same hospital also tested positive. “The wards have been sanitised and doctors have been asked to home quarantine,” said medical superintendent Dr Ashutosh Dubey. A junior engineer posted at a power station in the BKT division also tested positive. He has self-isolated himself, while his office has been closed for 48 hours for sanitation and will reopen on Monday, said sub-divisional officer Shailendra Dhusia. Gomtinagar witnessed the highest number of cases in the past 24 hours with 33 persons found to be infected. Indiranagar also remained among top city areas with high caseload as 29 more patients were detected from its various localities. Residential areas on Rae Bareli road too reported 29 cases. Chowk was not far behind with 27 cases followed by Madiaon 26, Krishnanagar 24, Hazratganj 23, Hasanganj and Cantonment 22 each, Thakurganh and Aliganj 19 each and Mahanagar 18. “About 248 patients on Friday were symptomatic and allotted hospitals, of which143 patients were shifted till the evening,” said officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tally-breaches-20k-mark-2-docs-among-620-cases/articleshow/77684464.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Man found dead in car in Harmada area, kin suspect murder||JAIPUR: A 42-year-old man was found dead in his car under mysterious circumstance at a service lane near Ramaliya Wala village under Harmada police station area in the city on Friday morning. Police have neither ruled out the possibility of suicide or murder. Police have also applied for Covid-19 test of the deceased. According to police, some passersby in the morning informed the police control room that a man in a car was lying unconscious while his head was on the steering. “The deceased is identified as Rambabu Jangid (42) and was going to Chomu in the morning. There are no signs of injury on the body or any signs of struggle marks. Also the vehicle of the deceased is also intact,” said Bajrang Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) West said. A team of senior police officers along with the experts of Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) rushed to the spot to take a stock at the situation. “Apart from post-mortem, we have also applied for Covid-19 test of the deceased. Things would be cleared only after the post mortem report. If it is a Covid-19 it would be an open and shut case,” Singh added. However, family of the deceased have alleged that deceased had some confrontation with some persons some days ago and have suspected murder. “At this stage this is an open case for us. We are investigating into every aspect of the case. It could be a suicide or a murder or the deceased could have got cardiac arrest. But, the investigation is now purely dependent on the post mortem report,” said a senior police officer of Harmada police station. Meanwhile, a large number of onlookers gathered on the road while they spotted the man they believed was in unconscious stage. “He was rushed to the hospital where he was declared brought dead,” said an officer. Further investigations in the case were on, police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-found-dead-in-car-in-harmada-area-kin-suspect-murder/articleshow/77684452.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC seeks property list of Frontier Gandhi kin||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Friday sought a list of properties and family tree of Canadian Zarin Ghani Walsh, grand-daughter of Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan, the Pashtun independence leader who was also known as Frontier Gandhi for his role in India’s freedom struggle. A bench of Justices K K Tated and Milind Jadhav heard a petition by her nephew Mashal Khan (40) to be appointed her guardian so that he can take his ailing aunt to Pakistan. Zarin (76) is a Canadian living in India since 1983. She resides at Breach Candy. Zarin is the daughter of Ghaffar Khan’s eldest son and Mashal, a resident of Khyber Pakhtunthwa (NWFP), is the son of her late brother. Centre’s advocate Advait Sethna sought time to file replies of ministries of law and justice and social justice and women empowerment but Mashal’s advocate Mayur Khandeparkar sought an early date, saying Zarin’s health was frail. The judges said they could not proceed without the Centre’s response. They also said the issue was whether such a petition by a Pakistani to be appointed a guardian was maintainable. “As far as being a foreigner, Article 21 (Right to Life) is also available to a foreigner,” said Khandeparkar. He said Zarin was India-born. He said there was a precedent in a Bombay HC judgment in a similar situation because of a legal vacuum. The judges observed that consent from Mashal’s family to his appointment as guardian was not a certificate from a competent authority or court, but a notarised document. They also said Mashal’s prayers included dealing with her properties and to take her to Pakistan. Government pleader Poornima Kantharia questioned how a Pakistani can be allowed to take her from here. The judges said she can be taken to Pakistan but the issue was transfer of properties. “Her properties can wait. She’s with a nurse in Bombay. Today, her health is of paramount interest to me,” said Khandeparkar. The judges asked about lockdown in Pakistan and if it was permitting travel from India. Khandeparkar replied that there was an air bubble between India and Dubai, and from Dubai she can be taken to Pakistan. Justice Tated then said, “We want a list of properties held by her. Also her family tree.” Khandeparkar said, “She comes from an illustrious family. We’ll give her genealogy.” The next hearing is on September 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bombay-hc-seeks-property-list-of-frontier-gandhi-kin/articleshow/77683811.cms||Rosy Sequeira
August 22, 2020||Vadodara||Eight foot long crocodile strays near temple in Jambua||VADODARA: Two crocodiles were rescued from different areas of the city in the last 24 hours. Late on Thursday night, animal activists received a call that a crocodile had been spotted near a temple in Jambua village on the outskirts of the city. The volunteers led by Hemant Wadhwana rushed to the spot and rescued an eight-feet-long crocodile. “The locals spotted about five crocodiles near the temple that is close to Dhadhar River. These reptiles must have come out of the river due to rains. When we reached the spot, we spotted one reptile and rescued it,” Wadhwana said. Another four-and-a-half feet long crocodile was rescued from Kishanwadi Road on Thursday night. The reptile was spotted near the main road following which volunteers of Gujarat Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (GSPCA) rescued it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/eight-foot-long-crocodile-strays-near-temple-in-jambua/articleshow/77682050.cms||---
August 22, 2020||India||Ex-finance secy Rajiv Kumar named election commissioner||NEW DELHI: Former finance secretary Rajiv Kumar, who retired earlier this year, was appointed election commissioner on Friday. Kumar will be the chief election commissioner (CEC) in the next general election in 2024, going by the seniority convention. Kumar, a retired 1984-batch IAS officer from Jharkhand cadre, fills up the vacancy caused by the resignation of Ashok Lavasa, who will be moving to Manila as vice-president of Asian Development Bank. Incidentally, Lavasa too had retired as finance secretary before his appointment in Nirvachan Sadan. A notification issued on Friday said Kumar’s appointment would be from the date he assumes charge. Lavasa will demit office on August 31. Kumar, as per the seniority principle, will take over as CEC when Sushil Chandra retires in May 2022. He will have a tenure of two years and nine months in the top post. During his tenure in the finance ministry, Kumar is credited with having overseen the merger of 10 public sector banks and recapitalisation of these state lenders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ex-finance-secy-rajiv-kumar-named-election-commissioner/articleshow/77685713.cms||Bharti Jain
August 22, 2020||Noida||Two minors drown in Shalimar City pond||GHAZIABAD: Two boys drowned while swimming in a pond behind Shalimar City on Friday evening. According to police, their bodies were spotted by the local people. The police said the area where the accident happened is used as a playing ground by children from the neighbourhood, which is at a depth from the surface. “Every monsoon, rain water is collected at the spot and children go there for swimming,” a police officer said. The deceased have been identified as Gijaansh (10) and Hanan (11), both were living in Saheed Nagar with their parents. Police have sent the bodies for autopsy and reports are awaited. Their families said the three children had left home around 4pm on Friday and told them that they were going to play as usual in a nearby field. When they did not return home after dark, their parents informed the police. Rafeeq, Gijaansh’s father, who works as an auto-rickshaw driver, said that around 3.30pm on Friday, his son told him that he is going to play with his friends. “Usually he returned around 5.45pm and when I was supposed to leave for work, I asked my younger brother to go and ask Gijaansh to return home. When he failed to trace him, I started looking for him but couldn’t find him and then went to the police station,” he said. Police reached the spot and the locals told them that the two children had raised an alarm after which they tried to save them but they died before they were pulled out from the pond. Abhishek Verma, SP (city), of Ghaziabad said that the accident happened around 6.30pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/2-minors-drown-in-shalimar-city-pond/articleshow/77684469.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
August 22, 2020||Bhopal||Tribal man in Dhar loses lakhs to lottery scam||Indore: A tribal man in Dhar fell prey to a lottery scam and lost Rs 1.8 lakh. Victim Dinesh Mujalda reached police station and claimed that accused had sent a fake certificate to him over WhatsApp that he had won a prize of Rs 25 lakh related to a television series. The incident was reported in Pipriyapani village in Bagh of Dhar district. Accused asked the victim to submit a certain amount within 15 days to claim the prize that he had won. He asked for money for income tax deposit, NOC, bank demand, currency change and other things. Even when the accused deposited Rs 6 lakh within a week into the account of the accused, he did not give him the award money and again demanded Rs 1.8 lakh from him. Police said that they have found out that the man deposited the amount in branches of bank in Bihar and Kolkata. The money was deposited in the accounts of Irshad Alam, Samima, Sanjay Kumar, Randhir Kumar, Ravishankar and Sanjay Singh. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/tribal-man-in-dhar-loses-lakhs-to-lottery-scam/articleshow/77683403.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Nagpur||15-20% +ve patients untraceable due to wrong phone numbers, address||Nagpur: With steep rise in cases, the short-staffed Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is finding it difficult to reach every Covid patient and monitor them. One reason for this is also that 15-20% patients are reportedly giving wrong contact numbers and addresses. Also, the number of persons getting tested twice or more is also on the rise, queering data on total positive cases. Anusuya Kale-Chhabrani from NGO Together We Can told TOI, “NMC has given us the responsibility of contacting positive persons, guide them in home isolation, and monitor their health. Contact numbers of 15-20% positive patients are either wrong or not reachable. Some data sheets have contact number of the doctor who collected swab samples. Some phone numbers belong to people residing in other districts and states, who have never come to the city.” She added, “Even some of the addresses are wrong. The police department has assured help to trace patients whose numbers are wrong or not reachable. Two-member teams have been formed at all police stations, to whom we pass on the list. They can trace some, but many remain untraceable. Some just write the name of their area, without mentioning plot number, lane or nearby landmark.” Kale-Chhabrani also said, “People may be giving wrong numbers and addresses to avoid social stigma. But it will put their health at risk, and also increase corona spread in the city if they are not following home isolation and other guidelines.” “NMC is providing all facilities, from testing centres, health monitoring and hospital admission for symptomatic patients. People should cooperate and help the administration control the pandemic,” she said. Earlier, when the cases were fewer, NMC used to quarantine and test only high-risk contacts. Private laboratories used to take reference of private doctors and copy of Aadhaar cards for testing. With rise in cases, NMC’s 34 testing centres and private laboratories are reportedly not taking any residential proof. Kale-Chhabrani said, “Names of some patients are repeated in two days as they get tested twice. This inflates number of positive persons, and is a waste of valuable kits and resources.” TOI had on August 19 highlighted some people got tested second time after 10 days or next day, and their names were counted twice. TOI could get reports of a person from Khamla who was tested thrice in two days. “NMC has made it mandatory for shopkeepers to get tested. This person first got tested through Rapid Antigen at NMC health centre and came positive. The same day, he was tested through Rapid Antigen from a private laboratory and again came positive. He was asymptomatic, so he was unable to believe it. Therefore, he went to a private laboratory and got tested through RT-PCR and tested positive against,” said another shopkeeper. Two persons from Zingabai Takli and Lalganj also got tested twice in two days, from laboratories run by NMC and a private agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/15-20-ve-patients-untraceable-due-to-wrong-phone-numbers-address/articleshow/77683448.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Pb agri dept raided 3,483 pesticide shops in 4 months||Chandigarh: To ensure supply of quality agrochemicals to farmers, the Punjab department of agriculture and farmers’ welfare raided 3,483 pesticide shops in four months since April 1. Kahan Singh Pannu, director of Mission Tandarust Punjab, said they had collected 1,584 pesticide samples during the period. In case any sample was found misbranded, department initiated immediate legal action against the dealer as per Insecticide Act, 1968, he said. Since April 2020, one case has been filed in court and two FIRs registered against defaulters. Also, show-cause notices have been issued to dealers and licences of eight of them cancelled. He said a similar drive for monitoring pesticide supply was being carried out over the last two years, due to which there was a reduction in usage of 675 MT (technical grade) pesticides worth Rs 355 crore in 2019 over the year before. He pegged the change at 18%. Use of pesticide was 3,838 MT during 2018, but the same reduced to 3,163 during 2019. Pannu said vigorous checking of pesticide shops resulted in decrease in percentage of misbranded/ failed samples from 4.51% in 2017-18 to 2.89% in 2018-19 and 2.44% in 2019-20. “This is a clear indication of the improvement in quality of agrochemicals during the recent years,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-agri-dept-raided-3483-pesticide-shops-in-4-months/articleshow/77684483.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||CISF rushed 39-member team to spot||Hyderabad: Soon after the fire broke out, the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) rushed a 39-member team led by commandant Siddarth Raha with equipment to carry out rescue operations. The fire rescue and disaster management team was sent from the CISF’s National Industrial Security Academy (NISA) at Hakimpet here on Friday morning following a request from the director general (DG), fire services, Telangana. NISA director CV Anand issued orders for sending the team, which left at 8.35 am from NISA on the 245-km journey and reached the dam site at 1 pm. “The team played an active role in taking out the bodies and controlling the fire and smoke,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cisf-rushed-39-member-team-to-spot/articleshow/77685145.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Mysuru||Four poachers held, pelts, tiger claws seized||MYSURU/ MADIKERI: Foresters have arrested four Soliga tribesmen for poaching and seized wild animal claws and pelts from their possession. The foresters have arrested Mahadeva,28, and Kumar, 20, from Nellikathari village and Mahadeva,22, and Rangaswamy,23, from Gobbegallu village in Hanur taluk in Chamarajanagar district. There accused were allegedly involved in wildlife crimes in Male Mahadeshwara Wildlife Sanctuary, Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary and Biligiri Ranganatha Swamy Temple (BRT) Tiger Reserve for many years, the foresters said. MM Hills wildlife division DCF V Yedukondalu formed teams involving officers and staff. Based on credible information, the foresters on Thursday arrested the four from PG Palya range coming under MM Hills Wildlife division. The foresters seized four tiger claws, one tiger bone, two leopard claws, two barking deer pelts, two sambar deer pelts, two flying squirrel pelts, dole pelt and bone, spotted deer pelts and two two-wheelers which were used for the crime. The arrested were produced before a court which remanded them in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/4-poachers-held-pelts-tiger-claws-seized/articleshow/77682054.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Pune||Cops exhume missing man’s body from house in Katraj||PUNE: The Bharati Vidyapeeth police on Friday afternoon exhumed the body of a 28-year-old criminal on police records — reported missing since August 16 — from the backyard of a house at Dugad chawl in Santoshnagar, Katraj. The police have launched a manhunt for three friends of the victim — Kiran Shivaji Dole — including two brothers who live in the house where the body was found. The police are in the process of establishing a motive, but according to neighbours, the victim and the suspects had quarrelled. “The body was found stuffed in a gunny bag. The victim, a resident of the same locality, was gagged and throttled to death,” senior inspector Vasant Kuvar said. Dole, who has cases of body offences against his name, was reported missing on Thursday by his pregnant wife. “The Pune police had externed him from the city limits two years ago. He lay low and lived with his family following his wedding a year ago,” police said. Dole’s wife stated in her complaint that he told her on Sunday that he was going out with three friends. His family and friends started getting worried when he never returned. “All of us were worried as Dole did not come to meet us since Monday. His cellphone too was not reachable,” Akshay Khandale, Dole’s friend and neighbour, told TOI. Kuvar said the murder came to light after the aunt of the two brothers — who fled with the third accomplice to their maternal uncle’s house in Lonavla — informed the police that the suspects confided in her about murdering their friend and leaving the body in the Dugad chawl house. “The Lonavla police alerted us, and our team exhumed the body,” Kuvar said. Police said Dole’s friends and others in the locality were searching for all four men, and made calls to their relatives. One such call was placed to the brothers’ aunt, who lives in Kamshet. “She learnt that her nephews were at their maternal uncle’s house in Lonavla. When she reached there and spoke to them, they told her about the murder,” Kuvar said. She urged them to go to the police, but the duo refused to and warned her against taking any such step, Kuvar said. “She then approached the Lonavla police, but the three men made their escape in the meantime. We have since deployed three teams to trace and arrest the trio,” Kuvar said. According to a preliminary investigation, the 65-year-old grandmother of the two suspects was at home when the murder happened on Sunday night, Kuvar said. One of the three suspects took her to Lonavla, while the other two stayed back and buried the body. “The three suspects met again in Lonavla,” Kuvar said. On Friday evening, the grandmother and the aunt were brought to the Bharati Vidyapeeth police station to record their statements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-exhume-missing-mans-body-from-house-in-katraj/articleshow/77683428.cms||Mihir Tanksale
August 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||NRI mother moves Gujarat HC for custody of three children||AHMEDABAD: An non-resident Indian (NRI) woman from New Zealand approached the Gujarat high court to secure custody of her three children from her husband, who had according to her, taken the children with him in defiance of an order passed by the high court of New Zealand. The woman filed a habeas corpus petition through a power of attorney holder, claiming that her husband had lost the case for custody of the three children, one six-year-old and five-year-old twins. She alleged that her husband has been playing hide-and-seek with the New Zealand high court by not implementing its order and bringing the children to India. She also alleged that the children have lately been shifted to Bangalore and They were earlier admitted in a school in Mehsana, but their shifting took place in order to avoid court proceedings. She has sought their custody by citing a Supreme Court order and with the contention that they were too young when she was deprived of their custody and despite having succeeded before various courts, the children are still away from her. The high court ordered city police to bring the children before it through video conference from the city civil court on Friday. For production of the children, the HC asked the police inspector concerned to get the police commissioner’s help, if required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nri-mother-moves-hc-for-custody-of-three-children/articleshow/77683489.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Chennai||Metro rail stations not disabled-friendly, says PIL; HC seeks reply||Chennai: None of the Metro rail stations constructed by Chennai Metro Rail Limited is disabled-friendly, said a public interest writ petition filed in the Madras high court has said. Admitting the plea on Friday, a division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha directed Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) to file its response in three weeks. The PIL wanted the court to direct the CMRL to retrofit its existing stations to comply with the harmonised guidelines and space standards for barrier free built environment for persons with disabilities and elderly issued by the ministry of urban development in 2016. CMRL violated the provisions of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act by failing to construct its Metro stations in Chennai in compliance with the law. Though the stations have been audited and found noncompliant in 2017 itself, till date no steps have been taken by CMRL to bring the stations and other infrastructure in compliance with the law and make them disabled friendly, said petitioner Vaishnavi Jayakumar,. Claiming that the CMRL’s stations posed a barrier to persons with disability and as such need to be made compliant without further delay, she said the state commissioner for persons with disabilities (Tamil Nadu) and the Commissionerate for the welfare of the differently-abled failed to act despite being aware of the violations committed by CMRL. “CMRL has not retrofitted its existing metro stations in compliance with the law. It has failed to see that unless metro stations are made compliant with the law, persons with disability and reduced mobility will not be able to travel with dignity and freedom,” the petitioner added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/metro-rail-stations-not-disabled-friendly-says-pil-hc-seeks-reply/articleshow/77683455.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Lucknow||‘Khaki’ coach of para-badminton champs gets Dronacharya Award||Lucknow: Railway Protection Force commando Gaurav Khanna, who currently holds chief office superintendent post in Northern railway Lucknow, will receive the coveted Dronacharya Award — country’s top coaching honour — for his two-decade long service as coach in the field of para-badminton. The 45-year-old cop has coached several medal winners at the international level. The award will be given by President Ram Nath Kovind via an online function from Rashtrapati Bhawan on August 29. Khanna initially joined railways though sports quota in 1994, but in 1998 he was recruited in the RPF as a cop. “I was good in sports, especially badminton. At the age of 19, I joined railway through sports quota and played my last nationals in 1998 at Udaipur and got injured. In 1998, I got selected as railway police officer. In 2000, I was transferred to Lucknow and started training hearing-impaired badminton players. I had to learn the sign language to communicate with players and subsequently became head national coach for deaf badminton team,” said Khanna, who was the head coach for Deaf Olympics 2009 in Taipei and 2013 Deaf Olympics in Bulgaria. Later he became coach for the Asian continental team and coach for para-badminton in 2014 under Sports Authority of India. Khanna also coached para-badminton medallist and present district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar, Suhas Lalinakere Yathiraj. The DM is currently world No. 3 in the game’s singles format. “I wish him all the success and happiness for being conferred with country’s prestigious sports award. He was my coach in 2016 and helped me to get gold medal at Asia Championship held at Beijing, China,” said Yathiraj. Currently, Khanna is building a team of para-badminton players for Tokyo Olympics in 2021. “I’m training three players who are also Arjuna awardees — Parul Parmar, the world No. 1 in para-badminton player, Pramod Bhagat and Manoj Sarcar. I’m confident that at least six players from India will qualify for the Olympics, including India’s youngest champion Palak Kohli and world No. 2 Krishna Nagar,” said Khanna, whose four-year tenure has seen para-badminton players bagging 314 international medals. Khanna is training country’s best para-badminton player at Babu Banarasi Das University facility in Lucknow for the Olympics. “States likes Haryana, Odisha, Telangana, Delhi have a policy for disabled players, but UP is yet to introduce one. If the government could encourage such players with government jobs and monetary remuneration more talent hidden in the country can be tapped. Sportsmen like IAS Suhas Lalinakere Yathiraj are exceptions who got selected for government jobs by their merit and hard work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/khaki-coach-of-para-badminton-champs-gets-dronacharya-award/articleshow/77684475.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Bhopal||Nath asks CM to rollback decision on Kanya Vivah Scheme grant||Bhopal: Former chief minister Kamal Nath on Friday shot a letter to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan expressing his displeasure with the government’s decision to reduce the grant for Mukhya Mantri Kanya Vivah Scheme from Rs 51,000 to Rs 28,000. “The Congress government was vowed to give equal justice to people of every section of society. My government has increased the grant for Kanya Vivah Scheme from Rs 28,000 to Rs 51,000,” Kamal Nath’s letter said.The senior Congress leader in his letter argued that people were happy with this government decision to give additional money towards the wedding of young women.“I am saddened that the funds given by the government to young brides to make happy lives of newly wedded couples, has been again reduced to Rs 28,000,” Nath’s letter said. “This decision of your government is a cruel blow to poor families and particularly the welfare of women. This proves the difference between the government’s claims and actions,” he said.During the 15-months of Congress rule in the state, the government grant for newly wedded women from poor families was increased from Rs 28,000 to Rs 51,000.Earlier this week, minister for social welfare Prem Singh Patel said that the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government will pay the previous Rs 28,000 to beneficiaries under the Kanya Vivah Scheme, as it existed during the 2013-18 regime of the BJP government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-asks-cm-to-rollback-decision-on-kanya-vivah-scheme-grant/articleshow/77683418.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||CBI to probe AP mining scam after DoPT nod||Hyderabad: The department of personnel and training (DoPT) has issued a notification for a CBI probe into the illegal mining case involving former AP MLA Yarapathineni Srinivasa Rao. In the notification, the DoPT said CBI would investigate 17 illegal mining cases involving the former Gurajala TDP legislator. The CBI would probe attempt, abetment and conspiracy in relation to or in connection with such offences or any other offences committed in the course of the same transaction, officials said. It was in September 2019, the home secretary had written to DoPT seeking a CBI probe. It took a year for the notification to come out after the high court gave the nod and the state government issued orders for handing over the case to CBI from the CID. In the notification, DoPT said: “The Centre with the consent of the state government extended the powers and jurisdiction of CBI and its members under Delhi Special Police Establishment Act to Andhra Pradesh for an investigation into the offences related to illegal mining, quarrying and Illegal transportation of limestone.” The alleged mining took place in Konanki village of Piduguralla mandal, Kesanupalli and Nadikudi villages of Dachepalli mandal in Guntur district. Eleven criminal cases were booked in Piduguralla police station and six with Dachepalli police station in connection with the illegal mining in government land. The high court heard the case based on a petition filed by former MLC TGV Krishna Reddy four years ago. The court even said that going by the enormity of the illegal mining, which was confirmed by the CID in its report, Enforcement Directorate could also be roped into the probe against the former MLA. The court had also rapped the state two years ago for its inaction to curb illegal mining in Gurajala. With the then opposition YSRC too taking up the issue, the government ordered a CID probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbi-to-probe-ap-mining-scam-after-dopt-nod/articleshow/77685152.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Builder held on charge of duping buyers of Rs 1.2 crore||PUNE: The Khadki police on Friday arrested builder Kishore Patil (42) after 10 flat/shop buyers in a building in Kalas lodged an FIR on Thursday night accusing him of duping them of over Rs1.18 crore. The complainants alleged that Patil enrolled the building in question, Sainik Residency, with the sub-registrar’s office in Bopodi on the basis of a forged Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) certificate. Senior inspector Ramesh Sahane of the Khadki police said, “The building’s status as an illegal structure came to the fore after the buyers filed an RTI application following the PMC’s move to demolish another nearby building that had been developed by Patil. On probing, the buyers realized that their building was non-existent in the Development Plan. All the 10 complainants got possession of their flat/shop soon after the building was developed in 2012-13.” “We have arrested Patil on charges of cheating and forgery among other offences under the Indian Penal Code. He will be produced before the Khadki court on Saturday for custodial remand,” he added. One of the complainants, Kashinath Jadhav (46) told TOI, “I had booked a flat in the building that was demolished. Patil, instead of repaying the money, offered me a flat at Sainik Residency. Patil then claimed that the building was legal and provided me with a sanctioned plan sporting the seal of the PMC building permission department and a signature of its official. I purchased a flat in 2013 and later invested in a shop on the premises of Sainik Residency as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/builder-held-on-charge-of-duping-buyers-of-rs-1-2-crore/articleshow/77683436.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Corona scare to stay, idol makers say Ganesh Utsav business hit by 60%||LUCKNOW: Rahul Rajpoot, 25, has been making Ganpati idols professionally since 2012. Every year, in his Saadatganj workshop, 10-12 artists would be busy in giving finishing touches to 5-foot-tall idols, while people would line up to take home their ‘Bappa’. However, in the wake of pandemic, the 29-year-old workshop bears a deserted look this year. “This is the first time that we are seeing such low demand for Ganesha idols. It is a tough period for us. There is hardly anyone coming to the workshop to place orders,” said Rajpoot. With summer, which is the time to make idols, lost to the pandemic and lockdown, idol makers say that they are staring at a grim future, with little or no orders to mark Ganesh Chaturthi, which falls on August 22. Instead of delivering huge idols of 5-9 feet to puja pandals in the city, the idol makers are only able to make small idols of 1-2 feet with limited material. This has resulted in losses of about Rs 2 lakh to every idol maker. “We had around 12 workers from UP and West Bengal, Now, they have all left for their hometowns and we cannot even afford to call them back. During Ganesh Chaturthi, the puja committees would also give us orders for Durga Puja. But this year, the situation is different, We have received only 10 orders of Ganesha idols till now,” added Rajpoot. The artisans say that business is hit with about 60% drop in domestic orders. Since idol making is a capital-intensive business, the artisans fear they will not be able to pay their bank loans on time. Deepika Mishra, an idol maker from Bharatpuri, said the economic crisis and uncertainty among devotees over the festival is a major cause of worry. “Ganesh Chaturthi is the time when we make money that lasts us for an entire year. Since the government has imposed a ban on public gatherings, we doubt we would be able to revive our business during Durga Puja too,” said Raju, another idol maker in Saadatganj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/corona-scare-to-stay-idol-makers-say-ganesh-utsav-biz-hit-by-60/articleshow/77684521.cms||Aditi Singh
August 22, 2020||Bareilly||Lower ranked staff at tiger reservesin UP left without salary since April||Bareilly: Lower ranked staff at UP's tiger reserves are yet to receive their salaries since April due to non-release of funds by the state government this financial year.Hundreds of staff and their family members are, therefore, directly affected. Patrolling of the reserves is also affected as the staff doesn’t have enough money to buy fuel for their vehicles. The salary of 'mahouts' is also pending which is affecting the daily care of the camp elephants.Patrolling in Dudhwa forests recently came under the scanner after an injured tigress stuck in a plastic wire couldn’t be spotted by any of the field staff and later died after 10 days.e“There is a delay which mostly affects salaries of employees on daily wages like watchers, gatemen, computer operators, among others, but we try to motivate them and help them in every possible way. We have nearly 150 affected staff members here. Fortunately, WWF-India has also funded many of our rescue operations and has provided ration for the field staff, whenever required," H Rajamohan, field director of PTR, said.Rajamohan added, "We are expecting a budget of Rs 9.5 crore for tiger conservation in PTR, social forestry and Amangarh tiger reserve to be released by the state government within a month."Deputy director of DTR (buffer) Anil Patel said, “We have contracts with the petrol pump owners and they are providing fuel and we will pay them once the funds are released. There are nearly 150 employees deployed in the buffer and 250 in the core area. We have assured the staff that their pending salaries will be transferred to them once the budget is released.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/lower-ranked-staff-at-tiger-reservesin-up-left-without-salary-since-april/articleshow/77680920.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 22, 2020||Nagpur||Jail lost more than Rs1cr revenue during pandemic||Nagpur: The Nagpur Central Jail, which has an annual revenue turnover of more than Rs4 crore, has lost more than Rs1 crore this year between April and August owing to the closure of its industrial units as a result of Covid outbreak. Intriguingly, a latest notification that reached the jail on Thursday stated that the remuneration of the skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled prisoners working in the prison’s industrial units has been raised. The remuneration of skilled workers has been increased from Rs61 per day to Rs67, semi-skilled ones from Rs55 to Rs61 per day and unskilled ones from Rs45 to Rs49 per day. With Corona affecting 219 prisoners, 62 staffers and their family members, industrial units of the Nagpur jail had to be shut down. The loss not only affected the Nagpur central jail’s coffers but also deprived many skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled prisoners of their earnings which is part of their rehabilitation and reformation process. It’s learnt that 56 prisoners were regular earners from the units like carpentry, fabrication, bakery, press and laundry, power loom and also car washing. Sources in the jail said the production units in the jail together have a turnover of Rs18.5 lakh every month. The pandemic had struck at a time when the jail was eyeing a lucrative contract of furniture and other fittings for the new premises of the district court. The closure of the industrial and manufacturing units have also led to bottlenecks in the output channel as several orders from different government departments have been stopped. “Our units were engaged in completing orders of various materials from different departments, who are our regular clients, when the lockdown was declared. Those works have been pending since last four months,” said Superintendent of jail Anupkumar Kumre. Nagpur Central Jail is learnt to have a steady clientele of several government departments and hospitals. The jail’s bakery is the source of bread to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and Mayo Hospital. Its press and car washing unit too attract civilian customers from adjoining localities. A leading automobile company also has it’s unit in the jail where the prisoners learn and work under supervision of engineers. The automobile unit’s special extended cell assembles wiring for bikes and cars. Around 21 prisoners learn and work here. Kumre said he planned to start the works at the units from September onwards. “We are trying to make a comeback by Diwali and prepare for an exhibition-cum-sale for the season,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jail-lost-more-than-rs1cr-revenue-during-pandemic/articleshow/77683513.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 22, 2020||Bhopal||MP hits another high of 1142; Covid-19 tally crosses 50000||Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh’s Covid count crossed the 50,000 mark on Friday following back-to-back 1,000-plus counts.The day’s tally of 1,147 was the highest so far, beating Thursday’s count of 1,142. Over 9,000 cases have been reported in August alone – 18% of MP’s tally of 50,640.Fourteen more deaths were reported, in the health bulletin — four in Indore, and one each in Bhopal, Gwalior, Jabalpur, Barwani, Neemuch, Sagar, Shivpuri, Jhabua, Satna and Chhindwara. The Covid toll has risen to 1,185. Alarmingly, 50 of 52 districts reported fresh cases, deaths were reported from 10 districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-hits-another-high-of-1142-covid-19-tally-crosses-50000/articleshow/77683438.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Condolences pour in, netas demand probe into accident||Hyderabad: Condolences poured in from various quarters for the family members of the nine people who died in the fire accident in Srisailam Hydel Power Station. TRS minister KT Rama Rao, T Harish Rao, Errabelli Dayakar Rao, Singireddy Niranjan Reddy, Telangana Congress working president N Uttam Kumar Reddy, MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy, CPI leader K Narayana, Chada Venkat Reddy and several other political leaders expressed shock and grief over the death of nine persons in the fire accident. They extended their condolences to the members of the bereaved fa milies. Uttam said the state governments of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh should ensure that a high level inquiry is conducted to know the reasons for the fire accident and measures should be taken to ensure that such incidents do not take place in future. He said the government should announce Rs 1crore ex-gratia to the members of the bereaved families. “My condolences to the families of TSGENCO employees who lost their lives in today’s mishap at #Srisailam Hydel Power station. I pray that injured make a full & speedy recovery. My constituent, Asst Engineer Uzma Fatima a resident of Malakpet also lost her life in the accident,” tweeted AIMIM chief Assaduddin Owaisi. Telangana Congress working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy on Friday demanded a probe into the fire accident by the CBI. “There are lots of doubts over the fire accident. There could be a conspiracy to destroy Srisail4am Left Bank Hydel Power station as part of Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s tactical cooperation being discreetly extended to his counterpart from Andhra Pradesh YS Jaganmohan Reddy to take away river water share of Telangana. We (Congress party) have been saying this for a long-time now,” he said. Keeping this in view, the probe should be done by a central government agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/condolences-pour-in-netas-demand-probe-into-accident/articleshow/77685153.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Chennai||Single teacher schools ropes in Bombay Jayashri to raise funds||CHENNAI: Every note that Bombay Jayashri hits on Saturday (August 22) could mean a new notebook for a child at a rural school in Tamil Nadu. The Carnatic artist along with seven other vocalists will be rendering ragams to raise funds for Single Teacher Schools (STS), which takes education to the doorsteps of children in the remotest of villages. “With the nearest school often set miles away, most children end up following their parents to work on farms without an education,” says R P Krishnamachari, honorary secretary, STS. He adds that STS is working with over 31,000 children from over 1,000 schools across 10 districts in the state. “We hope virtual Carnatic fundraiser on crowdfunding site Milaap will help us collect Rs 1 crore to set up additional 1,000 schools,” says Akhila Srinivasan, MD, Shiram Life Insurance, and vice president, STS. The schools, which focus on primary education, run from 6.30pm to 8.30pm, and are equipped with blackboards, mats, solar lamps and first aid kits. The children are also provided with books, stationery and health camps free of cost. “It costs Rs 50,000 per year to set up and run a school,” she says. The concept of STS was established in 2006 by the Swami Vivekananda Rural Development Society, where qualified women are selected from the local villages and trained as teachers, with the idea of creating employment as well as educating children. The schools are run out of panchayat offices, community halls or the teacher’s house. “Even now during the pandemic, though the schools are closed, children go to the teacher’s house to clear any questions they have,” says Krishnamachari. The concerts by artists like Jayashri, Chitra Viswesvaran, Jayanthi Kumaresh, Abhishek Raghuram, GJR Krishnan and GJR Vijayalakshmi, Amritha Murali and Ashwath Narayanan, will take place every ten days until October 12. Details of the concert can be found on Milaap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/single-teacher-schools-ropes-in-bombay-jayashri-to-raise-funds/articleshow/77683494.cms||Kamini Mathai
August 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Solar project gathers pace but fear of losing land looms||ONGOLE: In a move that could come as a boon for the development of relatively underdeveloped regions in Prakasam district, the state government has decided to fast-track the process of setting up a mega solar power plant in Donakonda mandal. The government had decided to setup a 1,000MW solar plant in the mandal in the first phase and later add another 1,000MW in the second phase. Determined to complete the project in the next six to eight months, the state government has directed the district collector to quickly complete the process of land acquisition. Following instructions issued by the Solar Power Corporation Limited (SPCL), the district administration has started a comprehensive survey to acquire nearly 5,000 acres of land in three villages of the mandal— Rudrasamudram, Bhumanapalli and Manginapudi. Nearly 70 special teams comprising tehsildars, revenue inspectors and land surveyors have been deployed in Donakonda mandal to identify land-owning farmers. Although, most of the land that will be acquired for the solar power plant will be dry land, farmers are worried of losing their livelihood if the government decides to lease in the land instead of acquiring it. SPCL is expected to offer an annual lease of Rs 25,000 per acre to farmers instead of opting for full-fledged land acquisition. Sources say SPCL wants to take the land on lease as the cost of land acquisition under the Land Acquisition Act would be huge. However, M Nageswara Rao of Rudrasalam village is not very keen on this plan. He said, “We are totally dependent on agricultural produce through which we make around Rs 2 lakh to Rs 3 lakh per acre. It will be great injustice to us if authorities offer Rs 25,000 per acre as lease amount.” Farmers say that they want full compensation as their land may not be cultivable once the solar panels are set up. Revenue officials however contend that most of the land here belongs to the government and is being used by some local poor farmers. They said the government could take over the land without paying cultivators but has decided to pay an annual lease. Kandukur sub-collector Bhargav Tej visited the villages and assured farmers their grievances would be brought to the notice of the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/solar-project-gathers-pace-but-fear-of-losing-land-looms/articleshow/77689183.cms||Samdani MN
August 22, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Solar project gathers pace but fear of losing land looms||ONGOLE: In a move that could come as a boon for the development of relatively underdeveloped regions in Prakasam district, the state government has decided to fast-track the process of setting up a mega solar power plant in Donakonda mandal. The government had decided to setup a 1,000MW solar plant in the mandal in the first phase and later add another 1,000MW in the second phase. Determined to complete the project in the next six to eight months, the state government has directed the district collector to quickly complete the process of land acquisition. Following instructions issued by the Solar Power Corporation Limited (SPCL), the district administration has started a comprehensive survey to acquire nearly 5,000 acres of land in three villages of the mandal— Rudrasamudram, Bhumanapalli and Manginapudi. Nearly 70 special teams comprising tehsildars, revenue inspectors and land surveyors have been deployed in Donakonda mandal to identify land-owning farmers. Although, most of the land that will be acquired for the solar power plant will be dry land, farmers are worried of losing their livelihood if the government decides to lease in the land instead of acquiring it. SPCL is expected to offer an annual lease of Rs 25,000 per acre to farmers instead of opting for full-fledged land acquisition. Sources say SPCL wants to take the land on lease as the cost of land acquisition under the Land Acquisition Act would be huge. However, M Nageswara Rao of Rudrasalam village is not very keen on this plan. He said, “We are totally dependent on agricultural produce through which we make around Rs 2 lakh to Rs 3 lakh per acre. It will be great injustice to us if authorities offer Rs 25,000 per acre as lease amount.” Farmers say that they want full compensation as their land may not be cultivable once the solar panels are set up. Revenue officials however contend that most of the land here belongs to the government and is being used by some local poor farmers. They said the government could take over the land without paying cultivators but has decided to pay an annual lease. Kandukur sub-collector Bhargav Tej visited the villages and assured farmers their grievances would be brought to the notice of the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/solar-project-gathers-pace-but-fear-of-losing-land-looms/articleshow/77682097.cms||Samdani MN
August 22, 2020||Amaravati||AP: Solar project gathers pace but fear of losing land looms||ONGOLE: In a move that could come as a boon for the development of relatively underdeveloped regions in Prakasam district, the state government has decided to fast-track the process of setting up a mega solar power plant in Donakonda mandal. The government had decided to setup a 1,000MW solar plant in the mandal in the first phase and later add another 1,000MW in the second phase. Determined to complete the project in the next six to eight months, the state government has directed the district collector to quickly complete the process of land acquisition. Following instructions issued by the Solar Power Corporation Limited (SPCL), the district administration has started a comprehensive survey to acquire nearly 5,000 acres of land in three villages of the mandal— Rudrasamudram, Bhumanapalli and Manginapudi. Nearly 70 special teams comprising tehsildars, revenue inspectors and land surveyors have been deployed in Donakonda mandal to identify land-owning farmers. Although, most of the land that will be acquired for the solar power plant will be dry land, farmers are worried of losing their livelihood if the government decides to lease in the land instead of acquiring it. SPCL is expected to offer an annual lease of Rs 25,000 per acre to farmers instead of opting for full-fledged land acquisition. Sources say SPCL wants to take the land on lease as the cost of land acquisition under the Land Acquisition Act would be huge. However, M Nageswara Rao of Rudrasalam village is not very keen on this plan. He said, “We are totally dependent on agricultural produce through which we make around Rs 2 lakh to Rs 3 lakh per acre. It will be great injustice to us if authorities offer Rs 25,000 per acre as lease amount.” Farmers say that they want full compensation as their land may not be cultivable once the solar panels are set up. Revenue officials however contend that most of the land here belongs to the government and is being used by some local poor farmers. They said the government could take over the land without paying cultivators but has decided to pay an annual lease. Kandukur sub-collector Bhargav Tej visited the villages and assured farmers their grievances would be brought to the notice of the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/solar-project-gathers-pace-but-fear-of-losing-land-looms/articleshow/77689184.cms||Samdani MN
August 22, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: 30 virus beaters donate plasma at GMC||BHOPAL: Plasma donation at Gandhi Medical College has begun. Till Thursday, 30 people, who fought the coronavirus infection and won, have donated plasma, which would now be used to treat seriously ill Covid-19 patients. District collector, Avinash Lavania, while appealing to cured coronavirus patients to come forward and donate plasma for those who are fighting the deadly virus, said that those who have donated plasma include bureaucrats, policemen, doctors and people from other walks of life. He said more than 7,000 people infected by coronavirus in Bhopal alone have been cured and if they help others with antibodies developed in their plasma to fight and overcome the infection, it would be an exemplary service to society. The collector said that the district administration is trying to reach out to the recovered patients and help them do the formalities before plasma donation. The district administration has now assigned the task of motivating cured coronavirus patients for plasma donation to the sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) of the Bhopal district. They should also seek their formal consent for the purpose and provide them the time and schedule for plasma donation from Hamidia hospital’s blood bank, which would be collecting donated plasma. He further said that people may themselves make calls to SDMs of their area to register themselves for plasma donation. They may also contact the blood bank officer of Hamidia hospital, Upendra Mohan Sharma, on mobile no. 9425010647 to know the technique of plasma donation and get the time and schedule for the purpose. Blood sample of a cured patient, who has no symptoms of the infection for at least 14 days, would be tested to see if he has developed antibodies to fight coronavirus infection. If antibodies are found and the person is medically fit and more than 18 years of age, he/she can donate plasma, said Lavania. A person can donate plasma every 15 days, which is stored at -30 degree temperature and can be preserved for 12 months, the collector added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/30-virus-beaters-donate-plasma-at-gmc/articleshow/77683462.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||PUC charges go up 60% for cars, 50% for two-wheelers||AHMEDABAD: The Regional Transport Office has increased the charges for carrying out Pollution Under Control (PUC) tests. The charge for the test for four-wheelers is up 60% and for two-wheelers it has risen by 50%.  The state government released a notification on Thursday increasing the charges. Officials said that the centres authorized to issue PUC certificates had for long been demanding that charges be raised. The officials said that the PUC-testing charge for cars was Rs 50; it has now been increased to Rs 80. The officials said that several PUC centres have installed lamination machines and will charge Rs 20 extra for laminating certificates. This means that the owner of a four-wheeler will end up paying Rs 100, if the lamination option is also chosen. The officials said that earlier, test results were not issued if a vehicle failed to comply with norms. But the recent notification makes it mandatory to issue the results to the vehicle owners announcing the non-compliance. The officials said that the non-compliance report will be entered into a database and so the vehicle owners won’t be able to approach another PUC centre on the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/puc-charges-go-up-60-for-cars-50-for-two-wheelers/articleshow/77683556.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Pune||Testing capacity at IISER to increase to 500 per day||PUNE: The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER Pune) has received a new RT-PCR machine for the Covid-19 testing centre on its campus, which will help increase the testing from 250 samples per day to 500. “IISER Pune set up a testing centre on its campus on May 21 to conduct Covid-19 tests. As of August 15, it had tested close to 15,000 samples arriving from hospitals in and around Pune. However, as the pandemic spread the existing infrastructure for IISER became inadequate to meet the demand for testing. Its existing machines had a limited output, allowing only 250 tests to be conducted per day. To address the issue, the institute required the new Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) machines. ICICI Lombard has come forward to fund the procurement of an RT-PCR machine for IISER Pune and contributed Rs20 lakh for the same,” the IISER stated. Sanjeev Galande, dean (R & D) at IISER Pune, said, “We at IISER Pune are committed to contributing towards the country’s effort in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. We are doing this by providing testing services and by using our expertise towards Covid-19-specific research projects.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/testing-capacity-at-iiser-to-increase-to-500-per-day/articleshow/77683460.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Lucknow||High swachh score, but city ranks LMC performance low||LUCKNOW: Lucknow may have got a fair score in the Swachh Survey but it does not mean that its citizens are satisfied. While Lucknow Municipal Corporation has got the 12th rank in the survey out of 47 cities with population above 10 lakh, it will have to toil hard to win its people’s confidence. Nearly one-fourth of the citizens who voted in the Swachh Bharat Survey 2020 were not happy with the civic body’s works. The rankings were based on four parameters—direct observation, citizen feedback, service-level progress and open defecation-free (ODF) certification. Each carried 1,500 marks. Lucknow secured 79% (4,728/6,000) points in the four categories. In citizen feedback, the score was 1,029/1,500 (69%), lower than last year’s 988/1,250 (79%). There were 12 lakh responses. According to LMC records, around 5 lakh people gave their feedback on LMC’s services through the Swachhta App while 7 lakh came through teams on the ground which spoke to citizens directly. There were five options for respondents to rate performance: very satisfied, satisfied, neither satisfied nor dissatisfied, dissatisfied and very satisfied. Of the 5 lakh, around 70,000 respondents said they were “very satisfied” with LMC’s work while 1.9 lakh were satisfied. However, 1 lakh found LMC’s work average and voted that they are “neither satisfied nor dissatisfied”. About 92,000 voted for “dissatisfied” and 50,000 were “very dissatisfied”. The main reason for dissatisfaction has been poor garbage management and choked drains. Complaints of many remain unheard for months. For example, Shyamji Das of Niralanagar has been complaining for long about choked drains in his area leading to waterlogging, but nothing has been done. Similarly, residents of Shivajipuram and Takrohi in Indiranagar have been complaining for months about garbage piles but have not been heard. Mahanagar residents were dissatisfied with door-to-door garbage collection, while Jopling Road residents rued about chronic drainage issues. Poor garbage collection and drains were issues in Gomtinagar, Jankipuram, Aashiana, Sitapur Road, Hazratganj, Alambagh, Krishnagar and Aminabad too. Additional municipal commissioner Amit Kumar said, “Resolving grievances of citizens is our priority. We have resolved 100% of the complaints registered on our helpline number in the past three months and we will continue to do so to improve our performance in citizen feedback parameter next year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/high-swachh-score-but-city-ranks-lmc-performance-low/articleshow/77684536.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
August 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Wife, teenage son and daughter kill man||AHMEDABAD: An autorickshaw driver, Veenu Parmar, 50, from the Ambawadi area of the city died as he could not sustain the shock he suffered from injuries, after being beaten by his wife and their two children — a son, 17, and daughter, 19. According to an FIR filed with Ellisbridge police, on May 5, Parmar was badly beaten by his wife Ranjan and their daughter Hinal and minor son over an issue of transferring his house in Ambedkar Colony to Ranjan’s name. Parmar called up his elder brother Ramesh saying that he needed his help and pleaded to rescue him from his family members. Ramesh and another relative went to Parmar’s house and took him to Sola Civil Hospital where he was given primary treatment in OPD and returned to his home. On May 6 evening, Raju, Parmar’s nephew, who lives in the same locality, went to check on him. Raju found that Parmar was lying unconscious in the gallery outside the house. Raju informed Ramesh about and they called up 108 ambulance. Doctors of 108 ambulance service reached there and declared Parmar as dead. At that time, Ellisbridge police had registered a case of causing injuries as Parmar was beaten by wooden rods by his wife and children. “On August 18, a panel of doctors gave the postmortem report which states that the death occurred due to shock as a result of injuries sustained by the man (Veenu Parmar). After this, we have charges his wife, daughter and minor son,” said inspector Apoorva Patel of Ellisbridge police. The deceased’s brother Rameh said that his brother was beaten and harassed by his wife, daughter and elder son for around ten years seeking his house to be transferred to his wife’s name. “They were also harassing him for not earning much as his livelihood was hampered due to lockdown. They had beaten him so badly that he succumbed to the injures later,” said Ramesh. Parmar’s third child studies in Class 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wife-teenage-son-and-daughter-kill-man/articleshow/77683526.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Pune||UGC asks varsities, labs to temporary hand over RT-PCR machines to district hospitals||PUNE: The University Grants Commission (UGC) has asked universities and research laboratories across the country to temporarily hand over the machines capable of performing RT-PCR tests to district hospitals and government laboratories. In a circular issued on August 17, the UGC stated that it has received a communication from the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) to address increasing demand for Covid-19 tests with the addition of more RT-PCR machines. The circular added that the machines not currently used in critical area could be used for Covid testing. The UGC further stated that educational institutions and research institutions should hand over the machines by August 31. “There are a large numbers of machines, available with educational and research institutions, which are capable of performing RT-PCR tests and currently not being used in any critical area,” the circular stated, adding that by temporarily deploying such machines in district hospitals and government laboratories, additional 60,000 tests can be carried out per day. Nitin Karmalkar, vice-chancellor, Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and acting vice-chancellor of Shivaji University, Kolhapur, told TOI that the SPPU has already deployed 5 academicians and two RT-PCR machines at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Pune, two months ago and 15,000 tests have been carried out so far. “We have six RT-PCR machines at the university. However, four of them are engaged in important research. Hence, two machines have been made available to the IISER,” he said, adding that similar initiative will be launched at the Shivaji University, Kolhapur, as well, for which necessary permissions have been taken and a meeting scheduled on August 24. Abhijit More, health activist, said that this is a good initiative and could prove beneficial for the existing healthcare system. Dilip Sheth, principal, Sir Parashurambhau College, said that considering academics is on hold at present, this could be a good move to increase Covid testing further, but the machines need to be properly maintained if they need to be handed over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ugc-asks-varsities-labs-to-temporary-hand-over-rt-pcr-machines-to-dist-hospitals/articleshow/77683451.cms||Piyush Bhusari
August 22, 2020||Goa||Goa: Paddy crops damaged as heavy rain continues||MARGAO: Incessant rain that have been lashing Goa over the last few days has adversely affected paddy farmers in many parts of Salcete as water logging has damaged their crops. Zonal agricultural officer, Salcete, Shariff Furtado told TOI that farmers from Nuvem, Carmona and other places have already reported loss of their paddy crop after their fields got flooded. “This happens when the fields remain water logged for a long time due to insufficient drainage system to allow the water to flow seawards,” Furtado said. On a positive note, he pointed out that 20ha of land in Salcete that was lying fallow over many years has been brought under cultivation this year. “Our constant motivation to farmers has started to bear fruits. People have now started coming in to inquire about agriculture schemes to bring their fallow land under cultivation during rabi (second crop) season,” Furtado said. Salcete has around 5,200ha of land under cultivation in the rain-fed kharif season, while around 500ha of cultivable land lies fallow. 24,000ha of land across the state is under paddy cultivation for the kharif season. As water logging does not occur during the rabi season, agriculture officers have been asking farmers to cultivate the second paddy crop and also to bring fallow land under cultivation. “Water logging for long periods affects paddy crops which have been transplanted by mechanised methods,” Furtado said. “Transplantation machines plant just one seedling per hill, whereas in manual methods, 3-4 seedlings are planted per hill. Thus individual single seedlings are more susceptible to damage, whereas 3-4 seedlings transplanted per hill manually are able to effectively withstand water logging.” Besides, as mechanised transplantation of paddy necessitates wide spacing between seedlings, this results in excessive growth of weeds. An equipment called as a cono weeder needs to be used for de-weeding, agriculture officers said. Sources associated with agriculture operations pointed out that beneficial subsidies offered by the agriculture department has led to farmers switching over to mechanised transplantation over the last few years. Though this has led to farmers saving on huge labour costs, they often have to encounter problems of excessive weed growth and similar problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/paddy-crops-damaged-as-heavy-rain-continues/articleshow/77684552.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Nagpur||Unplanned civic work leaves Yogendra Nagar flooded every year||Nagpur: The city is upbeat about the met department’s heavy monsoon prediction but residents of Shramik Co-operative Housing Society Limited, Yogendra Nagar, near Anant Nagar (Ward No. 61, Prabhag No. 10) in West Nagpur, are a hapless lot due to waterlogging. The 100-odd residents are sure that this year, too, rainwater will enter their houses because of the “faulty” storm water network laid by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). There is a drain passing through the lane/road connected through a pit/sump (near plot number 120C). During normal days or non-rainy season almost once or twice a month the pit/sump and the drain gets choked as all muck gets accumulated, including plastic waste leading to its overflow, said residents. Likewise, during monsoon, the drain gets choked due to heavy rains as water gushes out from the hillock of Ramdeo Baba Engineering College. This happens almost once or twice a week as it carries all the muck, the miffed residents pointed out in a complaint submitted to the municipal commissioner’s office. Despite repeated attempts, assistant municipal commissioner of Mangalwari zone Harish Raut was not available for comments. In order to get rid of the problem, residents met the local corporator and on examination by the civic authorities it was seen that the drain pipe in the initial stage was of four inch diameter. Due to water logging, the width of the pipe was enhanced to 10 inch/12 inch diameter in 2014. However, looking at the grave problem faced by the residents earlier, it was requested to put the pipe of bigger diameter (more than 10/12) and also to modify the pit/sump but the same was not considered and was kept as it is. This has defeated the purpose of enhancing the pipe size and residents continue to face water logging every year. “Till date no concrete solution has been explored by the authorities,” said Satish Rajkumar Nitnaware. As the problem was not solved, residents kept on raising the issue with the elected representatives and in 2019, an inspection was carried out by the NMC’s technical team and it was informed that there is no scope of a permanent or concrete solution to the issue. However, it was assured that the budgetary allocation will be made before March 2020 but in vain. It is not understood as to why the technical team could not come out with a permanent solution and in that case what proposal has been submitted, wondered another resident Aslam Khan. Before the onset of monsoon, residents had again approached the administration but it has expressed its inability due to paucity of funds because of Covid-I9 and stated that all the development work has been stopped by the civic authorities. Even the road was in a bad condition with crater-sized potholes. In the last 20 years, the lane/road was tarred once in 2013/2014 after the drain pipe was changed and since then, no tarring has been done though the tarring was done in an adjacent lane on a regular basis, rued residents Murli Sharma, Sunil Kolhe and Satish Dixit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/unplanned-civic-work-leaves-yogendra-nagar-flooded-every-year/articleshow/77684530.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||CM KCR orders CID probe, seeks report||Hyderabad: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday ordered a CID probe into the fire accident at Srisailam hydel power station. CID additional director general Govind Singh was appointed as an inquiry officer to probe into the cause of the accident and submit a report to the government. Expressing deep shock over the loss of nine lives in the accident, the CM said the probe must find out the circumstances that led to the accident and also the reasons behind it. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar issued orders appointing Govind Singh as the IO. Terming the incident as most unfortunate, the CM said those trapped inside could not be rescued despite best efforts. He offered condolences to the members of the bereaved families and wished speedy recovery of those who managed to escape and were undergoing treatment. He also directed the officials to provide treatment to the injured at government’s cost. The CM was in regular touch with energy minister G Jagadish Reddy and TSGenco and TSTransco CMD D Prabhakar Rao, who rushed to the spot along with senior officials. Telangana State Generation Corporation and Transmission Corporation chairman and managing director D Prabhakar Rao termed the fire accident as “unprecedented.” Stating that he had never witnessed such an incident in a hydro electrical power unit before, Rao said the extent of damage and loss to the power generation station could not be estimated on Friday as the officials were busy with rescue operations. The fire was noticed at around 10.30 pm on Thursday and the staff tried to trip the unit but in vain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-kcr-orders-cid-probe-seeks-report/articleshow/77685154.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Vizag child trafficking under surrogacy guise||Visakhapatnam: Investigation into the child trafficking case linked to Universal Srusti Fertility and Research Centre (Universal Srusti Hospital) in Vizag city has revealed that the hospital carried out the racket to claim its success rate in surrogacy. The hospital charged a couple Rs 15 to Rs 20 lakh, promising them a child through surrogacy. The hospital claimed to have performed 63 surrogacy operations since 2017. Police dismissed the claims, stating the hospital carried out its child trafficking rate under the guise of surrogacy. Speaking to TOI, deputy commissioner of police (North Zone), Aishwarya Rastogi said that Dr P Namrata, managing director of Universal Srusti Hospital and her team would take advantage of childless couples and collect large sums from them after promising them children through surrogacy. Preliminary investigation has revealed that the hospital management would identify women with unwanted pregnancies and sell the newborn babies to childless couples, claiming the babies were born out of surrogacy. “As of now, our investigation has revealed that Srusti Hospital sold two newborn babies at Rs 15 to Rs 20 lakh and We are investigating the case with the assistance of medical teams to ascertain the exact number of newborn babies sold by the hospital management,” said inspector of Two-Town police station K Venkata Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vizag-child-trafficking-under-surrogacy-guise/articleshow/77685157.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 22, 2020||Chennai||Madras high court allows idol immersion, says it completes Chaturthi celebrations||CHENNAI: Two aspects prompted the Madras high court to ignore the government’s reservations and to permit ‘individuals’ to install and immerse Ganesha idols in Tamil Nadu on Saturday. One, pandemic-time lockdown restrictions in the state have already been relaxed considerably and movement of public during the permitted time is not restricted. Two, the government order banned public installation and celebration of Ganesha Chaturthi, but it did not prohibit individuals to place idols in front of their houses and immerse them in water bodies. On spiritual count, the division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha said: “Immersion of Ganesha idols in water bodies is the final part of Chaturthi celebration and it is not complete without the final part.” As to the submission of advocate-general Vijay Narayan that all beaches in the state are out of bound for public following an order under Disaster Management Act to prevent Covid-19 spread, the bench said, “the prohibition may not have an application when an individual wants to perform the religious obligations in tune with Article 25 (freedom to profess religion).” The judges further said: “There is no difficulty in holding that the practice which has been followed for decades either by placing the idols after the ceremony in front of the house, temples and immersing them in water bodies will not have any bearing to either the pandemic or the law and order.” Dispelling doubts as to the applicability of the ruling, the judges said: “At the risk of repetition, we wish to say that it is the individual who does this practice and therefore, there is no possibility of any spread of pandemic. Secondly, it is these individuals who are going to immerse and not any organisation. Therefore, the regular restriction with respect to the number of persons also would apply to these cases.” The government restriction on festivities had been imposed only to stop the spread of the pandemic, the bench said, adding that the infection is likely to spread on two grounds: when more people congregate in a place or if they stay on thereafter. “We are not in such a situation now,” it said. Noting that no group of persons can undertake the exercise, the judges said even family members who perform the religious obligation can at best go to a water body, including the sea, drop the idol and thereafter come back. The judges took judicial note of the predicament faced by idol-making artisans hit hard by the pandemic-induced lockdown. “Such idols are produced by local artisans meant to be used only once in a year. Almost all such idols are made of clay. The longevity of the clay that is being used is very limited, it would not last for more than a few days. Therefore, the idols already manufactured by local artisans would get lost and this cannot be used for any other purpose and this would drastically affect their livelihood particularly during pandemic leading to starvation and penury,” the court said. The directions were issued on a batch of pleas challenging the GO prohibiting public celebration of Ganesha Chaturthi in Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-allows-idol-immersion-says-it-completes-chaturthi-celebrations/articleshow/77683541.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Seven-month-old girl beats severe Covid-19||PUNE: A seven-month-old girl with severe Covid-19 has recovered after a one-and-a-half month of hospitalsation. The baby was frail with weak lungs and the biggest challenge for the doctors was to ensure that she did not get ventilated. The mainstay of her treatment was respiratory support in the form of oxygen, high flow nasal oxygen and prone positioning and supportive medications, including steroids. “As per available literature, there are very few documented cases with such severe form of Covid pneumonitis in children leading to so much lung destruction and the need for prolonged respiratory support. This type of disease pattern is seen mostly in adults and many of them needed ventilatory support,” said paediatric intensivist Sumant Patil of Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital. Some of the paediatric intensive care units in the US, Canada and Italy have documented few paediatric cases like this. Majority of paediatric patients in India have been mildly symptomatic and asymptomatic. On July 5, the girl was admitted to the hospital with high-grade fever for eight days and breathlessness for two days. No one in the baby’s family was unwell or had any contact with positive cases. But the child tested positive for Covid-19 and subsequently her mother was also found infected. The baby started developing significant oxygen requirements with worsening respiratory distress and was taken onto high flow nasal oxygen cannula respiratory support. She continued to deteriorate, and her blood reports and chest x-ray were grossly abnormal. They showed high IL6 ( interleukin levels), indicating abnormal inflammatory immune respond called cytokine storm which is seen in patients with the severe form of Covid-19. Her condition worsened further and she was about to be put on a ventilator. But the paediatric intensive care unit team put in all efforts to improve her breathing (See box). “Her CT scan of the chest showed large areas of pneumonia and consolidation, typically seen in adult Covid -19 chest infection. Nearly half of her both lungs were full of pneumonitic changes and she could use only the remaining half of her lungs which also gradually became infected,” Patil said. She needed 15 days of high flow nasal oxygen cannula support and later three weeks of oxygen support before she was completely weaned off on August 15. The baby was discharged after on August 19. Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital senior paediatrician Rajan Joshi said, “It is observed in adult Covid pneumonitis that if a patient is diverted from being put on ventilator, there are more chances of recovery. And this becomes far more important in younger paediatric patients with severe Covid-19 due to their delicate and developing lungs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/seven-month-old-baby-beats-severe-covid-19/articleshow/77683503.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Low R factor key for Telangana in Covid fight||HYDERABAD: The rate of increase in new Covid-19 positive cases is finally falling in the country. Thankfully, the ‘R factor’ (reproduction rate which measures how infectious the virus is) has fallen from 1.19 to 1.05 in the country, though it is relatively higher at 1.26 in the state. A month ago — during the middle of July — the R factor was at its peak in Telangana at 1.64. But, experts suggest that Telangana has to first meet the target of ensuring that the R factor falls below 1.0. “Many countries have ensured that R factor fell below 1.0 despite being at a much higher level than India a few months ago,” an expert pointed out. A decline in the percentage increase, instead of a decline in absolute numbers, is the first indication of a possible flattening of the curve of the pandemic, say health experts and doctors. “In Telangana, each Covid-19 infected person is infecting 1.26 persons, on an average,” an expert said. Present statistics reveal that Telangana stands among those states where infection is at the middle stage of the pandemic curve. “The R factor of 1.0 is considered very good. If it is above 1.0, it calls for strict social distancing and more testings to be done,” Dr T Brojen Singh of the Regional Institute of Medical Sciences, Imphal, observed. Health minister Eatala Rajender said the R factor in Telangana is at a safe level. “From the beginning, we have been doing the contact tracing. Whether it was foreign travellers or Delhi Markaz attendees, we did not leave behind any contacts of Covid-19 positive patients. We have also increased the testing to a great extent. Once the prevailing weather improves, we will take up more tests and try to bring down R factor to around 1 or just around it,” he said. R factor in Telangana stood at 1.32 in June first week when India’s R factor was 1.22. What does the present R factor of 1.26 say? “ R factor of 1.26 would mean 100 people infect 126 who, in turn, would infect 158, who would infect 199. In three rounds of infection, the number of people with the virus would have quadrupled to 250. So, maintaining the R factor at around 1 or below is very safe,” said Dr M Kiran. Dr Kiran, who has a bio-medical research certification from ICMR, said when the number of recoveries and deaths and infections in a particular period of time are juxtaposed to a population and the R factor is around 1, then it is considered to be a safe bet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/low-r-factor-key-for-t-in-covid-fight/articleshow/77683562.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 22, 2020||Vijayawada||HC dismisses petitions challenging liquor sale||Vijayawada: The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Friday dismissed the petitions challenging the state government’s decision to allow liquor sales amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The high court declined to intervene in the government’s decision as the issue has been adjudicated by the Supreme Court. One Ammishetti Siva had moved the high court with a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) seeking directions to the state government to prohibit the sale of all types of liquor during the Covid-19 outbreak, in view of the large crowds that have been gathering at liquor shops in the state and posing a danger to public health at large. However, the state government had told the high court that the matter is pending before the Supreme Court as similar petitions have been filed from other states as well. The apex court recently passed a judgment saying that it is not inclined to intervene in the policy decision of the respective state governments while following the guidelines by the Union ministry of home affairs. Reiterating the Supreme Court order, the high court dismissed the petitions on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-dismisses-petitions-challenging-liquor-sale/articleshow/77682137.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Kolkata||Shooter kills self to escape pain in Kolkata||HOWRAH: A state-level silver medalist shooter, who had been suffering from neurological problems and depression, reportedly shot himself with his favourite revolver. The family of Amit Dhar (69) told police that he had been mostly confined to his bed for the last three years. Dhar, a resident of Howrah’s Natwar Pal Road, is survived by his wife, two sons and their families. On Friday morning, Dhar shot himself with the revolver that he always kept with him in bed. Cops sent his body for post-mortem. A senior police officer said, “We also found a suicide note, in which he wrote that he had unbearable neurological pain and that he did not want to stay alive for this any longer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shooter-kills-self-to-escape-pain/articleshow/77683563.cms||Rupak Banerjee
August 22, 2020||Surat||20 years jail for two in separate cases of rapes||SURAT: Two persons were sentenced to 20 years of imprisonment in separate convictions in cases of rapes with minor girls - one a rickshaw driver who raped his own daughter and another construction site supervisor who targeted his sister-in-law. The court of additional sessions judge P S Kala sentenced a 42-year-old man for raping his 13-year-old daughter after showing her porn movies on mobile phone. In another case, a 35-year-old man was found guilty of raping 14-year-old sister of his wife and impregnating her. The court remained closed for over three months due to coronavirus pandemic but the police investigation and proceedings were completed in 18 months and 13 months respectively from the date of the registration of complaints.. The 13-year-old girl resident of Mora Bhagal area came forward to report her ordeal that continued for two years, after an awareness event about sexual harassment in her school. The event ‘Good Touch - Bad Touch’ was organized jointly by the city police with support of non-government organisations (NGOs). After a presentation in the school by a child welfare officer and NGO volunteers, the survivor contacted her school principal. “Soon after the event she told the principal that her father had been raping her. Later, the school officials called her mother and lodged the complaint in Rander police station on February 10, 2019,” said Kishore Revaliya, additional public prosecutor. Her father was arrested immediately. The family is native of Uttar Pradesh. In the second verdict, the 35-year-old construction project supervisor had spiked the lemon drink of his 14-year-old sister-in-law and raped her after she lost consciousness in December 2018. He repeatedly started raping her after this incident. The survivor’s family came to know about the crime when she stopped eating food and remained sick. Her mother took her to SMIMER hospital for a medical examination and she was found five months pregnant. The family is a native of Bihar. Till the medical examination, the minor did not inform about the rapes to her parents despite being questioned several tiems. After the medical report, she described the crime in detail and a complaint was lodged on July 7, 2019. Police nabbed the accused immediately. “The family got the gir;’s fetus aborted. In both the cases, the court announced 20 years imprisonment to the convicts,” said Revaliya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/20-years-jail-for-two-in-separate-cases-of-rapes/articleshow/77682154.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
August 22, 2020||Kanpur||Top official spells out steps to check mortality rate||Kanpur: Principal secretary health and medical Alok Kumar has said that the state government would make all efforts to reduce mortality rate in Kanpur by enhancing the medical facilities. The principal secretary, after the inspection of Kanshiram hospital, Central command control room and LLR hospital on Thursday, said that Kanpur had the highest rate of deaths and the state government’s priority was to reduce it. “A work-plan would be prepared and health department would strengthen the primary, secondary and tertiary care system and also enhance the medical facilities and infrastructure as per requirement. For that, prime minister and chief minister’s care funds would extend help,” he said. Talking to media persons, he said that doctors and health department was on alert mode in fight against corona pandemic. They were playing a significant role and would be felicitated later, he added. During the review meeting at the circuit house, he emphasized on contact tracing and directed that health and police departments should work together. Persons who had come in contact with infected people must be examined and they should be sent to the hospital if found infected, he directed. Kumar also stressed on the use of mask and directed the additional city magistrates, sub-divisional magistrates and in charge of police stations to launch a campaign and check the markets, crowded places and public places randomly. “Ask the peoples to use mask and take action against the erring persons and also against the shopkeeper attending them,” he further directed. At LLR hospital, the principal secretary witnessed the facilities and treatment through CCTV camera from chief superintendent’s room. Thereafter, he commented that facilities at LLR hospital were good. Meanwhile, divisional commissioner Dr Sudhir M Bobde said that four private hospitals would be prepared as Covid hospitals and patients would be treated there on the rate of Ayushman Bharat scheme. The chief medical officer would inspect the hospitals and record manpower and equipment and also ascertain what other equipments would be required there, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/top-official-spells-out-steps-to-check-mortality-rate/articleshow/77683568.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
August 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cops arrest truck driver in rape case||PUNE: The Talegaon Dabhade on Friday arrested a truck driver in a rape case. On August 4, a 28-year-old woman had lodged a complaint, stating that an unidentified man armed with a sharp weapon raped her near Gahunje. Police said they first examined all criminals and migrant workers in the area without any results. They then shifted their focus to truck drivers. “We found that 30 trucks had travelled on this route around the time of the incident and started examining CCTV footage from the two toll plazas,” inspector Shahaji Pawar said. The police showed the CCTV footage from the Khed-Shivapur toll plaza to the complainant, who identified Karamveer Jaiswar (30). The police arrested him in the early hours of Friday, while he was transporting a consignment from Mumbai to Nagpur. A court has remanded Jaiswar in police custody till August 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-arrest-truck-driver-in-rape-case/articleshow/77683533.cms||Mihir Tanksale
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telugu states crowdfund Rs 25 crore, Hyderabad chips in with Rs 16 crore||HYDERABAD: Crowdfunding platforms have helped raised over Rs 25 crore in the ongoing Covid-19 crisis in the Telugu states. Ketto raised Rs 20 crore from the AP and Telangana region since mid-March. “In Hyderabad alone, we raised over Rs 16 crore for various causes such as building community kitchens, distribution of PPE kits to frontline workers and supporting stray animals,” said Varun Sheth, CEO and co-founder Ketto.org. The platform hosted over 2,000 campaigns and supported more than one million people in and around Hyderabad, he said. Pan India, Ketto’s figures were over Rs 115 crore, Milaap Rs 107 crore and ImpactGuru Rs 12 core. “ImpactGuru continues to receive a good response from AP and Telangana. From the overall funds raised for covid-19 causes. Around 20% of contributions are from this region,” confirmed CEO of the crowdfunding platform Piyush Jain. It hosted over 500 fundraisers from the Telugu states with funding rapidly increasing on the platform. The amount raised in Telangana for Covid-19 related activities on Fueladream has been over Rs 2 crore. Founder Ranganath Thota said, “Nearly three-fourth of this was through initiatives by students from different schools across Hyderabad.”  He said he expected more campaigns to kick-off to provide underprivileged children with devices so that they can use it for online classes as well as a renewed demand for meals. Several platforms contacted by TOI said they had raised between Rs 1 and Rs 2 crore in the Telugu region. Mayukh Choudhury, CEO and co-founder of Milaap said, “Nearly 40% of donation value for campaigns from the region can be attributed to overseas donors compared with 30% in other geographies.” Suggesting that the reason for this could be “a digitally active and closely knit diaspora” from the region, he added, “We have often seen fundraisers from the region being shared widely in online groups and social media communities for Telugu-speaking people living across the world.” Across platforms the highest contributions came in from Telugus in the United States, followed by Briton and Australia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telugu-states-crowdfund-rs-25cr-city-chips-in-with-rs-16cr/articleshow/77683573.cms||Uttara Varma
August 22, 2020||Kolkata||Handwritten lyrics help cops solve Ultadanga pulse mill murder||Kolkata: Two days after a 30-year-old pulse mill worker Rakesh Shaw was found murdered in Ultadanga, cops arrested the accused Suman Seikh alias Shakil Khan (29) from Birbhum. The accused, a worker of the same mill, had a previous enmity with the deceased, said the police. “The accused had written a strange warning note on the wall after the murder. It stated: CID officer Raj Sadhan agar jada chalaki karoge to khud fas jaoge (if you try to be clever, you will get entrapped yourself). A workbook, in which some songs were written, was found. The handwriting was similar. After an inquiry, it was found that the workbook belonged to Shakil who wrote and composed the songs,” said DC (ESD) Ajoy Prasad. Cops suspect that a second person, who works in the same factory and is still missing, might also be involved. “The accused had gone inside the factory in search of money. He was searching the victim’s money bag when Shaw woke up. Shakil got scared and attacked Shaw with a knife,” added DC Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/handwritten-lyrics-help-cops-solve-ultadanga-pulse-mill-murder/articleshow/77683579.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC quashes FIR against woman who tried to kill children, attempted suicide||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court quashed an FIR against a woman who was booked for attempted murder when she poisoned her two children and attempted suicide. The court has also asked an NGO to provide the woman a livelihood, because the frustration of her social and financial problems had driven her to commit suicide and to attempt to kill the children. This case involves Lata Lathiya (33), the wife of a diamond broker, Jitesh Lathiya, who attempted suicide and made her 13-year-old daughter and seven-year-old son drink milk laced with rat poison in the beginning of June. However, all three survived. Jitesh, who had been living separately for the last 18 months due to marital discord, lodged an FIR against his wife at Amroli police station in Surat for trying to kill the children. However, the husband and wife reached an amicable settlement and Lata moved the HC for quashing of the FIR against her. The husband told the court he had no objection. The HC was told that the woman had taken the extreme step due to frustration. On hearing the case, Justice A P Thaker on Wednesday quashed the charges against the woman with observation that with the settlement of the family dispute, there is no chance of the woman being convicted. She had allegedly tried to kill her children on account of the family dispute and due to frustration because she had no income of her own and the husband was not paying anything for the family’s maintenance. As the court decided to drop the charges against the woman, the state government requested it to advise the woman to join Mahila Gruh Udyog in Surat for a livelihood because of her financial condition. The court issued necessary directions but left it to the woman’s discretion to join the NGO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-quashes-fir-against-woman-who-tried-to-kill-children-attempted-suicide/articleshow/77683570.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Lucknow||National PG College exams: More choices for students||LUCKNOW: Undergraduate final year students of National PG College will have more choice in the examination slated to be held from September 1. Following the government’s directives, the only autonomous college of Lucknow University has decided to promote all students on the basis of marks of previous semesters, while examination of the only final year will be conducted. College principal Nirja Singh said, “Now, students would have to do two short answer questions and four long answer ones instead of five and eight respectively earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/national-pg-college-exams-more-choices-for-students/articleshow/77684584.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man held with Rs 27 lakh fake N95 masks||MUMBAI: City crime branch on Thursday arrested a 36-year-old man for selling N95 masks worth Rs 27 lakh. Acting on a tip-off, unit III led by inspectors Ashok Khot and Nitin Patil laid a trap and intercepted a mini-truck in Worli. Police found 98,000 fake N95 masks. Police arrested Riyaz Ahmed Khan, who was supplying the masks to medical stores in Mumbai and booked him under IPC sections for cheating, negligence and endangering lives of public and under the Copyright Act. Police are trying to find the source of the masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-held-with-rs27l-fake-n95-masks/articleshow/77683817.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘MSMEs focusing on restructuring’||AHMEDABAD: Faced with high costs, low demand, fixed expenses and limited cash, several micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) are now focusing on business restructuring, states a recent survey conducted by the Surat-based Stratefix Consulting. As many as 100 MSMEs in the turnover range of Rs 10-100 crore were covered under the survey . More than 80% of the companies are now focusing on restructuring their business, while 36% of business units are cutting down the fixed expenses, the survey says. “We found two reasons behind the decisions of companies for business restructuring. First, there is a lack of new opportunities in the market. Demand flow is very low, hence the scope to take the business to the next level is limited. Second, cash on hand is also limited,” adds Chirag Patel, founder and Partner at Stratefix Consulting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/msmes-focusing-on-restructuring/articleshow/77683585.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Ammonia leak due to lack of safety measures||Vijayawada: The district fire department officials on Friday said that lack of appropriate safety measures while carrying out welding works on pipeline would have led to gas leak at Hatsun Dairy unit at M Bandapalli village of Puthalapattu on Thursday. According to the fire officials, a pungent smell was all over the place including the pipeline area and suspect that it could have been the origin point. Fourteen women, all of them employed by the dairy, were hospitalised following the gas leak. Three of them are in a critical condition and would be shifted to SVIMS hospital in Tirupati. Speaking to media on Friday, Chittoor district collector Narayan Bharat Gupta said that they are yet to ascertain the reason behind the mishap but suspects that something might have gone wrong while welding the pipe in which ammonia gas is being transferred. “Ammonia was leaked at Hatsun milk processing unit near Putalapattu at around 5 pm. Soon after the gas leak, the fellow staff alerted fire officials who reached the spot and aided in the rescue operations. Officials said that the leak was contained within a few hours. Fourteen labourers who were working in that shift were brought to the hospital here in Chittoor,” said the collector. According to the collector, the incident happened around 5 pm while employees were undertaking welding works. This is the fourth such incident across the state in the last three months. The collector said that they have ordered an inquiry into the incident. The industries department general manager and fire department officials are reviewing the situation. The fire department officials said that there was an element of negligence on the management’s part and based on the inquiry report action would be taken against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ammonia-leak-due-to-lack-of-safety-measures/articleshow/77685160.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
August 22, 2020||Chandigarh||At home with Ganesh: Skip pandals, stay inside and do darshan||Ludhiana: Due to coronavirus and the curfew between 7pm and 5am, the celebration of Ganesh Mahotsav got affected in city. Already, the organisers had cancelled a lot of rituals as Covid-19 cases are increasing day by day. Now, they have no other option but to wind up everything before 7pm. The celebrations will begin from Saturday and will continue till the end of this month. The organisers also said there is no clarity over immersion of idols, as the district administration has did not get any instructions despite several requests. Till last year, city celebrated Ganesh Mahotsav grandly. But this time, some have decided to worship Lord Ganesha at home while others are depending on the live telecast of the event in the evenings. Honey Bedi from Baba Ganpati Sewa Sangh said, “We used to spare no cost to celebrate it, in fact my father Harish Bedi was one of those who introduced the trend here. But this time I am planning to keep the idol of Ganesha at my home and immerse it the same day.” He added that in the last few days several residents have asked him about community celebrations, but he had to refuse everyone. He said for celebrations they cannot put anybody’s life in danger. Also, the curfew makes it impossible as usually these celebrations start after 7pm. Kumar Gaurav from Ganesh Sewa Parivar said, “We have decided to bring Lord Ganesha to someone’s house and every evening there will be one-hour live telecast of rituals from 6pm to 7pm. Only three people, including the priest, will be allowed to enter.” He said he had been calling deputy commissioner for guidelines for immersion, but did not get any response. He said in case there will be any problem in immersion of idols at river, he will get take the idol to a field. Dr Ajay Mohan Sharma, another organiser in Haibowal, said, “We are taking the idol of Lord Ganesha at Sidhivinayak temple instead of pandal. People will be allowed to pay their obeisance, but no one will be allowed to sit in the temple premises.” He said they will also start live telecast from the temple for the devotees. He requested people to stay at home and help authorities in controlling the coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/at-home-with-ganesh-skip-pandals-stay-inside-and-do-darshan/articleshow/77684589.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19: Another 91 deaths, 9,544 cases in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 9,544 Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the total caseload to 3,34,940 even as 91 people succumbed to the virus. With the toll increasing to 3,092, the number of daily new Covid-19 cases continues to be in the 9,000-10,000 range for the last few days. After Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh has been reporting the highest number of Covid-19 cases daily for the past few days. Three of the 13 districts on Friday reported more than 1,000 Covid-19 cases. East Godavari district topped the district-wise tally with 1,312 Covid-19 new cases while West Godavari and Chittoor districts came second and third with 1,131 and 1,103 cases, respectively. Krishna district reported the lowest number with 265 cases on Friday. With 761 new Covid-19 cases, Nellore district crossed 20,000-mark and its tally now stands at 20,433. With testing of another 55,010 samples on Friday, the state has thus far tested 31,29,857 samples. The Covid-19 positivity rate in Andhra Pradesh has increased to 10.7 per cent. On a positive note, as many as 8,827 Covid-19 patients have been discharged from hospitals across the state since Thursday. Recoveries in the state increased to 2,44,045 with a recovery rate of 72.86 per cent. East Godavari district continues to be on top in terms of overall cases (46,668), followed by Kurnool with 37,300 cases. Anantapur district with 33,307 cases and Guntur district with 29,166 cases satnd at third and fourth places in the state. Of the 91 casualties reported on Friday, Chittoor accounted for 16 deaths, West Godavari reported 13 deaths, Nellore 12, East Godavari 11, Anantapur eight, Kadapa seven, Visakhapatnam six, Srikakulam five, Prakasam four and three deaths each were reported from Guntur, Krishna and Kurnool districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/another-91-deaths-9544-cases-in-ap/articleshow/77682150.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Explain steps to protect Ameenpur lake: Telangana HC||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Friday directed the government to explain the steps taken to protect the Ameenpur lake on the outskirts of Hyderabad and also to furnish an action taken report with details of action it took on those who encroached the lake. A bench of Justice A Rajasheker Reddy and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave four weeks to the authorities, asking them to first fix the full tank level (FTL) limit and define the buffer zone area to effectively prevent and remove encroachments at the lake, which has got the rare distinction of being the only bio-diversity heritage site in the country. The bench was hearing a petition filed by Rajeev Khandelwal of Hyderabad Birding Pals, a society run by nature conservationists and bird watchers, who sought that the lake be protected from encroachers. The judges said that if the FTL is fixed first, the job of protection and monitoring can be done effectively. Advocate general BS Prasad sought time to complete the task. The judge gave four weeks and posted the case to September 18. Petitioner’s counsel D Raghavender Rao said that following orders to fix FTL from Supreme Court, high court and NGT, the government issued a notification on July 24, 2019, notifying the FTL level at 464 acres and buffer zone as 52 acres and called for objections from people. “Though more than a year has gone by, the government has not issued a final notification determining the FTL and buffer zones for the lake,” Raghavender said. He also told the judges that the Ameenpur lake was recognised as a bio-diversity heritage site on November 21, 2016 under section 37 of the Biodiversity Act of 2002. “This is an important ecological site as there are more than 271 bird species that depend on this lake along with some other birds that fall under the category of rare and endangered species,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/explain-steps-to-protect-ameenpur-lake-hc/articleshow/77683589.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
August 22, 2020||Lucknow||Don’t let Covid test pace lose steam: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed stakeholder departments to undertake an assessment of shortages in labs engaged in Covid-19 testing across the state. Stating that early screening and effective monitoring were keys to stay ahead of the pandemic, the chief minister said: “The momentum of testing should not be lost. The labs must be used to their full capacity. The relevant departments must ensure ample availability of human resources in the labs.” There are 42 laoratories in Uttar Pradesh, including 15 in state medical institutions/colleges and 10 each in government hospitals and private sector. The remaining labs are in the institutes which come under Council of Scientific and Industrial Research. Earlier, additional chief secretary, medical education, Dr Rajneesh Dubey said: “The process to take staff from the family welfare directorate on deputation for strengthening testing and patient care services in the medical colleges was in final stages.” Speaking to officials in Team 11, the CM also emphasized on improvising the contact tracing strategy. “Surveillance is crucial to the battle against coronavirus. Contact tracing must be undertaken in a more systematic way,” he stated. This is crucial considering that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already instructed officials in 10 states, accounting for 80% of India’s Covid-19 burden, including UP, to trace and test every contact of a positive person within 72 hours. Sources said that the CM emphasized on reaching out to more contacts of a positive case in UP. As per available data, UP has been able to test at least 27 persons for every positive case. The CM wants the number to be increased to at least 40. The chief minister directed officials to monitor the work of Nigrani Samitis which are keeping an eye on the Covid-19 containment at the level of mohallas and villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-dont-let-covid-test-pace-lose-steam/articleshow/77684593.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 22, 2020||Goa||Factory licences extended till Dec end, payment of licence fees deferred||Panaji: The directorate of factories and boilers on Thursday extended the validity of all factory licences till December end without the need for any inspection. In a notification, the chief inspector Vivek Marathe stated that payment of licence fees will also be deferred till December end without any interest being levied. Those industrial units which seek to extend their licence till December 2021, can submit an application based on which a routine inspection will be held, Marathe stated. “For the extension of validity of factory licence up to December 2021, an applicant needs to provide proof of payment of deferred licence fees. After conducting the routine inspection as per the prevailing rules in force, the validity of the factory licence will be extended up to December 2021,” the notification reads. Entrepreneurs and industrial units will be allowed to pay the licence fees for the next year by December 2021 without interest. The relaxations are not applicable for registration of new factories. Because of the economic crisis triggered by the pandemic, the state government has announced several relaxations to improve ease of doing business. The directorate of factories and boilers has also introduced ‘self-certification’ schemes for factories and boilers. The government has stated that industrial units would be inspected with prior intimation only once in five years instead of an annual inspection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/factory-licences-extended-till-dec-end-payment-of-licence-fees-deferred/articleshow/77684616.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Kolkata||Pals pitch in, help doctor make ‘comfy’ visor in Kolkata||KOLKATA: An emergency doctor and his engineer friends have designed and developed a low-cost respirator mask: a head gear for doctors with a fan and hepa filter. The visor covers the head completely from the neck. With the fan and hepa filter, it is expected to give more comfort to doctors in comparison with the PPE kit visors. “I came up with the idea, taking into account both safety and comfort. The PPE visors get foggy easily, disturbing the vision while carrying out some procedures,” said Rudraneel Kumar, an emergency medicine doctor at Peerless Hospital. Kumar explains that while the hepa filter guarantees safety and fresh air, the fan gives the cooling effect. It also has anti-fogging technology that will allow the doctors to have an unobstructed vision. The head gear runs on battery and can last for about eight hours on an average, after which it needs to be charged up. The young doctor roped in engineers Kunal Jajodia and Aman for design, development and production. After the prototype was ready, some doctors in the hospital’s emergency wing tested it by using during work. “I found it quite effective, especially when it comes to resolving the issue of fogging. Without clear vision, performing procedures on patients is very difficult. While wearing this visor, there is no fogging at all. The only improvement I can suggest is slight reduction in its size,” said emergency medicine specialist Raja Ghosh, who uses the head gear while making the central venous line on Covid suspected patients. Made of waterproof material, the head gear was designed with the help of 3D printing technology. Re-usable, it can either be washed or cleaned with disinfectant. The cost of each head gear is around Rs 3,000. But Kumar and his team expect the cost to come down once they start manufacturing it in big numbers. “The ones that we have designed are prototypes for testing, getting feedbacks and improving on the design before we go ahead with actual production,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pals-pitch-in-help-doctor-make-comfy-visor/articleshow/77683665.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab gets stricter, bans gathering of more than 5||Chandigarh: A day after announcing a fresh set of lockdown restrictions in the state till August 31, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday ordered imposition of Section 144 to prohibit all gatherings of more than five persons, other than marriage and ‘bhog’ ceremonies, and warned of strict action against the organisers of such gatherings. Making it clear that he would not hesitate to take harsh steps necessary to save lives, he warned of even more stringent measures after August 31, if required to check the spread of Covid-19 and save lives of the people of Punjab. He appealed to all political parties to avoid any gatherings, including protests. In case of any violation of Section 144, the organisers, who put people at risk by holding such gatherings or allowing people to gather without masks would be arrested, he said. Amarinder also requested all religious and community leaders to ask their followers to take all restrictions/ precautions as imposed and not to violate Section 144, in the interest of the state, which is witnessing an increase in Covid cases. He also directed the police to strictly enforce the limitation on gatherings and ensure social distancing at marriage and bhog ceremonies. On account of increased testing, the Covid cases in the state on Thursday stood at 37,824, said Amarinder, adding that 20,290 samples were tested on the day, of which 1,741 were found positive – a positivity rate of 8.5%.  The average daily increase for the preceding seven days had been 1,400+, he pointed out. The statistics paint a gloomy picture, Amarinder said during his Facebook Live #AskCaptain session, warning that if people do not take necessary precautions, things would only get worse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-gets-stricter-bans-gathering-of-more-than-5/articleshow/77684603.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Nagpur||Animal body parts seized in Melghat poaching racket||Nagpur: Melghat wildlife crime cyber cell on Friday busted a major poaching racket being operated in Bhaisdehi in Betul district and seized animal body parts. Four persons have been arrested for their alleged involvement. One of the accused was earlier nailed in a tiger poaching case. According to officials who were part of the operation, the cyber cell was tracking the culprits for the last two months, but due to death of one of the relatives of an accused, trap could not be laid last month. On Friday, in a meticulously planned operation, the culprits could be nabbed with the help of decoys and Madhya Pradesh forest department officials. The accused have reportedly confessed that they were looking for prospective buyers, but denied role in poaching. They said the body parts were removed for preparing traditional medicines after these animals were found dead in the forest. Officials said, “We are not sure whether nails recovered from the accused are of tiger or leopard and only a forensic test can confirm that. The claws seem to be of a sloth bear. We have also seized wild boar jaw. The cyber cell played key role in trailing and nabbing the culprits. Preliminary offence report has been registered by Betul forest officials.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/animal-body-parts-seized-in-melghat-poaching-racket/articleshow/77684343.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||UoH scholar dies of brain haemorrhage||Hyderabad: Surya Pratap Bharati, a research scholar from the University of Hyderabad, died on Friday from complications after suffering a brain haemorrhage. According to students, the 30-year-old Surya underwent an acute ischemic stroke in the campus on August 17 and was admitted to a private hospital in Nallagandla where he tested negative for Covid-19 in a rapid antigen test. However, the next day, RTC-PCR test proved that he was positive. Three days after the stroke, he was shifted to a private hospital in the financial district where he succumbed. A few students from the university filed a police complaint alleging medical negligence. “We demand that a fair investigation be conducted… We also demand that a thorough autopsy be conducted following due procedures by a panel of doctors in the presence of police personnel,” reads the complaint. Gachibowli inspector R Srinivas said; “We received a complaint from students. We informed them that it is a case of natural death and hence no post-mortem was performed. Body will be sent to Varanasi by flight.” “It is with sorrow that the undersigned informs the university about the sudden demise of our young student, Surya Pratap Bharati,” stated a condolence note issued to all the university students by Prof B Nagaraju, dean of students welfare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-scholar-dies-of-brain-haemorrhage/articleshow/77683621.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Devotees prefer smaller idols of Ganesha||Ludhiana: The artists who make Ganesha idols ahead of Ganesh Mahotsav are disappointed this year as sale of idols is impacted by coronavirus. Already, they had made fewer idols than previous years, but even those are not being sold properly, they said. People are also preferring eco-friendly and smaller idols so that they could do immersion at home instead of visiting river. Many social media posts too were discussing about the availability of easy-to-immerse idols. An artist from Chander Nagar Majaji Lal said, “This time not even a single big idol of Lord Ganesha was made or sold. People are asking for one or two 2 feet idols so that they could worship at home.” He said he had made only a few idols, mostly small ones. He said large gatherings are not possible so organisers of Ganesha Mahotsav are also preferring smaller idols. Another artist Kailash said, “This time due to coronavirus, people are not really buying. I have many asking about the price, but hardly anybody is purchasing.” He said his entire family is involved in making idols and due to coronavirus and curfew, things have been extremely difficult. He claimed they did not make any plaster of paris idol, but of mud as it is easier to immerse. Meanwhile, a resident of Ghumar Mandi, Deepak Gautam, who was looking for an ecofriendly idol near Sherpur Chowk, said, “For nearly five years I have been celebrating Ganesha Mahotsav at home with family members. Couple of years ago, when immersion took place in heavy rainfall, I felt bad to see half immersed idols floating away — it was like we were throwing away the God.” He said since then he has been using only eco-friendly idols and from last year, they started doing immersion at home in a tub and when idol is fully dissolved, he said they watered the plants with the water. Harjinder Kukreja from Sarabha Nagar said like previous years they will be making chocolate Ganesha on Monday, after seeing the response of lockdown on Saturday and Sunday. He said they wanted to organise event at large scale this year, as it was their fifth year, but due to coronavirus they have decided to tone down the scale of the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/devotees-prefer-smaller-idols-of-ganesha/articleshow/77684608.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Chandigarh||To allow only 50% shops to open on weekdays in 5 cities||Chandigarh: Not more than 50% of shops dealing in non-essential commodities will be allowed to open on a given day in five cities of Punjab, in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases. The cities include Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Patiala and Mohali, as per the revised guidelines issued by the state on Friday. There will be a weekend curfew in all municipal towns of the state till August 31, besides night curfew from 7am to 5pm, according to the additional restrictions in urban areas of the state communicated to the DCs on Friday. The notification said that the district authorities would stagger the opening days of shops accordingly. However, all shops dealing in essential commodities will remain open on all days as per the fixed timings. While shops and malls will open from Monday to Friday till 6.30pm, shops dealing in essential commodities will stay open till 6.30pm on all days. Restaurants (including restaurants in or hotels in malls) will operate till 6.30pm, including weekends.  Similarly, hotels and liquor vends will remain open on weekends too. However, regular shops and malls will remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays in all cities. Only three persons, including the driver, will be allowed in a four-wheeler while all buses and public transport vehicles will have seating of 50% with no passenger standing. Besides, government and private offices will operate with 50% staff strength till the end of the month,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/to-allow-only-50-shops-to-open-on-weekdays-in-5-cities/articleshow/77684607.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||28-yr-old held for sexual assault||Hyderabad: A 28-year-old CCTV technician was arrested by city cops after a staff nurse at a private hospital lodged a zero FIR against him, alleging cheating and sexual assault. The accused and the victim were in a relationship since 2018. Thevictim alleged that despite her refusal, the technician had forcefully sexually assaulted her at his friend’s house. Later, when she asked him to marry her, he refused. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/28-yr-old-held-for-sexual-assault/articleshow/77684583.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai cops gear up for Ganeshotsav & Muharram||MUMBAI: As Ganesh Chaturthi and Moharam are coming together, Mumbai police have made elaborate bandobast in the wake of coronavirus. They issued guidelines that home Ganpati idols should not be more than two feet tall and other idols should not be more than four feet tall. People going for visarjan should worship at home and not overcrowd visarjan centres. They must hand over idols to BMC’s 167 centres and adhere to social distancing, wear masks and use hand-sanitizers. Police said they have made elaborate arrangements with ATS, Rapid Action Force, SRPF, Home Guard and riot control unit . They said besides the city’s 5,000 CCTV cameras, more will be set up at visarjan centres. Police also urged people to ensure there is no noise pollution. Meanwhile, BMC received 2,350 applications till August 21 from Ganpati mandals, permission was granted to 1,820, while 256 were rejected and 274 are being processed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-cops-gear-up-for-ganeshotsav-muharram/articleshow/77683821.cms||Ahmed Ali
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Corona scare: 80% of dine-in restaurants remain shut in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: It has been over two months since the government has allowed restaurants and hotels to open for dine-in but Covid-19 induced fear over eating out and restrictions have resulted in nearly 79 per cent dine-in restaurants remaining shut for business in the city. A survey, which was part of the status of restaurant industry in India mid-Covid-19 report released by food delivery aggregator Zomato recently, reveals this sorry state of affairs. A total of 15,000 restaurants were surveyed in five cities – Delhi NCR, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Chennai --where restaurants are allowed to open for dining out. While the food delivery industry has recovered 75-80 per cent of its business, the hospitality industry continues to crawl. As per the survey, merely 21 per cent dine-in restaurants in the city have opened business. Restaurant owners say that although lockdown restrictions have eased, people are still reluctant to dine-in over fear of infection. The report also highlights that dining out industry in India is yet to bounce back and is operating at 8-10 per cent of pre-Covid-19 levels. “Even in cities where restrictions have been lifted, only 17 per cent dining out restaurants are open for business at the moment which are also running at low capacity,” reads the report. Experts anticipate that the recovery trends are strong around the ensuing festival season. “Restaurants barely make any profits through food delivery. Almost 90 per cent profit comes from dine-in. Strategy behind those who have opened businesses is about the fixed payments such as rent, staff salaries, equipment loans etc. Bigger hotels have opened to keep their brand alive,” said Sabyasachi Raychaudhuri, a food enthusiast. “Footfall in restaurants is slowly picking up. We can expect the momentum to gain pace by Dussehra and Diwali,” added Raychaudhuri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/corona-scare-80-of-dine-in-restaurants-remain-shut-in-city/articleshow/77683657.cms||Preeti Biswas
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Heavy rains continue to batter Telangana; 3 die, 2 bodies recovered||HYDERABAD: At least three persons died in the flood-like situation in Telangana while the body of one of the two persons who got washed away in Mulugu district was recovered on Friday. Meanwhile, rain continued to lash on Warangal and Karimnagar districts. The Godavari level at Bhadrachalam has reached 53.30 ft, which is above the third warning level. In Rajanna Sircilla district, a 33-year-old man was washed away at at Upper Manair in Gambhirraopet and died. In another incident, a BTech student got washed away in Mahbubnagar district. A 28-year-old man, Mallikarjun of Jogulamba Gadwal district, died in a hospital after being rescued. Mallkarjun was returning home from his field when he was caught in the flood waters. He was rescued and taken to a hospital in Kurnool in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh where he died. Rescue teams could fish out the body of a man who had got washed away in the floods in Mulugu on Thursday. The local police, NDRF and revenue authorities who carried out a search operation found the body of Allam Shivaji. Another person Allam Yuvaraju who had also got washed away is yet to be traced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/heavy-rains-continue-to-batter-t-3-die-2-bodies-recovered/articleshow/77685163.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 22, 2020||Business||Global nutrition-tech brand raises pre-seed investment||Chennai: Delhi-based Global nutrition-tech brand Habbit Health and Nutrition has raised an undisclosed amount as a pre-seed investment from Venture Capital firm 3one4 Capital and Utsav Somani of AngelList India.Dhruv Bhushan, co-founder and CEO of Habbit Health said “This round of funding will be used to create our (product) prototypes, and to build brand and intellectual property (IP). Lifestyle diseases with their origin in poor nutrition are today’s biggest health concern. Still, there has been little innovation in the consumption category, making it irrelevant for an increasingly health aware audience.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/global-nutrition-tech-brand-raises-pre-seed-investment/articleshow/77678869.cms||Mamtha Asokan
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Give Rs 1cr ex-gratia for health workers’||Hyderabad: Medical college associations in the state on Friday demanded that the government announce Rs 1 crore ex-gratia to health workers who have died of Covid-19. At a meeting held at Osmania Medical College, the associations demanded that the government offer free treatment to infected healthcare workers in corporate hospitals and their family members as well. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/give-rs-1cr-ex-gratia-for-health-workers/articleshow/77684597.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Mumbai||E-vehicle sales in Mumbai rise by 1,360% in 3 years, most for bikes||MUMBAI: Over three years, electric vehicle registrations grew by 407% in Maharashtra and 1,360% in Mumbai. Latest transport department statistics show that from 1,459 electric cars and scooters registered in 2017-18 in the state, the figure rose to 7,400 in 2019-20. The figure jumped from 46 to 672 in Mumbai. In 2019-20, most registrations were also in Wadala and Andheri: 245 e-vehicles in Wadala (15 cars, 189 bikes and 41 light passenger vehicles), and 223 in Andheri (40 cars, 49 bikes and 134 light passenger vehicles). Borivli RTO followed with 106 new registrations (20 cars and 85 bikes) and Tardeo with 98 (33 cars, 31 bikes, 14 heavy passenger vehicles, 18 medium passenger vehicles and two light passenger vehicles). An official said many e-scooters were purchased in Mumbai, while dedicated e-vehicle shops have also come up in the suburbs which is a good trend as they operate silently, with zero emissions. Petrol or diesel cars can cost Rs 3-4/km, while e-cars cost only 50 paise. In a single fast charge, one can drive up to 120km, sources said. An e-scooter dealer from Mulund (W) said, “There are no maintenance issues, and government offers tax concessions and subsidised rates for e-charging at home.” Some e-vehicle owners, however, offered suggestions. Urban designer and architect Trupti Amritwar, who has been driving a Mahindra e2o, purchased for Rs 6 lakh more than five years ago, said, “The state government will have to subsidise and reduce costs, while imposing a tax on petrol/diesel vehicles to promote e-vehicles.” Another owner of an e-scooter said, “Unless e-vehicles or batteries cost less there will not be many takers.” The number of electric vehicles in Mumbai is miniscule, compared to petrol/diesel’s 11 lakh cars and 24 lakh bikes. “The government is making efforts to push e-vehicles and CNG cars in the city,’‘ a senior RTO official in western suburbs said, adding that during Covid-19, there has been an increase in registration of vehicles running on green fuel (CNG), compared to diesel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/e-vehicle-sales-in-mumbai-rise-by-1360-in-3-years-most-for-bikes/articleshow/77683823.cms||Somit Sen
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||T Covid tally nears 1L with 1,900 new cases||Hyderabad: Telangana is 609 short of reaching 1 lakh Covid-19 caseload as the total count on Friday reached 99,391 even as eight more persons died during the last 24 hours. Health authorities reported 1,967 new Covid cases on Friday and the death toll increased to 737. In the last 24 hours, Telangana reported 21,687 active Covid-19 cases, including 15,332 persons in either home or institutional isolation. Labs tested 26,767 samples, the highest sample size analysed so far. Till now, the state has conducted 848,078 tests. The gender wise data shows 63 percent of males are infected in the state. Health department director Dr Srinivasa Rao said that people in the 20- 50 age group are more susceptible to the virus in the population, however he said, people should not panic. According to the bulletin, 1,781 people recovered in the past 24 hours, taking the total recoveries to 76,967. The recovery rate in the state stands at 77.43%, higher than the national average of 73.91%. Hyderabad: The Telangana Congress treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy on Friday urged governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to exercise her discretionary powers and submit a report to President Ramnath Kovind on mishandling of Covid situation in the state by TRS. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-covid-tally-nears-1l-with-1900-new-cases/articleshow/77683674.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Lucknow||Post-lockdown: UP top fuel guzzler in ethanol blending||LUCKNOW: Fuel consumption has risen dramatically in Uttar Pradesh after a lockdown lull, surpassing fast-paced industrial states of Maharashtra and Karnataka in ethanol blending, according data by oil companies accessed by TOI. A clear indication of the trend is the doubling of ethanol blending with petrol in UP from 4.5% in April during lockdown to over 9% this month. While in Karnataka ethanol blending stood at 8.3%, Maharashtra was at 6.40%, data till August 10 shows. This has also come as a respite for sugar millers, who have been facing funds crunch even as demand for sugar dipped during lockdown. Millers said, higher blending would improve cash flow to mills, which are under pressure of paying cane arrears. Data shows supply of ethanol for blending with petrol in UP was of over 24 kilo litres in August while supply in Karnataka and Maharashtra was around 14.25 KL and 16.94 KL, respectively. This was not the case in April, when lockdown was imposed and availability of ethanol for blending was inadequate. During that period, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra supplied 12.29 KL, 8.69 KL and 10.09 KL of ethanol for blending. The situation remained static in May and June. In July, the procedure picked up pace. Ethanol is prepared from four raw materials — sugarcane juice, B-heavy molasses, C-heavy molasses and damaged foodgrain. Maximum ethanol is prepared from molasses, the thick dark to light brown syrup that is separated from raw sugar. Data sheet points that oil ministry has sought to further increase ethanol production from heavy molasses. This, officials said, would reflect on upcoming increase in cane and sugar prices and reduce sugar surplus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/post-lockdown-up-top-fuel-guzzler-in-ethanol-blending/articleshow/77684611.cms||Pankaj Shah
August 22, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC to hear plea of former SSP who alleged harassment by seniors next week||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) will now hear a petition filed by IPS officer Barinderjeet Singh against his transfer from the post of senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Udham Singh Nagar on Tuesday. The matter was earlier listed for hearing on Friday. Singh, a 2008-batch IPS officer, had moved the court after he was transferred as Commandant of Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) to Ramnagar on July 10. Singh had been holding the post of SSP of Udham Singh Nagar for over a year and had alleged harassment by his seniors in the police department including the Director General of Police (DGP) and DG (Law and Order) among others. According to Singh’s plea, fair investigation was prevented by senior officials in many important cases. Later, Singh also wrote a letter to the Nainital SSP and DM alleging threat to his life. While hearing the petition on July 31, the court had issued notices to the state government, DGP, DG (Law and Order), Police Establishment Committee and IG Police Headquarters as well as former DIG of Kumaon, directing them to file their responses by Friday. The matter was listed for hearing before the bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice N S Dhanik on Friday. However, the case could not be heard.  “The case will now be heard on Tuesday,” said one of the advocates appearing in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-hc-to-hear-plea-of-former-ssp-who-alleged-harassment-by-seniors-next-week/articleshow/77681004.cms||Prashant Jha
August 22, 2020||Chandigarh||CGST unearth’s tax evasion of Rs 1.5cr by city-based realtor||Ludhiana: Despite the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, when working of every department has been derailed, central GST (CGST) department has been able to unearth tax evasion of Rs 1.5 crore by a realtor. Recently, the CGST department searched his company, which has offices in Ludhiana, Mohali and other places as well. During the search operation, the company officials tried to hide several documents and other incriminating evidences pointing towards tax evasion in the kitchen of their office, but alertness of the officials led to discovery of these and the tax evasion was detected. Later, the company deposited Rs 90 lakh in taxes to the department. Sharing more information with TOI, Ashutosh Baranwal, principal commissioner of CGST Ludhiana said, “This group is a well known builder and promoter engaged in real estate business. Credible information was received that company is not paying due GST on advances received from their customers against taxable supplies. Acting upon the information, the registered principal place of business of company was searched under Section 67(2) of the CGST Act, 2017 under the authorisation of the competent authority. The party has its principal place of business built in four floors and on being aware of the search being conducted by CGST authorities, the party secreted the incriminating document in their pantry. During the search proceedings the secreted document was recovered and resumed from the pantry of company located on the first floor of their office premise.” Baranwal also added, “The recovered documents had details of advances to the tune of Rs 12.73 crore received from more than a dozen of the customers of the company, which carry GST liability of approximately Rs 1.5 crore if all the advances is taken as against taxable supplies. After the action the company has voluntarily deposited an amount of Rs 90 lakh (Rs 45 lakh as CGST and Rs 45 lakh SGST). We are investigating further.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cgst-unearths-tax-evasion-of-rs-1-5cr-by-city-based-realtor/articleshow/77684614.cms||Mohit Behl
August 22, 2020||Allahabad||7.2% fresh coronavirus cases in India are from UP||LUCKNOW: Over 7.2% of the fresh coronavirus cases reported in the country were from Uttar Pradesh. As many as 68,898 Covid cases were confirmed in different states of India of which 4,991 were from UP. The new cases in UP took the state’s total to 1,77,325 which is about 6.1% of the national burden. As look at the official bulletin released by UP showed that a large number of cases were reported in Lucknow (620), Prayagraj (266), Gorakhpur (260) Kanpur (236) and Varanasi (187). Together they accounted for 31% of the total cases in the day. Districts of Gonda (148), Gautam Budha Nagar (127), Moradabad (125), Barabanki (119), Bareilly (107), Ayodhya (99), Lakhimpur Kheri (97), Ghaziabad (94), Sitapur (94) andSaharanpur (92) witnessed a spike, adding about 22% of the cases. The state recorded 66 Covid-19 deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 2,797. Lucknow recorded 15 deaths, by Kanpur (9). Saharanpur and Gorakhpur saw five deaths each whereas four deaths were recorded in Bareilly. Officials said 5,567 persons were discharged from hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/7-2-fresh-cases-in-india-are-from-up/articleshow/77685999.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 22, 2020||Varanasi||7.2% fresh coronavirus cases in India are from UP||LUCKNOW: Over 7.2% of the fresh coronavirus cases reported in the country were from Uttar Pradesh. As many as 68,898 Covid cases were confirmed in different states of India of which 4,991 were from UP. The new cases in UP took the state’s total to 1,77,325 which is about 6.1% of the national burden. As look at the official bulletin released by UP showed that a large number of cases were reported in Lucknow (620), Prayagraj (266), Gorakhpur (260) Kanpur (236) and Varanasi (187). Together they accounted for 31% of the total cases in the day. Districts of Gonda (148), Gautam Budha Nagar (127), Moradabad (125), Barabanki (119), Bareilly (107), Ayodhya (99), Lakhimpur Kheri (97), Ghaziabad (94), Sitapur (94) andSaharanpur (92) witnessed a spike, adding about 22% of the cases. The state recorded 66 Covid-19 deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 2,797. Lucknow recorded 15 deaths, by Kanpur (9). Saharanpur and Gorakhpur saw five deaths each whereas four deaths were recorded in Bareilly. Officials said 5,567 persons were discharged from hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/7-2-fresh-cases-in-india-are-from-up/articleshow/77685997.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 22, 2020||Vadodara||Mass testing in markets surprises many in Godhra||VADODARA: It seemed as if something out of place had taken place in the markets of Godhra with the Godhra police and other officials coming in large numbers with official vehicles. But all speculation was put to rest when it came to light that the people were taken for mass Covid-19 testing using the rapid antigen test. The officials of the administration as well as the police had reached with vehicles including police vans to different busy areas of the town. The drives were conducted on Thursday morning as well as late in the afternoon. The officials of the district collectorate, Godhra municipality and the police were involved in the drive. The police vans were also used to take persons in the town for testing. At a temporary market selling Ganpati idols, those present there were taken for testing. The drive was organized at a school in the town. Sources said that around 200 persons were taken for testing. Some persons who were taken for testing were asked to return and told that they would be tested at a later stage. Including the drive in Godhra town, 372 rapid antigen tests were conducted across Panchmahal district. Eleven of these samples were found positive. Notably, these did not include any persons believed to be super spreaders. During the drive, samples of 148 such persons were collected. Along with RT-PCR testing results, the total number of persons who tested positive in the district since Thursday evening went up to 44. The district has registered 1,162 Covid-19 cases so far out of which 604 have recovered and 458 cases are still active. As many as 36 persons have died due to Covid-19 in the district so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mass-testing-in-markets-surprises-many-in-godhra/articleshow/77682251.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Sexually abused by 143 people, alleges 25-year-old Hyderabad woman||HYDERABAD: In what could turn out to be a shocking revelation, a 25-year-old woman has lodged a complaint with the Punjagutta police that she was sexually abused by 143 people from various walks of life over a period of time. The unprecedented allegation has forced the police to register a 42-page FIR. Of the 42 pages, 41 pages have details of the 143 members, against whom the woman has lodged the complaint, who were declared as accused. The Punjagutta police have sent the woman for medical examination and they will soon have to individually call all the accused, which also includes a few women, and interrogate them. The woman lodged a complaint against persons, who are allegedly from political backgrounds, student leaders, media, film and other professions. She has also claimed that before she got a divorce from her husband, various members of his family had also allegedly abused her. According to the woman, the accused have been abusing her for several years but this was the first time that she had lodged a police complaint. Punjagutta police registered a case under the charges of rape, insulting the modesty of a woman, assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty and others in Indian Penal Code (IPC), besides invoking SC&ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The unprecedented allegation has forced the police to register a 42-page FIR. Of the 42 pages, 41 pages have details of the 143 members against whom the woman has lodged the complaint (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)Watch Hyderabad: Sexually abused by 143 people, alleges 25-year-old woman||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sexually-abused-by-143-people-alleges-25-year-old-city-woman/articleshow/77683697.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Lucknow||7.2% fresh coronavirus cases in India are from UP||LUCKNOW: Over 7.2% of the fresh coronavirus cases reported in the country were from Uttar Pradesh. As many as 68,898 Covid cases were confirmed in different states of India of which 4,991 were from UP. The new cases in UP took the state’s total to 1,77,325 which is about 6.1% of the national burden. As look at the official bulletin released by UP showed that a large number of cases were reported in Lucknow (620), Prayagraj (266), Gorakhpur (260) Kanpur (236) and Varanasi (187). Together they accounted for 31% of the total cases in the day. Districts of Gonda (148), Gautam Budha Nagar (127), Moradabad (125), Barabanki (119), Bareilly (107), Ayodhya (99), Lakhimpur Kheri (97), Ghaziabad (94), Sitapur (94) andSaharanpur (92) witnessed a spike, adding about 22% of the cases. The state recorded 66 Covid-19 deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 2,797. Lucknow recorded 15 deaths, by Kanpur (9). Saharanpur and Gorakhpur saw five deaths each whereas four deaths were recorded in Bareilly. Officials said 5,567 persons were discharged from hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/7-2-fresh-cases-in-india-are-from-up/articleshow/77684615.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 22, 2020||Kanpur||7.2% fresh coronavirus cases in India are from UP||LUCKNOW: Over 7.2% of the fresh coronavirus cases reported in the country were from Uttar Pradesh. As many as 68,898 Covid cases were confirmed in different states of India of which 4,991 were from UP. The new cases in UP took the state’s total to 1,77,325 which is about 6.1% of the national burden. As look at the official bulletin released by UP showed that a large number of cases were reported in Lucknow (620), Prayagraj (266), Gorakhpur (260) Kanpur (236) and Varanasi (187). Together they accounted for 31% of the total cases in the day. Districts of Gonda (148), Gautam Budha Nagar (127), Moradabad (125), Barabanki (119), Bareilly (107), Ayodhya (99), Lakhimpur Kheri (97), Ghaziabad (94), Sitapur (94) andSaharanpur (92) witnessed a spike, adding about 22% of the cases. The state recorded 66 Covid-19 deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 2,797. Lucknow recorded 15 deaths, by Kanpur (9). Saharanpur and Gorakhpur saw five deaths each whereas four deaths were recorded in Bareilly. Officials said 5,567 persons were discharged from hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/7-2-fresh-cases-in-india-are-from-up/articleshow/77685998.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Five trapped blackbucks rescued by fishermen, forest officials||Hyderabad: Five blackbucks, which were trapped in the floodwaters at the Sri Ram Sagar Project (SRSP) backwaters area of Nandipet mandal in Nizamabad district, were rescued by local fishermen and forest officials on Friday. The district forest officials, who received information about the antelopes swimming in the wrong direction while struggling to stay afloat in neck deep water, plunged into action along with the fishermen to save the animals. “Under the guidance of the forest officials, the fishermen used thermocol sheets to paddle into the waters and direct the blackbucks towards the land. The blackbucks, that were swimming against the current, were rescued after struggling to stay afloat for over an hour in the floodwaters,” said Sunil S Hiremath, divisional forest officer of Nizamabad. Blackbucks are present in the backwaters of SRSP and along the Godavari river all around the year. However, they are only sighted by people when they enter the fields and that happens when the water level in the project increases and occupies the grasslands around the area. SRSP reservoir has been receiving huge inflows from upstream areas due to rains over the past few days. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/five-trapped-blackbucks-rescued-by-fishermen-forest-officials/articleshow/77685167.cms||Moulika.KV
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||12 alleged Maoist sympathisers held||Hyderabad: Bhadradri Kothagudem police arrested 12 alleged CPI (Maoist) sympathisers on Friday, as they were allegedly conspiring with Maoists for subversive activities. According to police, the twelve who were arrested had been allegedly working as couriers for Maoists and had been trained to make IEDs. Cops seized batteries, 4 gelatin sticks, a detonator and a tiffin box. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/12-alleged-maoist-sympathisers-held/articleshow/77684606.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Chennai||Despite crisis, more projects get CMDA nod||CHENNAI: Amid the churn in the real estate sector in the city due to the still-raging Covid-19 pandemic, the number of planning permissions issued by the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority in the past seven months has surprisingly surpassed the number issued in the corresponding period in 2019. However, a majority of these projects are unlikely to take shape since the ongoing projects have been delayed by at least six months. As per data from the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), 231 approvals were issued for non-high rise category buildings (Ground + four floors or stilt + five floors) from January to July in 2020, which is 50 more than the approvals accorded in the corresponding period in 2019. Similarly, an approximate 44 lakh sqft received planning permissions to construct high rise category structures (multi-storeyed buildings). This figure is at least 1 lakh sqft above the total area that was approved to be developed as multi-storeyed buildings in the Chennai Metropolitan Area during the same period in 2019, the data shows. Interestingly, the rise in number of approvals comes in a year when real estate activities have hit a road block after the pandemic had an unprecedented impact on housing and office space verticals. The data further reveals that a majority of the multi-storeyed building projects approved this year were for residential purposes, while a few were for commercial office spaces. According to sources in the realty sector, a majority of the projects approved this year will not be launched. R Thamil Selvan, a former president of Tambaram-based Flat Promoters Association (Chennai South), said the launch of housing projects that fell under the non-high rise category was expected to be pushed to next year. “The crisis triggered by Covid-19 has brought uncertainty to the entire real estate sector. Only those developers whose existing projects have been completed and are able to find homebuyers to sell their apartment units will look to launch new projects in 2021,” he said. Moreover, construction work has been moving at a snail’s pace thanks to the acute shortage of guest workers, most of who have left for their home states and are yet to return. Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI) chairman (Tamil Nadu chapter) S Sridharan said the priority would be to complete the existing projects. “Migrant workers have started returning to the city and the top priority for developers is to finish the projects that were delayed during the lockdown,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/despite-crisis-more-projects-get-cmda-nod/articleshow/77683728.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
August 22, 2020||Dehradun||Zonal master plan of Bhigrathi eco zone cleared without our consent, says experts on SC and NGT-appointed committees||Dehradun: Nine eminent scientists, geologists & environmentalists who were either part of a Supreme Court-appointed scrutiny group or a National Green Tribunal-appointed committee for preparation of the zonal master plan (ZMP) of Bhagirathi Eco-Sensitive Zone (BESZ) have said that the ZMP, recently cleared by the central government to expedite the Char Dham Road project, does not have their consent. Alleging that most of the suggestions, comments and recommendations put forth by them were not considered and incorporated in the ZMP submitted for approval, the experts, who include environmentalists Chandi Prasad Bhatt and Ravi Chopra, academics AK Gosain of IIT Delhi and DP Dobhal, former scientist at Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology, wrote in a letter addressed to the Jal Shakti and environment ministries, dated August 8, “The ‘approved ZMP’ does not have our consent or approval, nor does it consist of our scrutiny... the current ZMP is a flawed document which is not in consonance with the ESZ notification.” The letter also points out that “the approved ZMP which has been recently uploaded to the website of the ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEF&CC) is the same old draft with which we had shown disapproval and given numerous written suggestions for improvements and rectification.” Among the concerns raised by the experts was the plan to fell around 13,000 trees in the eco-sensitive zone for the Char Dham road, and the presence of about 40 landslide zones on the route. “These works needed to be discussed in detail on the basis of local requirement and limitations of the terrain. But the same was not addressed and remains unchanged in the approved ZMP, “ said the letter addressed to the ministries. Hemant Dhyani, a member of the SC-appointed scrutiny group and one of the signatories of the letter, told TOI, “The draft ZMP is essentially a compilation of departmental proposals mainly based on current schemes and therefore it cannot be accepted. This should be a people’s plan, not a departmental plan.” The experts further pointed out in their letter violation of the SC’s orders. “The Jal Shakti ministry (formerly ministry of water resources & Ganga rejuvenation) did not convene any meeting of the Supreme Court-appointed scrutiny group formed through the order dated 13.7.2018. The draft ZMP has not been scrutinised by the scrutiny group members sitting together (as had been asked by the SC)”, the experts said. What also irked the experts is failure of inclusion of local people especially the women of the area. “According to the BESZ notification (Para 2.1), the ZMP was to be prepared “in consultation with local people particularly women”. This was not done. The draft ZMP was not translated in Hindi and therefore was never put before the panchayats and locals of the area for their comments and suggestions before finalisation. We therefore had no inputs from locals and panchayats of the area for whom this ZMP was being prepared. Hence, the ZMP submitted for approval violates the letter and spirit of the BESZ notification,” says the letter. When queried about the concerns raised by the experts, secretary of the Jal Shakti ministry UP Singh, said, “The comments and concerns of all the experts were obtained and shared with both the state of Uttarakhand as well the ministry of environment, which primarily drafted and approved the ZMP.” To recall, the ZMP was supposed to be readied by December 2014 but the matter was escalated to the NGT by Kesar Singh Panwar of Bhagirathi Eco-Sensitive zone area in 2015 for non-compliance of the matter by the state government. Thereafter, a master plan by Uttarakhand government was presented before both the water resources and environment ministry in 2016 which was rejected by both the ministries stating that “the masterplan failed to follow the guidelines of ESZ notification.” Thereafter in 2017, an independent expert committee was formed for the purpose, but since it was headed by a state government officer, the matter was challenged and the issue went to the SC which directed to form an expert scrutiny group to scrutinise the ZMP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/zonal-master-plan-of-bhigrati-eco-zone-cleared-without-our-consent-says-experts-on-sc-and-ngt-appointed-committees/articleshow/77681022.cms||Shivani Azad
August 22, 2020||Lucknow||‘Resolve Bhushan case amicably’||Lucknow: National secretary of CPI Atul Kumar Anjan has suggested that judges of the Supreme Court, attorney-general of India and advocate Prashant Bhushan should sit together to resolve the matter at the earliest to save the apex court's dignity. In a press release issued on Friday, Anjan said that it was not the matter of any individual or any judge, but it pertains to the image and the constitutional authority of the apex court. Quoting remarks of attorney-general KK Venugopal, the CPI leader said that his revelation that five senior judges of the Supreme Court had lamented that this would be an assault on democracy should also be taken into account by the Chief Justice. There were several instances where such situations had been solved amicably, he added. Recalling an incident, Anjan said that there were mind-boggling revelations in the PramodMahajan case by his brother, but the court did not allow them to go public and sealed his statements for 30 years to save the society and politics from disgrace. The Prashant Bhushan case also required the same approach, opined Anjan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/resolve-bhushan-case-amicably/articleshow/77684627.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Business||Covid flip-flop: ‘Chappal’ sales up, formals down||Whether it's an exasperated middle-class mom brandishing it as a weapon of mass discipline during the lockdown or a villager walking to his farm, the humble 'chappal' is paving the way for the footwear industry to make a comeback. At a time when formal footwear has taken a step back as most people are working from home, sales of flip flops, sandals and slides have touched 80% of pre-Covid levels, said retailers, manufacturers in India. Despite some people taking up fitness for the first time, sports shoes are still huffing and puffing to catch up. "Our sports shoes sales are still 25% of pre-Covid levels as colleges and schools remain shut," said Ramesh Kumar Dua, MD, Relaxo Footwear, which sells brands like Flite, Sparx and Schoolmate. "Flip flops, on the other hand, have done extremely well, especially in rural India, as those areas were not much impacted by Covid-19. All our factories manufacturing open toe footwear are currently operating at full capacity." "There has been a change in the requirement point of view from consumers due to the pandemic," said Sandeep Kataria, Bata India CEO. "Around 80% of all footwear sold in India is below the Rs 500 price point," added the CEO of India's largest footwear retailer. Despite its modest image, flip flops, however, have undergone a glamorous makeover, with pairs costing upwards of Rs 5,000 being sold out from online sites during the lockdown. “In the fashion category, open footwear has seen one of strongest traction,” said Abhishek Ganguly, GM, Puma India and Southeast Asia. “Slides that are trendy and comfortable, have become a rage among the youth during these times.” Similarly, Metro Brands, which operates over 500 stores across India, saw a majority of its sales coming from open toe footwear. “From only 20% during pre-Covid months, in womenswear, 40% of our online sales currently comes from sandals, while for men, it’s 50 to 60%,” said Alisha Malik, VP, e-commerce and marketing at Metro Brands. “There is not much sales in party wear happening and even in formal footwear, we have seen a lowering of basic price points. But when it comes to open toe footwear, it’s just not the basics that consumers are buying. There is a bit of bling and shine in the pairs they are opting for,” she said. Watch ‘Chappal’ sales go up, formal shoes take a step back post-COVID||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-flip-flop-chappal-sales-up-formals-down/articleshow/77685745.cms||John Sarkar
August 22, 2020||Goa||Strictly follow safety norms for Chaturthi: Goa CM||PANAJI: Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and chief minister Pramod Sawant have extended greetings for Ganesh Chaturthi which will be celebrated from Saturday. “Ganesh, lord of new beginnings, is worshipped as removal of obstacles. May the blessings of lord Ganesh be upon the people of Goa so that the obstacles of Covid and its negative effects are conquered by the people,” the governor said, adding, “May lord Ganesh bless everyone with good health and prosperity. Stating that the people should celebrate the festival by taking utmost care, the chief minister said, “We must ensure that we strictly follow all the safety norms including social distancing, wearing of masks.” “It is important to respect those who are in home isolation and help them if possible to celebrate the festival,” Sawant added. Archbishop of Goa and Daman Filipe Neri Ferrao, in his message, hoped that all people may imbibe the perennial values the festival celebrates, particularly during this difficult time of the pandemic. “May we accordingly embrace goodness and serenity that will lead us to wisely acknowledge God’s loving care present in our lives, and to respond to it by generously sharing our resources even material wealth with one another,” Ferrao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/strictly-follow-safety-norms-for-chaturthi-cm/articleshow/77684632.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Thane||Highest August rain in 9 years, orange alert in Mumbai for Saturday||MUMBAI: With moderate rain on Thursday and Friday, Santacruz observatory recorded 990.5mm rainfall this month, the highest August figure for the city in nine years. The IMD has, meanwhile, issued an orange alert (heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places) for the city, Thane and Palghar for Saturday. While Palghar’s orange alert will continue till Sunday, a yellow alert has been declared for Mumbai and Thane. Mumbai’s yellow alert is expected to continue till Monday. “Due to the influence of a low pressure area over east Madhya Pradesh and cyclonic circulation, heavy to very heavy rainfall over Konkan coast and central Maharashtra is likely for three to four days. Gusty winds are expected. A warning has been issued for fishermen along the west coast,” said Shubhangi Bhute, director, regional meteorological centre, IMD, Mumbai. Dahisar got maximum rain (103mm) on FridayIn 24 hours ending at 8.30am on Friday, Santacruz recorded 31.6mm rainfall. In the next 10 hours it recorded 45.7mm, taking the month’s total to 990.5mm, the highest August rainfall since 2010, when the city received 1,036.5mm. The all-time highest for August was 1,254mm in 1958. Colaba recorded 63.2mm rain till 8.30am on Friday and 20.6mm (15.6mm to 64.4mm is moderate) during the day, till 5.30pm. Many parts of the city received heavy to very heavy rain (6am-6pm) on Friday. Maximum rain was at Dahisar (103mm), followed by Lokhandwala (95.4mm), Malad (95mm), Navi Mumbai (83.4mm), Bandra (79mm), Goregaon (75.5mm), Bhandup (71.2mm), Worli (59.8mm), Thane (49.8mm) and Dadar (42mm). Thane-Belapur Industries Association weather station recorded 36.4mm rainfall and Dahanu observatory in Palghar district recorded 32.1mm rainfall from 8.30am to 5.30pm on Friday, IMD stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/highest-aug-rain-in-9-yrs-orange-alert-in-mumbai-today/articleshow/77685804.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
August 22, 2020||Mumbai||Highest August rain in 9 years, orange alert in Mumbai for Saturday||MUMBAI: With moderate rain on Thursday and Friday, Santacruz observatory recorded 990.5mm rainfall this month, the highest August figure for the city in nine years. The IMD has, meanwhile, issued an orange alert (heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places) for the city, Thane and Palghar for Saturday. While Palghar’s orange alert will continue till Sunday, a yellow alert has been declared for Mumbai and Thane. Mumbai’s yellow alert is expected to continue till Monday. “Due to the influence of a low pressure area over east Madhya Pradesh and cyclonic circulation, heavy to very heavy rainfall over Konkan coast and central Maharashtra is likely for three to four days. Gusty winds are expected. A warning has been issued for fishermen along the west coast,” said Shubhangi Bhute, director, regional meteorological centre, IMD, Mumbai. Dahisar got maximum rain (103mm) on FridayIn 24 hours ending at 8.30am on Friday, Santacruz recorded 31.6mm rainfall. In the next 10 hours it recorded 45.7mm, taking the month’s total to 990.5mm, the highest August rainfall since 2010, when the city received 1,036.5mm. The all-time highest for August was 1,254mm in 1958. Colaba recorded 63.2mm rain till 8.30am on Friday and 20.6mm (15.6mm to 64.4mm is moderate) during the day, till 5.30pm. Many parts of the city received heavy to very heavy rain (6am-6pm) on Friday. Maximum rain was at Dahisar (103mm), followed by Lokhandwala (95.4mm), Malad (95mm), Navi Mumbai (83.4mm), Bandra (79mm), Goregaon (75.5mm), Bhandup (71.2mm), Worli (59.8mm), Thane (49.8mm) and Dadar (42mm). Thane-Belapur Industries Association weather station recorded 36.4mm rainfall and Dahanu observatory in Palghar district recorded 32.1mm rainfall from 8.30am to 5.30pm on Friday, IMD stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/highest-aug-rain-in-9-yrs-orange-alert-in-mumbai-today/articleshow/77683824.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
August 22, 2020||Agra||Murdered doc was UP’s first gynaecologist to perform C-section on Covid-19 patient||Agra: Yogita Gautam was the first gynaecologist in UP to have successfully performed a Caesarean section on a Covid-19 patient. The 30-year-old from Delhi’s Shivpuri had been blazing a trail in her field, with a long way to go. And when Covid-19 broke out, she stepped up, helping many pregnant women deliver at a time the pandemic had complicated even simple surgical procedures.Yogita had finished her Master of Surgery programme at the SN Medical College in Agra on August 15, four days before she was murdered by a senior, Dr Vivek Tewari, who had been pursuing her. Her patients, shocked to hear of her passing, recalled how she had helped them. On April 20, she had performed a C-section on a 24-year-old Covid-19 patient, the first such surgery in the state.“I had tested positive for Covid-19 and had severe symptoms. The infection was at its peak, but that didn’t deter Dr Yogita,” said Sonal Singhal, another patientadmitted to the SN Medical College for delivery on April 23. Two days later, she gave birth to a baby boy. “She was very helpful and always took the time to listen. She never made me feel unwanted — she used to visit me in the isolation ward.”It was her empathy that another patient of hers, Rajani Kushwaha, remembered as well. “She was always covered from head to toe (in PPE) but I would know immediately when it was her,” said Kushwaha, a teacher who had also tested positive for Covid-19 before delivery. On April 26, she gave birth to a girl. “She was always responsive and even after I went home, she would be available for help.”Those who worked with her said she was always thinking on her feet. “She had a very steady, precise surgical hand. She was fast and did not buckle under pressure. I learnt a lot,” said Dr Sana Ismail, Yogita’s junior at SN Medical College. And she was a great team worker. “She was caring towards patients, guided her juniors and was extremely passionate about her work,” said Dr Sanjay Kala, principal of the college. “She had all the skills — both medical and personal. That’s why she was chosen for the C-section surgeries of Covid patients,” said Dr Saroj Singh, head of the obstetrics and gynaecology department. “She was polite, quiet.”But not one to give up without a fight. “She was a brave girl. In the initial days, when we did not know a lot about the coronavirus, she took the lead in treating patients who came in,” said Kala. When her body was found, there was a fistful of hair she was clasping. Police have now sent that for forensic examination. “The hair and skin found in her fist are being used for DNA profiling,” inspector general (Agra zone) A Satish Ganesh told TOI. Vivek’s phone, too, will be sent to the cyber forensics team. Yogita’s phone has not been found yet. Police, meanwhile, have applied for Vivek’s remand. SSP Babloo Kumar said the revolver with which he is believed to have shot her and the clothes he was wearing at the time have not been traced yet. “The sequence of events after she sat in the car is still to be established.”(With inputs from Deepak Lavania)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/murdered-doc-was-ups-first-gynaecologist-to-perform-c-section-on-covid-19-patient/articleshow/77681064.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
August 22, 2020||Delhi||Mystery deepens: A river runs through basements of Delhi's Greater Kailash-II houses||NEW DELHI: Residents of Greater Kailash II are facing a strange problem these days. Their basements are getting flooded every day, with water seeping in from the ground and walls. Residents claimed that basements of houses in M, E, S and some other blocks are inundated in a foot and a half of water, but neither drains nor water supply pipes seem to be the source of the extra water. Anurag Aggarwal, resident of M-85, was the first to face this problem around a month ago. “Minor seepage in the basement after heavy rains was common in our three-decade-old house,” he said. “However, in the past month, seepage takes place even when there is no rain.” TOI visited his house on Friday and confirmed the water collection in the basement. Worried that the stagnant water could damage the house foundations, Aggarwal took the matter to PWD. “My house is located next to M Block market, and I thought the PWD drains were leaking water,” said Aggarwal. “But a PWD team physically verified the site and noticed no problems. I then contacted Delhi Jal Board to see if its newly laid supply line had developed leaks.” When Aggarwal approached DJB, other residents of M, S and E blocks also reported basement seepage. Yotsna Attree, resident of M 83, was certain that DJB’s new supply line was behind the seepage. Atree said, “The water oozed out as if from a tap and within no time, there was knee-deep water in my 300 sq ft basement.” A DJB team investigated and an official said, “On residents' demand, we checked the water pipes and even dug up the roads in several places but detected no leakage.” Flummoxed by the problem, the residents approached the local MLA, Saurabh Bharadwaj, and the Central Ground Water Board. The DJB official added, “CGWB has now taken over the matter and we are assisting them. We have shared maps of water pipelines with them.” Residents told TOI that a CGWB team led by a senior scientist inspected the basements last week and checked the borewells in the parks. “To our surprise, groundwater was available at a depth of a mere 15 feet. Some time back, it was at a depth of around 100 feet,” said Sanjay Rana, president, GK II RWA. “CGWB officials have taken water samples and refused to come to any conclusion immediately. They have, however, written a letter to DJB asking them to shut down the new 600 mm supply line for 36 hours to help them ascertain the cause of the flooding.” While CGWB officials refused to comment on the development, S Block resident Shyam Kalra reported, “On Friday, a joint inspection was carried out by officials from the district magistrate’s office, South Delhi Municipal Corporation and DJB. Already 15-20 houses are facing the problem, and more houses are being added to the list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mystery-deepens-a-river-runs-through-basements-of-gk-ii-houses/articleshow/77683786.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Selvapuram still defenseless against virus, cluster grows||Coimbatore: Selvapuram, which is located in one of the oldest parts of the city, is the biggest Covid-19 hotspot that the district has seen so far. The cluster, which continues to swell, was formed some 45 days ago. Officials say Selvapuram alone accounts for more than 800 Covid-19 cases or 7.7% of total caseload that the district has recorded till date. The impact of the cluster, they say, is much larger. On July 6, 27 people at Iyappa Nagar at Selvapuram were tested positive for the virus. All of them were working and living next to a gold manufacturing unit in the area. They were made to undergo Covid-19 testing while tracing contacts of 19 people who had earlier tested positive for the virus at Chetti Veedhi and Ashok Nagar in the area. The virus then steadily spread to Savitri Nagar, Sami Iyer New Street, Telungupalayam, Telungu Street and the North Housing Unit. As the number of cases began increasing exponentially, the city corporation had in July cordoned off the entire Selvapuram area as a containment zone. However, sealing the area didn’t help much in containing local transmission of the virus, which spread to surrounding areas such as Ponnairajapuram, where 20 people were tested positive, Perur (40) Gandhi Park (27) and Madhampatti, where 12 family members of a jeweller were infected. Barricades were removed from the area on August 1. Two weeks later, 39 Covid-19 cases were reported from Telungupalayam, Selvapuram and Chetti Street in a single day (August 14). On Thursday too, seven were tested positive for the virus from those areas, exposing complete failure of containment measures in the locality. In the first 20 days of this month, Selvapuram has recorded 181 Covid-19 cases, Telungupalayam 166 and PN Pudur 147. A senior corporation health official, who didn’t want to be named, says, “It is a problematic area because of its dense population, and row housing and row shops culture.” Dr Raja, city health officer, says while they are tracing contacts of positive cases in the locality, there is heavy movement of asymptomatic patients who they miss out because of the dense population. “It is also a commercial hub visited by traders, buyers and workers.” Since there is no let-up in cases, health officials have decided to focus on strict implementation of mask wearing and hand sanitizing. “We can’t change work conditions or work culture at small shops. We will ask them to wear masks and work on alternate days to maintain social distancing at workplaces,” says a health department official. “We are also planning to increase bed strength and prepare for a possible spike in cases.” District collector K Rajamani says besides Selvapuram, they are also concerned about the virus spread at Karumbadai in the city’s south zone that had 155 Covid-19 cases as on August 16 and PN Pudur in the west zone, which had 148 cases as on August 14. “More fever camps will be conducted to identify asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients, give them medical care and stop them from spreading the virus further,” the collector told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/selvapuram-still-defenseless-against-virus-cluster-grows/articleshow/77683766.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Lucknow||Muharram: Online ‘majlis’ at 7 imambaras allowed in city||Lucknow: After holding several rounds of talks, the district administration on Thursday night allowed the Shia community to hold 60-minute online ‘majlis’ (sermon narrating the tragedy of Karbala) at seven imambaras of the city. The other concerns of the community and clerics regarding alleged pressure from police on small-time tazia-makers to not sell them and the absence of guidelines for ‘Ashura’, to be observed on August 30, remained unattended on Friday. The order, signed by Lucknow police commissioner Sujeet Pandey, said the permission was only for 60-minute online majlis at seven imambaras which can be attended by a cleric and five other persons. Organisers will be held responsible if Covid-19 health and safety protocols are overlooked, it added. The seven imambaras which have traditionally been holding sermons for several decades include Imambara Agha Baqar, Imambara Ghufranmaab, majlis at Shia College Nakkhas branch, Imambara Afzal Mahal, Imambara Nazim Sahab, Madrassa Nazmiya and Maqbara Saadat Ali Khan at Parivartan Chowk. The order, based on the letter from additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi, said only the seven places of worship would hold online majlis and there should be no congregational programmes. The permit categorically said there should be no communal statements and all rituals should be held within constitutional parameters. This is not the first time that online majlis is being held in Lucknow. Till last year, along with physical congregation, the proceedings were streamed online for people who could not attend the meets due to various reasons. The district administration has granted permission from the first of the Islamic month of Muharram (Friday) till the 10th of Muharram which is observed as Ashura. Muharram is marked by mourning for Imam Husain (Prophet Muhammad’s grandson) and his 72 companions who were martyed at Karbala in 680 AD. Clerics had earlier said since it was the month of mourning and not festivities, there should be special consideration on the part of district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/muharram-online-majlis-at-7-imambaras-allowed-in-city/articleshow/77684637.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Highest August rain in 9 years, orange alert in Mumbai for Saturday||MUMBAI: With moderate rain on Thursday and Friday, Santacruz observatory recorded 990.5mm rainfall this month, the highest August figure for the city in nine years. The IMD has, meanwhile, issued an orange alert (heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places) for the city, Thane and Palghar for Saturday. While Palghar’s orange alert will continue till Sunday, a yellow alert has been declared for Mumbai and Thane. Mumbai’s yellow alert is expected to continue till Monday. “Due to the influence of a low pressure area over east Madhya Pradesh and cyclonic circulation, heavy to very heavy rainfall over Konkan coast and central Maharashtra is likely for three to four days. Gusty winds are expected. A warning has been issued for fishermen along the west coast,” said Shubhangi Bhute, director, regional meteorological centre, IMD, Mumbai. Dahisar got maximum rain (103mm) on FridayIn 24 hours ending at 8.30am on Friday, Santacruz recorded 31.6mm rainfall. In the next 10 hours it recorded 45.7mm, taking the month’s total to 990.5mm, the highest August rainfall since 2010, when the city received 1,036.5mm. The all-time highest for August was 1,254mm in 1958. Colaba recorded 63.2mm rain till 8.30am on Friday and 20.6mm (15.6mm to 64.4mm is moderate) during the day, till 5.30pm. Many parts of the city received heavy to very heavy rain (6am-6pm) on Friday. Maximum rain was at Dahisar (103mm), followed by Lokhandwala (95.4mm), Malad (95mm), Navi Mumbai (83.4mm), Bandra (79mm), Goregaon (75.5mm), Bhandup (71.2mm), Worli (59.8mm), Thane (49.8mm) and Dadar (42mm). Thane-Belapur Industries Association weather station recorded 36.4mm rainfall and Dahanu observatory in Palghar district recorded 32.1mm rainfall from 8.30am to 5.30pm on Friday, IMD stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/highest-aug-rain-in-9-yrs-orange-alert-in-mumbai-today/articleshow/77685805.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
August 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Vighnaharta Ganesh arrives home to help defend against pandemic||PUNE: Citizens across the city have prepared to welcome Ganapati Bappa on Saturday morning, albeit the celebrations are expected to be quite low key. With idols delivered to homes on Friday, families and mandal members are set to conduct the installation ceremony of Ganapati idols early on Saturday morning. According to priests from the city, auspicious time for installation of idols starts at sunrise and ends around lunch time. “The most auspicious time is between 6.30am and 11.30am. Installation must be completed within this period, followed by puja and naivaidyam. If families cannot offer modak or sweets as naivaidyam, they must at least offer milk with sugar,” said Pandit Vasant Gadgil, founder of Sharada Gyanapeeth. Pandit Ashish Amdekar added, “The auspicious time lasts till 2pm for household Ganapati but there is no such muhrat for mandal Ganapati.” As the pre-installation procession stands cancelled and VIP movement has been restricted, eight prominent Ganapati mandals have decided to install idols in their own temple premises. The organizers, including those of five ‘Maanache Ganapati’, decided chairpersons or office bearers of the eight participating mandals will conduct the consecration rituals for each other’s mandals. The installation of Kasba Ganapati will be done by trustee of Dagdusheth Halwai Ganapati Trust Hemant Rasane, while chairperson of Kasba Ganapati Mandal will perform the rituals at Dagdusheth Halwai Trust’s pandal. The rituals for Tambdi Jogeshwari Ganapati are set to be performed by the chairman of Akhil Mandai Mandal, Anna Thorat while chairperson of Tambdi Jogeshwari Ganapati Rajabhau Tikar will participate in the installation the Ganapati at Akhil Mandai Ganapati. Installation of the third ‘Maanache Ganapati’ Guruji Talim Ganapati will be done by festival head of Bhau Rangari Ganapati Punit Balan. In turn, head of Guruji Talim Mandal Pravin Pardeshi will perform rituals at Bhau Rangari. Consecration of Tulshibaug Ganapati will be done by Deepak Tilak from Kesariwada while rituals for Kesariwada Ganapati will be performed by office bearers of Tulshibaug Ganapati Mandal. According to the heads of all mandals, this is the first time such a decision has been taken in 128 years of the festival being celebrated in Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vighnaharta-ganesh-arrives-home-to-help-defend-against-pandemic/articleshow/77683736.cms||Rujuta Parekh
August 22, 2020||Chennai||SHRC seeks report from collector, official on youth’s death||Chennai: State human rights commission (SHRC) has taken suo motu cognizance of a news report about the death of a second year engineering student, who drowned in a pit dug for park work in Ambattur, and has sought a detailed report from the commissioner of municipal administration and Tiruvallur district collector about it within four weeks. According to the news report, the deceased student, identified as 19-year-old Sanjay, was a resident of Gnanamoorthy Nagar near Kallikuppam in Ambattur and was pursuing engineering at a private institution. On August 4, he was hanging out with his friends at the Thaangal lake in Kallikuppam. The local body had taken up a project to build a walkway around the lake and a park. As part of the construction, several deep pits were dug around the 18-acre lake area, the news report said. Sanjay accidentally fell into a 15ft deep pit which was filled with rainwater and drowned, it said. Personnel from the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Service (TNFRS) rushed to the spot on information and a huge crowd had thronged the area as news spread. According to the news report, since the incident happened late in the evening, rescue personnel had to work under the cover of darkness and the crowd flashed lights from their mobile phones along with the focus lights used by the TNFRS personnel to aid the rescue. Sanjay’s body was fished out of the pit and was moved to a government hospital for autopsy. The Ambattur police had registered a case and are investigating whether the victim slipped and fell or if there were other circumstances which led to the death, the news report said. Taking note of it, the commission also sought a report from the deputy commissioner of police (Ambattur).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/shrc-seeks-report-from-collector-official-on-youths-death/articleshow/77683735.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Goa||AAP: Waive power bills as Chaturthi gift||Saligao: Aam Aadmi Party has urged power minister Nilesh Cabral to give a Chaturthi gift to Goans by waiving off charges of those consuming less than 400 units of electricity per month. “The lower and middle income families consuming less than 400 units a month should not be charged, while other domestic consumers should be given the facility to pay their bills in instalments,” Mario Cordeiro, AAP’s coordinator for Saligao, said. Cordeiro said that Cabral promptly acted on a memorandum AAP submitted to him regarding open street light boxes and overgrown vegetation affecting overhead electricity lines in Saligao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aap-waive-power-bills-as-chaturthi-gift/articleshow/77684658.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Appeal for Ganapati idol immersion at home||PUNE: The Pune police and Pune Municipal Corporation on Friday appealed for Ganapati idol immersion at home as suggested in a code of conduct for Ganapati mandals and citizens.  Joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve and mayor Murlidhar Mohol said there will be no large congregation or idol immersion at public places in view of Covid-19 pandemic. “We have released five video clips of actors and celebrities appealing to people to celebrate the festival at home and take preventive measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 virus,” said Shisve. He said, “We have held a series of meetings with people from all walks of life, asking them to suggest measures for celebrating in a peaceful manner. ” Mohol said, “Around 5 lakh people install Ganapati idols at home and around 25 lakh come out on streets for immersion every year. Civic and police administration this year has jointly decided to encourage people to perform idol immersion at home.” He said, “Active cases have reduced, swab testing has increased, and the situation is slowly coming under control, but there can be a sudden spurt if we don’t take precautions.” “We all need to understand our responsibilities and celebrate at home to keep our family and society safe,” he added. Around 7,000 policemen will be deployed for maintaining bandobast during the festival, said Shisve. “We will also get additional personnel from the state reserve police force, bomb detection and disposal squad, quick response team and others,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/appeal-for-ganapati-idol-immersion-at-home/articleshow/77683746.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Pune||IMD forecasts heavy spells of rain for 3-4 days in Maharashtra||PUNE: The ghats in Maharashtra recorded triple digit rain in the last 24 hours till Friday morning with Lonavla and Tamhini, among the wettest locations in country. Rainfall is likely to further increase till Saturday making it a wet weekend for most of the state. Isolated extremely heavy spells are also likely over isolated locations in Madhya Maharashtra till Saturday. As per Central Water Commission (CWC) on Friday, direct model forecasts for the next three days for river sub-basins in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra showed extremely high quantitative precipitation forecast over a few sub-basins under orange and red colour. The commission said IMD had put some areas of Konkan-Goa on a moderate to high risk on the flash flood risk outlook till Saturday. IMD officials said the well marked low pressure area over central parts of east Madhya Pradesh and its neighbourhood was very likely to move nearly westwards across west Madhya Pradesh during the next 3-4 days, while the monsoon trough is active and marginally south of its normal position. An east-west shear zone runs roughly along latitude 22°N across central India. “Under the influence of these systems, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls very likely over Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Telangana, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Rajasthan during next three to four days, while isolated extremely heavy falls are likely over Madhya Maharashtra during August 21-22,” Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD Pune, said. For Maharashtra, moderately strong westerly winds coming from the Arabian Sea are creating a convergence over Konkan-Goa and adjacent Madhya Maharashtra, aiding heavy spells of rain. The CWC also put Pune and other districts in Maharashtra along Godavari, Damanganga, Krishna rivers and tributaries on a flood alert based on IMD’s forecast. “A close watch is to be maintained in Bhandara, Gondia, Nagpur, Wardha, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli of Maharashtra. River Krishna and its tributaries such as Tungabhadra and Bhima are expected to continue rising slowly and most of the dams in the basin are expected to release considerable quantity of water due to forecasted rainfall. Almost all dams in Krishna Basin in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have reached very close to FRL. A close watch is to be maintained in districts of Pune, Satara, Kolhapur in Maharashtra, among others in other states.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/imd-forecasts-heavy-spells-of-rain-for-3-4-days-in-state/articleshow/77683763.cms||Neha Madaan
August 22, 2020||Dehradun||Hunters’ tales to regale tourists in Uttarakhand homestays||Dehradun: To boost tourism in Pauri district, the administration has decided to come up with homestays near forests and revenue lands where wildlife watchers and famed ‘leopard shooters’ like Joy Hukil will share their experiences with the tourists every evening. Pauri district magistrate Dheeraj Garbyal told TOI that the homestay will be built by the year-end and identification of land for the same is going on. “Joy Hukil is a famous shooter and brand ambassador of Pauri as he is known for killing 36 leopards, that too, without training. His experiences in the forests are awe-inspiring and will surely attract tourists interested in wildlife,” he said, adding that plans are being made to organize live ‘story sessions’ with Joy Hukil in the homestays. Khirsu is the most visited place in the Pauri district and the administration feels it has a lot of tourism potential. “People visiting Badrinath and Kedarnath also cross Pauri but people hardly know about this place much. Apart from Hukil, other famous wildlife watchers and hunters may be included in this program after taking the tourists’ feedback,” an official said. Hukil, who killed his last man-eater, a tiger, in November 2016, said he was very excited about the project. “My job is perilous. While we humans adapt to hunting, big cats are born hunters and very quick. They do their homework and carry out a recce before they strike. Leopards are intelligent and take their prey by surprise,” said Hukil, adding that they mimic voices of other animals or make strange noises to confuse their prey. “I am noting down my experiences and it will be very exciting to share them with people. We are also planning to start a leopard safari near this homestay as leopard sightings are common in Pauri Garhwal,” the hunter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hunters-tales-to-regale-tourists-in-ukhand-homestays/articleshow/77681094.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 22, 2020||Chandigarh||SYL: Hope Khattar sees Pb’s viewpoint, says Amarinder||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday expressed the hope that Haryana will see Punjab’s viewpoint on the issue of SYL canal project, given the state’s critical ground water situation. Capt Amarinder said Haryana already has more water than Punjab and will get additional 1MAF of water through the Sharda-Yamuna Link Canal project, while expressing the hope that his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar will look at the issue from a realistic perspective when they meet soon to discuss the matter. Responding to a question from a Patiala resident during #AskCaptain, Amarinder said there need to understand and adhere to international principles on water sharing, as all agreements on this precious resource have to be reviewed after 25 years. This was what he had told the Union minister and Khattar during his meeting with them earlier this week, he added. He said he told them that the Eradi Commission was 35 years old and there was need for reassessment of water availability in Punjab, which now has 109 dark blocks as a result of massive detrimental effects on its rivers due to global warning. Punjab has fed the nation and has a much larger cultivated area than Haryana, he pointed out. Haryana’s total availability of river water was 12.48 MAF while Punjab had 12.42 MAF, he said. Even though other assets were divided between the two states in 60:40 ratio at the time of Haryana’s creation, the same was not done for the Yamuna water, he said. To another question from a Tanda resident regarding steps being taken in response to the agricultural ordinances introduced by the Centre, Amarinder said his government was strongly opposed to the same and will not accept them at any cost as ordinances were aimed at shutting down FCI and eliminating the MSP regime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/syl-hope-khattar-sees-pbs-viewpoint-says-amarinder/articleshow/77684661.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Pune||Water discharge from Khadakwasla reservoir increases to 16,000 cusec||PUNE: Water discharge from Khadakwasla dam into the Mutha river increased to 16,247 cusec on Friday morning following heavy overnight showers in the catchment areas. The water discharge from Panshet dam too pushed up to 7,376 cusec, which led to huge water inflow into Khadakwasla. Panshet reported 34mm rainfall till Thursday evening and Khadakwasla reported 3mm rainfall. The water release led to increase in water levels in the Mutha river that flows through the Aundh, Baner, Wakad, Bopodi areas, among others. The collective stock in the four dams that supply water to Pune — Khadakwasla, Panshet, Varasgaon and Temghar— reached 95% (27.6 TMC). The dams have storage capacity of 29.15 TMC. Officials from the state irrigation department said they were monitoring the water levels in dams and rainfall in catchments, based on which the department was initiating the release of water from the reservoirs. An official said after Panshet and Khadakwasla, water discharge from Varasgaon was likely as storage in the dam had reached 95% on Thursday evening. “If the catchments continue to receive heavy spells, water will be discharged from Varasgaon,” the official said. Varasgaon is the largest among the four dams that supply water to Pune city, having storage capacity of over 12.5 TMC. The catchments of the dam have received over 1,700mm rainfall, so far. Besides Mutha, the water levels in the Mula river also increased on Thursday after Mulshi dam released water at 12,310 cusec. The dam reached to its full capacity on Thursday morning, which prompted the discharge at 7,300 cusec. Later, it was increased to over 12,000 cusec. Alerts were issued in low lying areas along the river in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, following the increase in water discharge. Water level in Mula-Mutha river went up after discharges were increased, however, it was below the danger mark. The other dams that released water at a higher rate on Friday included Vir (23,000 cusec) and Bhatghar (11,500 cusec). Storage in both dams has reached 100%. Storage in Pavana dam, which supplies water to Pimpri Chinchwad, increased to 7.1 TMC on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/water-discharge-from-khadakwasla-reservoir-increases-to-16000-cusec/articleshow/77683774.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 22, 2020||Goa||Wooden carvings of Ganapati a sign of deep-rooted Goan tradition||KERI: Goa has a rich tradition in wood carving. It is said that the god of wisdom and knowledge lord Ganapati inspired artisans and craftsmen to carve varied motifs showing the god. The old temple of Manguesh in Mangueshi in Ponda was known for varied forms of wooden carved motifs. The carving of Ganapati from this temple exhibits local talent. The top portion of the door of the sanctum sanctuary has the wooden carving of Ganapati. “Ganapati is considered the god that gives happiness, so carving Ganapati on the entrance door became a tradition,” said Prakash Chari, 63, from Kholpewadi-Sal. The carved motifs sometimes depict Ganesha as a four-handed god along with his mount the mouse in the blessing posture. In some cases, Ganapati is shown with his two wives, Riddhi and Siddhi. While renovating the temples of Anant in Savoi-Verem and Chandreshwar Bhoothnath on Chandranath hill, efforts were made to protect the wooden motifs and that is where art lovers can get an opportunity to see Ganapati motifs. There is a tradition of worshipping a wooden idol of Ganapati in Vaze of Shiroda among the Naik Vaidya community. The Chari community carved on teak, jackfruit, mango wood with chisels and hammers to give some of the finest specimens of artefacts. The Chitari community hailing from Verna in Salcete, migrated to Sawantwadi in Maharashtra, where they received royal patronage from erstwhile rulers of Sawantwadi. In Goa, the Chari community on account of non-availability of quality wood and lack of patronage is hardly seen practising wood carving. However, the carved motifs in temples showcase their skill. The old temple of Mallikarjun was a treasure trove of wooden carved motifs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wooden-carvings-of-ganapati-a-sign-of-deep-rooted-goan-tradition/articleshow/77684728.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
August 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Cops arrest 29-year-old man for harassing his classmate by morphing her pics||Ludhiana: Daresi police on Friday arrested a man, who allegedly stalked and harassed a 29-year-old woman by morphing her pictures and uploading on the social media. The accused had also published morphed pictures of the woman and him in different newspapers as ‘anniversary advertisements’. The 29-year-old accused of Daresi area was booked twice for stalking and harassment, once in June 2019 and then again in December 2019. In June, he was arrested too, however he came out on bail soon and started to harass the woman again. The woman and the accused were classmates in school and were friends, too. Complainant stated that the accused has been harassing her since the beginning of 2019. The accused has taken her pictures without her permission and is using it inappropriately. The woman said the accused forced her to have sex with him and when she refused, he circulated morphed pictures on the social media. He has made fake profiles on her name in various social media platforms and uploaded her morphed pictures with lewd comments on it. An FIR was registered against the accused on June 7, 2019. The woman alleged that after coming out on bail, the accused again started harassing her. Following which she filed a complaint to the commissioner of police on July 5, 2019. After that the accused took out an anniversary advertisement, with their pictures, in different newspapers, claiming her to be his wife. The inquiry was then marked to the cyber cell of Ludhiana police. After investigation by the cyber cell, the police booked him again in December 2019, under sections 354-D, 503 (criminal intimidation), 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman), 384 (punishment of extortion), 511 (attempt to commit an offence) IPC, and IT Act. Assistant commissioner of police, north, Gurbinder Singh said the accused had applied for a bail in Punjab & Haryana high court, which was rejected by the court. The police on Friday have arrested the accused, who is unemployed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-arrest-29-year-old-man-for-harassing-his-classmate-by-morphing-her-pics/articleshow/77684660.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Agra||Covid-19 +ve TB patient dies in Agra, 101 new cases in Bareilly||Agra/Bareilly: A 64-year-old patient of tuberculosis who tested positive for Covid-19 and was undergoing treatment at SN Medical College in Agra died on Friday. He was a resident of the Hariparwat locality and died due to co-morbid condition. So far, 104 people have died in Agra district. Moreover, at least 24 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in the district on Friday, taking the district tally to 2,445. The patients included three suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, two of influenza-like illness, two of SARI, a patient of coronary artery infection and a kidney patient. Also, 34 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Friday. Of the 2,445 cases, 84.6% have been declared "cured and discharged", and 271 are active. In Bareilly, at least 101 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported on Friday while one person succumbed to the deadly virus. Meanwhile, 76 more Covid cases were reported from Meerut on Friday, taking the tally to 3,133. Two health workers were among those infected, said Meerut's chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-19-ve-tb-patient-dies-in-agra-101-new-cases-in-bareilly/articleshow/77681107.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University admission tests to be held from September 6-11||NEW DELHI: With the Delhi University’s entrance test for admission to 10 undergraduate and 86 masters and MPhil/PhD programmes scheduled to begin on September 6, students are a worried lot. Many of them have raised concerns that amidst the raging Covid epidemic, if they miss out on these exams, they might lose an academic year. The computer-based entrance exams, which are conducted by National Testing Agency, will begin on September 6 and end on September 11. They will be held in three slots, starting from 8am at 24 centres across the country. A total of 1.47 lakh students have applied for the masters courses while 21,699 are vying for the MPhil/PhD programmes. The undergraduate entrance exams are being held for three management courses, journalism, education and a few specialised programmes. Mostly, students who couldn’t score above 90% in the Class XII board exams have applied for such courses. Siddhant Chohan, an aspirant for MA (social work), said, “The very thought of sitting for an entrance exam in this weather wearing a mask and gloves for two hours is taxing.” Students are also worried about travel restrictions and accommodation as hotels still continue to remain shut at many places. The centres are located in select cities. For instance, in Uttar Pradesh, the centres are located only in Varanasi. Clashing of entrance exam dates is another worry for the aspirants. DU’s joint admission test for management courses is scheduled on the same day as Common Law Admission Test (CLAT). “I have applied for CLAT, JAT and a course at IIM-Indore. All the entrance exams are scheduled for September 7. I’m in a quandary as to which one I should appear for. I wish the authorities had decided on the schedule after coordinating with each other,” said a student. A few DU students also raised concerns about giving the entrance exams of masters courses as their final year undergraduate exam in pen-paper mode was scheduled for later, on September 14. “I could not give the online open book examinations. I don’t know if I’ll be eligible to give the entrance exam for a masters course as I’ll still not have given my undergraduate final year exam. I hope the university issues a circular and provides some clarification on this issue,” said Dhiren Shah, a final-year political science student. With NTA also issuing a schedule for JEE, NEET and other university exams, students protested against the decision on Twitter with the hashtag #ProtestAgainstExamsinCovid. Earlier, the students had moved Supreme Court for postponing the exam but the petition was dismissed. JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh said, “The government has completely disregarded the demands of students though they highlighted their grievances. How are students affected by Covid or floods supposed to sit for the exams?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/entrance-exams-for-higher-studies-a-worry-for-aspirants/articleshow/77683814.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Vadodara||Positivity rate further down despite high testing||VADODARA: For the second consecutive day, over 2,000 Covid-19 samples were tested in Vadodara city and district. From 2,227 samples tested since Thursday evening – the highest so far – 114 samples were found positive. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) and district administration are pinning their hopes on the fact that the number of positive cases has not increased in proportion to the testing. On the contrary, higher testing is pushing the positivity rate low. Against 5.3% samples being found positive on Thursday, the rate on Friday was 5.1%. With the new cases, the total number of positive cases in the city reported so far went up to 6,876. The VMC also confirmed one more death, taking the total number of deaths due to Covid-19 being the primary reason up to 127. This does not include deaths of Covid-19 positive patients who died due to some other disease or comorbid conditions as the primary reason. The new cases included 31 from the south zone of the VMC, 19 from the west zone, 18 from the east zone and 14 from the north zone. The rural areas of the district outside the VMC limits reported 32 Covid-19 cases from Undera, Koyali, Padamla, Shinor, Desar, Savli, Dabhoi, Karjan and Padra. As many as 82 persons were discharged from various hospitals and home isolation in the city. With these, the total number of patients who have recovered went up to 5,479. As many as 1,270 persons remained hospitalised including 54 on BIPAP machines and ventilators as well as 153 on oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/positivity-rate-further-down-despite-high-testing/articleshow/77682280.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Agra||Half of Agra city will get no water supply for 24 hrs||Agra: Water supply in half of the city will remain affected between 9 am on Monday and 9 am on Tuesday due to work on connecting the underground reservoir of the Shahaganj zonal pumping station with the main feeder line of the water works station. As a result,10 water pumping stations connected to the Sikandra waterworks station will not get any supply for 24 hours. Jal Nigam has appealed to citizens to store water for the period. Officials said arrangements are being made to supply water tanks in various areas during the shutdown.RK Gupta, Jal Nigam (Gangajal unit) project manager, said, “A 4,300 kilolitre-capacity underground water reservoir has been constructed at the Shahganj water pumping station. The reservoir will be connected to the main supply line. To do the required work, a 24-hour water supply shutdown is planned from the Sikandra water works station.” During the shutdown, there will no supply in Lohamandi, Shahganj, Bodla, Halwai ki Baghichi, Lawyers colony, Surya Nagar, Nirbhaya nagar, Sanjay Place and Wazirpura among other localities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/half-of-agra-city-will-get-no-water-supply-for-24-hrs/articleshow/77681133.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Chennai||Madras has many firsts in financial institutions||Chennai: For a city that’s less than two decades short of 400 years old, Madras or Chennai has had a long history of industry and commerce. Established on August 22, 1639, its lineage in financial services dates to the Pallava era when temples like Thiyagarajaswamy temple in Thiruvottiyur would accept endowments and invest them through the Chettiyar community for interest. In ‘Madras: A Historical Fin City’, a web-talk organised by the Madras Chamber of Commerce & Industry (MCCI) in commemoration of Madras Day, city historian and businessman V Sriram talked about how some of Indian industry’s first financial concepts took root in erstwhile Madras. “The first joint stock company, the first modern commodities exchange, the first modern bank, first bank for Indians and first cooperative bank were all ideas that came from Madras,” he said. Part of the city’s financial roots go back to when dubashes’ (interpreters) worked with the Dutch and Portuguese and later with the English. “The dubashes were not only interpreters but also offered financial services like raising money, arbitrage and taking forward positions on the cloth trade,” said Sriram. The most important were people like Pachiyappa Mudaliar who worked with the East India Company and Ananda Ranga Pillai who worked with Dupleix, Governor of French Pondicherry. The dubashes formed a joint stock company for cloth trade as early as the 1670s — the earliest instance of a corporate body in India. Later, the first modern commodities exchange and the first modern bank (Bank of Madras) came up. The city also birthed India’s first cooperative bank in 1906 – the Madras Urban Cooperative Bank. One of 19th century’s biggest scams was also in the city when the Nawab of Arcot’s appetite for loans fuelled a lending bubble. “Everybody formed agency houses which collected money and loaned to the Nawab from 1780s to early 1800,” said Sriram. That roster included some of the city’s most iconic businessmen – Thomas Parry of Parry & Co and John Binny of Binny & Co. “British parliamentarian Edmund Burke also wanted to invest but was rebuffed after which he turned whistleblower and burst the bubble,” said Sriram. “The enquiry commission rendered many people insolvent and the Nawab lost his kingdom.” Given its financial lineage, the MCCI has taken up the initiative to make Chennai the next financial hub and a core team is working on a fin-tech policy for the TN government, said Srivats Ram, vice-president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/madras-has-many-firsts-in-financial-institutions/articleshow/77683795.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
August 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Priests take the online route to perform rituals||PUNE: The fear of Covid-19 has spurred many purohits from the city to go online to conduct rituals for installation of Ganapati instead of visiting homes. The priests plan to use an assortment of social media platforms, including YouTube, Facebook and WhatsApp, to perform rituals on Saturday and the following days. Several priests have already uploaded videos of the rituals to be performed during consecration along with various chants and aarti on YouTube for the benefit of citizens. Founder of Sharada Dnyanapeeth Pandit Vasant Gadgil said, “We have uploaded an hourlong video on YouTube in which I have provided all instructions on performing the rituals and chanting of mantra by me for the installation. I have followed the traditional rituals and the entire ceremony should take an hour. Citizens need not have to wait for a priest to come home to perform rituals in these times of Covid-19.” Purohit Raviraj Kshirsagar plans to do a Facebook Live session from home. “I will be starting a Facebook Live session at 10.20am and anyone who finds that time convenient can log in and perform the rituals by following what I do. I shared the link of the live session with people I know on Friday evening so that they can log in at the right time,” he said. Purohit Ashish Amdekar said, “I will be visiting families for installation rituals but I have limited the number of homes I visit. I am only going to go to houses of people, for whom I have been performing the rituals for many years. I have refused to perform the rituals at any other households this year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/priests-take-the-online-route-to-perform-rituals/articleshow/77683782.cms||Rujuta Parekh
August 22, 2020||Lucknow||Single digital platform for flagship schemes in UP||LUCKNOW: In a big digital leap, the state government is set to create a common database of beneficiaries of various government-run schemes and bring them on a single platform. The exercise will help assess the reach and penetration of Central and state flagship schemes in India’s most populous state, ahead of 2022 assembly elections. The pilot project for preparing a common database will be launched in five districts of Gorakhpur, Moradabad, Sonbhadra, Chitrakoot and Shravasti. Sources further said, these districts straddling far-flung corners of the state would help get an overview of the extent of beneficiary schemes. While Gorakhpur and Shravasti are in the socio-economically backward eastern UP region, Moradabad is in the western flank and Sonebhadra and Chitrakoot are in the Vindhya and Bundelkhand regions respectively. The state government’s people-centric schemes have been BJP government’s fulcrum for launching a outreach to various sections of society. In a circular issued by the planning department on August 14, it was decided a 12-member committee headed by additional chief secretary (planning) would invite an expression of interest and select agencies to execute the project in five cities. The committee with members from departments of finance, law and food and civil supplies, would be tasked to come up with a concept proof before selecting agencies. The final call would be taken by chief minister Yogi Adityanath before the state government kicks off the project. The move follows the CM’s directive to digitise and validate Aadhar cards of beneficiaries for various government schemes. Also, the state government decided not to exclude those who do not have Aadhaar cards. UP chief secretary RK Tewari has also called for a drive to ensure that Aadhaar cards are issued to all. A parallel drive will also be launched to eliminate duplicate Aadhar cards before notifying various schemes under which a family is covered in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/single-digital-platform-for-flagship-schemes-in-state/articleshow/77684671.cms||Pankaj Shah
August 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana records highest single-day spike of 1,203||Chandigarh: In a highest-single day spike in Covid-19 cases in Haryana, 1,203 persons tested positive on Friday, while seven succumbed to the virus, raising the tally to 52,129 cases and 585 deaths in the state. Meanwhile, 620 patients recovered, raising the recovery count to 43,413 and recovery rate to 83.28% while the rate of doubling of infections was 33 days. There are now 8,131 active cases in the state. Of the seven fatalities, two were from Kurukshetra and one each from Bhiwani, Palwal, Karnal, Panipat and Faridabad. Among the districts, Panipat reported the most fresh cases (132), followed by Faridabad (127), Gurugram (120), Rewari (118), Ambala (98), Karnal (73), Rohtak (65), Kurukshetra (63), Yamunanagar (58), Mahendragarh (58), Hisar (56), Sirsa (48), Sonipat (46), Panchkula (43), Bhiwani (24), Fatehabad (21), Palwal (19), Kaithal (14), Jhajjar (12), Nuh (9), and Jind (6). A total of 9,56,568 people have been tested for Covid-19 so far in the state, while 91,297 have completed their quarantine period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-1203/articleshow/77684680.cms||Manvir Saini
August 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris logs 46 Covid-19 cases||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district recorded 46 new cases of novel coronavirus on Friday, even as the toll touched five, with one more death. While the district has logged 1,220 Covid-19 cases so far, only 232 are active. The new cases were spread across Ooty, Coonoor, Wellington, Kotagiri, Gudalur and Pandalur. Eleven cases were from other districts. According to health officials, they would be cross-notified to their home districts. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-logs-46-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77683797.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Shimla||Himachal reports 2 more fatalities, 190 cases||Shimla: Two more people died of Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Friday, with which the state recorded six of its total 23 coronavirus fatalities in just three days. Both deceased are from Chamba. The state also reported 190 new cases, while 149 patients recovered from the virus. With this, the number of cases in the state reached 4,728, of which 1,422 are active, 3,234 patients have recovered, 23 have died and 47 have migrated out of state. Chamba chief medical officer Dr Rajesh Guleri said the deceased patients included a 58-year-old woman from Saher Chini (Chamesani) and an 84-year-old man from Bagdhar Sanotinear Banikhet. Among the new cases, 80 were from Solan district, 32 from Chamba, 23 from Sirmaur, 13 from Kangra, 10 from Bilaspur, eight each from Hamirpur, Una and Mandi, seven from Shimla, and one from Kullu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-reports-2-more-fatalities-190-cases/articleshow/77684710.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab MLAs, officials to undergo virus test before entering assembly||Chandigarh: Taking a cue from Haryana, Punjab too has decided to make a negative Covid report mandatory for those attending the forthcoming one-day session of Punjab assembly scheduled for August 28. The Punjab Vidhan Sabha secretariat has written to the state chief secretary that speaker Rana KP Singh had decided that a negative Covid report, obtained after getting the test conducted between August 25 and 27, will be mandatory for ministers, MLAs and officials attending the session. For this, the state health department has been asked to coordinate with deputy commissions for conducting the tests of members of the House wherever they are in the state during these two days. If an MLA is not in his constituency, he will be given the option to get the test done at the MLAs hotel, where special arrangements will be made. Also, the health department will hold a camp in the assembly secretariat for the convenience of officials and employees who will be attending the monsoon session. The vidhan sabha will convene on August 28 for a one-day constitutionally mandated session, for the first time since the Covid pandemic broke out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-mlas-officials-to-undergo-virus-test-before-entering-assembly/articleshow/77684715.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Citizens want Swachh survey ranking to reflect on ground||PUNE: While the city may have climbed 22 places to bag 15th position in the latest Swachh survey, activists and residents remain underwhelmed with the results — stating the much-touted efforts of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had no impact on the grassroot-level. The PMC found its way back among the top 20 clean cities in the country this year, implying the survey assessors found significant improvements across a range of criteria, compared to last year when the city was 37th. However, residents and civic activists said the cleanliness metric of any survey often focuses on visibly clean principal streets and thoroughfares. Residents of Salunke Vihar, NIBM Road, parts of Hadapsar, Kharadi and northern fringes of the city such as Dhanori, Lohegaon and Vishrantwadi said the waste that often gathers by the roadside, or even dumped at open grounds, remained there for months. “I have got reports of garbage piling or illegal waste dumping from many parts of the city. People at the grassroots are trying their best to address these issues, but the authorities are rarely cooperative,” Satish Khot, an activist with National Society for Clean Cities, said. “Some parameters in the survey needs to be questioned. Issues and concerns of waste-pickers must be addressed,” said Lakshmi Narayan, co-founder of solid waste collection and handling (SWaCH) collective. The PMC said, “No city in the country can match our solid waste management efforts. There are issues in fringe areas, such as Uruli Devachi and Phursungi, where waste generated— amounting to about 80 to 100 metric tonnes per day — cannot be processed. But, we are setting up a plant there,” Dnyaneshwar Molak, in-charge of the PMC’s solid waste management department, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citizens-want-swachh-survey-ranking-to-reflect-on-ground/articleshow/77683801.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
August 22, 2020||Goa||Margao fish mkt ordered to be shut||Margao: The wholesale fish market at Margao run by the South Goa Planning and Development Authority (SGPDA) has been ordered to be shut following detection of Covid cases in the market’s fish cutter shed. SGPDA member secretary Vertika Dagur, in a notice issued on Friday, issued directions for closure with immediate effect until August 24. Earlier this week, Dagur had issued a show cause notice to the South Goa wholesale fish traders’ association for violating the conditions set out by it for reopening the market last month. In the notice, it was pointed out that the members of the association, who are fish sellers, failed to maintain social distancing in the market, and no provisions have been made for use of sanitisers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/margao-fish-mkt-ordered-to-be-shut/articleshow/77684756.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Goa||Loliem’s power woes set to end||Poinguinim: The twin villages of Loliem-Polem in Canacona taluka, which have been grappling with power cuts over the past months, will now receive uninterrupted electricity supply. Work on connecting the 11kV line of the Loliem feeder at Mashem was finally completed on Tuesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/loliems-power-woes-set-to-end/articleshow/77684730.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Mumbai||MIAL ownership structure likely to change soon with Adani landing||NEW DELHI: The ownership structure of Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) may soon undergo a major shift with Adani Group making its long-eyed entry into India’s second busiest airport. At present, debt-laden GVK Group owns 50.5%, followed by 26% by Airports Authority of India (AAI) and 23.5% by South African companies Bidvest (13.5%) and Airports Company South Africe (ACSA, 10%). Billionaire Gautam Adani’s Adani Enterprises Ltd (AEL) is “evaluating” MIAL and is considering buying a controlling stake (51%) in MIAL by picking up from stakes from three (other than AAI) owners. Adani and GVK did not comment on the issue. Sources said an announcement could be made soon. In the past two years, Adani Group had been trying to buy out stakes of the South African companies but it was challenged legally by GVK. Last October, to ring fence itself from Adani’s takeover, GVK secured funding for over Rs 7,600 crore for its airport-holding company by signing binding agreements with Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, Public Sector Pension Investment Board and National Investment and Infrastructure Fund. But this funding has not yet come. Financial closure for building the Rs 17,000-crore Navi Mumbai airport, which GVK won, is being negotiated, now with SBI. While financial troubles for the highly-leveraged GVK kept mounting, drying up of airport revenue during the corona pandemic dealt a body blow. In the last few months, their legal challenges increased with CBI and ED probing some aspects of Mumbai Airport. The group has been trying to retain control of Mumbai airport. Over three years back it sold its entire 43% stake in Bengaluru airport to Prem Watsa’s Fairfax Holdings to trim mounting debt. The Rs 7,600-crore funding secured last October by GVK Airport Developers Ltd (GVKADL) that has not yet come was to be used by GVK to “primarily retire debt obligations of its holding companies significantly and fund purchase of additional shares in MIAL by GVK Airport Holdings Ltd from Bidvest and ACSA in accordance with right of first offer exercised by GVKAHL”. But given mounting challenges, it remains to be seen if GVK can stop an Adani landing at MIAL now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mial-ownership-structure-likely-to-change-soon-with-adani-landing/articleshow/77683961.cms||Saurabh Sinha
August 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: PIL seeks real cause of lion deaths||AHMEDABAD: A PIL in the Gujarat high court seeks directions to the state forest department to declare the true reasons for the death of numerous Asiatic lions in Gir and demands transparency in the vaccination programme that it claimed is under way after import of more than 1,000 doses of vaccine for Canine Distemper Virus (CDV). The PIL has been filed by one Varjang Karamta from Maliya Hatina taluka raising the question that while the forest officials deny CDV as the cause of the recent lion deaths, what was the requirement of importing vaccine for CDV from America and launching a vaccination programme in and around the Gir sanctuary. The petitioner has contended that since Gir is the last abode of the Asiatic lions, the animal is a prized possession of Gujarat. There should be transparency in the ambitious lion conservation programme. But the forest officials’ statements appear to be contradictory with regard to the cause of lion deaths. This requires proper supervision by a committee of experts. It requires an investigation to find out the reasons, because the forest officials come up with a stereotype answer that the deaths are caused due to infighting. The PIL alleges that the number of veterinary doctors in Gir is inadequate and the vaccination is being carried out by low-rung forest officials in absence of experts. Various viral videos of such vaccinations show that such a practice may prove harmful for the animal. Karamta has urged the HC to direct the authorities to declare their stand on the lion conservation project and to clarify whether lion deaths occurred due to CDV. He has demanded that details with regard to measures undertaken to conserve the lions and causes of deaths be placed on the official portal for public knowledge. The PIL may come up for hearing next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pil-seeks-real-cause-of-lion-deaths/articleshow/77683729.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Woman, 2 lovers and near-perfect murder||NEW DELHI: What was initially considered a man’s death by suicide has now turned out to be a murder. The mysterious death was solved with the arrest of the man’s wife and her two boyfriends. A probe has revealed that the woman, Priyanka, conspired to kill her husband, Krishan Tyagi (50), when she came to know that he was much older than what he had claimed before their marriage. She cooked up the story that her husband had killed himself because of depression. The accused first strangled Tyagi with a chunni and then hanged his body from a ceiling fan to make it look like suicide. Their plot was busted when the woman started behaving in a suspicious manner during his funeral. DCP (Rohini) PK Mishra said that Tyagi was taken to a government hospital near Budh Vihar on August 18 where he was declared dead. When his family members reached the hospital, Priyanka told them that he had fallen sick the previous night due to food poisoning, which led to his death. However, when doctors discovered ligature marks on his throat, Priyanka pretended to break down and claimed that he had killed himself and she didn’t reveal this to her in-laws out of fear. In the meanwhile, Tyagi’s family lodged a complaint at Budh Vihar police station. An initial probe revealed that a man named Karan had been staying with Priyanka at the couple’s house in Rohini. She had introduced him as a relative, but he had gone missing since the incident. “We found the woman’s behaviour unusual as she wasn’t showing the general conduct of a widow. When we questioned her, she broke down and confessed to making the plan of killing the man with the help of Karan and his elder brother Veeru Burma. She said she had married Tyagi after being pressured by her parents,” said Mishra. Later, she learnt that she was more than 20 years younger than Tyagi. She then decided to kill him and usurp his property. In the meantime, her sister introduced her to Burma. The two started having an affair. After a few years, she met his brother, Karan, and fell for him. She asked Karan to live with her in Delhi and introduced him as a relative. After getting information from Priyanka, police tracked down Karan at his village near Moradabad. A case of murder has been registered against the trio and a manhunt is on to nab Burma. Watch Delhi: Woman kills husband with help of her 2 boyfriends||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/woman-2-lovers-near-perfect-murder/articleshow/77683858.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Goa||Flower vendors of Panaji market choose safety, say no to allocated space||PANAJI: Flower vendors continued to operate from inside the Panaji municipal market complex throwing the arrangements made by the Corporation of the City of Panaji’s (CCP) to the winds. CCP had arranged for the fair to happen outside the market complex. The sale of fresh flowers on the eve of Ganesh Chaturthi attracted a crowd and business was conducted under the watchful eye of CCP inspectors who urged buyers to maintain social distancing. “Selling the flowers in the heavy rain would’ve been risky for our health. It is only due to the pandemic that we have refused to sit outside the complex. Buyers are being responsible in their interaction with us so it’s safer for everyone to operate from inside,” one of the vendors said. The fruit, vegetable and flower vendors who occupy businesses inside the Panaji municipal market complex were reluctant to occupy spaces allotted to them outside the building on Thursday for the three-day Ganesh Chaturthi bazaar. Due to the pandemic, they were worried that selling their produce in the open while it continued raining heavily could get them sick, besides the fear of contracting dengue and malaria. On Friday, some fruit and vegetable vendors camped outside at the space designated to them by the CCP, while others continued to operate from inside the market complex. The flower vendors however did not budge and continued to sell their produce from inside the building. Sources said that the flower vendors were backed by the market association members and the Goa Pradesh Mahila Congress president Pratima Coutinho who demanded that the vendors' safety be prioritised. “While I’m thankful to the mayor for hearing my plea and allowing local flower vendors to sit inside the complex, the CCP must not play with the lives of local vendors. Even the blame games must stop. Previously, there have been many Covid-19 cases detected in the Panaji market after which market areas were sanitised by the CCP,” Coutinho said. After the CCP reversed its decision and allowed flower vendors to sit inside the complex, Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said if anything goes wrong, Coutinho and the market association members would be responsible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/flower-vendors-of-panaji-mkt-choose-safety-say-no-to-allocated-space/articleshow/77684773.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Deoria BJP MLA came to attend House session, dies||LUCKNOW/GORAKHPUR: BJP MLA from Deoria Sadar Janmejai Singh died after suffering a massive heart attack late Thursday night. He was 75. Singh had come to Lucknow to attend the monsoon session of the assembly. On the first day of the session, he attended proceedings through video conferencing, but evening he took ill and was rushed to Civil Hospital, where he underwent a Covid test. He tested negative, but when his condition deteriorated, he was shifted to the cardiology unit of Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, where he died during treatment. Four months ago, he had suffered a minor cardiac attack. On Friday, his body was taken to his native village in Devgaon, Deoria, and his last rites were performed at Muktidham at Badhalganj area of Gorakhpur. Nathu Singh, eldest son of Janmejai Singh, said his father developed health complications and died during pacemaker implant. Deoria district magistrate Amit Kishore, SP Sripati Mishra, MP Ramapati Ram Tripathi, BJP’s district unit president Antaryami Singh and former MLA Ravidra Pratap Mall reached Singh’s village to pay homage. ‘A true well-wisher of people’, CM condoles Singh’s death Chief minister Yogi Adityanath condoled the death of BJP MLA Janmejai Singh and termed him a devoted public figure, who worked for the development of his constituency. “He would work for the poor and weaker sections of society. In his death, the party lost a dedicated worker and the people a true well-wisher,” the CM said in a statement. State BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh also condoled Singh’s death, saying the party has lost a popular leader. Meanwhile, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav expressed grief and prayed for peace to departed soul and strength to his family to bear the pain and loss. In a first, House to meet on Saturday In an unprecedented move, the state assembly will meet on Saturday after the second day of monsoon session was adjourned after condoling the death of Deoria MLA Janemjai Singh, who passed away late Thursday.Addressing the house on Friday, CM Yogi Adityanath said Singh’s death was an irreparable loss to BJP. Leader of Opposition Shailendra Singh Lalai said Singh epitomised humility. BSP legislative party leader Lalji Verma, Congress MLA Aradhana Mishra, SBSP chief Om Prakash Rajbhar and Apna Dal MLA Neel Ratan Patel also paid tributes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/deoria-bjp-mla-came-to-attend-house-session-dies/articleshow/77684769.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Oza says sorry to high court again||Ahmedabad: The president of the Gujarat High Court Advocates Association, Yatin Oza, tendered an unconditional apology to the high court and requested it to drop contempt of court proceedings against him, which were initiated in June for his calling the high court a ‘gambling den’. The HC withdrew Oza’s designation of senior advocate while instituting criminal contempt of court proceedings against him for his remarks about the HC’s functioning during a press conference on June 5. Oza had already said sorry to the full court, but his apology was rejected last month with the observation, “Mr Oza should not be permitted to adopt the policy of ‘slap, say sorry and forget’.” The HC’s remark came after listing Oza’s earlier brushes with the judiciary when he had tendered unconditional apologies in the past. However, after Oza approached the Supreme Court against his losing the status of senior advocate and tendered an unconditional apology, the apex court asked him to try his luck again with the high court, which is also asked to reconsider its decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/oza-says-sorry-to-high-court-again/articleshow/77552893.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Goa||Repatriation flight from London lands with 235 Indians||Panaji: A chartered repatriation flight from London brought 235 stranded Indians back from the UK, while 96 passengers flew back to London. The repatriation flight, the 33rd so far to land at Goa International Airport, was arranged by a team in the UK. The flight, which was originally scheduled to arrive on August 15, but was postponed due to additional safety compliances sought by aviation authorities. Airports Authority of India ensured a seamless process for the disembarkation and boarding of the passengers with the arriving passengers being subjected to screening before being permitted to head home. “The 46th relief flight took off from Goa airport, which departed for London with 89 adults and seven infants,” said airport director Gagan Malik. “The repatriation flight brought in 234 adults and one infant. So far 33 repatriation flights have been served by Goa airport.” The flight departed from London’s Heathrow Airport on August 20 and on its journey back, along with the passengers, it also took 7.8 tonnes of readymade garments. A special SpiceJet cargo flight from Dhaka had brought in 521 boxes of the garments which were meant to be flown to London. “I would like to thank the team at Goa airport for the excellent support of getting all our passengers out within an hour and a half,” said Jude Pereira, one of the organisers of the chartered flight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/repatriation-flight-from-london-lands-with-235-indians/articleshow/77684764.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Kolhapur||500 more oxygen beds for Kolhapur dist||Kolhapur: Guardian minister Satej Patil on Friday said that Kolhapur district will have 500 additional oxygen beds by the end of August in view of the increasing number of Covid-19 patients. Talking to TOI, Patil said that the situation in the district is quite serious as a large number of patients are being traced out every day. He attributed the current situation to the large influx of people from affected places. Patil said that around 3.50 lakh people, who are natives of Kolhapur district, had come back to their home towns in the last three months, thus spreading infection in the community. He said that the situation became serious after the third lockdown when people returned to their respective native places. Patil said that he had asked health minister Rajesh Tope for additional health staff as the current staff was inadequate to handle the crisis. “We have published advertisements for medical staff with good salaries but are not getting any response,” the minister said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/500-more-oxygen-beds-for-kolhapur-dist/articleshow/77551543.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Business||FB denounces hate & bigotry in any form: Co’s India chief||NEW DELHI: Ahead of a crucial hearing of a parliamentary committee, Facebook has denied charges of political bias against its employees in India. Reacting to Wall Street Journal’s recent report that caused a storm of controversy, FB India MD Ajit Mohan also said that the company denounces hate and bigotry in any form. “Our aim is to be an ally for India where our platforms preserve the pluralistic character of a democracy by offering the freedom for people to express themselves and for entrepreneurs to build new things while also protecting society from broader harm,” he wrote in a blog on Friday. Mohan mentioned the steps FB has taken to ensure strict enforcement of its policies, including those that cover hate speech. “We enforce these policies globally without regard to anyone’s political position, party affiliation or religious and cultural belief,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fb-denounces-hate-bigotry-in-any-form-cos-india-chief/articleshow/77685757.cms||Anam Ajmal
August 22, 2020||Vadodara||‘Take failures in your stride just like success’||VADODARA: ‘Excellence ke peeche bhaago, kamiyabi jhak maar ke peeche aayegi’ — a life building advice that young cricketers received early on Friday morning when Bollywood actor Boman Irani delivered budding players and coaches in the city some invaluable key life lessons. Quoting a line picked from the blockbuster movie ‘Three Idiots’, Irani urged the attendees to be happy in what they achieve and keep balance over emotions. The Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) had organized an online session of Irani with the cricketers to ensure that they handled pressure well in their cricketing career. The session was especially called after 27-year-old Mumbai cricketer, Karan Tiwari, took his own life out of frustration at not being able to make it out in the big circuit Indian Premier League (IPL) as well as for lack of opportunities. The actor who had to struggle a lot himself before making it big on the silver screen, told cricketers not to lose heart and not to stop making efforts. “The actor told the youngsters to keep their spirits and focus high. He said that to succeed one should believe in himself. Irani said that the cricketers should prepare themselves for success but also be ready for failure,” Shishir Hattangadi, BCA’s CEO told TOI. The hour-long talk also had an interactive session where the actor not only batted questions on even extreme need for parental support but also delivered advises on how to stay calm, happy and resolute in their determination to play. Over 350 junior and senior cricketers as well as coaches attended the session that gave a perspective to the players.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/take-failures-in-your-stride-just-like-success/articleshow/77682449.cms||Tushar Tere
August 22, 2020||Trichy||In U-turn, Trichy corpn allows meat stalls to open today||Trichy: The Trichy Corporation has backtracked on a circular issued by it on August 18 stating that meat stalls across the city would remain shut on Vinayaka Chaturthi. The corporation on Friday clarified that meat stalls can function as usual on Saturday. The decision comes after outrage from a section of people calling the move draconian that curbs the rights of people. In its circular, the civic body stated that two slaughterhouses in G Corner and Gandhi market will remain closed, and erring meat outlets doing business will be penalised. This caused an uproar as there is complete lockdown on Sundays and people buy meat on Saturday. “The ambiguity in sharing information will make people not to abide by such orders of the corporation in future. Already, meat shops are not taking orders of the civic body seriously,” K C Neelamegam, state advisor, Makkal Sakthi Iyakkam said. As the status of slaughterhouses was not mentioned in the revised circular, officials told TOI that only meat shops will be permitted on Saturday. The decision has left meat stall owners in a fix since slaughtering animals within the stalls will attract a penalty. “Slaughterhouses will remain closed but meat shops can function on Saturday,” corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/in-u-turn-trichy-corpn-allows-meat-stalls-to-open-today/articleshow/77684724.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Goa||Short of trained nurses in ICU, Goa to hire more, says Vishwajit Rane||PANAJI: The government has decided to recruit more nursing staff in the face of shortage felt in intensive care units for Covid patients. Experienced nurses will be posted in the high dependency unit of the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim that has been created for treating high-risk patients. “We need additional staff in the intensive care unit (ICU) for Covid patient management. At the earliest, the proposal will be sent for the chief minister’s approval,” said health minister Vishwajit Rane. The plan is to have one nurse deployed who will look after three to four patients. “Though more staff were recruited recently, it is still not sufficient. We are falling short of ICU trained nurses,” he said. Meanwhile, the three wards of GMC – 145, 146 and 147 – created for high-risk Covid patients will be commissioned on Monday, said the health minister. “Patients in these three wards will be admitted from Monday, while the post-operative ward for Covid patients was commissioned on Friday,” he said. He said oxygen consumption has risen due to Covid-19 and hence one more agency will be taken on board for supplying oxygen cylinders.  Visitors to the wards will be issued passes and the GMC dean will implement it from Monday. “The system followed in the Covid hospitals for allowing visitors will be implemented in GMC as well,” he said. The GMC dean will hold a meeting on Monday of the heads of departments and halt non-essential services in the hospital. The staff of those departments will be deployed for Covid duties. “Only essential services will be continued,” he said. In view of the spike, he also appealed to people to celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi on a personal level and by taking all precautions against the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/short-of-trained-nurses-in-icu-state-to-hire-more-says-rane/articleshow/77684787.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Goa||Goa: 20 secretariat staffers test positive for virus||PANAJI: More than 20 staffers of the secretariat, including senior officers, have tested positive for Covid-19. With cases of Covid-19 rising in the secretariat, a senior official said it was suggested that only essential meetings be conducted. “Employees are apprehensive that the secretariat may turn out to be a new hotspot,” he said. He said after the first case of Covid-19 was detected in the general administration department (GAD), cases have been reported from other sections as well. Confirming that some secretariat staff have tested positive, health minister Vishwajit Rane on Friday said that more tests can be conducted there. On Wednesday, secretariat staff had staged a protest stating they were asked to report to work in full strength even as cases have increased in the complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/20-secretariat-staffers-test-positive-for-virus/articleshow/77684781.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Coimbatore||NGT seeks report on quarry abandoned in Masinagudi||Udhagamandalam: National Green Tribunal (NGT) has sought a report from the Nilgiris district administration in connection with an abandoned quarry filled with garbage, mostly chicken waste, posing threat to wild animals in Masinagudi near Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) in the Nilgiris. According to officials, a report by the district administration will be submitted to NGT soon. In this connection, a team, headed by the Nilgiris collector, comprising the field director of MTR, deputy director of MTR-buffer zone, deputy engineer of pollution control board was formed. The NGT summoned the team members for a report in this regard early this year. According to L C S Srikanth, deputy director, MTR-buffer zone, an interim report was submitted to the NGT last March by the deputy engineer, pollution control board, who is also the nodal officer of the team. Ten days ago, the issue came up for hearing at NGT. On Thursday, Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya, MTR field director (in charge) Srinivas R Reddy, Srikanth and pollution control board official Livingston inspected the abandoned quarry. “The abandoned quarry is on a poramboke revenue land in Masinagudi but 400m away from Singara range, buffer zone of MTR,” Srikanth said. The Masinagudi panchayat was instructed to clean the abandoned quarry and see that garbage is not dumped there. Srikanth said, “From the forest side we have given a report to the district administration. A compiled report by the nodal officer of the team will be submitted to NGT soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ngt-seeks-report-on-quarry-abandoned-in-masinagudi/articleshow/77683871.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Salem||Harassed by moneylender, four of family consume poison, 2 survive||In a suicide pact, four of a family consumed poison in Namakkal district on Friday, allegedly after a moneylender harassed the patriarch of the family to return money that was borrowed from him. While the parents died, their teenaged children survived. Police identified the deceased as Subramani, 40, a powerloom weaver, and his wife Menaka, also a weaver. An investigation officer said Subramani had hung himself after consuming poison. “It could be because he wasn’t sure of the effectiveness of the poison.” He had left a suicide note stating he was ending life because of debt burden. Police said Subramani, a resident of Karungalkadu near Tiruchengode in Namakkal district, had borrowed up to Rs3 lakh from various sources and was paying interest for the same all this while. “He was unable to pay the interest after the lockdown as he was jobless. He also borrowed Rs10,000 from a moneylender, identified as Gobi, of Attaiyampatti, during the lockdown.” After industrial units were allowed to function, Gobi was constantly making phone calls to Subramani, asking him to repay the loan. Ayyasamy, an associate of Gobi, visited Subramani at his house on Thursday and allegedly abused him in front of the children. Police said Subramani’s children Poojasri, 14, and Navin Kumar, 13, had pleaded with Ayyasamy not to shout at their father. However, Ayaysamy, who was drunk, continued to verbally abuse Subramani and left the place with a warning to return the next day. Later in the night, Subramani mixed a paste of poisonous arali seeds (nerium oleander) with milk and gave that to his children, wife and drank a glass himself. He then hung himself. The children, however, survived and woke up on Friday morning to find their mother lay on floor and father hanging. They alerted the neighbours, who called in police. The children have been hospitalized. Police have booked a case and investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/harassed-by-moneylender-four-of-family-consume-poison-2-survive/articleshow/77683874.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai domestic flights likely to be doubled soon||NEW DELHI: Mumbaikars could soon see domestic aerial connectivity almost double this Ganpati festival. Maharashtra is likely to allow Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) to handle up to 100 daily domestic arrivals and the same number of departures by the month-end, up from 50 now. “Mumbai requires more domestic flights. I have taken up the issue up with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and am hopeful that very soon domestic flights to and from CSMIA will be significantly increased,” senior NCP leader Praful Patel said. Airlines said as the state government capped daily domestic flights, Mumbai was yet to get connectivity to many cities, and frequency to other places was less than required. When domestic operations resumed after a two-month gap on May 25, Maharashtra allowed Mumbai to have only 25 daily departures and as many arrivals. This was raised to 50 from mid-June. “We were off that mark in the first few days when that hike in capacity was allowed. But in the past few days, CSMIA has been almost reaching 50 domestic arrival and 50 domestic departure mark. As air travel is picking up, there is a need and demand for more flights to be allowed,” an airport source said. An increase in aerial connectivity within the country is important as the Centre said it will consider resumption of international flights once domestic flights reach the 50-55% mark of the original summer schedule. Many passengers take connecting domestic flights while flying in and out of India from metro hubs. State governments allowing airports in big cities like Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai and Bengaluru to handle more flights will play a key role in domestic capacity inching to that mark. At present, domestic flights are operating at 30-35% of summer schedule. CSMIA officials said they have tied up for Covid testing of international arrivals and can start as soon as the nod comes. Mumbai used to see nearly 1,000 daily flights domestic, international and charters in pre-corona times. Airlines similarly await lifting or easing of caps at other metro airports like Chennai, Hyderabad, Bangalore and Kolkata. Travel industry has been the worst hit by the pandemic. Airlines and airport operators have taken steps to minimise the spread of coronavirus during travel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/daily-domestic-flights-may-double-by-month-end/articleshow/77683960.cms||Saurabh Sinha
August 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: CATS ambulance fleet boosted 3 fold in 3 months||NEW DELHI: On May 15, the number of calls attended by the Centralised Ambulance Trauma Services (CATS) was 750, the fleet status was 160 and 222 calls had to be refused. There were 20 phone lines and if you had a medical emergency, the wait for a CATS ambulance was as long as 55 minutes. Three months down the line, as Delhi saw a huge spike in Covid-19 cases and then a decrease, the CATS fleet strength has gone up three fold, while the response time has also shrunk more than three times. As on August 10, the usual response time of a CATS ambulance was 18 minutes and the fleet strength has gone up to 594. Improving response time of ambulances was one of the decisions taken by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to reduce the number of deaths caused by Covid-19. Kejriwal had instructed that serious patients need to be taken to the hospital as soon as possible, apart from directions to admit patients within 10 minutes of reaching hospital by ambulance. In Delhi, the Covid-19 situation was in a tough position in June as the number of patients as well as the death rate was increasing every day and Delhi government took a host of decisions to not only contain the spread of Covid-19 but also reduce mortality rate, with the aim of reaching zero deaths. Aggressive testing helped in segregating positive patients quickly to curb the spread, home isolation of asymptomatic patients was encouraged to keep Covid beds available for serious patients and oximeters were distributed to check sudden drop in oxygen saturation levels, which can make condition of a patient serious. Improving response time of ambulances was necessary to ensure patients reach hospitals in the shortest possible time and receive medical care as soon as possible. As of 15 May, there were 160 CATS ambulances, which was increased to 337 by June 1. Similarly, their number was increased to 569 by June 30 and to 594 by August 10, according to data shared by Delhi government. Government officials said the chief minister also ensured that with the increase in the number of CATS ambulances, there should be an increased capacity of receiving calls for the ambulance too. As a result, while the number of lines on May 15 was 20, this was increased to 30 by June 30. With the number of ambulances going up, the response time of CATS ambulance went down from 55 minutes on May 15 to 42.5 minutes on June 1. By June 30, it had gone down to 34.2 and is 18 minutes at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cats-ambulance-fleet-boosted-3-fold-in-3-mths/articleshow/77683917.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 22, 2020||Goa||Alina holds meet on Zuarinagar||Vasco: Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha on Thursday held a meeting with Mormugao deputy collector Sachin Dessai, Verna police inspector Mohan Gaude and panch members of the Sancoale panchayat to review the situation at the Zuarinagar containment zone in view of the Ganesh Chaturthi festival. Dessai stated that the containment zone cannot be de-notified since there are around 25-30 active cases within the area. “As per the SOPs and guidelines laid down by the ministry of home affairs, there should not be a single case in a containment zone for it to the de-notified,” Dessai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/alina-holds-meet-on-zuarinagar/articleshow/77684804.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Salem||Too early to take call on NRA, says CM||Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswamy on Friday said the government would analyse the pros and cons of the proposed National Recruitment Agency (NRA) and its common eligibility test for government jobs and then act accordingly. Talking to reporters in Namakkal, he said the Centre was yet to announce contours of NRA and the common test. The government could express its view with regard to the common eligibility test only after complete details are made available, he said. The Union cabinet has given its nod for creation of NRA to conduct common eligibility test for group B and C posts of central government and public-sector banks. “Once we get to know the details of the exam system, we will go through it to find pros and cons and then express our view,” the CM said. On the debate for second capital for the state, he reiterated that the state government had no such plans. This comes after revenue minister R B Udhayakumar raking up the issue once again, seeking to make Madurai the second capital. “I have already explained the government’s position. Public representatives are free to express their demands. That’s is their personal view. But what I have said is the government’s stand.” To a query on resumption of public transport, he said if buses were allowed to ply, contact tracing would become difficult. “We have halted public transport to arrest spread of Covid-19. If buses are allowed, contract tracing cannot be done. We are already in a position where we cannot ascertain the nature of the virus.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/too-early-to-take-call-on-nra-says-cm/articleshow/77683881.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Nagpur||Join flesh trade to clear debt: Loan shark to girl||Nagpur: A 23-year-old woman almost committed suicide after a moneylender suggested that she engage in flesh trade to pay off the interest on the loan which would keep increasing at regular intervals. TOI has in its possession the audio-clip in which the woman moneylender is threatening to involve the debtor in prostitution to settle dues without delays. ‘Tumko acche se dhandhe pe bitha deti main, mere paise clear karo m******* (I will engage you in flesh trade or else you clear my dues)‘ the women money lender could be heard telling the younger borrower). It’s learnt that the woman was in an extremely disturbed state of mind after getting kidnapping and rape threats from the moneylender on a regular basis. In the recent past, the city has witnessed suicides by victims of moneylenders who often violate licensing norms to extort a high rate of interest via torture or harassment. Despite city and rural police registering several cases of alleged extortion by moneylenders in the last couple of months, the trend of illegal interest earning by the licence holders and also the other illegal ones seems to be unending. There had been also a surge in unexplained suicide cases by jobless persons during the lockdown, a section of which was also attributed to such illegal money lenders by officials probing the accidental death cases. Sources said the crafty moneylenders follow a modus operandi of compelling the victims to sign on empty stamp papers, blank post-dated cheques and also surrender their property documents. It has been reliably learnt that the moneylenders often wrench away gold and other valuables, vehicles and other materials from their borrowers who are unable to settle dues on time. Addl CP (crime) Nilesh Bharne, who is holding the charge of Joint CP, said the victims of moneylenders should approach the police or him in person and not buckle under pressure. “Instead of committing suicides or enduring the torture of moneylenders, the victims should approach police,” he said. The latest spine-chilling incident of alleged harassment and torture of a young woman by the moneylender is now being probed by the crime branch. The woman was taken to the cops by an acquaintance who rescued her when she was on the verge of ending her life. The audio clip in which the woman moneylender can be heard threatening was also forwarded to the senior officials, including CP BK Upadhyay for intervention. The woman’s statement was recorded by the crime branch on Friday. The woman moneylender in question was summoned. The woman is learnt to have borrowed Rs two lakhs from the money lender in November last year. The victim claimed to have paid up almost Rs nine lakhs within a couple of months as the moneylender used to calculate interest at an exorbitant rate. The moneylender had been incessantly harassing her for more interests and threatening to create a ruckus at her home. It’s learnt that the woman, who worked as a commission agent with banks, had borrowed the amount for her grandmother’s treatment. The moneylender allegedly also got the woman implicated in a case by forcing her to join her in torturing another victim. She had also lodged a complaint against the young borrower with the aim of putting her under more pressure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/join-flesh-trade-to-clear-debt-loan-shark-to-girl/articleshow/77683882.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 22, 2020||Coimbatore||3,000 cops to enforce Covid-19 restrictions||Coimbatore: As many as 3,000 police personnel will be deployed in the district on Saturday on the occasion of Ganesha Chathurthi festival. Some Hindu outfits are planning to defy the government order by installing Lord Ganesha idols in public places on Saturday morning and immersing them in the evening, police sources said. Cops, fire and rescue services personnel, and volunteers will be deployed on the banks of Bhavani river in Mettupalayam where the outfits are planning to immerse the idols, superintendent of police Ara Arularasu said. “Our volunteers will receive the idols and immerse them in rivers and other water bodies in the rural parts of the district,” he said. In Coimbatore city, 1,500 cops will be deployed on Saturday. Police have made arrangement at Muthannan Kulam and Kurichi Kulam to immerse the idols. While people can install the idols at private properties, those who do so in public places will face legal action. Meanwhile, Hindu Munnani state executive member T Guna said members of the outfit will install 247 Lord Ganesha idols in the city on Saturday morning. “Police have asked us not to install the idols in public places. They have allowed us to install them on temple premises and at houses. We plan to install 247 idols. Some of them will be installed at houses and some at public places. The idols will be immersed in waterbodies in the city on Saturday evening. Our members will maintain social distancing,” he said. Meanwhile, idol makers opened some stalls along the DB Road on Friday, hoping that last minute sales will pick up. But business was dull, they said. “I used to sell 200 idols a day before the festival in R S Puram area. But I managed to sell only 15 today,” said a seller from Kavundampalayam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3000-cops-to-enforce-covid-19-restrictions/articleshow/77683889.cms||A Subburaj
August 22, 2020||Nagpur||SUICIDE PACT? Dhiraj had sent e-mail at 9.30am on day he was found dead||Nagpur: The death case of four of a family — Dr Sushma Rane, her husband Dhiraj and their children Dhruv (11) and Vannya (5) — has taken a curious turn on Friday. It has now come to fore that assistant professor Dhiraj, head of the department of computer science faculty in a college, had sent an e-mail to a colleague at 9.30am on the day he was found dead along with others on Tuesday. This revelation has now upturned the earlier theory that he was injected with anaesthetics in the early morning by his wife. Dhiraj had passed on some instructions to a male colleague regarding online classes. Police have been working on the theory that Sushma, a doctor, had injected anaesthetics to Dhiraj and two children before trying the same method on herself for ending life. It was suspected that she had later hanged self in the adjacent room. In a suicide note purportedly written by Sushma, she had stated that ending life was the mutual decision of the husband-wife duo. The police, however, are still not clear on the motive behind the parents ending life with their children. The police have been able to find out, so far, that Dhiraj had developed alcohol addiction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/suicide-pact-dhiraj-had-sent-e-mail-at-9-30am-on-day-he-was-found-dead/articleshow/77683893.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Boy killed as four-wheeler hits bike||Coimbatore: A 15-year-old boy was killed and another person injured after a speeding four-wheeler hit the bike they were travelling on near Sulur on Thursday evening. The Sulur police identified the deceased as Karthik, son of Subramani, of Mariamman Kovil Street at Kumarapalayam. He was a Class XI student of a government higher secondary school at Sulur. A police officer said Karthik was riding pillion on the bike that was rode by M Raman, 23, of Kumarapalayam. He was employed with a petrol bunk. “When they neared Kumaran Kottam Kovil on Coimbatore-Trichy Road, a speeding four-wheeler hit the bike. The two were flung into the air in the impact and sustained severe head injuries on the fall. However, the four-wheeler did not stop and sped away,” the officer said. Other motorists rushed the duo to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital, where doctors declared Karthik brought dead. Raman is undergoing treatment. Karthik’s body was handed over to the family members after postmortem on Friday. The Sulur police have registered a case and are collecting CCTV footage from commercial establishment in the accident spot to zero in on the four-wheeler that caused the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/boy-killed-as-four-wheeler-hits-bike/articleshow/77683885.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Goa||Cops stop Cong from burning Cabral’s effigy||Vasco: Vasco police on Friday did not allow Congress to burn an effigy of power minister Nilesh Cabral during a protest it had planned in the port town. Vice-president of Goa Pradesh Congress Committee Sankalp Amonkar said the police took away the effigy while he was speaking to the media. Amonkar had led a group of Congress workers and citizens to meet the electricity department’s executive engineer in Vasco to protest against the exorbitant power bills. “All over India, even the Prime Minister’s effigies are being burnt. The police only told me that they will not allow us to burn Cabral’s effigy, but they could not give me a reason for it,” said Amonkar, adding that the police does not restrain BJP from burning effigies of Congress leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-stop-cong-from-burning-cabrals-effigy/articleshow/77684877.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Meerut||No word from govt, kin of army officer killed in Assam sit on ‘dharna’ for compensation||MEERUT: Over a month after a young army officer lost his life while patrolling in Assam’s Kokrajhar district, his family members back in UP’s Muzaffarnagar sat on a strike on Friday seeking compensation from the state government. Lieutenant Akash Chaudhary (25) accidently slipped from a steep hill and fell into a gorge during a routine patrol on July 16 in Kokrajhar. He was found after a search operation the next day with serious head injuries, and succumbed a few hours later at an army hospital. Now, with no word on compensation from the state government, the family sat on a ‘dharna’ at district magistrate (DM) office premises. According to Kanwarpal Singh, the father of lieutenant Akash, “State governments give monetary compensation and other benefits to families of soldiers who die in the line of duty. We are only demanding what other families like ours have received in the past. There has been no correspondence from the government.” On his part, Meerut DM Anil Dhingra said, “The state government compensation is for battle casualties, and that confirmation from the Army is still awaited. The Army takes the final call on this and intimates the state government. The family has been told about it.” The state government recently doubled the compensation given to the kin of the jawans who lose their lives on duty. It was revised to Rs 50lakh with a government job to the next of the kin. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath tweeted in May this year, “The state government has already announced that wife and dependents of ‘martyrs’ from military and paramilitary forces will get financial assistance of Rs 50lakh, government job to a family member and village road named after the 'martyr'.” Lieutenant Akash, a resident of Muzaffarnagar’s Alawalpur village, was commissioned in the Army just a year ago after clearing the CDS exam. After his training at OTA Chennai, he was posted in Assam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/no-word-from-govt-kin-of-army-officer-killed-in-assam-sit-on-dharna-for-compensation/articleshow/77681267.cms||Piyush Rai
August 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Court issues arrest warrant against eight accused in Kodanad case||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district court on Friday issued arrest warrant against eight out of the ten accused in the Kodanad murder-cum-heist case.When the case came up for hearing, only two accused, K V Sayan and Valaiyar Manoj, who are in Coimbatore central jail, were produced before the court. The remaining eight accused Jithin Joy, Deepu, Bigin, Manoj, Satheesan, Udhayakumar, Jamseer Ali, and Manoj did not turn up for the hearing. As eight accused were not present, the case was adjourned to August 27. The court also issued arrest warrant against the eight accused. On April 24, 2017, one of the security guards of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s Kodanad estate was found dead while another guard grievously injured. On April 27 in the same year, police zeroed in on five suspects and later six. The main accused Kanagaraj died in a road accident the following day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/court-issues-arrest-warrant-against-eight-accused-in-kodanad-case/articleshow/77683894.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Dehradun||Murder case solved: Man was killed by wife & paramour, say police||Roorkee: Local police claimed to have solved the murder case of the 48-year-old man, whose body was found on Thursday from a village field near Bhagwanpur in Roorkee, on Friday. According to Haridwar SSP Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S, victim Balesh was killed by his 39-year-old wife Babli and her 53-year-old lover Lal Singh. The official added that 21-year-old Arun, son of the victim, was also involved in the crime. “On Wednesday evening, Babli gave tea to her husband after lacing it with a heavy dose of sleeping pills. As he fell unconscious, Babli and Lal Singh strangulated him. Later, they stuffed the body in a bag and with the help of Arun, they brought the body on a bike and dumped it in a village field,” said the SSP. All three accused have been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/murder-case-solved-man-was-killed-by-wife-paramour-say-police/articleshow/77681301.cms||Tapan Susheel
August 22, 2020||Kochi||Metropolitan begins sit-in against church takeover||Kottayam: The Jacobite faction of Malankara Syrian Church has intensified protest against taking over its churches by district administrations following a high court directive. Thomas Mor Alexandrios, metropolitan of Mumbai diocese of Malankara Jacobite Church, along with a group of church members began a sit-in protest in front of Marthasmooni Jacobite Syrian Church at Thiruvarppu in Kottayam on Friday. The church was taken over by district administration on Thursday. The agitation was inaugurated by metropolitan of Niranom diocese Geevarghese Mor Coorilos. Episcopal synod secretary Metropolitan Thomas Mor Thimothios presided. The key note address was delivered by Idukki metropolitan Zacharias Mor Philoxenos. Alexandrios said the Jacobite church neither has got any help from any political party nor any organization. He said his personal opinion is that if nobody comes forward, Jacobites should vote for NOTA option in the upcoming local-body polls. He also said it was the Orthodox faction that had got the maximum help. They did not even attend conciliatory talks held by the government. The metropolitan said he is on a peaceful protest against “the denial of justice”. The agitation is for returning the churches that were taken over, to put an end to the actions of authorities which is against the freedom of worship and to stop attacking and evicting Jacobites after forcing into their churches. The agitation is from 10am to 4pm daily till the demands are met, Alexandrios said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/metropolitan-begins-sit-in-against-church-takeover/articleshow/77682570.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Erode||Erode collector tests positive for Covid-19||COIMBATORE: Erode collector C Kathiravan tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Health officials said Kathiravan was asymptomatic and has self - isolated himself at his home. Only a fortnight back Coimbatore collector K Rajamani tested positive and recovered after spending few days in the hospital. Kathiravan had participated in a government function to inaugurate an electricity sub-station near Modakurichi where state power minister P Thangamani, education minister K A Sengottaiyan, environment minister K C Karupannan and a host of government officials participated. Kathiravan then visited the Covid screening centre in Erode. Now samples have been collected from all the ministers, MLAs and officials who attended the event. Officials have also urged others who met or came in close contact with the collector over the past few days to come forward for testing. Samples have been collected from the family members of Kathiravan and results are awaited. Health officials said that soon after the visits, Kathiravan developed very mild symptoms and gave samples for testing. The results came on Friday declaring him as Covid positive. Subsequently, the collectorate chamber was disinfected. Though Erode had the first Covid cluster in Tamil Nadu, now it is among the districts with low Covid incidence in Tamil Nadu, with 1,907 total cases and 817 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/erode-collector-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/77683924.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Special squad to track social media||AURANGABAD: With the onset of two major festivals — Ganeshotsav and Muharram — the Aurangabad city police have formed a special squad comprising cyber police to keep a watch on the mischief mongers posting unwanted and malicious content on social media. The decision for the formation of the special squad was taken during the recently held crime review meeting wherein the issue of social media posts triggering serious communal riots resulting in death, arson and injuries was discussed. “Stringent action would be initiated against anybody posting any content creating communal rift or hurting religious sentiments of any community,” said commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad. The officer even appealed to the citizens to alert the police about any such social media posts that they come across. An officer privy to the formation of the squad said that the special squad comprises cyber police inspector Geeta Bagwade, woman PSI Savita Tambe and four constables. This team will be supervised by assistant commissioner of police Dinesh Kolhe. Inspector Bagwade said that the team has already started identifying some of the social media accounts and handles that have a history and track record of spewing venom on social media platforms. “In the recent past we have registered cases and arrested suspects for posting communally charged, misleading and false posts. During the Ganeshotsav and Muharram, we will take extra measures to put a check on such elements,” said Bagwade. “Some of these social media accounts are anonymous, some are being handled by those affiliated to political parties, while others are personal accounts,” said a cyber police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/special-squad-to-track-social-media/articleshow/77681329.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 22, 2020||Nagpur||Leopard intrudes into villageDevpayli, captured & released||Chandrapur: A full grown leopard that intruded into a house in village Devpayli was captured from a house after two and a half hours of on Friday morning. Later, after a fitness test, the beast was released back into the forest. Rescue workers of Talodhi forest range had to cordon off the entire house with nets for the safety of hundreds of onlookers as they undertook a daredevil caging operation. The beast had intruded Devpayli village, 12km from Talodhi (Balapur), in the wee hours when most of the villagers were asleep. Those who saw the feline on the road raised an alarm and soon, many rushed out of their homes with sticks and cudgels. Villagers tried to chase the animal back into the forest, but it went deep into the village. On seeing the crowd, the leopard jumped into the courtyard of one Sukhdev Pendam and later crept into the bathroom through a gap between the tiles and the wall. While the terrified house owner locked the bathroom from outside, locals informed forest officials. A team of rescue workers led by round officer KD Garmale rushed to the spot and began the rescue operation under the guidance of RFO Abhilasha Sontakke as hundreds of villagers watched from streets and rooftops. Personnel from Talohi police station were also summoned to control the crowd. The rescue team cordoned off the entire house with a safety net. A cage was fixed at the entrance of the bathroom as rescue workers scared the beast. After two and half hours, the animal entered the trap cage and was captured. Later, the three and a half years old leopard was immediately taken to the Talodhi range office. It was examined by Bramhapuri’s livestock development officer Dr Shirish Ramteke for physical fitness. After the beast was declared fit, foresters in consultation with higher-ups decided to release the animal back into the wild at undisclosed location.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/leopard-intrudes-into-villagedevpayli-captured-released/articleshow/77683923.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 22, 2020||Delhi||Give proof activist incited violence: Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Friday asked police to place before it videos showing accused Devangana Kalita instigating public with her speech or “creating nuisance”, as alleged by police. Police accused Kalita, a member of Pinjra Tod group, of instigating people during the communal violence in northeast Delhi early this year. “Show me any portion of the speech recorded by media or anyone else that the accused instigated the mob to commit the crime....Do you have anything to show that the speeches she made were troublesome,” asked Justice Suresh Kait, who was hearing her bail plea. Police, however, told the court they do not have videos of the time but possess video evidence of her allegedly instigating people before the riots took place on February 24 and 25 and also of February 22 and 23 when a large gathering was protesting outside Jafrabad metro station in northeast Delhi against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). During that period, mediapersons were everywhere and recording everything, the court pointed out, remarking, “I want to know what she said that instigated the mob.” However, additional solicitor general S V Raju, appearing for police, said there was no media on February 25 when the incident began and the witness accounts showed Kalita’s role in instigating the mob. He also submitted that her call detail records show her location to be that spot. “It was well planned and organised at a time when US President Donald Trump was to come here. It was done to damage the image of the country. Public property was destroyed and a large number of people were injured and one person died,” the ASG argued, while opposing the bail plea in which the court reserved its orders. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, representing Kalita, said police was not showing any instigation or speeches allegedly given by her but was only relying on statements recorded under the CrPC of other persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/give-proof-activist-incited-violence-hc/articleshow/77683946.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Gurgaon||Provide ‘proper’ drainage on Golf Course Rd, MCG tells DLF||Gurgaon: The Municipal Corporation of Gurgaon (MCG) has written to realtor DLF to provide a “proper” drainage system on both sides of Golf Course Road. The letter comes after heavy rains recently flooded the area. The absence of an effective drainage system along the road will also be taken up in an MCG house meeting on Friday. The letter, sent by the MCG chief engineer to DLF earlier this week, mentioned that heavy rain on August 18 and 19 caused waterlogging on Golf Course Road, which resulted in inconvenience to commuters and “defamed the image of the Gurgaon administration”. “As Golf Course Road comes under the purview of DLF, it is the responsibility of DLF to provide proper drainage system on both sides of Golf Course Road, so that the same incident may not occur in future,” read the letter. When approached by TOI, DLF refused to comment on the matter. The issue was also raised by councillor RS Rathee and will be tabled in the MCG house meeting on Friday. “We haven’t received a reply from DLF yet. The matter will also be discussed in the meeting,” MCG chief engineer Raman Sharma said. The condition of Golf Course Road following last week’s rains took government bodies completely by surprise, as the stretch had not appeared anywhere in the critical points list that they had prepared. The developer, DLF, had blamed the city’s ‘insufficient drainage infrastructure’. Built at a cost of nearly Rs 600 crore in one of the most upscale parts of the city, the road was unable to handle the downpour, recorded at 95mm. The underpasses on the road, where many corporate offices, malls, schools, residential complexes and government offices are located, saw 12-15 feet of waterlogging. It was developed as a model road by DLF and Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) on a 50-50% partnership, but the developer executed the work. Councillor Rathee said Golf Course Road lacks effective drainage, which resulted in the recent flooding as rainwater couldn’t be channelised effectively. “Underpasses were flooded to the brim, and created a huge embarrassment for the Millennium City, apart from massive inconvenience to commuters,” he said. Rathee added, “A properly designed drainage system needs to be constructed immediately and completed before the next monsoon so that the disaster of the last couple of days is not repeated. Also, a number of existing drains were not cleaned before the monsoon, which needs to be done now on top priority.” He also said there is an urgent need to construct open drains in sectors 27 and 28, which are low-lying areas and are prone to flooding. This agenda will also be taken up in the house meeting. The meeting will also see a discussion on the payments made by the corporation to concessionaire Ecogreen for waste collection and management since 2017-18. MCG paid over Rs 35 crore to Ecogreen in 2019-20, whereas the company was paid Rs 19 crore in 2018-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/provide-proper-drainage-on-golf-course-rd-mcg-tells-dlf/articleshow/77806079.cms||Vishakha Chaman
August 22, 2020||Coimbatore||395 test +ve in dist; active cases cross 3,000-mark||Coimbatore: The district logged 395 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the count to 10,957. The number of active cases in the district has for the first time zoomed past the 3,000-mark and stands at 3,066. According to a health official, cases were spread across Nanjundapuram, Selvapuram, Mettupalayam, Rathinapuri, Ganapathy, Peelamedu and Kuniyamuthur, among other areas. Most of the cases were identified either at fever camps that were conducted by the city corporation or through contact tracing. While 55 of them are admitted to private hospitals in the district, the remaining are undergoing treatment in government hospitals and the Covid care centre at the Codissia trade fair complex. The official said 258 patients were cured and discharged from the facilities they were undergoing treatment in the day. With this, 7,660 patients have recovered from the infection so far. The Covid-19 toll, meanwhile, rose to 231, with the state including three more deaths that occurred in the district in the past couple of days in its bulletin. The deceased comprised a 41-year-old woman who was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) on Sunday and died of pneumonia on Thursday, a 55-year-old man who was admitted to CMCH on Monday and died of pneumonia and hypoxic respiratory failure on Wednesday, and an 80-year-old woman who was admitted to the ESI Hospital on August 6 and died of diabetes mellitus, cardiac arrest, acute respiratory distress syndrome and pneumonia on Tuesday. District collector K Rajamani, meanwhile, conducted a meeting with health officials in the day. According to a press release, he has asked the private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients to enhance the facilities. “The collector has asked the private hospitals to create separate wards for Covid-19 patients with ICU and ventilator facilities, and clean the hospital premises twice a day with disinfectants. He also warned hospital managements against charging patients more than the government prescribed tariff.” Neighbouring Tirupur district has recorded 99 fresh cases of novel coronavirus on Friday, taking the tally to 1,875, of which 597 are active cases. The district also reported a death. The toll now stands at 52. An official identified the deceased as a 72-year-old man, who was admitted to a private hospital in Coimbatore last Saturday. He died of pneumonia on Thursday. According to health officials, there are 11,870 people in home quarantine in Tirupur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/395-test-ve-in-dist-active-cases-cross-3000-mark/articleshow/77683945.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Political parties demand alternative land for tribals||Coimbatore: Members of political parties and activists petitioned the forest department on Friday, demanding alternative land parcels for inmates of Kallar and Sarkarpathi tribal settlements in the Anamalai tiger reserve, who were affected by landslide last year. While residents of Kallar settlement want land at Theppakulamedu, those of Sarkarpathi want to stay at the old labour colony, said V S Paramasivam, president of the Tamil Nadu tribal people welfare association. “When the residents attempted to construct straw huts, officials prevented them and accommodate them in the quarters of tea estate workers in Thaimudi. Twenty families are residing in six houses for the last one year,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/political-parties-demand-alternative-land-for-tribals/articleshow/77683942.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Dehradun||AAP will fail in Uttarakhand, says BJP state-in-charge||Dehradun: Days after Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that the party will be contesting all 70 seats in the Uttarakhand assembly polls in 2022, Shyam Jaju, BJP national vice president and in-charge for states of Delhi and Uttarakhand, said that AAP will lose in Uttarakhand if it contests the polls. He made the remark while interacting with media persons. When asked about AAP’s claim that 64% population of Uttarakhand supports its decision of contesting state elections, Jaju said that India is a democratic country and everyone has the right to contest elections or expand the party while quickly adding that AAP has an old habit of making tall claims. “The leaders of the same Aam Aadmi Party used to make big claims about Punjab, this party also claimed to form the government in Goa, as well as in Haryana. They claimed a big share in Maharashtra too, but what happened? As far as Delhi is concerned, they could not win a single Lok Sabha seat. They are not in power even in MCD. Now if they are fighting from Uttarakhand, then they are not going to get anything here as well as the BJP will again form the government with an overwhelming majority,” he added. Speaking on the issue of BJP MLA from Dwarahat Mahesh Singh Negi, who has been accused of raping a woman, Jaju said that “action cannot be taken on a MLA simply on the basis of allegations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/aap-will-fail-in-ukhand-says-bjp-state-in-charge/articleshow/77681322.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 22, 2020||Nagpur||ZP scam: Gadchiroli police recover 28L FDs||Nagpur: The local crime branch (LCB) of Gadchiroli police made their ninth arrest in the Zilla Parishad fake cheques case before unearthing fixed deposits amounting to nearly Rs28 lakhs. The police team had arrested eight persons from Nagpur, Bhandara and Madhya Pradesh for having duped the Zilla Parishad of more than Rs2.86 crores by using fake cheques. The documents of the fixed deposit, which were found by the LCB team from a hideout at Nandanvan, belonged to the mastermind of the fraud case, Snehdeep Soni and his wife. Though Snehdeep is now in police custody remand after being arrested on August 5, his wife is yet to be arrested. A couple of days ago, Gadchiroli police had recovered gold worth Rs60 lakh which belonged to Snehdeep in the follow up to the investigation which had begun after registering an offence against the racketeers at Gadchiroli police station last year for having used fake cheques to divert Rs2.86 crores to the accounts of different persons from the savings account of the ZP between June 3 and June 12 last year. It was after arresting six persons, including Snehdeep, that police came to know about the rented place of the mastermind at Nandanvan where they had kept several documents related to the offence. Police had found fake rubber stamps and several duplicate documents of several government departments at the rented apartment. Vivek Hood, who had helped Snehdeep and his wife, was the latest to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/zp-scam-gadchiroli-police-recover-28l-fds/articleshow/77683947.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Police issued 1.5 lakh e-travel passes in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: City police have so far granted over 1.5 lakh e-travel passes during lockdown to people who wanted to travel to other districts or states on emergency grounds. In addition to this, around 1 lakh applications were disapproved for various reasons, including lack of documents, travelling to or from red zone areas or incomplete details. Cyber police along with some officers from the special branch have been tasked with the daily verification of applications, including latest medical fitness certificates of each person travelling in a vehicle, checking if the seating capacity and the number of travellers are not exceeding the limit set by the state government, their identity proof before sanctioning them. As per estimate, on an average three to four people travelled on each of the e-pass granted by the city police. “With Aurangabad being the administrative, medical, education and industrial hub, apart from being tourism capital of Maharashtra, of all the passes sanctioned, over 30% of them were for travelling outside the state,” a police officer said. The police as well as the district administration through the web portal Covid19.mhpolice.in started granting permissions across the state from March 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-issued-1-5l-e-travel-passes-in-aurangabad/articleshow/77681278.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Surat||Limbayat flooded again, most areas in waist-deep waters||SURAT: It seems there is no escaping for the residents of Limbayat zone of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) from the floods in the creeks. Two days after the flood waters receded, the Mithi and Bhedwad khadis swelled again due to the heavy rains in the catchment areas and the backing of the waters in the Midhola river in Navsari, inundating most of the areas in 2-3 feet waters on Friday. Out of the five creeks, two passing from the Limbayat zone — Mithi khadi and Bhedwad khadi — swelled due to the heavy rains in the catchment areas of Surat and Tapi districts since Thursday. While the water level at Mithi khadi was 7.90 m, the Bhedwad creek was flowing at 8.20 m Friday. The main road from Udhana to Sachin, connecting the state highway towards Navsari, was closed for vehicular traffic after the flood waters from Bhedwadi creek inundated the entire main road from Pandesara to Bhestan in three feet water. The low-lying areas like Saraswati Vidhyalaya in Parvat Patiya, Bhestan, Pandesara and Limbayat were inundated in 2-3 feet water due to the swelling of the Mithi and Bhedwad creeks on Friday. Official sources said that the flood situation in Limbayat zone, which includes areas of Parvat Patiya, Bhestan, Pandesara and Limbayat had become normal from the last two days with waters receding in the Mithi and Bhedwadi creeks. The civic body had intensified cleaning exercise in the affected areas for removing muck and debris. However, the cleanliness work was halted with the creeks overflowed with fresh water from the catchment area and inundating the majority of the low-lying areas in 2-3 feet waters, said officials. “Water levels in the creeks are receding with the rains taking a break in the catchment areas. However, the water from the creeks flows into the Midhola river in Navsari. Since there are heavy rains in Navsari and the Mindhola river has swelled, it is not accepting the water from the creeks,” said Bhairav Desai, executive engineer of Limbayat zone. “We have placed dewatering pumps in the low-lying areas to clear the flood waters,” added Desai. “People in Limbayat are facing difficulties due to floods in Mithi and Bhedwadi creeks for the last eight days. Still, there are many areas in Limbayat like Bethi colony, Kamrunnagar, Mithi Khadi where the flood waters entered again due to swelling of Mithi khadi. There are many slum settlements and EWS colonies where the stagnant water is yet to recede,” said Aslam Cyclewala, councillor from the Limbayat ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/limbayat-flooded-again-most-areas-in-waist-deep-waters/articleshow/77681345.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Dehradun||Govt gives nod for opening cyber police station in Kumaon||Dehradun: Uttarakhand government, on Friday, gave its sanction for opening of a dedicated cyber police station for Kumaon region. At present, there is only one cyber police station at Dehradun catering to the cyber-related complaints from the whole state. According to Ashok Kumar, director general (law and order), “With rise in cyber-related crimes, there was demand of having a dedicated cyber police station for the whole Kumaon region. Presently, there is only one cyber police station at Dehradun.” Once functional, the people living in the Kumaon region will be able to register complaints regarding online frauds, banking frauds, frauds related to online money transactions, online shopping, and social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-gives-nod-for-opening-cyber-police-station-in-kumaon/articleshow/77681338.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM gives Rs 1 crore to safai worker’s kin||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday met the family members of sanitation worker Raju and gave them a cheque of Rs 1 crore as financial assistance. Raju lost his life while on Covid-19 duty at North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s Hindu Rao Hospital. Kejriwal visited his residence in Old Chandrawal and assured his family of full support in the future. “Our sanitation worker Raju was himself infected with Covid-19 while on duty of serving the people,” Kejriwal said during the visit. “I have come here to meet his family and have offered them financial assistance of Rs 1 crore. I hope that this will help his family. We are proud of all those Corona Warriors who have laid down and sacrificed their lives while protecting the people of Delhi,” the CM said, adding “We cannot bring back a lost life but we will do whatever we can to support his family.” Raju had been appointed by the civic body to ensure cleanliness and sanitation for corona patients. Delhi government provides Rs 1 crore financial assistance to the family of ‘corona warriors’ if they die due to Covid-19 infection and similar assistance has been provided to families of doctors, police personnel, teachers and health workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-gives-rs-1-cr-to-safai-workers-kin/articleshow/77683955.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Trivandrum International Airport handover subject to writ petition, says Hardeep S Puri||NEW DELHI/THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Union civil aviation minister Hardeep S Puri asked on Friday if Kerala Govt was against privatisation of airports, then why did it participate in the bidding process. “The state government was given a fair chance & Right of First Refusal if its bid was within 10% below the range of highest bid. However, it bid 19.64% below,” Puri said in response to the decision of all-party meeting to oppose the Centre’s decision to hand over the management of Trivandrum international airport to Adani group. Puri said the go ahead given by the Union cabinet to the concessionaire was subject to the writ petition pending with the high court. "If the petitioners succeed and outcome of litigation leads to annulment/cancellation of bidding process then the concessionaire will hand over the possession of airport to AAI. They will be entitled to refund of amount paid to AAI & additional investments made in the assets," he said. Taking a dig at Congress which is also opposing the move, Puri said the UPA government led by Congress decided to privatise Delhi and Mumbai airports in 2006-07. "Kerala is the pioneer as far as airports under public private partnership are concerned. First PPP airport in India came up in Kochi in Kerala. Another very successful example of PPP mode is Kannur, also situated in Kerala. In fact, it was during the UDF regime in Kerala that the foundation for Kochi airport was laid in 1994 and the airport was inaugurated in 1999 during LDF regime," he added. Meanwhile, BJP state president K Surendran shared an RTI reply on his Facebook page that said the state government had spent Rs 2.36 crore for bidding for the management of Trivandrum international airport. As per an RTI reply received from Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC), the main chunk of this expense was on engaging KPMG as the technical consultant for the bid. The government paid Rs 1.57 crore as the consultant fee. The other expenses include the fee for Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas, the legal consultant, bid processing fee for Airports Authority of India, and commission for bank guarantee. The legal expert was paid Rs 55.4 lakh as consultancy fee. "If government spends Rs. 2.13 crore for consultancy fee for bidding alone, they would have swallowed the entire airport if given a chance to manage it," Surendran wrote on Facebook.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/airport-handover-subject-to-writ-petition-says-puri/articleshow/77682609.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Big makeover awaits Big Bazaar Street||Coimbatore: By this time next year, the Big Bazaar Street will have equal space for pedestrians and motorists, and a separate lane for buses. The busy street will also have a sitting arena for people to relax, a designated space marked for two-wheeler parking and pick-up and drop points for cabs and autos. These are some of the features German technical agency Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH has included in its design to make the stretch pedestrian-friendly. The Rs 4.5 crore project will be implemented for about a kilometre from Pothys to Koniamman temple. The city corporation had reached out to the public through social media platforms for feedback on the proposed design and received over 500 responses, said a source privy to the project. “Most of the responses were positive.” The civic body and the firm conducted a test run last November by painting pavements in vibrant colours and installing overhead shades. “We received a lot of positive responses. Based on the feedback and suggestions from the public and traders in the area, the final design was prepared. Most of the components have been retained by changing the materials used during trial,” the source said. To ensure that the lane is pedestrian-friendly, bollards will be used to restrict entry of vehicles on footpaths. Width of footpaths will be increased. Junctions will have tabletop crossing. “The stretch will have three-lane traffic as usual. We will use the unused and encroached space to increase the size of footpaths,” the source said. Street vendors will be given exclusive space to carry out their business, without disturbing commuters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/big-makeover-awaits-big-bazaar-street/articleshow/77683950.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Monsoon preparedness exposed in 2 hours||AHMEDABAD: Heavy rain between 10am and 12 noon on Friday led to waterlogging in several parts of western Ahmedabad. Office-goers were found stuck at several places because of waterlogging and traffic jam. “It is really surprising that our city gets flooded even with two hours of rain. It is high time the monsoon action plan is taken seriously by the AMC,” said an office-goer near Shivranjani. “Most of the manholes and drainage lines are chocked,” he added. The AMC control room said that waterlogging was reported from Anandnagar, Jodhpur, Satellite, Shivranjani, Thaltej, Memnagar, Vejalpur and Gurukul among others. “We have received information about waterlogging near Ambar Tower and Ganchi Hall in Juhapura, Dharmnagar in Sabarmati among others,” the official said. Sarkhej gauge, which measures rain in Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Sarkhej, Maktampura and Bopal-Ghuma, reported 37mm of rains in two hours from 10am. Ranip reported 50mm of rain. The officials said that the city has so far received 700mm of its seasonal rainfall of 798mm. The city has so far received 88% of its annual quota. There were 18 complaints of waterlogging from the western parts of the city. “Teams of the solid waste and the estate departments were deputed to clear manholes,” said an AMC official. Sushmita Gupta, a resident of Vejalpur, said all roads leading to Shivranjani and IIM were inaccessible because of waterlogging. A resident of Thaltej, Dharmesh Shah, said that because of the Metro work, there was waterlogging all the way from Thaltej to Commerce Six Roads. He said that the recent spell of rains has damaged the road and one needs to be extra careful while driving on this road. The IMD has forecast moderate rain or thunder showers for Saturday. The city reported the maximum temperature of 33.3°C which was 1.1 degree above normal. The minimum temperature was 26.4°C, 1.4 degrees above normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/monsoon-preparedness-exposed-in-2-hours/articleshow/77684903.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Allot extra sugar cane, say mills||AURANGABAD: Worried over excess sugar cane cultivation, the sugar industries in Marathwada region have urged the authorities concerned to study the quantum of sugar cane available under jurisdiction of different factories and allot the additional sugar cane to the factories with low yield areas. Dilip S Patil, the managing director of Karmayogi Ankushrao Tope Samarth Sahakari Sakhar Karkhana Ltd in Jalna district, said that their factory nine lakh metric tonne (MT) more than its crushing capacity and Jai Bhavani Sahakari Sakhar Karkhana Ltd in Beed accounts for an additional 5 lakh MT of sugarcane. These need to be allotted elsewhere or the cultivators will be serious financial trouble. “The sugar production in the country and across the global will be more in the year 2020-21 due to normal rain. Since sugar cane is a solid cash crop, the area under its cultivation has increased. In such a backdrop, the allotment of the additional sugar cane to other sugar factories would help deal with the excess sugar cane cultivated in the state,” he said. He said that the government should urgently act in terms of allocation or distribution of surplus sugar cane and also provide assistance for sugar cane transportation to the sugar mills. Patil pointed out that the cooperative sugar factories were already in trouble due to the Covid-19 pandemic, which caused reduction in the domestic sugar consumption by about 10 to 15 lakh MT. “The lack of demand from industrial buyers like ice-cream makers, soft-drink makers and confectionery makers has slowed down sugar sales. Besides, restrictions on weddings and ceremonies have reduced sugar consumption,” said Patil. The Samarth factory is considered a major factories that has experimented in the sugar production and also tried its hand at producing sugar from beetroot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/allot-extra-sugar-cane-say-mills/articleshow/77681337.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Chennai||Hindi-Tamil tug of war at Ayush programme||CHENNAI: Yet another language row is brewing as yoga and naturopathy practitioners working under the Tamil Nadu government have flagged concern over the ministry of Ayush organising a national-level training programme for yoga instructors only in Hindi. As everything the instructors said went over the head for the participants from Tamil Nadu, they requested the instructors to explain things in English. According to some participants, their suggestion did not go down well with Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha, secretary of the ministry of Ayush. The officer allegedly said that all those who don’t understand Hindi could leave the session, adding that he couldn’t speak English well. When the participants sought to reason out with him, he said he would identify the “problem creators” and take up the matter with the senior officials of the state government for initiating action against them. The three-day virtual training of master trainers for Ayush health and wellness centres organised by Morarji Desai National Institute of the ministry thus ended up stoking a new linguistic controversy. The new education policy has already evoked strong criticism from TN political parties over its alleged favoritism towards Hindi language. Kotecha’s outburst happened on the final day of the training programme. Lack of proper communication was a problem right from the beginning of the programme on August 18, said the participants. Out of 400 participants from across the country, 37 were from Tamil Nadu. “We requested the trainers to speak in English as we don’t understand Hindi. Participants from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Kerala also demanded the same. But a large section of participants raised their voice, saying Hindi is the ‘Rashtra Bhasha’ and the instruction should be in Hindi only,” said one of the participants from TN. So, much of the programme was Greek and Latin to the participants from the south, he said. Even those who know English chose to speak only in Hindi, said a representative of the Indian Naturopathy and Yoga Graduates’ Medical Association. At the end of the first day, the association wrote to secretary Kotecha, requesting him to break the participants into two groups and conduct the programme for people from the south in English. But it evoked no response. He was unsympathetic and rude to those who made the request, said another participant. He chose the final day’s session to send across a stern warning to those who were raising the linguistic issue. “If they don’t understand, we should make them understand,” Kotecha said in the meeting. Since then, Dr Balu Mote, a consultant in the ministry, has been calling participants from TN to identify the “problem makers,” said association representatives. Mote told TOI that his effort was only to avoid such problems in future. He said though the training was predominantly in Hindi, course material was provided in English too. Some speakers spoke in both English and Hindi, he said. Watch If you can't understand Hindi, you can leave: Ayush secretary to Tamil Doctors||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hindi-tamil-tug-of-war-at-ayush-programme/articleshow/77683949.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
August 22, 2020||Goa||High prices don’t dither Chovoth shoppers in Ponda||Ponda: Despite guidelines imposed by the government in view of the ongoing pandemic, shoppers thronged the matoli bazaar in Ponda on Friday. Vendors made brisk business despite rates of various matoli items being over priced. The rate of a ‘katro’ (areca nut bunch) used in a matoli set up over the lord Ganesh idol during Chovoth had been priced between Rs 1,000 and 1,500, as compared to Rs 300-Rs 600 last year. While a pumelo (toring in Konkani) which was priced at Rs 50 last year was sold at Rs 80, a banana cluster costing Rs 300 last year was being sold at Rs 500. However, the shoppers were not complaining “We will not let the high prices dampen our festive spirit, as Ganesh Chaturthi comes only once in a year. Family members scattered all over Goa for jobs come together during Chovoth and spend time together” Ramesh Naik, a local from Ponda, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/high-prices-dont-dither-chovoth-shoppers-in-ponda/articleshow/77684888.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
August 22, 2020||Dehradun||Monsoon activity to enter subdued phase in Uttarakhand||Dehradun: After witnessing spells of intense rainfall over the last one week, the monsoon activity is going to enter a subdued phase for next 48 hours, starting August 22 morning, according to the Met department. According to the rainfall data released by the regional meteorological centre, Uttarakhand witnessed 12% surplus rainfall during the last week, recording 108.9mm rainfall against normal 97.3mm. The data was till Aug 19 (week-wise calculations are made from Wednesday to Thursday by the Met department). Speaking to TOI, Bikram Singh, director of regional meteorological centre, said, “Uttarakhand recorded surplus rains last week, as widespread showers lashed both the plains and the hills. However, dry weather will prevail for the next two days in Uttarakhand.” Singh added that the rain activity is likely to pick up pace once again in Uttarakhand from August 24, with chances of heavy showers at isolated places in Pithoragarh, Bageshwar and Chamoli districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/monsoon-activity-to-enter-subdued-phase-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/77681354.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Four crest gates of Nagarjuna Sagar open ahead of schedule||GUNTUR: With flood inflow going beyond anticipated levels, irrigation authorities have opened four crest gates of Nagarjuna Sagar several hours prior to the expected schedule on Friday. Officials decided to open the flood gates soon after the water level touched 580ft to let out water into the downstream Pulichintala project. Irrigation engineers had originally planned to open the gates late night Friday. But keeping in view the inflow from Srisailam, officials were forced to revise the decision and open the gates Friday afternoon itself. This is the second consecutive year when water has flowed out of the Sagar project. The water level at Nagarjuna Sagar touched 583ft against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 590ft on Friday morning. The project is receiving 4.5 lakh cusecs water from Srisailam which is expected to go up to 5.5 lakh cusecs by Friday night. Sagar project authorities were initially expecting an inflow of around 3.5 lakh to 4 lakh cusecs from Srisailam over two days. However, with the water level at Srisailam touching the FRL of 885ft, authorities have already opened 10 gets to release 5 lakh cusecs downstream. The sudden surge in inflows has pushed up the water table at Sagar project where around 294tmc water has already filled the dam against its full capacity of 312tmc. “We are releasing 50,000 cusecs to Pulichintala which is likely to go up in the next few hours as inflows from Srisailam are also going up,” said a senior irrigation official. A high alert has been sounded in Guntur and Krishna districts following the release of water from Nagarjuna Sagar to Pulichintala. Although the Pulichintala project has only 20tmc water now, it is likely to reach its full capacity of 45tmc in the next 24 hours once the outflow from Sagar increases to four lakh or five lakh cusecs. Once the Pulichintala project fills with water, the additional water flow coming from the upstream Krishna basin will go into the sea via Prakasam Barrage as there are no other storage points downstream of the Pulichintala project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/four-crest-gates-of-nagarjuna-sagar-open-ahead-of-schedule/articleshow/77686702.cms||Samdani MN
August 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Four crest gates of Nagarjuna Sagar open ahead of schedule||GUNTUR: With flood inflow going beyond anticipated levels, irrigation authorities have opened four crest gates of Nagarjuna Sagar several hours prior to the expected schedule on Friday. Officials decided to open the flood gates soon after the water level touched 580ft to let out water into the downstream Pulichintala project. Irrigation engineers had originally planned to open the gates late night Friday. But keeping in view the inflow from Srisailam, officials were forced to revise the decision and open the gates Friday afternoon itself. This is the second consecutive year when water has flowed out of the Sagar project. The water level at Nagarjuna Sagar touched 583ft against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 590ft on Friday morning. The project is receiving 4.5 lakh cusecs water from Srisailam which is expected to go up to 5.5 lakh cusecs by Friday night. Sagar project authorities were initially expecting an inflow of around 3.5 lakh to 4 lakh cusecs from Srisailam over two days. However, with the water level at Srisailam touching the FRL of 885ft, authorities have already opened 10 gets to release 5 lakh cusecs downstream. The sudden surge in inflows has pushed up the water table at Sagar project where around 294tmc water has already filled the dam against its full capacity of 312tmc. “We are releasing 50,000 cusecs to Pulichintala which is likely to go up in the next few hours as inflows from Srisailam are also going up,” said a senior irrigation official. A high alert has been sounded in Guntur and Krishna districts following the release of water from Nagarjuna Sagar to Pulichintala. Although the Pulichintala project has only 20tmc water now, it is likely to reach its full capacity of 45tmc in the next 24 hours once the outflow from Sagar increases to four lakh or five lakh cusecs. Once the Pulichintala project fills with water, the additional water flow coming from the upstream Krishna basin will go into the sea via Prakasam Barrage as there are no other storage points downstream of the Pulichintala project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/four-crest-gates-of-nagarjuna-sagar-open-ahead-of-schedule/articleshow/77681342.cms||Samdani MN
August 22, 2020||Aurangabad||117 fresh Covid cases reported from Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: The district has reported 117 fresh Covid-19 patients on Friday, including 65 from Aurangabad city and 52 from rural parts, taking the total number of cases to 19,851. There are 4,307 active cases. A total of 14,927 have recovered from the contagion in the district. On Friday, four patients succumbed to the infection. With this, the death toll stands at 617. The deceased were undergoing treatment at the government medical college and hospital. The deceased include a 75-year-old woman from Chikalthana, a woman from Harshnagar Labour Colony, a 48-year-old man from Mayurnagar, Harsul and a 60-year-old man from Chaudhary Colony, Chikalthana. The hospital administration said so far 469 Covid patients have died at the GMCH while undergoing treatment. At present, 316 patients are being treated. here.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/117-fresh-cases-reported-from-district/articleshow/77681378.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Alliance Air, IndiGo to launch B’luru service||Coimbatore: Alliance Air, a subsidiary of Air India, has announced that it will operate flights between Bengaluru and Coimbatore starting August 27. IndiGo has also announced a flight between the two cities starting August 26. The Alliance Air flights will be operated on all days of the week, except Tuesday. The flight from Monday to Saturday will take off from Bengaluru at 6.30am and reach Coimbatore at 7.30am. It will depart from Coimbatore at 7.55am and reach Bengaluru at 8.55am. On Sundays, the flight will leave Bengaluru at 7am and arrive in Coimbatore at 8am. It will depart at 8.25am and reach Bengaluru at 9.25am. Alliance Air will operate an ATR flight between the two cities, which can accommodate around 70 passengers. The IndiGo flight will leave Bengaluru at 11.15am and reach Coimbatore at 12.25 pm. It will depart from Coimbatore at 1.10pm and reach Bengaluru at 2.20pm. Addition of these two flights gives Coimbatorians three flight options and three different timings to choose from when flying to and from Bengaluru. IndiGo is already operating a flight which leaves Bengaluru at 2.25 pm and reaches Coimbatore at 3.35pm. It departs at 4.15 pm and reaches Bengaluru at 5.15pm. “Morning flights are preferred by students, businessmen and work travellers because they allow them to reach before the business day begins,” says A Kajal, a travel agent. IndiGo Airlines has announced an evening flight between Chennai and Coimbatore. It will leave Chennai at 5.45pm and land here at 7.10pm. It will depart from Coimbatore at 7.30pm and land in Chennai at 8.55pm. SpiceJet operates a morning flight between these cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/alliance-air-indigo-to-launch-bluru-service/articleshow/77683957.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Sugarcane growers seek higher price in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Two days after the central government announced a fair and remunerative price (FRP) for sugarcane for the 2020-21 season, farmers in Karnataka said the rate was not adequate and didn’t even cover the input cost. They urged the state government to announce a state advisory price (SAP) of at least Rs 350 more per tonne of sugarcane, over and above the FRP. They have also sought a meeting of the sugarcane board. On August 19, the cabinet committee on economic affairs headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi approved the FRP of Rs 2,850 per tonne, an increase of Rs 100 over the previous year, for a basic recovery of 10 per cent. The price will increase or decrease as per the recovery rate. A 10 per cent recovery means that 10kg of sugar is produced per every 100kg of crushed cane. The Centre announced the price after consulting all states. Karnataka had reportedly asked for Rs 2,950 per tonne. “The input cost per tonne of sugarcane is Rs 3,200, which is Rs 350 more than the FRP for the year. How can farmers survive if this is the attitude of governments? The Centre didn’t revise FRP for two years. We demand that the state government announce SAP of at least Rs 3,200 per tonne,” said Kurubur Shanthkumar, president, Indian Sugarcane Growers’ Association. Subhash Shibarur, a sugarcane grower in Bagalkot, alleged farmers were being cheated even in the FRP process. “Earlier, 9.5 per cent used to be the basic recovery for setting the FRP. But since last year, it has been increased to 10 per cent. Half a per cent increase in recovery means loss of around Rs 140 per tonne for farmers,” he added. We’ll discuss the issue I will call the meeting of the sugarcane board to decide on the state advisory price after September 1. As for the demand for a price increase, I will speak to officials, sugar mill owners and farmers. Shivaram Hebbar | Sugar minister||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/upset-with-frp-sugarcane-growers-seek-higher-rate/articleshow/77685761.cms||Anil Gejji
August 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Low pressure likely to form over Bay of Bengal tomorrow||Visakhapatnam: A fresh low pressure is likely to form over Bay of Bengal around August 23, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday. The IMD Amaravati Centre director S Stella said the low pressure would be formed over northwest Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood. At present, the system was traced as a well-marked low pressure over central parts of east Madhya Pradesh and neighbourhood with associated cyclonic circulation extending up to 7.6 km above mean sea level. “Although it will not have much impact on the state, there would be rainfall at isolated places ,” said a meteorologist from Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC), Visakhapatnam. According to the IMD’s forecast for the next five days, thunderstorms and lightning are likely to occur in isolated places over north coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam, near Kakinada, for the next five days, the IMD added. Meanwhile, in the last 24 hours, 96 locations in the state received moderate rainfall and 460 locations received light rainfall. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/low-pressure-likely-to-form-over-bay-of-bengal-tomorrow/articleshow/77681355.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Metro station that will make space for 3,000 cars||NEW DELHI: Along with a busy interchange metro station, the congested area of Nabi Karim in central Delhi will get ample parking space as the underground station will get a multilevel car parking facility above it that will be have space for over 3,000 cars. The interchange station and the parking facility will be ready in the next couple of years as part of Delhi Metro’s Phase IV project. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and North Delhi Municipal Corporation are going to jointly develop the fully automated parking facility. Times ViewExceptions aside, existing multi-storey parking lots are severely underutilised. In several cases this is because they are badly maintained, in others because people would rather just park illegally on the road. To change this state of affairs, the authorities need to follow a carrot and stick policy. First, ensure that all parking lots are clean, well lit and well maintained. Second, crackdown on illegal parking, which will ensure that at least the better ones — such as the one on Kharak Singh Marg — get more customers. Otherwise, the well-intentioned effort could end up being a waste of resources.“The facility will be part of an integrated station complex at Nabi Karim,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director of corporate communications, DMRC. While an interchange facility for the Janakpuri West-RK Ashram Marg corridor and the proposed Inderlok–Indraprastha corridor of Phase IV will come up underground, the six-storey parking facility along with a three-storey commercial complex will be constructed above the station structure, he added. A memorandum of understanding was signed on Friday by DMRC managing director Mangu Singh and north corporation commissioner Gyanesh Bharti. Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal participated through videoconferencing while corporation mayor Jai Prakash also took part in the event. “DMRC will construct the integrated substructure for the station and the corporation will construct the super structure for the parking as well as commercial facilities through a concessionaire. They will also operate and maintain the parking facility and the commercial block,” Dayal said. The Nabi Karim metro station will have four underground levels and on the surface, the building will have nine floors, three for commercial purposes and six for parking. The integrated complex will come up over around 25,000 square metres located at Shahi Idgah Road in Sadar Bazar, the DMRC official said. “DMRC had identified the land as it had to construct an interchange station. the corporation, which owns the land, had plans for a multilevel parking-cum-commercial facility. After a series of meetings, an innovative solution was found by combining two projects as an integrated complex,” Dayal said. DMRC had earlier constructed a multilevel parking facility at New Delhi metro station of Airport Express Line. The Janakpuri West-RK Ashram Marg corridor, an extension of the Magenta Line (Botanical Garden-Janakpuri West), is one of the three priority corridors of the six proposed corridors of Phase IV and was the first one where construction started last year. The much smaller Inderlok–Indraprastha corridor, however, is yet to receive the Centre’s nod. Watch Delhi: Metro station that will make space for 3,000 cars||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/metro-station-that-will-make-space-for-3k-cars/articleshow/77683990.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Power restored in 20,000 flood-affected Andhra Pradesh villages||VIJAYAWADA: The energy department has managed to restore power in about 20,000 households in the flood-affected areas of East and West Godavari districts. Energy secretary and CMD of APTransco, Srikant Nagulapalli, on Friday said during a teleconference that power supply should be restored in the affected villages within 24 hours of recession of floodwater. The APEPDCL has chalked out an action plan to restore power in all villages and submitted it to the secretary. The chairman and managing director of APEPDCL Nagalakshmi S said that 140 villages in 22 mandals of East Godavari were affected by floods; four 33/11Kv substations with 40 km of 33Kv line, 20 11KV feeders with length of 112 km and LT line of 120KM, 1,526 distribution transformers, 3,021 agricultural services and 16,002 non-agricultural services were affected. Similarly, 97 villages in five mandals were affected due to floods in West Godavari district due to which two 33/11 kv substations with ten 11KV feeders, 570 distribution transformers, 618 agricultural services and 14,373 non-agricultural services were affected. The cost of the damage has been estimated as Rs 2.26 crore so far. The energy secretary instructed the director of grid and transmission of APTransco, K Praveen Kumar, to monitor the progress of the work and personally visit the affected villages. He also appointed general managers as nodal officers for each district. In addition, local officers in the rank of executive engineers from other wings, besides the operation wing engineers, were also deputed for early restoration of power supply. The required men and material have been made available. The EPDCL CMD said power has been restored in 17 mandals out 27 and 116 villages out of 237 villages and 19,179 non-agriculture connections out of 30,375 connections and 1,286 agriculture connections out of 3,369 connections, which were affected in both districts. However, as the water level drastically increased in the past two days, officials had to hand trip the feeders to avoid accidents as most of the restored powerlines were submerged again. The secretary has informed the progress of power restoration work to the minister for energy Balineni Srinivasa Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/power-restored-in-20000-flood-affected-villages/articleshow/77681369.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Amaravati||Power restored in 20,000 flood-affected Andhra Pradesh villages||VIJAYAWADA: The energy department has managed to restore power in about 20,000 households in the flood-affected areas of East and West Godavari districts. Energy secretary and CMD of APTransco, Srikant Nagulapalli, on Friday said during a teleconference that power supply should be restored in the affected villages within 24 hours of recession of floodwater. The APEPDCL has chalked out an action plan to restore power in all villages and submitted it to the secretary. The chairman and managing director of APEPDCL Nagalakshmi S said that 140 villages in 22 mandals of East Godavari were affected by floods; four 33/11Kv substations with 40 km of 33Kv line, 20 11KV feeders with length of 112 km and LT line of 120KM, 1,526 distribution transformers, 3,021 agricultural services and 16,002 non-agricultural services were affected. Similarly, 97 villages in five mandals were affected due to floods in West Godavari district due to which two 33/11 kv substations with ten 11KV feeders, 570 distribution transformers, 618 agricultural services and 14,373 non-agricultural services were affected. The cost of the damage has been estimated as Rs 2.26 crore so far. The energy secretary instructed the director of grid and transmission of APTransco, K Praveen Kumar, to monitor the progress of the work and personally visit the affected villages. He also appointed general managers as nodal officers for each district. In addition, local officers in the rank of executive engineers from other wings, besides the operation wing engineers, were also deputed for early restoration of power supply. The required men and material have been made available. The EPDCL CMD said power has been restored in 17 mandals out 27 and 116 villages out of 237 villages and 19,179 non-agriculture connections out of 30,375 connections and 1,286 agriculture connections out of 3,369 connections, which were affected in both districts. However, as the water level drastically increased in the past two days, officials had to hand trip the feeders to avoid accidents as most of the restored powerlines were submerged again. The secretary has informed the progress of power restoration work to the minister for energy Balineni Srinivasa Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/power-restored-in-20000-flood-affected-villages/articleshow/77689271.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala Assembly gears up for one-day session||Thiruvananthapuram: The one-day session of the assembly which is scheduled on August 24 will be held as per Covid-19 protocol. MLAs will be subjected to rapid antibody tests before entering the floor of the House. For this, medical teams will be set up at MLA quarters and assembly complex. MLAs would be allowed to enter the floor only if results turnout to be negative. However, MLAs who are tested positive will have the opportunity to vote for Rajya Sabha election scheduled on the same day. Separate polling booths will be set up for such MLAs inside the assembly complex. Later, they would be placed under quarantine. Seating arrangements have also been changed to ensure social distancing. All members will also be provided with sanitizers, masks ad face shields. Employees of the assembly will be subjected to rapid antigen test a day before the session and those who are tested negative will be allowed to enter the complex. Meanwhile, ministers and MLAs have been asked to limit the number of personal staff members accompanying them inside the complex. The chief secretary has also been asked to limit the number of officials coming to the session. A special medical team from the government medical college, Thiruvananthapuram, will be camping inside the complex. For the media, more press galleries will be set up to accommodate them. However, there will be restrictions for cameramen of both print and electronic media. However, arrangements have been made for live telecast of the entire session. No-confidence motion The one-day session is being held to pass the finance bill for the current financial year. However, the Congress-led opposition has given a notice for no-confidence motion against the government which will also be taken up for discussion. It has been decided to have a five-hour debate over the motion moved by V D Satheesan of Congress. The House will pass a unanimous resolution against the Centre’s move to hand over the Thiruvananthapuram international airport to Adani group on lease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-assembly-gears-up-for-one-day-session/articleshow/77682662.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Irfan Shaikh, ATS team seen in CCTV footage||AHMEDABAD: More CCTV footages of Irfan Shaikh, the alleged sharpshooter nabbed by the Gujarat ATS on Tuesday night, emerged on Friday. According to police, Shaikh and his accomplice Salman were on a mission to assassinate Gordhan Zadafia, the Gujarat BJP vice-president who was MoS (home) during the 2002 post-Godhra riots. Salman is still on the run. Shaikh, who has been isolated in a city-based hospital after being tested positive for Covid-19, will be arrested after he is discharged from there. Senior Gujarat ATS officials said that they have located Salman and a team of Gujarat ATS is after him. The CCTV footage, which emerged on Friday evening, shows Shaikh checking into Hotel Vinus on Tuesday morning. The hotel is located on Relief Road in the city. He is seen talking to the manager of the hotel, Karan Singh, to get a room. In another footage, officers of Gujarat ATS — DIG Himanshu Shukla, SSP of ATS Deepan Bhadran, DSP K K Patel and DSP B P Roziya — are seen talking to an employee of the hotel. ATS sources said Shaikh and Salman were sent by a handler named Shabbir on the instance of Dawood Ibrahim’s right hand man Chhota Shakeel to eliminate Zadafia and some other political leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/irfan-ats-team-seen-in-cctv-footage/articleshow/77683738.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Dehradun||Three killed, one hurt in house collapse||Pithoragarh: Three persons of a family, including a man and his two kids, were buried alive after heavy rainfall triggered the collapse of an abandoned house over another house at Chasar village of Pithoragarh in the wee hours of Friday. The wife of the deceased man sustained severe injuries in the accident. Subsequently, the SDRF and the police team recovered all three bodies from the debris and admitted the injured person to the district hospital. “The village is three kilometres away from Pithoragarh town. The deceased have been identified as Kusal Nath (27), his son Dhananjaya (7), and his daughter Nikita (3). The 25-year-old woman, Nidhi, is currently undergoing treatment. The family was sleeping when the house collapsed,” RS Rautela, circle officer, Pithoragarh, told TOI. The villagers informed the police of the accident and started rescue works even before the teams arrived on the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-killed-one-hurt-in-house-collapse/articleshow/77681372.cms||Prem Punetha
August 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Power restored in 20,000 flood-affected Andhra Pradesh villages||VIJAYAWADA: The energy department has managed to restore power in about 20,000 households in the flood-affected areas of East and West Godavari districts. Energy secretary and CMD of APTransco, Srikant Nagulapalli, on Friday said during a teleconference that power supply should be restored in the affected villages within 24 hours of recession of floodwater. The APEPDCL has chalked out an action plan to restore power in all villages and submitted it to the secretary. The chairman and managing director of APEPDCL Nagalakshmi S said that 140 villages in 22 mandals of East Godavari were affected by floods; four 33/11Kv substations with 40 km of 33Kv line, 20 11KV feeders with length of 112 km and LT line of 120KM, 1,526 distribution transformers, 3,021 agricultural services and 16,002 non-agricultural services were affected. Similarly, 97 villages in five mandals were affected due to floods in West Godavari district due to which two 33/11 kv substations with ten 11KV feeders, 570 distribution transformers, 618 agricultural services and 14,373 non-agricultural services were affected. The cost of the damage has been estimated as Rs 2.26 crore so far. The energy secretary instructed the director of grid and transmission of APTransco, K Praveen Kumar, to monitor the progress of the work and personally visit the affected villages. He also appointed general managers as nodal officers for each district. In addition, local officers in the rank of executive engineers from other wings, besides the operation wing engineers, were also deputed for early restoration of power supply. The required men and material have been made available. The EPDCL CMD said power has been restored in 17 mandals out 27 and 116 villages out of 237 villages and 19,179 non-agriculture connections out of 30,375 connections and 1,286 agriculture connections out of 3,369 connections, which were affected in both districts. However, as the water level drastically increased in the past two days, officials had to hand trip the feeders to avoid accidents as most of the restored powerlines were submerged again. The secretary has informed the progress of power restoration work to the minister for energy Balineni Srinivasa Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/power-restored-in-20000-flood-affected-villages/articleshow/77689269.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Team to keep finger on pulse in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: District collector Sunil Chavan has appointed a team of 26 auditors, including four reserved auditors, to assess the bills of 22 private hospitals after reports about charging exorbitant amounts from people, especially those who had tested positive for Covid-19. Chavan has already initiated an inquiry into the alleged charges of excessive bills by a private hospital and has appointed auditors to confirm the claims. A meeting of various district administration officials was held on Thursday to discuss overcharging by private hospitals in the name of Covid-19 during which it was informed that the administration has taken a tough stand and ensured that Covid-19 patients are not being looted by the hospitals. The district collector, who presided over the meeting, informed the officials concerned that the complaints of overcharging by private hospitals were being received. “Teams have been formed to audit the bills. By this way, the administration has so far helped people save Rs 1.43 crore on account of excess billing, as the administration intervened and ensured that the hospitals did not charge exorbitantly,” Chavan said. “The administration has also made public the names of 22 auditors along with their cell phone numbers at the private hospitals for people to contact them in case they face any issue. These officials would assess the Covid-19 related bills and ensure that hospitals are not charging excessively,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/team-to-keep-finger-on-pulse-in-aurangabad/articleshow/77681394.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||In Covid-19 year, home is where Ganesh Chaturthi celebration is||VISAKHAPATNAM: Following the trend of other religious festivals this year, Ganesh Chaturthi is set to be a quiet and intimate affair at residential complexes in the state. Societies at residential complexes have not collected subscriptions from members and have urged that rituals be followed at home instead of having a community celebration. “We have bought a small idol and have asked the priest to offer ‘puja’ on Saturday morning. There won’t be any community ‘prasadam’ and there won’t be any ‘aarti’ for the residents. People living in the society would organise pujas at their respective flats,” said A Pooja, president of a residents’ association of a housing complex in Visakhapatnam that has 160 flats. On other years, residents of these apartments would put together contributions to hire decorators to set up a ‘mandapam’, buy Ganesh idols and other items for the rituals. A few of these complexes would also hire catering units to serve community ‘prasadam’ on Ganesh Chathurthi. “We have had at least five to six meetings to decide whether this year we are going to organise Ganesh Chaturthi in our compound. Finally, we decided not to organise it. Firstly, there are restrictions on gatherings. Secondly, we have ten to 12 senior citizens residing in our society. We are just buying a small idol and will have a small puja in our office room,” said S Vidyasagar, secretary of an apartment. However, it is children who are the most disappointed this year. With gatherings cancelled, housing societies are unable to arrange games for children. Some societies, though, have come up with the idea to move the games online. “We have decided to give tasks for children on Whatsapp. While they can play a few games directly on the Whatsapp group, some games have to be solved on paper, photographed and posted on the group. The idea is to keep them engaged,” said S Sudhakar, president of a residential complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/in-covid-19-year-home-is-where-ganesh-chaturthi-celebration-is/articleshow/77688934.cms||Arpit Basu
August 22, 2020||Surat||Ukai cuts discharge to 1.5 lakh cusecs||SURAT : With low to moderate rainfall in the catchment areas, the Ukai dam authorities on Friday reduced the discharge of water into the Tapi river from 1.76 lakh cusecs to 1.5 lakh cusecs. Authorities at the Ukai reservoir stated that the dam is getting inflow of 93,000 cusecs. The inflow has reduced from 1.20 lakh cusecs since Thursday morning. Dam’s water level has been reduced to 332.79 feet against the rule level of 335 feet. “We are reducing the water level at the dam with the continuous release of water into Tapi river. Against the inflow of 93,000 cusecs, we are releasing 1.5 lakh cusecs into the river. Till late Thursday night, we were releasing 1.76 lakh cusecs water,” said HR Mahakal, superintending engineer of Ukai dam. “We have been able to bring down the water level at the Ukai dam from 333.76 feet to 332.79 feet since Thursday morning. We will try to keep water level at the dam below 335 ft rule level,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ukai-cuts-discharge-to-1-5-lakh-cusecs/articleshow/77681401.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Godavari floods continue to wreak havoc, claim two lives||RAJAHMUNDRY: Nearly one lakh people in the East and West Godavari districts have been affected by the floods in River Godavari. The condition of seven tribal mandals and island villages in Konaseema is grim. So far an eight-year-old girl Manojna accidentally drowned in the floodwater at a relief centre in Koonavaram mandal in East Godavari district; a woman, Gangamma, was washed away in a stream in Pallapur village in Polavaram mandal in West Godavari district and the whereabouts of a person who was on the launch, which met with an accident on Thursday night in Sabari river in Chinturu, is still not known Meanwhile, about 18.60 lakh cusecs of water is being discharged from Sir Arthur Cotton barrage and the third warning was issued on Friday night. The water level at Bhadrachalam has reached 55.30 feet and is still rising. Irrigation authorities are predicting that it might start to recede at Bhadrachalam from Saturday morning. In the four merged mandals of East Godavari district, 233 habitations are surrounded by floodwater and roads have been cut off at 87 places. All streams, including Sabari, are overflowing hindering relief works. All the four mandals have no power for the past one week. On the other hand, the condition of three tribal mandals in West Godavari district — Velerupadu, Kukunoor and Polavaram — is also grim. Speaking to TOI, project officer, ITDA, KR Puram, Suryanarayana, said about 7,500 families are stranded in Velerupadu and Kukunoor mandals whereas 3,000 families in 19 villages have been cut off from the mainland in Polavaram mandal. He said most of the people are living under make-shift tarpaulin roofs on hillocks and authorities have supplied them with three months’ ration, besides kerosene, water, milk, candles and other basic amenities. Flashflood has submerged Kondrukota village and authorities have begun evacuating the villagers. Stating that the authorities have increased the height of electrical pole to 11 meters in the Agency area, he said the poles have been inundated in floodwater. Thirty three habitations in Devipatnam mandal in East Godavari continue to struggle as water has entered their houses. People in many places are struggling to get drinking water and fodder for their cattle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/godavari-floods-continue-to-wreak-havoc-claim-two-lives/articleshow/77681380.cms||Samson Raj
August 22, 2020||Vijayawada||In Covid-19 year, home is where Ganesh Chaturthi celebration is||VISAKHAPATNAM: Following the trend of other religious festivals this year, Ganesh Chaturthi is set to be a quiet and intimate affair at residential complexes in the state. Societies at residential complexes have not collected subscriptions from members and have urged that rituals be followed at home instead of having a community celebration. “We have bought a small idol and have asked the priest to offer ‘puja’ on Saturday morning. There won’t be any community ‘prasadam’ and there won’t be any ‘aarti’ for the residents. People living in the society would organise pujas at their respective flats,” said A Pooja, president of a residents’ association of a housing complex in Visakhapatnam that has 160 flats. On other years, residents of these apartments would put together contributions to hire decorators to set up a ‘mandapam’, buy Ganesh idols and other items for the rituals. A few of these complexes would also hire catering units to serve community ‘prasadam’ on Ganesh Chathurthi. “We have had at least five to six meetings to decide whether this year we are going to organise Ganesh Chaturthi in our compound. Finally, we decided not to organise it. Firstly, there are restrictions on gatherings. Secondly, we have ten to 12 senior citizens residing in our society. We are just buying a small idol and will have a small puja in our office room,” said S Vidyasagar, secretary of an apartment. However, it is children who are the most disappointed this year. With gatherings cancelled, housing societies are unable to arrange games for children. Some societies, though, have come up with the idea to move the games online. “We have decided to give tasks for children on Whatsapp. While they can play a few games directly on the Whatsapp group, some games have to be solved on paper, photographed and posted on the group. The idea is to keep them engaged,” said S Sudhakar, president of a residential complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/in-covid-19-year-home-is-where-ganesh-chaturthi-celebration-is/articleshow/77681396.cms||Arpit Basu
August 22, 2020||Dehradun||Edu dept asks dist edu officers to promote NEP 2020||Dehradun: Uttarakhand education department issued an order on Friday asking all the chief education officers (CEO) to promote and make people aware about the New Education Policy 2020 in their respective districts. The CEOs have been asked to make sure that residents in each block of the state are familiar with the features of the NEP 2020 which will eventually help their wards in availing various benefits of the NEP 2020. The department has released posters (6x5 feet) for the promotion of NEP 2020 and have asked them to place in important locations of various districts. Reportedly, the quote of Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding the NEP 2020 will be highlighted with red font.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/edu-dept-asks-dist-edu-officers-to-promote-nep-2020/articleshow/77681392.cms||Mohammad Anab
August 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Godavari floods continue to wreak havoc, claim two lives||RAJAHMUNDRY: Nearly one lakh people in the East and West Godavari districts have been affected by the floods in River Godavari. The condition of seven tribal mandals and island villages in Konaseema is grim. So far an eight-year-old girl Manojna accidentally drowned in the floodwater at a relief centre in Koonavaram mandal in East Godavari district; a woman, Gangamma, was washed away in a stream in Pallapur village in Polavaram mandal in West Godavari district and the whereabouts of a person who was on the launch, which met with an accident on Thursday night in Sabari river in Chinturu, is still not known Meanwhile, about 18.60 lakh cusecs of water is being discharged from Sir Arthur Cotton barrage and the third warning was issued on Friday night. The water level at Bhadrachalam has reached 55.30 feet and is still rising. Irrigation authorities are predicting that it might start to recede at Bhadrachalam from Saturday morning. In the four merged mandals of East Godavari district, 233 habitations are surrounded by floodwater and roads have been cut off at 87 places. All streams, including Sabari, are overflowing hindering relief works. All the four mandals have no power for the past one week. On the other hand, the condition of three tribal mandals in West Godavari district — Velerupadu, Kukunoor and Polavaram — is also grim. Speaking to TOI, project officer, ITDA, KR Puram, Suryanarayana, said about 7,500 families are stranded in Velerupadu and Kukunoor mandals whereas 3,000 families in 19 villages have been cut off from the mainland in Polavaram mandal. He said most of the people are living under make-shift tarpaulin roofs on hillocks and authorities have supplied them with three months’ ration, besides kerosene, water, milk, candles and other basic amenities. Flashflood has submerged Kondrukota village and authorities have begun evacuating the villagers. Stating that the authorities have increased the height of electrical pole to 11 meters in the Agency area, he said the poles have been inundated in floodwater. Thirty three habitations in Devipatnam mandal in East Godavari continue to struggle as water has entered their houses. People in many places are struggling to get drinking water and fodder for their cattle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/godavari-floods-continue-to-wreak-havoc-claim-two-lives/articleshow/77686801.cms||Samson Raj
August 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata airport officials offer food and shelter to stranded flyers||KOLKATA: Moved by the plight of passengers stuck at the airport on the two back-to-back lockdown days, the authorities on Friday reached out to them with food and water. They moved them out of the stinking and damp area outside the parking lot they had been camping in since Thursday, took them to a cleaner place and opened the terminal for them to spend the night on Friday, given the rain outside. TOI on Friday reported about nine passengers from neighbouring states—some of them headed for Trivandrum and some Andaman—who were unaware of suspension of flights owing to the Bengal lockdown and had to spend the night at the airport’s parking lot without proper food and water as they were allegedly asked by police to move out of the airport terminal area. Adding to their woes, the airlines they were booked on told them it would be difficult to arrange for replacement tickets before next week owing to the packed weekend flights. “We are poor people but we are not used to sleeping on the road without food and water. We had a tough time on Thursday night but thanks to the airport authorities, we were given proper lunch and dinner, along with water, tea and snacks. We could also sleep in a clean place inside the airport terminal. Our agent never told us about flights being suspended for the lockdown in Bengal. We left our village in Bihar in a hired a car on Wednesday to reach the airport early on Thursday. Our flight was to leave at 9.45am on Thursday,” said Lakshman Ghosh, heading to Trivandrum via Bangalore to join as a gym instructor. Like on Thursday, no passenger flight operated out of Kolkata airport on Friday. Some airport employees were seen sanitizing the deserted terminal but most airline as well as airport staffers were off duty as they were told not to report to work on lockdown days. However, around noon, a group of airport officials arrived to arrange for food and water for the stranded passengers. “This is the least we could do for them. The lockdown days and the cancellation of flights were announced long ago. But we could not just let the few, who were unaware of the lockdown, fend for themselves amid the pandemic, restrictions and the bad weather. Arrangements have been made for their stay inside the terminal on Friday night,” said airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee. “All shops and hotels in the area remain closed on lockdown days. Once we learnt about the flyers, we felt the need to do something for them,” said another airport official. Three more passengers, who had also come to the airport on Thursday but checked into the airport’s resting rooms were also provided with food and refreshment, the official added. Airport officials said they were trying to talk with airlines to arrange for tickets for the flyers on Saturday itself. Earlier this month, IndiGo officials were the first to hand out meals to stranded passengers at Kolkata airport on previous lockdown days after reading about stranded flyers in TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-airport-officials-offer-food-and-shelter-to-stranded-flyers/articleshow/77684007.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Sangli urban pockets see rise in patients, 661 Covid cases in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: The urban pockets of Sangli district has been witnessing a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases. The Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad municipal corporation had reported 1,555 cases TILL August 1 and by Thursday night, the area had 4,613 cases. The district has recorded almost 5,000 cases in the current month. In the beginning of August, Sangli had 2,799 cases but by Thursday night the district had 7750 cases.  Officials attribute this trend to the continuous rise in Covid patients in the jurisdiction of Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad municipal corporation. They said the spread of Covid has been contained in rural areas but there is an increase in urban pockets. As per the data, the municipal corporation records 200 patients on an average every day. The rise in other urban pockets, which are governed by municipal council, is lower compared to the ones in the municipal corporation. The urban pockets reported 208 patients by August 1 and till Thursday night, it increased to 598 patients The number of deaths is also on the rise in Sangli district. On August 1, the district had recorded 90 deaths while the death toll stands at 276 till Thursday night. Statistics show that rural parts in the district have considerably succeeded in containing the virus. On August 1, rural parts had 1,066 patients as against 2,539 on Thursday. Sangli reports 280 cases Sangli dstrict reported 280 fresh cases and 17 deaths on Friday. With this, the total number of cases increases to 8,002 and the death toll stands at 293. As many as 4,577 patients have recovered. Sangli collector Abhijeet Chaudhari on Friday ordered a fire audit of private hospitals where Covid patients are undergoing treatment. An FIR has been registered against five staff of two private hospitals in Sangli city for refusing to treat Covid patients. 11 deaths in KolhapurThe district reported 661 cases on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 17,433. 11 patients have succumbed to the infection. The death toll stands at 497.  There are 7,398 active cases and a total of 9,576 have recovered. Shahupuri has emerged as the hotspot as the locality has 162 cases so far. Seven vegetable vendors from markets in Kolhapur city have tested positve. So far, 139 vendors from various markets tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sangli-urban-pockets-see-rise-in-patients-661-cases-in-kolhapur/articleshow/77681412.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Gunrunner in Special Cell’s net||NEW DELHI: The Special Cell of Delhi Police has arrested one of the major players in the city’s arms trafficking racket along with 20 pistols, 40 magazines and 50 rounds of ammunition that were hidden in canisters of refined oil to avoid detection. It was found that the accused, Abdul Salaam, had already supplied more than 1,000 pieces of weapons to criminals in Delhi since 2014. Salaam would source the weapons from factories in Sendhwa in Madhya Pradesh and Meerut. He was arrested in 10 criminal cases earlier, but managed to secure bail. On Thursday evening, a team led by inspector Shiv Kumar tracked him down near the ISBT in Sarai Kale Khan while he was waiting for someone with a bag containing a 15-litre jar of refined oil. When cops questioned him, he even challenged them to open and check the jar. When the cops emptied the container they found the guns wrapped in plastic packs inside it. A few other jars kept nearby contained the ammunition and the magazines. All the weapons were of 0.32 bore calibre and were to be supplied to a contact in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gunrunner-in-special-cells-net/articleshow/77684000.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Step down, Ramesh urges CM||T’puram: Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala asked CM Pinarayi Vijayan to quit before the no-confidence motion on Monday. "CM cannot run away from the responsibility of corruption allegations faced by his government. If he wants to uphold political morality then he should resign before the motion," he said. Chennithala said emerging evidence on several projects, including Life Mission, proves corruption is rampant in the government. "CM had said government has nothing to do with Life Mission project in Wadakkancherry. UAE Red Crescent is funding the project and its role was to provide land and that it had no responsibility in awarding the work contract. CM lied," he claimed. The government had close association with Unitac builders which got the work from Red Crescent. Life Mission CEO UV Jose had certified that their plan was excellent in a letter given to Red Crescent. This shows that UAE agency gave the work to Unitac based on Life Mission recommendation, he added. Reiterating that CM feigning ignorance about corruption, Chennithala said, "Vijayan summoning files related to Life Missions project is an eyewash. He is trying to mislead the public that he hadn’t seen the files and has nothing to do with the project." The Wadakkancherry project proposal came up during CM’s UAE visit to collect funds for flood relief. Discussions with Red Crescent were held in his presence and the MoU was signed, he added. Now it has been proved that Unitac gave commission to obtain work. How can CM disown responsibility now? His media advisor acknowledged that the commission given was Rs 4.25 crore. FM Thomas Isaac said he was aware of the transaction. If FM knew, why didn’t he inform the government or probe agencies, he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/step-down-ramesh-urges-cm/articleshow/77682750.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lack of technology not a barrier for these gurus||Ahmedabad: Education has started in private and government schools in Gujarat even as the schools are yet to open. While the majority of these schools have taken the online route to reach their students’ homes, several pockets of the state still have issues of internet connectivity and presence of smartphones or laptops. Foundation for Augmenting Innovation and Research in Education (FAIR-E) of InShodh and IIM-Ahmedabad has documented some teacher-led innovations that don’t need internet connectivity or smartphones. A QUOTE FROM IIM-A or InSHODH --||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lack-of-technology-not-a-barrier-for-these-gurus/articleshow/77684976.cms||Parth Shastri
August 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Vizag hospital tried to project ‘high’ surrogacy rate||VISAKHAPATNAM: Investigation into the child trafficking case linked to Universal Srusti Fertility and Research Centre (Universal Srusti Hospital) in Vizag city has revealed that the hospital carried out the racket to claim its success rate in surrogacy. The hospital charged a couple Rs 15 to Rs 20 lakh, promising them a child through surrogacy. The hospital claimed to have performed 63 surrogacy operations since 2017. Police dismissed the claims, stating the hospital carried out its child trafficking rate under the guise of surrogacy. Speaking to TOI, deputy commissioner of police (North Zone), Aishwarya Rastogi that Dr P Namrata, managing director of Universal Srusti Hospital and her team would take advantage of childless couples and collect large sums from them after promising them children through surrogacy. Preliminary investigation has revealed that the hospital management would identify women with unwanted pregnancies and sell the newborn babies to childless couples, claiming the babies were born out of surrogacy. “The number of assisted reproductive clinics has increased in Vizag city. The Universal Srusti Hospital might have conducted some surrogacy procedures successfully and later started child trafficking to claim a high success rate. We are investigating the case with the assistance of medical teams to ascertain the exact number of newborn babies sold illegally,” said inspector of Two-Town police station K Venkata Rao. Police are also collecting data of surrogate mothers linked to hospital. Technical data is yet to be examined to prove the guilt of anesthesiologists, paediatricians and embryologists. Police are awaiting court nod to conduct DNA tests on three children to identify the biological mothers. Senior advocate and president of Forum of Legal Professionals Kuppili Muralidhar said, “To curb child trafficking, there is urgent need to have a surrogacy prevention law for commercial purposes. A Bill was introduced in Lok Sabha on July 15, 2019, but it is yet to become an Act. The government must make licensing compulsory for opening surrogacy clinics.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hosp-tried-to-project-high-surrogacy-rate/articleshow/77681432.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara reports 337 cases||Kolhapur: Satara district reported 337 fresh covid patients and 11 deaths due to the infection till Friday evening, taking the number of cases to 9,008 and the death toll rose to 288. A total of 4918 patients have recovered from Covid-19. There are 3802 active cases till Friday. While Satara and Karad tehsils have already emerged as hotspots, cases are also being traced in Wai, Mahabaleshwar, Koregaon, Khandala and Patan. Several new villages in Satara district have reported fresh cases. Nine of the 11 deceased were elderly. The deceased include seven men and four women. Of the deceased, four were from Wai tehsil, three from Satara tehsil, two from Karad and one each from Patan and Phaltan. Of the fresh cases, Mahabaleshwar reported 14 cases, Wai reported 31 cases, Khandala has 18 cases and Patan tehsil added 14 patients among others.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-reports-337-cases/articleshow/77681424.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag hospital tried to project ‘high’ surrogacy rate||VISAKHAPATNAM: Investigation into the child trafficking case linked to Universal Srusti Fertility and Research Centre (Universal Srusti Hospital) in Vizag city has revealed that the hospital carried out the racket to claim its success rate in surrogacy. The hospital charged a couple Rs 15 to Rs 20 lakh, promising them a child through surrogacy. The hospital claimed to have performed 63 surrogacy operations since 2017. Police dismissed the claims, stating the hospital carried out its child trafficking rate under the guise of surrogacy. Speaking to TOI, deputy commissioner of police (North Zone), Aishwarya Rastogi that Dr P Namrata, managing director of Universal Srusti Hospital and her team would take advantage of childless couples and collect large sums from them after promising them children through surrogacy. Preliminary investigation has revealed that the hospital management would identify women with unwanted pregnancies and sell the newborn babies to childless couples, claiming the babies were born out of surrogacy. “The number of assisted reproductive clinics has increased in Vizag city. The Universal Srusti Hospital might have conducted some surrogacy procedures successfully and later started child trafficking to claim a high success rate. We are investigating the case with the assistance of medical teams to ascertain the exact number of newborn babies sold illegally,” said inspector of Two-Town police station K Venkata Rao. Police are also collecting data of surrogate mothers linked to hospital. Technical data is yet to be examined to prove the guilt of anesthesiologists, paediatricians and embryologists. Police are awaiting court nod to conduct DNA tests on three children to identify the biological mothers. Senior advocate and president of Forum of Legal Professionals Kuppili Muralidhar said, “To curb child trafficking, there is urgent need to have a surrogacy prevention law for commercial purposes. A Bill was introduced in Lok Sabha on July 15, 2019, but it is yet to become an Act. The government must make licensing compulsory for opening surrogacy clinics.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/hosp-tried-to-project-high-surrogacy-rate/articleshow/77686842.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 22, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 cases cross 14k mark in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: With 477 fresh cases, Covid-19 tally crossed the 14,000 mark in Uttarakhand on Friday. The case count in the state now stands at 14,083. The state also reported five deaths. With this, the toll of the virus reached 192 in the state. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 war room, informed that the maximum of 106 fresh cases were reported from Udham Singh Nagar, followed by 101 cases from Haridwar, 95 from Dehradun, 50 from Nainital, and 41 from Uttarkashi. “Besides, 14 new cases were reported from Almora, 11 from Pauri Garhwal, nine from Champawat, six each from Pithoragarh and Tehri, five from Chamoli, two from Bageshwar, and one from Rudraprayag,” said Tripathi. The official added that 9,676 cases have so far been treated and discharged from hospitals and Covid-19 care centres in the state. Among the five deaths reported on the day, three were recorded at AIIMS Rishikesh and two from Government Doon Medical College and Hospital. Meanwhile, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday in a review meeting of the health department maintained that “jan aushadhi kendras” should be opened at railways stations across the state to ensure that generic medicines reach every needy person. “We must focus on opening more and more generic medicine stores and medicine procurement should be our priority,” added the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-cases-cross-14k-mark-in-ukhand/articleshow/77681438.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||IIM-V’s bespoke management programme has 678 aspirants||VISAKHAPATNAM: Indian Institute of Management-Visakhapatnam, is continuing its MBA programme in ‘digital governance and management’ for the second consecutive year under the aegis of ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY). The National e-Governance Division of the MeitY partnered with IIM-V to launch the bespoke management programme to develop required capacities in the participants and mould them as leaders in the area of digital governance. While the programme is open for officers of both government and private sectors, the programme fee for 15 participants from the government would be funded by MeitY. Several senior bureaucrats from various states joined the first batch of this specialised management programme, which was launched by IIM-V on January 6, 2020. An official from the MeitY, in a recent letter to secretaries of line ministries/departments of the Union government as well as to chief secretaries of the states and UTs, encouraged participation in the programme. “The programme is into its second successful year. The feedback from the participants of the first batch, which includes several officers from the central ministries and states, has been highly encouraging, about the programme meeting the objectives envisaged of it,” read the letter. IIM-V director Prof M Chandrasekhar said the programme witnessed registrations from 678 aspirants as of date. “After concluding the admission process, IIM-V is planning to launch the programme in January 2021. The last date for the applications is October 2. The programme would expand the pipeline of competent and capable managers for realising the vision and mission of Digital India,” said Prof Chandrasekhar. The programme, which is spread over four terms of 4.5 months each, is offered in a blended-learning model with a combination of traditional and virtual class. The selected candidates will be required to complete a ‘domestic component’ as well as an ‘international component’ of about two weeks at an international institution/university. The participants would be also required to carry out a capstone project of practical importance, with potential for implementation in the digital governance and management space.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/iim-vs-bespoke-mgmt-prog-has-678-aspirants/articleshow/77689007.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 22, 2020||Vijayawada||IIM-V’s bespoke management programme has 678 aspirants||VISAKHAPATNAM: Indian Institute of Management-Visakhapatnam, is continuing its MBA programme in ‘digital governance and management’ for the second consecutive year under the aegis of ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY). The National e-Governance Division of the MeitY partnered with IIM-V to launch the bespoke management programme to develop required capacities in the participants and mould them as leaders in the area of digital governance. While the programme is open for officers of both government and private sectors, the programme fee for 15 participants from the government would be funded by MeitY. Several senior bureaucrats from various states joined the first batch of this specialised management programme, which was launched by IIM-V on January 6, 2020. An official from the MeitY, in a recent letter to secretaries of line ministries/departments of the Union government as well as to chief secretaries of the states and UTs, encouraged participation in the programme. “The programme is into its second successful year. The feedback from the participants of the first batch, which includes several officers from the central ministries and states, has been highly encouraging, about the programme meeting the objectives envisaged of it,” read the letter. IIM-V director Prof M Chandrasekhar said the programme witnessed registrations from 678 aspirants as of date. “After concluding the admission process, IIM-V is planning to launch the programme in January 2021. The last date for the applications is October 2. The programme would expand the pipeline of competent and capable managers for realising the vision and mission of Digital India,” said Prof Chandrasekhar. The programme, which is spread over four terms of 4.5 months each, is offered in a blended-learning model with a combination of traditional and virtual class. The selected candidates will be required to complete a ‘domestic component’ as well as an ‘international component’ of about two weeks at an international institution/university. The participants would be also required to carry out a capstone project of practical importance, with potential for implementation in the digital governance and management space.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/iim-vs-bespoke-mgmt-prog-has-678-aspirants/articleshow/77681453.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 22, 2020||Surat||Umargam gets highest rainfall in S Gujarat||SURAT: Umargam taluka in Valsad district recorded over 140mm of rainfall, highest in south Gujarat region on Friday. According to flood control room officials, Valsad received 64 mm while Vapi recorded 61 mm rainfall. Most parts of South Gujarat region received light to moderate rainfall on Friday. District authorities said that due to heavy rainfall for the last few days, the inflow into dams in the region was been significant. As on Friday, out of the 13 dams, seven dams are about to overflow and nearly all dams were filled up to over 70% of its total capacity. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued heavy rainfall warnings for the next 48 hours in South Gujarat. “Heavy to very heavy rains at isolated places with isolated extremely heavy rainfalls are very likely in all the districts of South Gujarat region namely Valsad, and in Union Territory of Daman and Dadra Nagar Haveli,” the IMD said in its weather forecast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/umargam-gets-highest-rainfall-in-s-gujarat/articleshow/77681451.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Kolhapur||4 gates of Radhanagari dam opened||KOLHAPUR: Even though the intensity of rainfall has come down, water discharge from all major dams in Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur districts is still being carried out. Four automatic gates of Radhanagari district were opened on Friday because of water inflow due to moderate rainfall and by evening the water was being discharged at 7,100 cusec. The 11 other dams in Kolhapur district are also discharging water at around 4,200 cusec. Water level of Panchganga river was 36.10 feet while the warning level is 39 feet. An irrigation department official said 39 bunds in the district are currently submerged under water. Water discharge from Chandoli dam, with 93% live storage, in Sangli disrict was increased to around 12,000 cusec by Friday evening. Meanwhile, water discharge from Koyna dam was stopped on Thursday. But six gates of the dam were opened, discharging 25,000 cusec water by Friday evening. Water is also being discharged from other dams in Satara district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/4-gates-of-radhanagari-dam-opened/articleshow/77681440.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Order state-level probe into to Life Mission project clear the air: CPM to govt||Thiruvananthapuram: CPM state secretariat on Friday asked the state government to conduct a thorough review of the controversial Life Mission housing project in Wadakkanchery. The secretariat which found the allegations against Life Mission as an organised propaganda of opposition UDF and BJP advised the government that for clearing the air a vigilance inquiry could be ordered. “The government won’t allow corruption in Life Mission. If NIA or ED hands over any evidence to state government, a proper inquiry will be conducted. If a vigilance probe is possible, that should be ordered,” said CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan after the secretariat meeting. “The party has asked the government to find out whether this is a fit case for vigilance probe”, he said. “Already three national agencies are probing the case. Let them probe the case freely. Let them bring all the accused before law. We also want the probe to progress smoothly,” said Balakrishnan. He was referring to NIA, ED and customs probe into the gold smuggling case as the accused were linked to Life Mission scam as well. Balakrishnan said LDF government has nothing to hide in the controversy. “Those who allege that second Lavalin has arrived should keep in mind what had happened to the first Lavalin,” he said. “The new revelations are about the commission accepted by the UAE consulate officials. There are no allegations against the LDF and CPM. Nobody has alleged that anyone related to the LDF government accepted the commission. Let all facts come out,” he said. Referring to the no confidence motion notice moved by the opposition UDF, Kodiyeri said, “My request to them is to sit through the motion and hear the reply to them by the CM. Please don’t walk out earlier”, said Kodiyeri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/order-state-level-probe-into-to-life-mission-project-clear-the-air-cpm-to-govt/articleshow/77682806.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru adds more Covid-19 cases than Mumbai, Chennai in August||BENGALURU: Recording more than twice the number of cases compared to Chennai and Mumbai between August 1 and 20, Bengaluru’s caseload crossed the 1-lakh mark on Friday, even while experts sounded a warning, indicating the virus is still in the ascending stage in the city. In percentage terms, Mumbai saw a 16% jump in those 20 days, compared to a 30% increase reported in Chennai. Bengaluru, whose base number was much lower than both cities, saw an 80% spike in cases. Bengaluru became the fifth city after Mumbai, Chennai, Pune and Thane to reach the grim milestone and is rapidly catching up with Mumbai and Chennai in terms of caseload. Of the five cities, only Pune added more cases than Bengaluru in the first 20 days of August. Click here to catch all the latest updates on CoronavirusWhile the city took 142 days to cross the 50,000 mark, the second 50,000 cases came in just 23 days. Bengaluru has reported 1,02,770 cases till date. The city also accounts for 40% of all cases in Karnataka, which places a massive strain on its healthcare system. In comparison, Chennai is home to 33% of cases in TN, and Mumbai to just 20% of Maharashtra’s caseload. Dr Giridhara Babu, member, ICMR task force on research and surveillance, who also advises BBMP on Covid-19, said: “While the situation in other comparable cities, which began peaking earlier than Bengaluru may stabilise, it will take longer in Bengaluru as a major proportion of the population is still susceptible. Also, we are still unsure of the overall sero prevalence [the proportion of people who are immune or protected] in Bengaluru.” Although Bengaluru tested the most among the five cities between August 1 and 20, only Mumbai and Pune have a higher positivity rate. Compared to 17% in Bengaluru, Chennai saw 10% of samples tested returning positive, while it was 16% in Thane. An official said, beginning next week, the government plans to conduct a sero survey in all 30 districts, which will include all eight zones in Bengaluru. The survey will include samples from populations at three risk levels — low, moderate and high — and the government has already begun training resources persons to carry out the survey. As per the government classification, low risk populations will include pregnant women presenting at ANC clinics and people attending outpatient departments in hospitals or attendees of children or patients. Moderate to high risk populations will include bus conductors, vegetable vendors, healthcare workers and individuals in containment zones and meeting areas such as markets, malls, bus stops, and railway stations. High-risk populations will include the elderly and persons with comorbid conditions. As of August 20, eight states had more than one lakh cases of which Andhra Pradesh, with 3.2 lakh cases was the only state — other than Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu — with more cases than Karnataka. However, no one city/district in Andhra had more than 50,000 cases, while Delhi, despite being a Metro city doesn’t compare with Bengaluru given its political composition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-adds-more-cases-than-mumbai-chennai-in-august/articleshow/77681638.cms||Chethan Kumar
August 22, 2020||Dehradun||After anti-encroachment drive, squatters return to settlements||Dehradun: Even after Dehradun Municipal Corporation's anti-encroachment drive in the Dharampur area on Thursday, street vendors again returned to the markets within a span of a few hours. Besides, many encroachments have also mushroomed in several parts of the city post lockdown, disrupting traffic movements. Such encroachments were reported at Moti Bazaar, Paltan Bazaar, and Dhamapur areas where shopkeepers were seen keeping their goods out on roads. Kunal Semwal, a commuter at Paltan Bazaar, said, “Construction work is already ongoing in the market under the Smart City projects and with shopkeepers hogging more public space, the roads get cramped leaving no space for commuters. Dehradun won't become a smart city until we bounce over this encroachment issue.” Sumit Jagtiani, a resident of Rajpur Road, said, “The encroachment has only grown since the unlock phase has started. As the officials are busy fighting the global pandemic, the situation is getting worse. Officials must focus on this issue as people have resumed their businesses. The traffic snarls are again slowing down the pace of the city. The shops should only function within prescribed markings and no roads should be encroached.” Talking to TOI, Vinay Shankar Pandey, municipal commissioner, said “We are carrying out anti-encroachment drives in the city. These drives will be carried out on a regular basis. Also, specific complaints from the residents will be looked into. We will ensure that roads are free from any kind of encroachment in the days to come.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-anti-encroachment-drive-squatters-return-to-settlements/articleshow/77681464.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Trichy||Disabled man ‘pays back’ cobblers with provisions||TRICHY: A cobbler plays a crucial role in the life of disabled people who use artificial limbs as he fixes the wear and tear in them and ensures they can move around smoothly. Acknowledging their services and as a sign of gratitude, a man with locomotive disability has distributed hampers with provisions to many cobblers in Trichy who have been hit by the lockdown. “They are an integral part of our lives. Though our artificial limbs are manufactured in factories, cobblers are the ones who mend them if they are broken,” said M Kamaraj, 37 of Navalpattu. He said cobblers help in repairing the leather knee pad and leather hip belt of artificial limbs. Kamaraj, who became disabled due to polio, is an MA graduate and has a B.Ed degree too. With the Covid-19 pandemic robbing many of their livelihood, Kamaraj, who lives with his mother and sisters, decided to do his bit for the cobblers. However, he is from an economically weaker section. “Though I was good in academics, I had to struggle a lot in finishing my education and getting employment. I teach Carnatic music to a few children. But that too has stopped now. My friend Pushparaj who lives in a foreign country provided me aid to help these cobblers,” he said. The hampers comprising 12 provisional items were given to 24 cobblers in areas like Cantonment, district court, Central bus stand, Woraiyur, Subramaniapuram and Palpannai on August 17. He began the second round on Friday aimed at helping around 50 people. “At some places, we were unable to locate them as they left the place because of no business,” he said. With an aim to work for the welfare of the disabled people, Kamaraj has also launched an NGO called ‘Thiramai’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/disabled-man-pays-back-cobblers-with-provisions/articleshow/77684916.cms||Gokul Rajendran
August 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Enough masks, hand sanitisers, Centre tells Karnataka HC||BENGALURU: The central government has claimed that N-95 masks, surgical masks and hand sanitisers were brought under price control in the initial stages of the Covid-19 pandemic, but it was only a temporary measure. In an affidavit filed in the high court, the Centre said there is sufficient raw material to produce masks of all kinds and hand sanitisers to meet the demand and there have been no complaints from any state or Union territory. The statement was filed in response to a direction issued by the court which wondered why these items were not continued as essential commodities after July 1, when Covid-19 cases began rising across the country. The Centre said 15 manufacturers, with a capacity of about 5.5 lakh per day, are manufacturing N-95 masks and 225 more new manufacturers have approached the Bureau of Indian Standards ( BIS) for licence. On surgical masks, the Centre said 81 manufacturers with an installed annual capacity of 295 crore masks are involved in production and 269 more have sought BIS certification. As for hand sanitisers, the Centre said production is more than 80 lakh liters per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-dearth-of-hand-sanitisers-masks-centre-tells-ktaka-hc/articleshow/77681691.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: ‘Rash rider’ dad in rush for blood gets cop help||KOLKATA: A 30-year-old man in a mad rush to find O+ blood for his son during lockdown rammed into a barricade on Howrah bridge on Friday. But the mishap proved a boon for the father as the cops, who were about to apprehend the “rash rider”, learnt about his son, a thalassaemia patient, and offered help. A civic volunteer, who was on duty on the spot, donated blood and saved the child. Subhendu Bhakta, a resident of Howrah’s Ghusuri, was speeding to a blood bank in Beniapukur in the blinding rain on Friday morning, when he hit the guardrail on Howrah Bridge around 9.30am. “My son, whose blood group is O+, needs a transfusion every 20 days. While that is challenging in itself, it has become more difficult during the lockdown as blood donation camps have stopped, leading to shortage. Most blood banks demand a unit of blood from a donor in lieu of a unit of the blood type required. Last time, my wife donated blood. This time, I decided to donate a unit in exchange for one unit of O+ blood that was available at the Beniapukur blood bank. It was pouring, I was tense, I missed the guardrail and crashed into it. I fell off the bike. As I saw the cops running towards me, I feared I would be detained,” Bhakta later said. But the cops from the Howrah bridge traffic guard shortly realized something was amiss. When they learnt about his son, civic volunteer Md Niyaz offered to donate his blood. “It was the least we could do for a man in dire straits,” said an officer. Niyaz accompanied Bhakta to Beniapukur and donated blood. “Cops also had a word with the blood bank officials who promised to help the family till the situation turned normal,” said the officer. Niyaz returned to Howrah bridge in two hours and worked till 6pm. “He said he was feeling fine and did not wish to leave,” said an officer at Lalbazar. Bhakta was back at the hospital by 11.30am with the required unit of blood. “Niyaz came as a saviour. Everything was arranged in time,” he said. Police said they were being extra alert at nakas after two incidents of cops being injured by drivers trying to dash through guard rails this month, the latest being at Kankurgachhi on Thursday. “When we offered to take Bhakta to hospital for his injuries, he insisted there was no time to lose. He is a responsible father,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rash-rider-dad-in-rush-for-blood-gets-cop-help/articleshow/77684037.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19 effect: Karnataka sees sharp decline in fuel consumption in July||BENGALURU: Fuel consumption in Karnataka fell drastically in July, perhaps an indication of the impact of the pandemic on economic activities. Statistics from three oil marketing companies — Indian Oil Corporation, Bharat Petroleum Corporation and Hindustan Petroleum —show fuel sales in the state has fallen after showing signs of revival (see graphic).  Fuel consumption is a broad indication of economic activity, but low demand has been attributed to the pandemic-induced lockdowns, work-from-home options and travel restrictions. A nationwide lockdown was imposed from March 25 to May 31, but restrictions continued in many states including Karnataka. A one-week intense lockdown was also imposed in Bengaluru between July 14 and July 22. Petrol sales in the state stood at 2.2 lakh kilolitres (kl) in March this year, but plummeted to 1 lakh kl in April, before reviving slightly to 1.8 lakh kl in May. It was almost back to normal in June (2.1 lakh kl), but decreased to 1.9 lakh kl in July. Diesel sales showed a similar trend. It was 4.4 lakh kl in March, but fell to 2.2 lakh kl in April when the lockdown was in place. Consumption increased to 4.1 lakh kl in May and 4.4 lakh kl in June before dropping to 3.8 lakh kl in July. The state had consumed 4.8 lakh kl in July in 2019. A senior official of an oil marketing company said: “It will take a few more months for fuel consumption to reach normalcy. The number of people on roads is less due to fear of Covid, work-from-home and also limited economic activities. It’s the same scenario across the country.” A Tharanath, vice-president, Akhila Karnataka Federation of Petroleum Traders said: “Restriction on movement of transport, closure of establishments and companies, absence of marriage functions and meetings and work-from-home option are the main reasons for dip in fuel consumptions. Railways and industries are the biggest consumers of diesel, but railways are operating only a few trains and industries and container movements have reduced drastically.” He said fuel sales are not picking up because of the impact of Covid-19. “Diesel sale in rural areas is picking up because of agricultural activities, but there is no demand in urban areas.” B Channa Reddy, president, Federation of Karnataka Lorry Owners Association, said: “Economic activity is yet to pick up. Consumption of diesel will not increase unless public transport services [buses and trains] are fully restored".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-effect-karnataka-sees-sharp-decline-in-fuel-consumption-in-july/articleshow/77681597.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
August 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Auditors put brakes on excess billing||KOLHAPUR: The auditors examining bills issued to Covid-19 patients at private hospitals have disallowed 298 bills worth Rs 18 lakh in Kolhapur district, around 139 worth Rs 7.95 lakh in Sangli and 680 worth Rs 52 lakh in Solapur. In some cases, the bills were audited after payment but in most cases, the bills are pre-audited. The authorities have found that the bills did not have the receipts of the medicines and other services provided. In some cases, the amount for the service charged was more than the amount capped by the state government. The authorities claimed that notices are being issued to the hospitals for the faulty bills. Sangli collector Abhijeet Chaudhari said, “If the hospitals fail to refund the excess amount to relatives or fail to provide corrected bills, they will have to face action. At each hospital, it is mandatory to display the capped charges for the services. The relatives can first self-audit the bills and then refer to the auditors if they find it doubtful.” The auditors check for nursing, ICU charges, room rent, doctors consultations, medicines, tests, oxygen etc. Recently, it was found that the hospitals charge higher than the procurement price for PPE kits and charge separately for each patient. “The charges for PPE kits are fixed. The charges should be divided among the patients admitted in hospital,” said Chaudhari. The decision to pre-audit the bills was taken after the administration received several complaints about private hospitals charging exorbitant bills for Covid-19 treatment. In case of the private hospitals empanelled under the Mahatma Phule Jan Arogya Yojana, a panel of auditors under district coordinators has been appointed. The treatment under the scheme is free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/auditors-put-brakes-on-excess-billing/articleshow/77681467.cms||Satyajit Joshi
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Khairatabad Ganesh to get 100kg laddu||HYDERABAD: The Khairatabad Ganesh is set to receive the Tapeswaram laddu weighing about 100kgs. After a gap of three years, Khairatabad Ganesh received this laddu from a donor and sweet maker of Tapeswaram, East Godavari, AP - PVVS Mallikarjuna Rao (Malle Babu). “Lord Ganesh gave an opportunity to offer prasadam again. We made the laddu in Tapeswaram with workers wearing traditional attire. Special care has been taken to transport the laddu,” PVVS Mallikarjuna Rao told TOI. “We welcome Malle Babu’s offer to Lord Ganesh,” said a member of Khairatabad Ganesh Utsav committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/khairatabad-ganesh-to-get-100kg-laddu/articleshow/77684005.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 22, 2020||Business||ONGC shuts 2 rigs after spurt in Covid cases||NEW DELHI: A spate of the novel coronavirus infections aboard western offshore installations has forced ONGC to evacuate crew members from two of the four hired rigs and has forced the state-run explorer to put additional checks to prevent contractors from compromising on the company’s stringent protocols to cut down on costs. Sources said ONGC stopped the operation of ‘Greatship Chitra’ and ordered evacuation after 16 crew members tested positive more than a week ago. ‘Greatship Charu’ was the next to face shutdown, sources added. A large number of cases have also been reported from BHS, Neelam and Bedlam installations. The outbreak has given rise to the apprehension that contractors may be cutting corners to save on additional cost of testing and quarantine of the relieving crew since these are not covered under the rig contract. “Our employees are compliant. We have started cross-verification of test reports of contractors’ crew and are keeping an eye on their quarantine,” a senior ONGC executive told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ongc-shuts-2-rigs-after-spurt-in-covid-cases/articleshow/77685767.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Vadodara||No break in traditions: Pandals to install small Ganesha idols||VADODARA: Wary of the Coronavirus pandemic, the government has put a ban on public celebration of Ganesha festival this year. But that hasn’t deterred the pandal organizers from welcoming Lord Ganesha in their traditional rituals in the city. The big pandals have decided to install the Ganesha idols at the same spot but keep the celebrations very low profile. “We started installing Ganesha idol 32 years ago and our pandal has gradually become very popular. When the government announced a ban on public celebration of Ganesha festivals this year, we were in a dilemma. But then we decided not to break our tradition of installing Ganesha idols and performing puja,” said Nailesh Brahmbhatt of Manmohan Yuvak Mandal in Manjalpur. So the organizers will install a two-feet tall Ganesha idol but outsiders won’t be allowed to queue up for darshan. Organizers of 50-year-old Ganesha Bal Yuvak Mandal in Baranpura too will celebrate the festival in their locality. “Unlike in the past, this year we will install a small clay idol of Ganesha inside a shop that has been renovated. But we won’t allow gathering of public during the puja and aarti,” said Mahendra Sonavne, one of the organizers. Over the last few days, the city police have been making public announcements and urging people to not celebrate Ganesha festival in public and avoid big gatherings. “As the government didn’t give permission for pandals, we have decided to install a one-and-half feet tall idol in a house. We don’t want to break our two-decade-old tradition,” said Shailesh Jhingar, organizer of Ganesha pandal in Pitambar Pol in the old city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/no-break-in-traditions-pandals-to-install-small-ganesha-idols/articleshow/77681511.cms||Tushar Tere
August 22, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Man sexually assaults minor daughter for six months, arrested||TIRUVARUR: A 37-year-old man from Tiruvarur district was arrested on Wednesday for subjecting his 11-year-old daughter to sexual assault. The all women police station (AWPS) arrested him based on a complaint from the girl’s mother. AWPS police inspector Pushpavalli, who took up the investigation, said on Friday that the accused, an agriculture coolie, was addicted to ganja. In her complaint, his wife said that her husband had been sexually assaulting their daughter for the past six months by touching her private parts whenever she was away from the house. The girl had told the police that her father had threatened her with dire consequences if she revealed the matter to anyone. Fearing for her life, she suffered in silence. A few days ago, the man attempted to sexually assault her again by locking the door when his wife was outside. Hearing the girl knocking on the door, the woman rushed and caught her husband red-handed. Police booked him under sections 7 and 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. The girl was not sent for medical examination as she complained of ill health, police said. The district child protection unit (DCPU) is planning to provide counselling to the girl to get rid of the trauma caused by the incident. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-sexually-assaults-minor-daughter-for-six-months-arrested/articleshow/77684921.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Dehradun||Two Uttarakhand teachers win National Teachers Award||DEHRADUN: The Department of School Education and Literacy of the Union Ministry of Education announced the recipients of the National Awards to Teachers, 2020 on Friday. Two talented teachers — Sudha Painuli of Eklavya Model Residential School in Jogla, Dehradun, and Kewalanand Kandpal of GHSS Pudkuni in Kapkote, Bageshwar — from Uttarakhand won the prestigious award for their excellent service to the society. The two teachers were congratulated by Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat for their feat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-ukhand-teachers-win-national-teachers-award/articleshow/77681487.cms||Mohammad Anab
August 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Red Crescent MoU: MEA seeks clarification from Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Centre has sought clarification from the state government regarding its dealings with UAE Red Crescent Authority – an NGO –for funding projects under Life Mission. It is reliably learnt that the protocol division of the ministry of external affairs (MEA) has sought clarification from Kerala regarding the memorandum of understanding (MoU) inked between Life Mission and UAE Red Crescent Authority, in which the authority had pledged funds to the tune of AED 1 cr (approximately Rs 20.37 crore) for building an apartment under Life Mission at Wadakkancherry in Thrissur. Centre sought some clarifications regarding the mandatory clearance required from MEA and the ministry of home affairs while accepting aid from a foreign agency, it is learnt. Government sources said that the state government will give a reply in this regard soon. The agreement signed between Mohammed Ateeq Al Falahi for UAE Red Crescent Authority and the CEO of the Life Mission on July 11, 2019, had agreed that the NGO will provide AED 1 crore, of which AED 70L (Rs 14.26 crore) was to be spent on constructing homes for flood survivors and the remaining AED 30L (Rs 6.11 crore) was to be used to build a health centre that would be operated by Life Mission. As per Article 293 (3) of the Constitution, “a state may not without the consent of the government of India raise any loan if there is still outstanding any part of a loan which has been made to the state by the government of India or its predecessor government”. Also as per the section 3(1) (b) of the foreign contribution (regulation) act, 2010, no foreign contribution shall be accepted by any judge, government servant, employee of any corporation or any other body controlled or owned by the government. However, such acceptance can be made only with the prior permission of the Centre as UAE Red Crescent is a non-government organisation registered in Abu Dhabi and the recipient of the funds is Life Mission, an organization under the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/mea-seeks-clarification-from-state/articleshow/77682838.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Kin of doctors who died during Covid duty wait for compensation||BENGALURU: As per Karnataka Government Medical Officers Association (KGMOA), seven doctors on Covid-19 duty have died in the state since April. Of these, three fell victim to the infection. Though the Centre has assured Rs 50 lakh compensation for families of Covid-19 warriors dying in the line of duty, none from Karnataka has received the same. In fact, all seven families are yet to get even the Rs 30 lakh compensation announced under the CM’s relief fund. Of the seven doctors, two suffered heart attack, one succumbed to brain haemorrhage and one committed suicide. “Stress, work pressure, burnout and fatigue due to overwork were the common factors in the deaths of all seven doctors,” said Dr Srinivasa Gulur, president, KGMOA. However, according to Pankaj Kumar Pandey, commissioner, health and family welfare department, not all deaths were due to Covid-19 and hence not all of them are covered under the Centre’s Rs 50 lakh compensation scheme. “Everyone faces stress, not just doctors. Not all deaths were due to Covid. The matter of compensation has been taken up and we have already written to the government,” said Pandey. “In all, 14 healthcare workers, including some from the private sector, have died of Covid-19 and their list has been sent to the Union government seeking compensation for their families,” he added. Pandey said they’d put forth a proposal for payment of Rs 30 lakh as compensation under the CM’s relief fund for the families of the department doctors, who died due to non-Covid reasons. The KGMOA, however, is set to go on a statewide protest from Monday seeking fair compensation for their colleagues. The announcement came after a taluk health officer, Dr SR Nagendra, committed suicide on Thursday. IMA-Karnataka’s member-doctors sported black badges on Friday in protest against the dismal working conditions.  Dr Nagendra’s friends in the medical fraternity said he was recently ‘warned’ by the district authorities that he would be ‘imprisoned’ under Disaster Management Act, 2005, if he didn’t meet the Covid-19 test ‘targets’ set in his jurisdiction. “He had written to the Mysuru DHO seeking leave, explaining the acute stress and pressure he was going through. But he was told that all support would be given to him. Leave was denied saying there was no other person who could do his work. He had not seen his 11-year-old daughter for months and just wanted to spend time with her and his wife,” his close friends told TOI. Doctors from other taluks in Mysuru said Dr Nagendra had effectively managed the Nanjangud Covid cluster. “He is a victim of the targets set by bureaucrats. Every primary health centre has been set a target of 100-150 tests a day. People are afraid to get tested due to quarantine fears. After rapid antigen tests began, all focus in on increasing the number of tests. But not even 15 people come to OPDs or PHCs in a day,” said a doctor, who closely worked with Dr Nagendra. A government doctor said they have been working almost 24/7 since March-April. “No one understands the pressure we are facing. No Sunday offs, no additional staff, but only excess work,” he said. Doctors say young IAS and KAS officers in the districts are only data-oriented and don’t understand ground realities. “They want us to conduct door-to-door Covid survey. Covid isn’t like pulse polio vaccination. People who have no symptoms won’t cooperate,” said another doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kin-of-docs-who-died-during-covid-duty-wait-for-compensation/articleshow/77681541.cms||Sunitha Rao R
August 22, 2020||Kolkata||Rain, lockdown keep Kolkatans indoors; showers likely to lash city till Tuesday||KOLKATA: Most of the city remained indoors on Friday, the second lockdown day in a row, given the strict watch by the authorities and the incessant rain that flooded several areas of Kolkata. Even as the Met office predicted showers in the city and south Bengal till Saturday, a low pressure system is set to form over northwest Bay of Bengal on Sunday. It could lead to moderate rain in the city till Tuesday, according to the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC). Several areas of Behala, including Silpara, Shakuntala Park, Sarsuna and Parnasree, were waterlogged after sharp spells of rain in the morning. Streets in Ekbalpur, Kidderpore and some low-lying areas off EM Bypass were flooded. “There could be a spell or two of moderate rain, but we don’t expect heavy showers in Kolkata till Saturday. On Sunday, another low pressure will form and that will lead to further rain, which could be heavy in the coastal areas. Kolkata could receive light to moderate rain till at least August 25,” said RMC director G K Das. The impending showers have left the KMC worried. It has already alerted its sewerage and drainage department officials, who are particularly concerned about large areas off EM Bypass, Behala and areas located adjacent to Garia as several such areas have no underground drainage system. “We are keeping portable pumps ready for such areas as we need to flush out stormwater in the event of heavy rains,” said a KMC drainage department official. This apart, the KMC brass has alerted the engineers posted at the civic body’s drainage pumping stations. “Heavy-duty pumps at these stations are ready,” said a civic official. The rain deficit for the month could be wiped off by next week, felt meteorologists. “There is a minor shortfall due to the relatively inactive monsoon in the first half of the month. But we have had three low pressures since then and another is in the offing. We expect at least 50-70mm rain over the next 4-5 days, which would neutralize the deficit,” said a meteorologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rain-lockdown-keep-kolkatans-indoors-showers-likely-to-lash-city-till-tuesday/articleshow/77684060.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Trichy||Covid +ve cases under home isolation dip by 40% in Trichy||TRICHY: The total number of Covid-19 positive people under home isolation in Trichy has come down significantly by 40% in the past three weeks. Ever since the health authorities permitted the positive cases to isolate themselves at home following certain stipulations, authorities said that they have not come across incidents involving the spread of infection further, making the home isolation a safe option. Absence of further spread has also resulted in the periodical decline in the total number of positive cases under home isolation. Trichy Corporation since July 2020 is allowing positive cases to isolate themselves at home. To be eligible for home isolation, the positive person should be asymptomatic, less than 55 years of age, should not have comorbidities and must have adequate facilities such as a separate room and a toilet at home. The parameters will be verified by the medical officers to take a call on whether or not to allow the positive case under home isolation. “Urban health nurses will be in touch the home isolated positive cases. The pulse oxymeter is mandatory for the person under home isolation. we have insisted the isolated person to report soon after they develop any symptoms or complications,” a health official with Trichy Corporation said. On August 5, as many as 146 positive cases across Trichy were under home isolation. The number gradually came down to below 100 by the end of the second week of August. As of August 20, there were 88 people under home isolation, a 40% drop from the first week of August. Since August 5, Trichy Corporation vouches that there was no single Covid-19 spread by the home isolated positive cases. The immediate family members of the positive cases too were not infected in the past two weeks. “If the houses have no adequate rooms, we are moving the asymptomatic positive cases to Covid care centre. So far, we have not come across fresh infections caused by the people under home isolation,” another health official added. After 21 days, the health officials consider the positive cases under home isolation as discharged cases provided the cases have not developed any Covid-19 symptoms. Officials added that home isolation of safe positive cases indeed helps to retain the beds in hospitals for those in need of emergency care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-ve-cases-under-home-isolation-dip-by-40-in-trichy/articleshow/77684925.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 22, 2020||Aurangabad||‘Follow Covid norms during Ganesh fest, Muharram’||AURANGABAD: District collector Sunil Chavan has urged residents to celebrate Ganeshotsav and observe Muharram in a simple way while following all Covid-related advisory and norms prescribed by the home ministry. The district has urged the residents to ensure that social fabric and peace is maintained and strengthened during the festivities. Chavan had attended a peace committee meeting on Thursday evening at the Rukhmini Sabhagraha at the MGM College premises. During the meeting, Chavan said that every year, people celebrate Ganeshotsav with much fanfare and enthusiasm. However, in view of the coronavirus pandemic, the situation has changed considerably this year. He also appreciated the efforts of Ganesh mandals for keeping the celebrations to a minimum this year. Chanvan also said that Muslims across the district too have agreed to celebrate Muharram in a simple way. Meanwhile, the administration has issued a list of do’s and don’ts for the upcoming festivals. People have been urged not to install Ganesh idols without due permission and refrain from organizing mahaprasad or bhandaras as well as religious programmes and gatherings. Social distancing goes to toss at markets in Kolhapur Kolhapur citizens thronged markets in the city on the eve of Ganesh Chaturthi to purchase essentials. However, people were seen throwing all social distancing norms to the wind as they began their shopping spree on Friday. While some were seen purchasing decorative items for Ganeshotsav, many were seen bringing their pre-ordered Ganesh idols home. The city also witnessed congestion and traffic jams at several places owing to Ganesh pandals. The pandals obstructed the movement of commuters as well as vehicles. The city traffic police had put in place several regulations to ensure that vehicles are not allowed in market localities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/follow-covid-norms-during-ganesh-fest-muharram/articleshow/77681516.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Man with over 47,000 Ganesh idols hopes to set up museum||SECUNDERABAD: An SBI employee, Pabsetti Sekhar had ordered specialty idol makers in Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu to make a Ganesh idol killing a demon representing Covid-19. Just a week ago, he received the ‘pancha loha’ made Ganesh idol from Coimbatore and has displayed it at a wooden rack at his house at West Marredpally in Secunderabad Cantonment. Around 10 such wooden and iron racks are housed at the terrace of Sekhar’s residence and it resembles a rare Ganesh idol museum. “My dream is to keep 47,558 Ganesh idols, collected from 39 countries across the world in different designs and sizes in a museum. My aim is to open this museum by Ganesh Chaturthi in 2021,” P Sekhar told TOI. He is going to retire as a bank employee next year. A burger Ganesh from Italy is one of the attractions in his rare collections. He has collected different types of Ganesh idols from China, Japan, Nepal, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Germany, Tibet, Thailand, Sri Lanka, Singapore, Malaysia, Burma and from within India. Every idol has its significance either in design, use of metal, weight or concept. Remembering his inspiration behind the idol collection, Sekhar said, “My father had presented a small Ganesh idol during his visit to Shirdi in 1973 and carefully carried it to Hyderabad. Since then, I began collecting Ganesh idols. Apart from idols, I have collected 25,404 postcards, 1,105 posters, 214 key chains, 195 books and 209 audio-video cassettes. My aim is to reach a collection of one lakh,” said the 59-year-old Sekhar. “The idols of Ganesha which I have collected are made of gold, silver, bronze, sandalwood, rosewood, neem and teak. Apart from these collections, I have made Ganesh idols out of M-seal, plaster of Paris, glass painting and clay,” the bank employee claimed. Continuing his efforts on collection of the idols, Sekhar is also writing a book titled ‘Vishwa Vinayaka’, covering 2,000 temples across the world and in our country. By next year, the book will be complete, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-with-over-47000-ganesh-idols-hopes-to-set-up-museum/articleshow/77684036.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 22, 2020||Trichy||Parents, teachers struggle to engage primary students||TRICHY: While most self-financing schools have started online classes and tests, parents and teachers are struggling to involve children in these virtual classes especially those in primary classes. As the classes happen for a couple of hours, what students gain out of them is bare minimum, said many parents. Availability of gadgets, meeting the cost of data consumed and network issues are some of the challenge that parents have been facing over the last few weeks. Lack of attention among children is the primary issue faced by parents. In many cases, even if teachers are handling the class properly, students in primary classes are not attentive and are not able to grasp, said parents. R Ritheesh, a student of Class II from a city private school, said that he does not like online classes as he could not meet his classmates and play on the ground. Homes with two school children are finding it harder. M Senthil Kumar, 41, from Mannarpuram, said that besides the smartphone of his wife, he had to make arrangement for another gadget for his two children. He suggested that the live classroom session should be available online so that students can visit them at a later stage if they could not attend the class. “Tests for students of Class VI and above are logical but having online test for children in classes I or II is practically not working as it is the parent who it attending the exam,” said another parent S Ramesh Babu, 38, from KK Nagar. “Some academic activities on a daily basis is better than nothing and online classes are indeed serving some purpose,” said A Sathya, 30, mother of a Class I student. Meanwhile, K Mohanraj, secretary of Oxford nursery and primary school, said they have connected parents and teachers instead of conducting online classes. “Parents will go to teacher’s house or teachers will go to meet parents if there are a few students in the same locality. However, this method could be possible only in the schools that have less students,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/parents-teachers-struggle-to-engage-primary-students/articleshow/77684955.cms||Sampath Kumar
August 22, 2020||Nashik||Protest brings auction to a halt at 303 APMCs in state||NASHIK: The one-day strike called by Maharashtra Rajya Bazaar Samiti Sahakari Sangh Ltd (MRBSSL) to protest against the union government ordinance allowing farmers to sell their produce in any part of the country received overwhelming response. As many as 303 of the total 306 Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMCs) in the state remained closed on Friday. Other three APMCs – Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur – remained open as part of essential services, said Dilip Mohite, president of MRBSSL. Farmers, however, are happy with the government decision. Arjun Borade, Nashik district president of Sharad Joshi-affiliated Shetkari Sanghatna, said this had been their demand for the past 40 years. The auction of goods worth over Rs 150 crore was affected and the state APMCs also lost the daily income of around Rs 1.5 crore they get through 1% cess on transactions. There are over 7,000 employees in the APMCS, who are worried. “The government took the decision but it did not think about the liabilities of APMCs, which have borrowed crores of rupees to create infrastructure. Moreover, the livelihood of over 1 lakh people, including APMC labourers, employees, commission agents will be at stake if the transaction in APMCs are affected,” said Mohite, adding the government should think about the rehabilitation of these people. Kishore Kulkarni, managing director of MRBSSSL, said the APMCs keep a tab on the traders and assure payment to farmers after the auction. Without the APMC, there will be chances of farmers being duped. The annual turnover of all state APMCs is around Rs 55,000 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/protest-brings-auction-to-a-halt-at-303-apmcs-in-state/articleshow/77681545.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 22, 2020||Kolkata||Medical student files complaint over fake Facebook profile||KOLKATA: A third-year student at a reputable medical college in south east Kolkata lodged a complaint with cyber cell against an unidentified person, who allegedly created her fake online profile, using her photographs but a different name, apparently to malign her reputation. According to the case registered with the cyber cell, the Facebook profile was created after June 22, using the photographs of the complainant, a resident of Dinajpur. At present, the woman stays at her institute’s hostel. The woman alleged the accused took photos from her own Facebook profile without her knowledge or consent. The accused posted objectionable material, including charges that she was being irresponsible in her Covid duties. “The accused person has also misused the same impersonating the complainant to hamper her social standing and reputation. The accused has committed offence under Sections 43, 66 and 66C of the Information Technology Act. 2000,” the FIR stated||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/med-student-files-plaint-over-fake-fb-profile/articleshow/77684069.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Pune||Charge hospitals 5 times the inflated bill amount: Maharashtra health minister||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday directed the administrative officials of all the districts to take strict action against the hospitals presenting inflated Covid-19 treatment bills and levy a penalty of five times the excess amount charged on such facilities. “I have asked the collectors and commissioners to maintain a strict vigil on bed allotment and hospital bills. I have told them to charge the errant hospitals five times the excess amount in the bills and register complaints against those not adhering to the rules,” Tope told TOI during a visit to the city. He said even the dedicated Covid hospitals implementing the Maharashtra Jan Arogya Yojana were charging inflated rates for medical consumables such as personal protection equipment (PPE) kits, gloves, masks and even medical disposables. The minister said he had told the hospital managements to take a humanitarian approach and look for earning a reasonable profit. The Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations have been conducting pre-audit of bills over the past one week, following the directive of the district administration. In the Pune civic limits, the administration rectified excess amount of Rs29 lakh after checking 58 bills. An amount of Rs9.22 lakh was rectified in the 30 bills checked in the Pimpri Chinchwad corporation limits. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said similar teams for pre-audit of bills would be in place for the Pune rural area soon. He said, “As per the minister’s instructions, the hospital managements would be warned in case a patient is overcharged. If the hospitals do not levy excess charges, there won’t be any problem. But we are finding inflated bills in our assessments.” According to the health minister, a total of 1,000 hospitals are listed under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana — a state government scheme. They are expected to offer free treatment under 20 packages related to Covid-19. He told the Pune administration to put up big hoardings in the city and start toll-free numbers for grievance redressal. The issue of shortage of beds had been taken care of with private hospitals being asked to follow the 80:20 ratio in Pune, said the minister. Nearly 7,561 beds were shown as vacant on the district administration’s dashboard at 9pm on Friday. Tope said the Pune district administration was prepared to ramp up the healthcare facilities in the city. “Enough non-oxygen, oxygenated and ICU beds are being added,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/charge-hospitals-5-times-the-inflated-bill-amount-tope/articleshow/77684072.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 22, 2020||Ranchi||First list of selected candidates soon, say state varsities||RANCHI/DHANBAD: The admission process in universities across the state are nearing its final stage as several institutes are planning to issue their first list of selected candidates within the next few days. The universities are mainly banking on marks and reservation criteria for choosing the candidates. The pro-vice chancellor of Ranchi University, Kamini Kumar, said the first list of selected candidates has been sent to all its affiliated colleges and now it is up to them to publish it and start the admission process. She added, “The entire admission process will be completed online to ensure that students do not come to the college.” The vice chancellor of Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee University (DSPMU), Dr S N Munda, said that his university was planning to publish the first list by August 25. “Admission on the basis of the first list will be completed by September 10. The second list of selected candidates will be issued after a few days. We are brainstorming now to start online classes from next month.” DSPMU is, however, continuing with admission in those subjects in which applications have been very low. In Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University (BBMKU), Dhanbad more than 40,000 students have so far applied through the Chancellor’s portal against the university’s total capacity of 35,000 seats across all its 31 undergraduate courses. BBMKU vice chancellor Anjani Kumar Srivastava said, “Although we are already under stress due to lack of enough number of teachers and classrooms, we will increase the number of seats by 10% percent.” When asked about criteria for selecting students for admission in BBMKU, she said that merit would be the sole criteria. “The last date of admission for BBMKU’s 10 constituent colleges is August 28 while the date in our 19 affiliated colleges may be extended. The first list of candidates for admission will be published on September 3” Srivastava added. No decision with regard to postgraduate admission has been taken yet as the sixth semester exams for the undergraduate courses are yet to be conducted. All the candidates have applied to the universities through the Chancellors’ portal in view of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/1st-list-of-selected-candidates-soon-say-state-varsities/articleshow/77684061.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Jamshedpur||Steel City traffic violators coughed up Rs 1.2 crore as penalty in 5 months||JAMSHEDPUR: Police have collected Rs 1.2 crore as fines for traffic violations in the Steel City during the lockdown from March 23 to August 18. DSP (traffic) Arvind Kumar on Friday said a major chunk of these were collected on the spot and challans were issued to 13,441 errant drivers, particularly those on two-wheelers. He said surprise and regular traffic checks, including those to curtail aimless momvement, check vehicle documents, licence, helmets among others, will continue at various parts if the city, including Sakchi, Jugsalai, Golmuri, Mango and Bistupur. Breaking down the numbers, police said 441 drivers paid a fines to the tune of Rs 4,27,100 between March 23 to 31. In April, Rs 15,53,300 was collected from 1,551 drivers . In May, 3,758 violators coughed up Rs 35,64,300 and another Rs 27,59,450 was collected from 2,995 errant drivers in June. In July, Rs 22,44,850 was collected from 2,777 drivers. Until August 18, Rs 14,91,050 collected from 1,937 violators. The department added while efforts are on to discourage people from coming out on the streets needlessly, those in vehicles with more than the specified number of passengers according to the new Covid guidelines are being fined. While a section of locals said the police are harassing people on the pretext of checks, opthers have supported the drive. Debjyoti Ghosh, a school teacher, said traffic norms violators should not be spared so that they think twice before breaking the rules. He said it is scary to see under-age drivers zooming around the city on bikes without helmets or licences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/steel-city-traffic-violators-coughed-up-rs-1-2-crore-as-penalty-in-5-months/articleshow/77682747.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
August 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad celebrates Ganesh Chaturthi with low-key festivities||Ganesh Chaturthi is here, but unlike every year, the festive cheer has been largely amiss due to the Covid-19 pandemic. With the Telangana government advising people to stay indoors, city folk are gearing up for a puja at home with eco-friendly, homemade Ganeshas.  Actress Vithika Sheru is all set with her eco-friendly Ganesha, which she has made using homemade ingredients. “With the pandemic making it unsafe to venture out, I decided to make my own little Ganesha at home, with ingredients like turmeric and besan. When I was in the US, during the first year of my marriage to Varun, and there was a hurricane during Vinayaka Chavithi, so I had to make a hommeade Ganesha. That experience helped me make my own Ganesha at home this time around too,” she says. Nabha Natesh, who will be celebrating the festival at her Bengaluru residence, is all set for low-key celebrations at home. “Usually we don’t keep a Ganesha idol at home during the festival, but last year I had made a clay Ganesha idol all by myself and it felt great. While this year, I couldn’t make an idol, I will be making Ganesha-shaped floral rangoli at home to mark Ganesh Chaturthi festivities,” says the iSmart Shankar star. Covid-19 puts a dampener on pandal-hopping plans Ranjith Yadav, who organises pandals at Jagadgirigutta every year, hasn’t ordered Lord Ganesha idol this year due to the looming uncertainty. He says, “Every year, we usually order the idol 3-4 months before Ganesh Chaturthi. We had expected the pandemic to end by April or May so we didn’t place an order till it was too late. With the number of cases rising in the city, we have decided to cancel all celebrations. We haven’t set up even a single pandal in our area and have requested everyone to celebrate the festival at home.”  Ranjith says he will miss watching kids dance to blaring music at pandals. “Vinayaka Chavithi has always been a big day of fun-filled celebrations. We used to invite popular DJs to play at the pandals. From the day the idol is erected to the day it is immersed, everybody is in high spirits and the mood is so vibrant. I just hope that we see the celebrations back to normal next year,” he says. Homemade Ganesha idols are all the rage this year Apart from the pandal celebrations taking a hit, even the in-house celebrations are going to be low-key. Madhura Vani, a homemaker from Himayatnagar, says, “Days before the festival, we would be searching the streets of Himayatnagar, Gandhinagar and RTC X roads to bring home Lord Ganesha idols. This year, due to the pandemic, we made our own Ganesha idol at home.”  Chilakam Jaya, a businessman from Madhapur says, “Usually, 10 days before the festival, the city would be bursting with energy as people would be preparing pandals, decorating houses and getting the idols ready. This year, it will instead be a low-key puja at home with the family.” Demand for Seed Ganesha shoots up due to the pandemic While the concept of seed Ganesha is not new, there has been a sharp rise in the demand for seed Ganeshas this year, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. These idols contain seeds of vegetables like tomato, brinjal, etc., that are inserted inside the clay idol. When the idol is immersed in water in a ceramic pot, the seeds germinate. A seed Ganesha seller in Banjara Hills, Kiran Balineni says, “The concept of seed Ganesha was introduced 3-4 years ago but few people used to opt for these idols. But due to Covid-19, the production of POP idols has been halted and hence, more people are opting for idols made from seeds.” He adds, “Before, I hardly used to sell 500-600 seed idols but this year, I sold almost 3000 seed idols and have orders for 1500 more.” Vithika’s guide to make a homemade ganesha idol l Mix together the sunni pindi and turmeric with water, but don’t make it runny. It should have a clay-like consistency  l Divide it into ten balls of different sizes – one huge, two medium, two small, two extra smaller and three more smaller than that  l Flatten one of the medium-sized balls and use it as a base for the large-sized one  l Fashion hands, legs, ears, trunk and tusks out of the small-sized and extra small portions. Use a small one for a crown.  l Put all the elements together, use peppercorns to fashion eyes for the idol and a needle to draw details like a namam and more for the homemade Ganesha  — Inputs by Neeshita Nyayapati||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-celebrates-ganesh-chaturthi-with-low-key-festivities/articleshow/77680884.cms||Thadhagath Pathi
August 22, 2020||Ranchi||Nine cops in Lalu security team infected||Ranchi: Incarcerated former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad, who is at the centre of political spotlight ahead of the impending Bihar assembly polls later this year, is under the scanner again after nine police constables posted in his security tested positive for Covid-19 late on Thursday night. Lalu (73) was moved to the plush Kelly’s Bungalow on the campus of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) by the hospital management to isolate him from the risk of Covid-19 infection. The bungalow serves as the residence of the hospital’s director and is lying vacant after former director Dr D K Singh quit the job in July. The interim director, Dr Manju Gari, is yet to move in. “All the nine police personnel did not come in direct contact with Lalu. They were posted at the police picket outside the bungalow,” an official in Rims management told TOI. Dr Umesh Prasad, Lalu’s doctor and a professor of medicine at Rims, said: “We have not recommended any Covid-19 test for Lalu Ji yet as the police personnel were living in the police outpost outside Kelly’s Bungalow. We have urged the hospital management to replace the infected policemen.” The former Bihar CM is under treatment at Rims since July 2018 after being sentenced jail terms in several fodder scam cases. With elections approaching in Bihar, RJD functionaries, office bearers and ticket aspirants are making a beeline outside the bungalow to get a glimpse of their 73-year-old leader. Earlier in July, Lalu was sampled for Covid-19 test weeks after an assistant sub-inspector posted in his security tested positive after returning from Bihar after a family function. Days later, three of Lalu’s sevadars (domestic helps) were also found to be infected. Lalu tested negative on July 26. The BJP, which has criticized the Jharkhand government for giving special treatment to Lalu in order to keep the alliance in good humour, has on several occasions claimed that the jail manual is being flouted to ensure Lalu meets visitors ahead of the Bihar polls. RJD’s state president Abhay Singh has rejected the charges. “Lalu Ji is in jail and all political decisions regarding Bihar polls are being taken in Patna by the party’s working president Tejaswi Yadav,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/nine-cops-in-lalu-security-team-infected/articleshow/77682835.cms||Dhritiman Ray
August 22, 2020||Ranchi||Virus epicentre shifting to Dhanbad as coal hub gets 466 cases in 24 hrs||Ranchi: Jharkhand recorded 11 Covid casualties and 1,258 in 24 until 10pm on Friday. Of these, five deaths and 303 infections were reported late on Thursday night. Coal capital Dhanbad has emerged as the new epicentre for the coronavirus in the state with 466 cases in this period – 225 were reported late on Thursday night and 241 on Friday. Dhanbad has become the third district after Ranchi and East Singhbhum to get more than 2,000 Covid cases. The coal belt has a total caseload of 2,382, of which 812 are active, 1,525 have recovered and 25 patients have died. East Singhbhum continued to report the highest number of Covid deaths with three more casualties Ranchi also recorded three deaths, while Sahebganj, Bokaro and Deoghar Garhwa and Giridih reported one each. “All the deaths reported on Friday were patients with different comorbidities,” said a health department official. Jharkhand now has 28,196 Covid cases, of which 9,527 are active, 18,372 have recovered (including 927 on Friday) and 297 have died of the illeness. The state also recorded a 3% jump in positivity rate as 10.7% of the 8,927 samples tested were found positive. Friday’s surge in number of cases saw new areas across the state recording a spike in infections. Bokaro (241) reported a three-digit figure after a long time followed by West Singhbhum (47) and Latehar (40) cases. State capital Ranchi continued to record a spike with 180 new cases followed by East Singhbhum with 96.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/virus-epicentre-shifting-to-dhanbad-as-coal-hub-gets-466-cases-in-24-hrs/articleshow/77683959.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 22, 2020||Ranchi||Let up in downpour, more rain next week||Ranchi: After incessant rain for three consecutive days in different parts of the state, residents get a respite as the well-marked low-pressure system shifted to east Madhya Pradesh on Friday. Though Ranchi experienced light to medium showers, Seraikela Kharsawan and Simdega received medium to heavy rainfall. The Ranchi centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted more wet spell next week after another low-pressure system developed over the north-west of Bay of Bengal. Abhishek Anand, a scientist at the weather office, said rainfall will be almost normal till Saturday but will pick up pace again from Sunday. “Northeastern and southeastern parts of the state will receive light to medium rainfall till Monday and there is a chance of heavy to very heavy rainfall in most parts of the state on Tuesday,” he said. According to the figures shared by IMD on the recent rainfall, it was widespread throughout the state which no longer has a deficit. By Friday, the state received 660.8 mm of rainfall as against the season’s normal of 735.1mm. “As of date, the negative departure from normal rainfall is around 10%,” Anand said. Out of the 24 districts, only three — Latehar, Palamu and Ramgarh — have recorded excess rainfall. Latehar remained the wettest district with 31% excess rainfall while 12 others are categorized as normal in which the deviation is under 19%. The remaining nine districts have still lower than normal rainfall and have a deficit of more than 19%. “Most of the districts in Santhal Pargana division, including Deoghar, Pakur, Shaebganj and Godda, are in the deficit districts,” Anand said. Jamtara is the only district in the division which has received near-normal rainfall while the maximum deficit in the state has been observed in Deoghar which has received 52% of the normal rainfall of 680.6 mm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/let-up-in-downpour-more-rain-next-week/articleshow/77682636.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
August 22, 2020||Ranchi||PLFI zonal commander ‘accused in 27 cases’ across Jharkand held in Ranchi||Ranchi: Dreaded PLFI zonal commander Parameshwar Gope alias Prem Gope was nabbed from his hideout under Tatisilwai police station area in Ranchi district, police said on Friday. Besides extorting money and giving death threats to businessmen in the district, Parameshwar was accused of providing arms and ammunition to three miscreants who, in turn, used them to open fire near the godown of Vrindavan Constructions in Ranchi on August 15. A case had been registered at the Bariatu police station and the three miscreants — Raviranjan Pandey, Firoz, Amit and Kuldip Gope — were later arrested. A carbine, hand grenades and cartridges were seized from them, all of which were supplied by Parameshwar, the trio claimed. Speaking to media persons, Ranchi SSP Surindra Jha said, “Parameshwar was arrested during a raid which was led by SP (city) Saurav. Parameshwar was using members from the gangs of Sujit Sinha and Hari Tiwari in issuing death threats to traders and businessmen. Both Sinha and Tiwari are currently in jail.” Jha said at least 27 cases related to several serious offences, including attempts to murder, were registered against Parameshwar at police stations in Gumla, Raidih, Basia and Palkot. He added that police would further interrogate him to ascertain his previous activities. Sources said Parameshwar was very active in Gumla district and he was involved in a gunfight with the police in Palkot area. He, however, left the district after police started pursuing him. Gumla police had also sent a proposal to the state headquarters for announcement of a reward on him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/plfi-zonal-commander-accused-in-27-cases-across-jharkand-held-in-ranchi/articleshow/77682808.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Ranchi||4.3 magnitude tremor felt in Sahibganj||Dumka: An earthquake measuring 4.3 on the Richter scale hit Sahibganj district around noon on Friday. Sahibganj deputy commissioner Chitranjan Kumar said there were no reports of loss of life and property from anywhere in the district due to the tremor. Talking to TOI, Kumar said, “I was presiding over a meeting of district officials when the earthquake hit, but we could not feel it.” He added that it was only after someone outside raised an alarm that he and the others rushed out as a precautionary measure.  Dr Ranjit Kumar, a Sahibganj based environmentalist and assistant professor in SKM University, said, “I have been witnessing low-magnitude tremors since 2015 and studying them. Friday’s earthquake was felt around 12.7 PM with its epicentre below 10km underground in Deoghar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/4-3-magnitude-tremor-felt-in-sahibganj/articleshow/77682860.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||DV case: No bail for father-son duo||AHMEDABAD: The Mirzapur rural court on Friday denied anticipatory bail to Monang Patel and his father Raman Patel, the promoters of Popular Builders, in connection with a complaint filed by Monang’s wife. She has alleged domestic violence, assault, and attempt to murder. While additional sessions judge N L Dave denied bail to the father-son duo, he granted conditional pre-arrest bail to Raman’s wife and complainant Fizu Patel’s mother-in-law, Mayurika Patel. Mayurika will have to furnish a Rs 20,000 bail bond and surrender her passport. The court also granted anticipatory bail to Fizu’s father, Mukesh Patel, on the same conditions as imposed on Mayurika. He too has been booked by police on charges of attempt to murder and domestic violence on his daughter’s complaint of abetment. The court refused bail to Monang and Raman Patel after the prosecution asserted that without their custodial interrogation, further investigation will be difficult. It was submitted on behalf of the Patel family that Fizu has lodged a false complaint to extort money from the builders. She was aided in this effort by her mother, it was alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dv-case-no-bail-for-father-son-duo/articleshow/77683765.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Ranchi||Staggered start to Rims plasma drive as doc tests positive||RANCHI: With a doctor at the blood bank in Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) testing positive for Covid-19 and three technicians showing symptoms of the virus, the plasma donation drive, scheduled to take place on Friday, commenced on a small-scale owing to staff crunch at the state’s largest hospital. On Friday, Dr Sushma, the in-charge of the blood bank, said, “Three people in our blood bank, including a consultant who was supervising apheresis (the process of extracting plasma from one unit of whole blood), have fallen sick and are showing symptoms of Covid-19. Currently, we are only left with two technicians to carry out the plasma collection.” Battling an acute shortage of plasma donors, the hospital has been counselling the recovered patients for donation and the district administration had even reached out to the recovered security personnel in this regard. In fact, in the run up to the plasma donation drive on Friday, the administration, along with Ranchi Police, on Wednesday had organised a sensitization-cum-screening camp for the police personnel who recovered from the viral infection and asked them to come forward to save lives. And the cops had obliged for as many as 11 police officials were set to donate their plasma for the critically ill patients on Friday. But the manpower crunch at Rims, coupled with the lack of sufficient infrastructure, caused hindrances. Of the 11 cops, six were declared fit for the apheresis process but only two could donate blood on Friday. The rest will donate within the next two days. Currently, Rims has only one apheresis machine, which extracts plasma and does platelet separation for the sick persons. “That is an additional challenge for us as we have only apheresis machine and we are expected to collect plasma from all the donors with that,” Dr Sushma said. When TOI asked a senior district official why an extra machine was not arranged for plasma collection at Rims, he said they are in the process of getting two apheresis machines for the hospital soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/staggered-start-to-rims-plasma-drive-as-doc-tests-positive/articleshow/77684116.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 22, 2020||Ranchi||Heavy rain hits power supply in Ranchi||RANCHI: With the city recording more than 50 mm of rainfall over the past 24 hours, several trees in the city have been uprooted and fell on overhead power cables, causing severe damages to distribution and supply in several parts of the city. Jharkhand Bijli Vitaran Nigam Ltd. (JBVNL), the state-owned power distribution company, on Friday, raced against time to remove the trees and restore power. The most damages were seen at Morhabadi, Booty More, Patel Nagar, Hawainagar, Latma, near ITI, Piska More among other places. At Morhabadi in front of the official residences of JMM president Shibu Soren, a huge tree was uprooted by torrential rains and strong winds late on Thursday evening. It came crashing down on power cables, blocking the main road. JBVNL said power supply at Morhabadi, Nagratoli and other adjoining areas was cut off as a precautionary measure. Till late in the afternoon, teams of the discom were engaged in removing the tree. Talking to TOI, P K Srivastava, superintendent engineer of JVBNL, said, “Till Thursday midnight, our teams had been successful in restoring power supplies in at least 95% areas in Ranchi despite the inclement weather. The teams also patrol areas, along the power distribution lines, to check for faults and other electrical defects. Since Friday early morning, our men are back at the job.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/heavy-rain-hits-power-supply-in-city/articleshow/77684149.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Ranchi||Now, WFH Pain In The Neck||RANCHI: The coronavirus outbreak has changed the way the country goes about is job, with a vast majority of professionals working from home for close to five months now. While work from home (WFH) is not an entirely new concept and many global corporations were flexible and allowed this practice for some of their employees like new mothers, it is now more a necessity than a matter of a choice. While WFH allows flexibility, eliminates commute time and lets employees take better care of themselves by balancing their work-life schedule, it comes with a set of challenges. Over the past few months, professionals across the state have converted their guest rooms, dining table or bedrooms into makeshift offices, but few have much guidance when it comes to making these new spaces ergonomically safe. Most do not have a large monitor, ergonomic chair and other office equipment, and their WFH infrastructure is at best a short-term option not fit for eight or nine hours each day for months at a stretch. Long hours at home without an ergonomic workspace set-up, adequate physical exercise and poor posture can lead to orthopaedic conditions like pain in the neck, back, shoulder and joints. Long hours on the screen leads to eye ailments as well. Pinak Roy, an employee with a private banker in Jamshedpur, developed watery eyes and blurry vision after working for long hours on his laptop during the lockdown. “While in office, I worked between eight to 10 hours a day. During the lockdown, the working hours rose to as much as 14 hours. My eyes were strained and I visited a doctor last week. I have been told to wear glasses now,” the 34-year-old told TOI. Like Roy, Mohammad Asif Iqbal, who works with a Mumbai-based entertainment firm, has also seen his workload soar. Without a proper office setup he has been shuffling between he bed and his sofa with his laptop and has now developed a severe backache. “The pain has been so sharp of late that I had to visit a doctor,” he said. Roy and Iqbal are among hundreds across Jharkhand who have picked up physical complications during their WFH stints due to the long hours. Physiotherapists across Ranchi and Jamshedpur, the two biggest cities in Jharkhand, said they are receiving an increasing number of people with body aches, tightness in the joints and spondylosis in the last couple of months. Dr Kavita Roy, group director of physiotherapy department at Medica Hospital, said, “Working from home has its downsides as our homes are meant for relaxing and they do not have proper arrangements for long work hours. People end up working on beds, sofas and couches in incorrect posture. Sometimes, their neck is bent forward while peering into the computer screens. This puts immense pressure on the spine and leads to a pain in the neck, muscle tightness and cervical spondylosis. Leaning forward also puts pressure on our rib cage region, which can lead to uneven breathing.” She stressed that for people working from home, it is important to take breaks, do stretching exercises and drinking enough water. “If there is no work table, one must work on the dining tables or their place laptops on bed tables,” Roy said. Dr B P Kashyap, one of Ranchi's leading eye-specialists, said the cases of eye ailments have increased manifold in recent weeks. “Due to long hours of peering into the laptop, notepad and mobile screens, there are increasing complaints of reddishness of the eye, dryness and blurred vision," Kashyap said. He suggested that those working on computers must blink consciously. “A human eye blinks 20 times in a minute in natural circumstances. When glued to screens, they blink seven times a minute. The eye adjusts accordingly over time and reduces the formation of tears, which leads to several discomforting feelings. So those who are working for long hours on computers must use eye drops to keep their eyes lubricated,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/now-wfh-pain-in-the-neck/articleshow/77684056.cms||Dhritiman Ray
August 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Srisailam fire: AP extends support to Telangana||Vijayawada: The state government has directed the energy department to extend all possible help to their Telangana counterparts at Srisailam left bank where a major fire broke out claiming at least nine lives. Energy secretary Srikant Nagulapalli asked the Srisailam right bank power house and Andhra Pradesh State Load Dispatch Centre to extend support to Telangana in tackling the situation. According to the secretary, the Telangana State Load Dispatch Centre called chief engineer of APSLDC on Thursday night and informed about the fire mishap that took place in Srisailam left bank powerhouse. The CE immediately contacted officials at Srisailam right bank and directed them to provide all help they can extend. The right bank chief engineer arranged ambulances along with doctor and supporting staff and alerted nearby hospitals as well. The officials also arranged search lights, blowers, cables for left bank power house. They have also alerted the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) rescue teams nearby. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/srisailam-fire-ap-extends-support-to-t/articleshow/77681606.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Nagpur||21-corporator panel formed for Covid mgmt||Nagpur: Mayor Sandip Joshi on Friday formed a coordination committee, comprising 21 corporators from all parties, which will interact with civic officials for better management of Covid-19 cases in the city. The panel will be led by Joshi. First meeting of the panel, having 14 BJP corporators, three from Congress, one each from NCP, Shiv Sena and independent corporator Abha Pande, will be held on August 24 at 10am. Soon after discussion on adjournment motion by senior BJP corporator Dayashankar Tiwari highlighting the spike in Covid-19 cases, private hospitals and pathology laboratories charging exorbitant fees was held in the general body’s virtual meet on the second day on Friday, Joshi announced setting up the 21-member panel. Before adjourning the House for an indefinite period, the mayor expressed anguish over network and connectivity issues that marred the meeting on the second day also. During the meeting, Tiwari claimed to have “caught” the administration giving misleading and false information to leader of opposition and former CM Devendra Fadnavis when he inquired about availability of beds for Covid-19 patients. “Against his claims of readying 10,000 beds, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe’s information on availability of beds for Covid-19 patients do not cross 2,500 (including beds in Covid Care Centres and government hospitals),” he said. Due to frequent voice-breaks, Tiwari could not complete his view on the notice. As the topic was important, senior Congress corporator Praful Gudadhe suggested forming a coordination committee of both corporators and officials to discuss issues pertaining to Covid-19 crisis. Ruling party leader Sandip Jadhav said all party leaders should approach the Supreme Court. To this, mayor asked all leaders to hold a joint meeting to take a call on this. Corporators from both ruling and opposition parties, including leader of opposition Tanaji Wanve and Sandip Sahare stressed on the need for holding the meeting in the physical presence as the virtual meeting with poor net connectivity and link issues defeated the purpose of discussing city’s issues. Joshi also ordered he will personally hear and resolve the notices submitted by the corporators in the general body. “Voice of speakers was not clearly audible during the virtual meeting. There are problems with Internet connectivity. It is possible for NMC to hold meetings by ensuring Covid distancing,” mayor told the administration. However, municipal commissioner Mundhe ruled out allowing general body meeting as directed by the mayor to be held with the attendance of 25% corporators and officials on August 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/21-corporator-panel-formed-for-covid-mgmt/articleshow/77682902.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 22, 2020||Nagpur||Most mandals cancel events, don’t apply for setting up pandals||Nagpur: Only 110 Ganesh mandals in the city have applied for police permission to set up pandals as on Friday. Every year, both Nagpur city police and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) give permissions to over 1,500 Ganesh mandals. Mayor Sandip Joshi had appealed to Ganesh mandals to tone down the celebrations this year amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Though many mandals have cancelled their programmes, at some places the administration rejected permissions citing them as Covid-19 hotspots. Many prominent mandals, including the Rani Laxmi Nagar Ganesh Utsav Mandal which installs a brass idol on a ground every year, have already called off their celebrations this year. Many organizers who have cancelled their programmes told TOI that the decision was taken keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic and guidelines from the state government and NMC. Instead many have decided to hold blood donation and health camps. Amol Joshi, president of Rani Laxmi Nagar Ganesh Utsav Mandal, said they are not installing idol on the ground. “Instead we are shifting the puja to the basement of a house and only aartis will be performed by two persons,” he said. One of the organizers, Chandrashekhar Puri of Chandrashekhar Azad Ganesh Mandal, Pachpaoli, is irked after the NMC’s Satranjipura zone office rejected permission to the 61-year-old mandal at the eleventh hour. Terming it as an injustice, Puri claimed that they had already sought no-objection certificates from all the required departments like NMC’s fire department, traffic police etc. “With no permission from Pachpaoli police station and NMC zone office, we will install the idol on our residential premises instead of our regular place beneath the Pachpaoli railway overbridge,” said Puri. A senior NMC official requesting anonymity said that they have already cleared many applications but are expecting several mandals to cancel their celebrations on their own. The officer also explained that the NMC has given permissions to mandals with several conditions regarding size of the pandals, guidelines for aarti, puja etc. Municipal Commissioner Tukaram Mundhe has appealed to citizens to celebrate this year’s Ganeshotsav in a simple way. “Stay home. Not more than two persons should go out to bring the idol and the immersion should be done at home,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/most-mandals-cancel-events-dont-apply-for-setting-up-pandals/articleshow/77682958.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Gas leak: Fire officials point to lack of safety measures||VIJAYAWADA: The district fire department officials on Friday said that lack of appropriate safety measures while carrying out welding works on pipeline would have led to gas leak at Hatsun Dairy unit at M Bandapalli village of Puthalapattu on Thursday. According to the fire officials a pungent smell was all over the place including the pipeline area and suspect that it could have been an origin point. Fourteen women, all of them employed by the dairy, were hospitalised following the gas leak. Three of them are in a critical condition and would be shifted to SVIMS hospital in Tirupati. Speaking to media on Friday, Chittoor district collector Narayan Bharat Gupta said that they are yet to ascertain the reason behind the mishap but suspects that something might have gone wrong while welding the pipe in which ammonia gas is being transferred. “Ammonia was leaked at Hatsun milk processing unit near Putalapattu at around 5 pm. Soon after the gas leak, the fellow staff alerted fire officials who reached the spot and aided in the rescue operations. Officials said that the leak was contained within a few hours. Fourteen labourers who were working in that shift were brought to the hospital here in Chittoor,” said the collector. According to the collector, the incident happened around 5 pm while employees were undertaking welding works. This is the fourth such incident across the state in the last three months. The collector said that they have ordered an inquiry into the incident. The industries department general manager and fire department officials are reviewing the situation. The fire department officials said that there was an element of negligence on the management’s part and based on the inquiry report action would be taken against them. Police said that overall 400 employees work on a shift basis at the processing unit and most of them work under contract basis. Meanwhile, the cops have registered a case based on the victims’ complaint against the Hatsun Dairy at Puthalapattu police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gas-leak-fire-officials-point-to-lack-of-safety-measures/articleshow/77689223.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
August 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Gas leak: Fire officials point to lack of safety measures||VIJAYAWADA: The district fire department officials on Friday said that lack of appropriate safety measures while carrying out welding works on pipeline would have led to gas leak at Hatsun Dairy unit at M Bandapalli village of Puthalapattu on Thursday. According to the fire officials a pungent smell was all over the place including the pipeline area and suspect that it could have been an origin point. Fourteen women, all of them employed by the dairy, were hospitalised following the gas leak. Three of them are in a critical condition and would be shifted to SVIMS hospital in Tirupati. Speaking to media on Friday, Chittoor district collector Narayan Bharat Gupta said that they are yet to ascertain the reason behind the mishap but suspects that something might have gone wrong while welding the pipe in which ammonia gas is being transferred. “Ammonia was leaked at Hatsun milk processing unit near Putalapattu at around 5 pm. Soon after the gas leak, the fellow staff alerted fire officials who reached the spot and aided in the rescue operations. Officials said that the leak was contained within a few hours. Fourteen labourers who were working in that shift were brought to the hospital here in Chittoor,” said the collector. According to the collector, the incident happened around 5 pm while employees were undertaking welding works. This is the fourth such incident across the state in the last three months. The collector said that they have ordered an inquiry into the incident. The industries department general manager and fire department officials are reviewing the situation. The fire department officials said that there was an element of negligence on the management’s part and based on the inquiry report action would be taken against them. Police said that overall 400 employees work on a shift basis at the processing unit and most of them work under contract basis. Meanwhile, the cops have registered a case based on the victims’ complaint against the Hatsun Dairy at Puthalapattu police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/gas-leak-fire-officials-point-to-lack-of-safety-measures/articleshow/77681656.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
August 22, 2020||Goa||Ghanaian footballers in India find help, from abroad||PANAJI: There is finally an end in sight to the misery of little-known Ghanaian footballers in India. Stranded here without food or money for almost five months, the Ghanaians had appealed to Nana Akufo-Addo, president of Ghana, to take them home. They dialled several other contacts too, but it’s a football-loving NRI from the US who has come to their rescue. “I got to know of their plight after reading a report in The Times of India. Initially, I thought someone would help them, but when nothing happened, I decided to do something,” Anirudh K told TOI on Thursday. The ‘crazy Chelsea fan’ from Kannur, Kerala, raised $6,800 (approximately Rs 5.1 lakh), most of his own and the rest from friends and colleagues, to ensure that the footballers took the chartered evacuation flight from New Delhi to Accra on Friday. On board the flight was player-cum-coach Richard Hanson, who was stuck in Dimapur, Nagaland, besides four other footballers stranded in India. More importantly, Stephen Kwazi Menza is also on the same flight. Menza was doing well for himself playing for Thrissur-based Jaya Bakery in the lucrative Sevens circuit in Kerala. But for the past five months, the Ghanaian defender has been bed-ridden with a critical liver condition. Hanson, too, is glad to be on his way home. “I am delighted to be going back to my family. This is such a relief. It’s been difficult here for so many months now,” he said. Unless they land a professional contract, most African footballers play for lower-ranked clubs, and normally get paid on a per-match basis. So without money for food or rent, the Ghanaian footballers had it tough. “People funded me when I was looking for a break myself back in 2002, when I left for Dubai,” said Anirudh, who is based in San Francisco. “I am glad I am able to help these players. If not me, I'm sure someone else would have stepped in to help them. A huge thanks to (Ghanaian colleague) Monica, who helped in raising additional funds to make this happen.” Sources said that Jaya Bakery team manager Rafeeq P B arranged for domestic flight tickets from Kerala to New Delhi for Menza, while Anirudh’s group helped with all other expenses, including six months of medication for the seriously-ill defender. “After reading the TOI report, I could relate to their problems. I have seen this famous Malayalam movie Sudani from Nigeria, and could tell what these footballers are going through. It was important that they get home,” said Anirudh, who himself is waiting for normalcy to return so he can come home and see his ailing father. The Ghanaians have been told they owe nothing to anyone. Just backing Chelsea FC would do.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ghanaian-footballers-in-india-find-help-from-abroad/articleshow/77685780.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
August 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Online yoga classes gain in popularity||Visakhapatnam: Ever since the outbreak of Covid-19 in the country, the yoga department of Andhra University (AU) has been conducting special yoga sessions in reference to the pandemic and its effects. While the programmes have had to move online, they have become a huge success with people from various cities participating. The reason for yoga’s new-found popularity is being ascribed to greater awareness about health, diet and lifestyle amid the pandemic. Officials of Andhra University informed that nearly 70 people are enrolling for each yoga session. In view of the rising demand and to help people battle the pressures of the pandemic, the department has decided to launch a fresh programme on ‘Mind-body integration and positive health’ from August 24. Recently, the department introduced a one month-long online course on ‘Diet training on nutrition and immune foods-Covid-19’. According to a faculty member of the department, they are imparting research-oriented scientific knowledge to participants. “Several doctors are also part of the programme,” the faculty member said while adding that people from across cities in Andhra Pradesh, including Rajahmundry and Vijayawada are participating in the programmes. Andhra University, in association with Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE), conducted a week-long webinar on ‘Time to Realise Energies/Strengths within and surrounding YOU with reference to Covid-19’ in the second week of August. The webinar covered lectures on food habits versus health in the modern era, yoga and health in general, hospital versus kitchen remedies and ancient health management skills. All these lectures were in reference to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/online-yoga-classes-gain-in-popularity/articleshow/77681695.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Nagpur||Raut: JV cement plant near Khaparkheda power stn soon||Nagpur: Energy minister Nitin Raut announced that the Maha-Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government plans to start cement units near power plants in the state and that the pilot project would begin from city’s Khaparkheda Thermal Power Station (KTPS).“We’ve completed formalities like studying feasibility of such units in our plants’ vicinity. It would be a joint venture (JV) between Maharashtra State Power Generation Company (Mahagenco) and cement companies and tenders would be floated soon,” said Raut.On inflated power bills received by consumers in lockdown, the guardian minister said a package was ready and awaiting cabinet nod. “Those having discrepancies in bills would be offered concessions. We’ve systems in place to check such bills by comparing it with last year’s readings,” said Raut.Explaining the advantages of the JV with cement units, Raut said it would benefit both players and generate employment in the region. “The government would be offering land, water, fly-ash and gypsum to cement units. They only need to set up the machinery. The move would also help to reduce fly-ash pollution caused due to power plants,” said Raut.Deliberating further on the reforms that he initiated, Raut said he would be moving a proposal before the cabinet to make use of fly-ash mandatory while laying roads. “By making fly-ash mandatory, all roads constructed by the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) would have it. It would be a cheaper option and also increase the life of the roads as it offers durability and strength. The purchase of fly-ash would be mentioned in the work orders for construction of roads,” said Raut.Stressing on the use of fly-ash to preserve the environment, the North Nagpur MLA said that MSRDC was using excavated gravel and soil for laying roads and damaging the ecology.Expressing concern over drop in consumption demand due to lockdown, the minister said power entities faced huge losses to tune of Rs 48,000 crore in the last four months. “We also need to pay salaries of our employees along with maintenance charges. The dip in demand was due to the inability of many industries to restart operations. We also purchase power from private players and provide it to consumers at subsidized rates for which we need funds. Now, we’re taking loans from banks for running our operations,” said Raut.On being detained at Azamgarh where he went to meet the slain Dalit Sarpanch’s family, the minister reiterated that he would soon be meeting President Ramnath Kovind as the latter is also a Dalit and hails from Uttar Pradesh.RAUT SPEAK* MVA govt under CM Uddhav Thackeray will survive full term despite BJP’s ‘Operation Lotus’* Technical glitches in formation of three statutory development boards in the state* Law & order has collapsed in UP with attacks on Dalits rising* Will be meeting President Ramnath Kovind as he’s Dalit & hails from UP* Leeladhar Gaidhane ended life due to liquor addiction & not due to inflated power bills* No one is big or small brother in MVA, all 3 parties working as per common programme||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/raut-jv-cement-plant-near-khaparkheda-power-stn-soon/articleshow/77682988.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Donate plasma to save others: Joint collector||Guntur: Joint collector Dinesh Kumar, on Friday, appealed to all recovered Covid-19 patients to donate plasma for the treatment of others. “Turn your victory into hope for others,” said the joint collector, while launching a campaign poster for ‘friends2support.org’— an NGO which runs the world’s largest blood donors’ database with free access. The NGO— friends2support.org— has launched a new section called ‘Covid-19 plasma donor’ on its website and mobile application. All recovered Covid-19 patients who are willing to help others can register themselves as plasma donors four weeks after testing negative. Joint collector Kumar said that the government has granted permission to several hospitals to undertake plasma therapy on critically-ill patients. Founder of friends2support.org and senior software professional, Shaik Shareef, said, “To make things easy for Covid-19 patients, their families and the medical fraternity, we have been running this section on a trial basis. More than 300 people who have defeated Covid-19 in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have registered themselves as voluntary plasma donors and 20 of them have already donated plasma.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/donate-plasma-to-save-others-joint-collector/articleshow/77681713.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Nagpur||Rain continues to wreak havoc in Gadchiroli||Nagpur: First flood casualty in southern parts of Gadchiroli was reported on Friday with a man getting swept away in overflowing Kambhalpeth nullah in Sironcha where the bridge had got damaged a couple of days ago. Body of the man is yet to be found. District administration has sounded alert at various places in catchment areas of Indravati, Pranhita and Godavari rivers. Sironcha’s rescue team under tehsildar Ramesh Jaswant rescued a pregnant woman after shifting her in a boat across the Kambhalpeth nullah. She was rushed to Aheri for medical assistance. Residents of a few adjoining villages had joined hands to repair the damaged bridge at Kambhalpeth but it got swept away in the gushing waters. The situation in flood-hit Gadchiroli has kept the administration on tenterhooks with at least 85 villages in Sironcha and Bhamragarh tehsils having lost connectivity as on Friday. In northern part of the district too, flooding affecting road connectivity in many places was reported. With Indravati river flooding the catchment areas, Somanpalli nullah is flowing above the bridge level, said tehsildar Jaswant. “Around 15 villages have been cut off from rest part of the district. Sironcha-Alappali road, which was closed a day ago, was opened for traffic after flood waters receded,” he said. “Three trucks were stuck on flooded Amravati nullah on Sironcha-Alappali national highway, but efforts are on to bring them out,” said Jaswant. Bhamragarh tehsildar Satyanarayan Shilamwar said medical check-up kits and medicines were distributed at a village near the tri-junction of Parlakota, Godavari and Pranhita rivers. “Four ‘safe house’ facilities have been set up for sheltering tribals affected by the floods. Many residents have shifted elsewhere as flood waters entered the village and market places,” he said. After a brief spell on August 16 and 17, water from Parlakota river had once again entered Bhamragarh submerging the market place and several houses. In the north, overflowing Sati river had cut off Kondhali-Vairagarh road and Khobragadi river was flowing above the danger mark between Vairagarh and Rangi village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rain-continues-to-wreak-havoc-in-gadchiroli/articleshow/77683029.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 22, 2020||Nagpur||CBSE launches virtual inspections to upgrade schools||Nagpur: CBSE continues to hold on to its reputation as a tech-savvy board, with the latest initiative being virtual inspection of schools that have applied for upgradation. The process of ‘upgradation’ is applicable only to affiliated schools. CBSE’s decision will help tide over difficulties in physical inspection due to the ongoing pandemic.Upgradation from middle school syllabus to secondary level or from secondary level to senior secondary level is mandatory for affiliated schools, as per CBSE’s Affiliation Bye-Laws 2018. In order to assess the suitability for approving the upgradation, CBSE appoints an Inspection Committee (IC) for physical inspection of the school. However, due to current Covid-19 pandemic, schools have been shut down, making it difficult to proceed with the existing procedures of physical inspection, while the students, by virtue of natural progression, now have to continue with the next Std IX or XI. Therefore, to avoid academic loss of students and logistical problems for schools, CBSE has introduced ‘Virtual Inspection of Schools (VIOS)’ for approximately 1,000 cases registered for upgradation in session 2019-20 and 2020-21.In an official statement, CBSE said that this move “will most likely mitigate the anxiety and on ground problems of schools”.CBSE will convey SOPs to schools for conducting VIOS. This will work on a digital platform in real-time and give access to inspect the infrastructure such as additional classrooms, labs, availability of teachers for classes or subjects required to qualify for upgradation of the school. CBSE statement mentioned that “the school and inspection committee members will require a smartphone or a tab, an I-Pad or a laptop with high speed Wi-Fi internet connectivity”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cbse-launches-virtual-inspections-to-upgrade-schools/articleshow/77683070.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 22, 2020||Nagpur||Major fire at office of UCN||Nagpur: Broadband and cable TV services were disrupted for the entire day after a major fire broke out at the office of UCN Cable Input Limited at Milestone Building in Ramdaspeth on Friday morning. Though no loss of life was reported, the server room and material worth Rs6 lakh were gutted. The exact cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. Fire officials said at around 5.51am, the NMC’s fire and emergency services department received a call about the fire that broke out on the fifth floor of the UCN office. Soon, two fire tenders along with the Turn Table Ladder and personnel were rushed to the spot. It took almost an hour for the personnel to douse the fire. The incident disrupted services provided by the firm. The broadband service has completely stopped throughout the city. The fire also affected its cable TV services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/major-fire-at-office-of-ucn/articleshow/77683055.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government defends power for cops in viral times||NEW DELHI: The AAP government on Friday defended in Delhi high court its Covid-19 regulations empowering police officers of sub-inspector and above ranks to impose fines for violating quarantine norms, saying it was a special measure taken to prevent the spread of the virus. Delhi government told a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan that fines under the regulations were not in the nature of punishments under IPC, rather were preventive measures contemplated in accordance with the Epidemic Diseases (ED) Act of 1897. The submission was made before the high court bench in an affidavit, filed through Delhi government standing counsel Ramesh Singh, which stated that under the ED Act the state was empowered to take such special measures to prevent the spread of epidemic diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-government-defends-power-for-cops-in-viral-times/articleshow/77685784.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka government scripts revival story for Kannada film industry||BENGALURU: The state government is considering a host of measures to support and promote the Kannada film industry and theatres, which have taken a huge financial hit because of the Covid-19 crisis. Some steps under review are capping movie tickets at Rs 200, which could help revive demand when cinemas reopen, and setting up mini-theatres that will show only Kannada films. “The state government understands the problems of the film industry and will soon formulate a comprehensive policy to offer incentives and concessions to help it to recover,” said deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan, who interacted with two delegations from the sector. He added he would consult chief minister BS Yediyurappa on the issue. Normally, 250 Kannada movies are released every year and the industry employs about 20,000 people across departments. The annual turnover is about Rs 1,000 crore. “Fresh thinking and leadership will drive the revival of the sector. There have been a number of interactions between the government and industry stakeholders, we expect that to translate into a new policy for Kannada movies,” said DR Jairaj, president of the Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce. The Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy had submitted a draft policy to promote the industry in 2017. Veteran filmmaker SV Rajendra Singh Babu was the academy’s chairman at the time. The government is now looking at modifying this policy and introducing relief measures, said officials in the state information department. It is expected to offer tax concessions such as reimbursement of state GST component on movie tickets. In another move, it will encourage small theatres with 150 seats in semi-urban and rural areas. To support big-budget movies and their worldwide marketing, Karnataka will create a single-window agency to process clearances for film shooting, financing and other aspects. Industry representatives have sought a special financial package as a short-term measure in wake of the pandemic. Some other demands: payouts of Rs 5,000 per month to labourers for the lockdown period and waiver of demand charges on utilities (electricity and water). Theatre owners have also requested waiver of property tax and licence fee for a year. “Film exhibition is a huge segment that employs around 12,000 workers in about 650 single-screen theatres across Karnataka. The government should treat it as an industry and offer it facilities granted to micro, small and medium enterprises,” said KV Chandrasekhar, president of the Karnataka Film Exhibitors’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-scripts-revival-story-for-kannada-film-industry/articleshow/77685758.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
August 22, 2020||India||RTI activists question Centre’s decision to put PM CARES Fund in Companies Act for CSR eligibility||NEW DELHI: Information activists have questioned the government's decision to place the PM-CARES Fund in the seventh schedule of the Companies Act in May to underline its eligibility to receive funds under corporate social responsibility as a retrospective decision intended to shield it from disclosure under the Right to Information Act. The government has been stating that PM CARES Fund is not a public authority under RTI. However, a ministry of corporate affairs (MoCA) office memorandum, dated March 28, is being cited to point out that contributions by companies will qualify as CSR expenditure as the Companies Act allows for such contributions if the fund is set up by the central government for socio-economic development and relief work and that this also means it is under RTI. MoCA’s March 28 office memorandum received in response to an RTI application filed in June by activist Anjali Bhardwaj is being cited by her to say “if a body is set up by the government, it qualifies as a public authority under the RTI Act”. Bhardwaj says the PM CARES Fund had a corpus of Rs 3,076 crore on March 31, 2020, of which Rs 3,075 crore was listed as “voluntary contributions”, according to its official website. In June, Bhardwaj's application to PMO seeking a copy of all files related to the PM CARES Fund led to a response that the Fund is not a public authority under the ambit of Section 2(h) of the RTI Act, 2005. Not satisfied with the response, she has filed an appeal stating that “if any files related to PM CARES Fund are held by or under control of PMO, which is a public authority, it is duty bound to furnish them as per the provisions of RTI Act”. The government has said the fund is a public charitable trust. As per MoCA, on March 28 the ministry issued an office memorandum on the clarification on contribution to PM CARES Fund as eligible CSR. The office memorandum stated: “Item no. (viii) of the Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013, which enumerates activities that may be undertaken by companies in discharge of their CSR obligations, provides that contribution to any fund set up by the central government for socio-economic development and relief qualifies as CSR expenditure... Accordingly, it is clarified that any contribution made to the PM CARES Fund shall qualify as CSR expenditure under the Companies Act 2013.” On May 26, the central government amended item (viii) of Schedule VII of the Companies Act through a notification to insert PM CARES Fund. The amended version now reads as- “(viii) contribution to the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund or Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES Fund) or any other fund set up by the central government for socio economic development and relief and welfare of the schedule caste, tribes, other backward classes, minorities and women.” This notification further stated that it shall be deemed to have come into force retrospectively from March 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rti-activists-question-centres-decision-to-put-pm-cares-fund-in-companies-act-for-csr-eligibility/articleshow/77685797.cms||Ambika Pandit
August 22, 2020||Nagpur||55 test positive in Yavatmal||YAVATMAL: Yavatmal recorded 55 fresh Covid-19 cases while 42 patients recovered and got discharge from GMC isolation ward on Saturday. The new patients include 34 men and 21 women. There are 613 patients under treatment while 195 persons are under home quarantine. The district has registered 66 deaths. Currently, 155 persons are in the isolation wards while 150 swab samples have been sent for testing. Four more Covid-19 positive cases were detected at the RCCPL factory at Mukutban, taking its count to at least a dozen. Request from the villagers to the district administration and the factory management to keep the unit closed for a month has allegedly got no response so far. The district collector had earlier issued a circular to the factory management to deploy only local labourers from Gadchiroli, Chandrapur and Kolhapur. But the management allegedly appointed workers from Bihar, Chhattisgarh and UP who have now been found infected. Against the manpower capacity of over 2,000, the factory is being run by only 300 employees. The factory can’t be closed totally as demanded by the locals, said a source in the factory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/55-test-positive-in-yavatmal/articleshow/77697852.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Lok Nayak Hospital admissions rise to 40-50 a day||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 1,250 fresh novel coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the case-load to over 1.58 lakh, while the death toll mounted to 4,270. Thirteen fatalities were recorded in the past 24 hours, revealed the latest bulletin issued by Delhi health department. On Thursday, the count of daily cases was 1,215 and 22 deaths were reported. The tally of active cases rose to 11,426 on Friday, from 11,271 on Thursday. The city has so far recorded a total of 1,57,354 cases, of which 1,41,826 had recovered or been discharged. The recovery rate stood at 90%. There were 11,271 active cases, of which 5,707 were under home isolation. The state health department said 6,086 RTPCR, CBNAAT and TrueNat and 11,649 rapid-antigen tests were conducted in the past 24 hours. "A total of 13,92,928 tests have been conducted till date. The test per million population stands at 73,312," said an official. He added that the positivity rate - number of people found positive from those tested - in the past 24 hours stood at 7%. In the past two weeks, the number of admissions due to Covid-19 has gone up in the capital. "We are getting 40-50 new admissions daily due to Covid-19 over the past few days. But many of these patients are from neighbouring Noida, Gurugram, Bulandshahr, among others," said Dr Suresh Kumar, director, Lok Nayak Hospital. There were 14,114 Covid beds in Delhi's hospitals, of them, 3,563 were occupied on Friday. In July-end, the occupancy of Covid beds had reduced to less than 3,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-lok-nayak-hospital-admissions-rise-to-40-50-a-day/articleshow/77685806.cms||---
August 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi hospitals see 3-4 times rise in cases of self-inflicted wounds||NEW DELHI: The restrictions placed on normal social activities by the Covid-19 pandemic - and the resulting reduction in incomes, job losses and strained relations - are leading to an increase in people inflicting injuries to themselves. At least that is what the data from three major hospitals, AIIMS New Delhi, Max Patparganj and Max Vaishali, indicates. "Cases of personal injuries went up three to four times in the lockdown period," Dr Manoj Johar, director and head of the plastic surgery units at both Max Patparganj and Max Vaishali. AIIMS received 23 cases of self-inflicted injuries between April and July, according to Dr Rajesh Malhotra, chief of trauma services, who categorically said most injuries involved "harm to self, using sharp objects". Reduced income, job loss, domestic tiffs leading to injuriesAt Max Patparganj and Max Vaishali, the doctors logged a total of 40 cases of self-inflicted injuries from May to July. "Normally, we get seven to eight cases of such injury cases in a year," said Johar, adding, "The Covid lockdown has taken a heavy toll of young men." He pointed out that cases of this sort involved mainly young workers and males in their twenties, with the injuries resulting from banging heads on walls, smashing hands on window-panes, tables and bathroom mirrors. Johar also cited the case of a young married woman who was brought to the hospital with 30% burns. "She tried to harm herself after arguments with family members. Her face, chest and upper limbs were significantly burnt. It took 12 days of ICU care to save her," the plastic surgeon said. According to Dr Malhotra, the incidence of death by suicide has also gone up in this trying period. "Loneliness, loss of a close relative, financial stress and uncertainty have affected people's mental health," he said. "We have also observed a rise in domestic violence and assault." Watch Delhi hospitals report 4-fold rise in self-inflicted wounds||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-hospitals-see-3-4-times-rise-in-cases-of-self-inflicted-wounds/articleshow/77685808.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
August 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Demand shock shuts Karnataka’s three thermal power plants||BENGALURU: Karnataka, which was a power deficit state 10 years ago, now faces an energy crisis of a different kind: there’s more electricity generation than demand, which has been hit by the pandemic. Heavy and medium-scale industries are consuming less power than before, and the poor demand has forced Karnataka Power Corporation Limited (KPCL) to temporarily shut three thermal power plants. The operations at the plants, two in Raichur district and one in Ballari, were first halted two months ago. This is the first time in Karnataka’s history since 1986 that all three facilities, with 13 thermal units, have been put into sleep mode. A senior government official said KPCL tried to resume operations at the thermal power plants once, but the attempt was short-lived because high power generation and lower demand in the state were destabilising the grid. Karnataka has reopened most parts of its economy, but the drop in energy consumption is a possible sign that industries are struggling to restore manufacturing levels that they had achieved before the Covid-19 crisis erupted. It’s not just thermal units. Hydroelectric power stations are also functioning at basic levels, according to officials in the energy department. Six of the 16 stations have also suspended operations as the government is struggling to secure demand for even 10 per cent of the available capacity. Confirming temporary plant closures, KPCL managing director V Ponnuraj said: “Due to a lack of demand, we have been forced to shut down all three thermal power plants and run hydropower plants at bare minimum.” KPCL has a power generation capacity of 8,686MW, but currently, it produces only 600MW to 1,200MW, said government officials. According to KPTCL’s website, the state-wide demand fell to 6,943MW on August 21 as against 9,500MW to 10,000MW recorded during this period in a normal year. “And this figure (9,500MW to 10,000MW) is only during the lean season, between June and September. On an average, Karnataka normally consumes at least 12,500MW of power each day,” said a senior official in the energy department. Many factories have decreased production because of an “unfavourable” market situation and therefore, they were consuming less energy, said industry associations. Production levels have reportedly dropped to 40 to 50 per cent. The automobile sector’s figure is 20 to 30 per cent. “Earlier, manufacturing units had four to five shifts. Currently, there are two or three. Because of a lack of demand, units are working at half strength to reserve cash,” said BC Prabhakar, president, Karnataka Employers Association. There’s one upside: daily demand and consumption of renewable energy has shot up by 60-80 per cent as many industries are using captive power capacity (solar, wind, CoGen and biomass). “This effectively suggests there is a change in the renewable energy category,” said a government official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/demand-shock-shuts-karnatakas-three-thermal-power-plants/articleshow/77685749.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
August 22, 2020||India||9 killed in Telangana power plant inferno||HYDERABAD: When the phone at Dharavath Sundar Naik's house rang on Thursday night, family members could hear a choked voice on the other end - "This may be the last time I am speaking to you." Naik was one of the nine people, including a woman engineer, who died when a fire broke out in the 900MW Srisailam Left Bank Hydel Power Station (SLBHP) in Telangana. Eight others were injured in the accident. Though the fire started at 10.30pm on Thursday, the bodies trapped inside were retrieved from the underground power plant of the Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (TSGenco) - located about 220km from Hyderabad - on Friday afternoon. Engulfed in thick smoke and choking every second, some of the trapped engineers inside the power station bid their final goodbyes to their families. While some like Naik could call, some made videos showing how they were trying to put out the fire. Seven of the nine dead are TSGenco employees. "I may or may not be able to come back home. The situation is bad and difficult. It looks impossible for us to get out of this. Take care of the children...," Naik, an assistant engineer at SLBHP, told his family. Near the plant, his family waited in hope that he would be rescued. His body was finally brought out 16 hours after he last spoke to his wife. Naik, a resident of Suryapet, was also a Covid-19 warrior. "It was 20 days ago that he recovered and joined back duties," a friend told on phone. Officials supervising rescue operations said the fire could have been sparked by a short circuit in one of the electric panels of the power house and spread to other parts. "Thick smoke engulfed the 1.2-km-long tunnel leading to the plant, making it difficult for rescue teams to reach the place where the blaze started. There are two exit routes from which eight employees escaped while nine others died trying to douse the fire and save the power plant," said Telangana energy minister G Jagadish Reddy. Naik had called his family from a landline in the power plant. Divisional engineer Srinivas Goud also called up his family to describe how bad the situation was inside. A senior official also received a call from one of the engineers, pleading for help. "If in 10 minutes you cannot rescue us, we will die. So, if you can do something, do it quickly," the official quoted the engineer as having said. "There was no power. We did not know where to go but slowly some of us found our way to the exit gate and could get out," an employee said. He was among the six who were hospitalised. Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao ordered two inquiries - one by CID and another by top TSGenco officials. He also announced Rs 50 lakh ex gratia to divisional engineer Srinivas Goud's family and announced Rs 25 lakh each for the families of other victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/9-killed-in-telangana-power-plant-inferno/articleshow/77685843.cms||Roushan Ali
August 22, 2020||Mumbai||SC permits devotees at 3 Jain temples in Mumbai for last 2 days of Paryushan Parv event||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday permitted devotees to pray at three main Jain temples in Mumbai on the last two days of the annual Paryushan Parv event. It also gave the Maharashtra government a piece of its mind for citing the rising number of Covid-19 cases to oppose the demand made by the community while allowing malls and liquor vends to open. The SC was quick to clarify that it was a one-off relaxation and would not apply to the Ganesh Chaturthi festival. “This order is not intended to be used as a precedent by other persons to seek permission to hold any festival/festivities which would involve, by their very nature, congregation of people, such as ‘Ganesh festival’,” a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde, Justice A S Bopanna and Justice V Ramasubramanian said. Appearing for a Jain religious trust, senior advocate Dushyant Dave submitted that the temple administrations would allow only five devotees at a time and a maximum of 250 people a day. “When the Maharashtra government could allow opening of malls and liquor vends, leading to huge congregations, can they cite Covid-19 to disallow five devotees at a time to enter Jain temples to seek spiritual solace from Tirthankars and get relief from anxiety caused by the pandemic?” he asked. SC raps state for winking at commerce, blinking at faithThe SC on Friday allowed three Jain temples to open for Paryushan Parv on Saturday and Sunday as the temples had undertaken to follow all safety protocols. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta said the Centre on June 4 issued standard operating procedures for opening of temples for prayers. “Whatever activity is permitted as per the SOPs can go on subject to the restrictions indicated therein,” he said. The Maharashtra government, through senior advocate A M Singhvi, opposed permission for opening Jain temples to devotees and said given the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state, it would be difficult to deny others if they sought to open their places of worship. “We find it very strange,” the SC said. “They (Maharashtra) are allowing every economic activity. They are willing to take risks if money is involved. But if it is a religious activity, they cite Covid-19. We can allow the Jain temples to open for two days of Paryushan Parv with restrictions.” The solicitor general’s comment that “money can't be given priority over worship” drew a sharp reaction from Singhvi, who asked: "Is that meant for me or the TV channels?” He said the state had not permitted congregations during Eid, Janmashtami, Gudi Padwa, Ramnavami, Mahavir Jayanti, Nag Panchmi and Dahi Handi. “The state government has applied the restrictions uniformly to all communities and all religions and nothing should be done to upset the balance,” he said. The bench said: “We are of the view that a small reprieve can be granted to the petitioners, without making it a precedent. After all, the petitioners are not seeking to hold any festivities in congregation. The petitioners want by way of an interim measure opening of three temples, one each in Byculla, Dadar and Chembur in Mumbai. They have undertaken to restrict the entry of devotees only to five persons at any given time subject to a maximum of 250 devotees on a single day. "Therefore, considering the peculiar facts and circumstances, the prayer made by the petitioners is allowed to the limited extent of permitting them to open the three temples on August 22 and 23 for devotees to perform rituals connected with Paryushan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sc-permits-devotees-at-3-jain-temples-in-mumbai-for-last-2-days-of-event/articleshow/77685817.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
