August 23, 2020||World||Democrats see racism in how top Republicans say 'Kamala'||CHICAGO: Bantering during the final night of the Democratic National Convention, actor Julia Louis-Dreyfus and former presidential candidate Andrew Yang repeatedly got the name of "our current vice president" wrong. Was it "Mika Pints?" or "Paints?" Or maybe "Ponce," Yang suggested. "Oh, some kind of weird foreign name?" Louis-Dreyfus asked. "Yeah, not very American sounding," Yang replied. It was a quick bit of satire with a pointed message from Democrats: When top Republicans - including President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence - mispronounce Democratic vice presidential nominee Kamala Harris' first name, it's not just disrespectful, it's racist. Harris' first name is pronounced "KAH'-mah-lah" - or, as she explains in her biography, "'comma-la,' like the punctuation mark." But mispronunciations have been rampant in the days since the California senator became the first Black woman and the first Asian American woman named to a major party's ticket. Pence referred to her as "kah-MAH'-lah," putting his emphasis on the second syllable, at events last week. Republican National Committee Chair Ronna McDaniel did the same on Wednesday, as did Trump at a rally in Pennsylvania on Thursday, the day after Harris delivered a prime-time speech accepting the Democratic nomination - a speech he indicated he watched. Harris' supporters say the pattern amounts to a deliberate effort by Trump and his allies to portray Harris - the daughter of immigrants - as someone who does not belong at the top ranks of politics. The mispronunciations follow a string of attacks that include racist and sexist memes and questioning about whether Harris, who was born in California, is eligible to serve as vice president because her mother was Indian and her father Jamaican. (Constitutional scholars and other legal experts say there is no question that she is eligible.) "It is an effort to diminish her," said Fatima Goss Graves, president of the National Women's Law Center Action Fund. "It's designed to signal difference." Trump campaign officials did not immediately respond to questions about the errors. To be sure, Harris isn't the only politician who has watched other politicians and voters trip over her name. Former President Barack Obama, whose father was from Kenya, used to crack jokes about being a "skinny kid with a funny name." Former presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg, whose father was from Malta, went mostly by "Pete" - though his campaign made posters, chants and T-shirts with the pronunciation "Boot-Edge-Edge." In the introduction to her biography, Harris says her name means "lotus flower." It's a symbol of significance in Indian culture, she wrote, noting "a lotus grows underwater, its flower rising above the surface while its roots are planted firmly in the river bottom." When she first ran for the US Senate, her campaign produced a video with small children demonstrating the proper way to say her first name. But her defenders say Harris is well past the point of introduction - especially with Republican opponents. Harris served as California's attorney general for seven years before being elected to the Senate in 2016. Since then, she's made headlines for tough questioning of Trump appointees and raised her profile even more with her bid for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination. And even before she was elected to the Senate, Trump knew who she was - he donated to her 2014 campaign for attorney general. Yet Trump has continued to get her name wrong, as have his allies. Trump's personal attorney Rudy Giuliani called Harris "Pamela" during an appearance on Fox News. Pence mispronounced her names multiple times during a stop last week in Iowa, where he warned a cheering crowd that the November election isn't about a choice between Republicans and Democrats or conservatives and liberals. "I think the choice in this election is whether America remains America," he said, going on to mispronounce her name moments later. Pence pronounced Harris' name correctly during an appearance on Fox News on Friday, hours after the exchange between Louis-Dreyfus and Yang. Fox News host Tucker Carlson grew agitated when a guest corrected him last week after he also pronounced Kamala incorrectly. "So what?" he said, before mispronouncing her name again and complaining about liberals being too sensitive. McDaniel also got the pronunciation wrong earlier this week during an appearance on Fox News, even though the host questioning McDaniel was saying it correctly. Many people, particularly people of color, relate to Harris having her name mispronounced because they face the same situation in workplaces and elsewhere, said Goss Graves. She's grappled herself with people mispronouncing her first name - it's fah-TEE'-mah - and whether, or when, to correct them. But it's a very different thing, she said, to be a candidate for one of the highest offices in the world and have your colleagues and members of the media repeatedly mispronounce your name - or not care enough to get it right. "When people are running for the highest levels of government, there's an expectation they will be afforded with dignity and respect," she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/democrats-see-racism-in-how-top-republicans-say-kamala/articleshow/77697748.cms||---
August 23, 2020||India||India rejects reference to J&K in China-Pak joint statement||NEW DELHI: India rejected the reference to Jammu & Kashmir in a joint statement issued by Pakistan and China after talks between foreign ministers of the two countries in Beijing on Saturday. In a statement on Saturday, MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said, “J&K is an integral and inalienable part of India and we expect the parties concerned to not interfere in matters that are internal affairs of India.” Chinese and Pakistani foreign ministers Wang Yi and Shah Mehmood Qureshi met in Hainan on Friday for their second strategic dialogue. A joint statement issued at the meeting said “both sides underlined that a peaceful, stable, cooperative and prosperous South Asia was in common interest of all parties. Parties need to settle disputes and issues in the region through dialogue on the basis of equality and mutual respect”. “The Pakistani side briefed the Chinese side on the situation in J&K, including its concerns, position and current urgent issues”, it said. “The Chinese side reiterated that the Kashmir issue is a dispute left over from history between India and Pakistan, which is an objective fact, and that the dispute should be resolved peacefully and properly through the UN Charter, relevant Security Council resolutions and bilateral agreements. China opposes any unilateral actions that complicate the situation”, the joint press release said. In a statement New Delhi said: “India has repeatedly conveyed its concerns to both China and to Pakistan on the projects in so-called China Pakistan Economic Corridor, which are in the territory of India that has been illegally occupied by Pakistan. We resolutely oppose actions by other countries that change the status quo in Pakistan occupied Jammu and Kashmir and call on the parties concerned to cease such actions.” The Pakistan foreign minister went to China after receiving little comfort from Saudi Arabia and OIC regarding taking up the Kashmir issue at the international level. Watch India rejects reference to Jammu and Kashmir in China-Pak joint statement||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-rejects-reference-to-jk-in-china-pak-joint-statement/articleshow/77697953.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Lucknow||#CoronaEffect: Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations are a low key affair in the city||Every year, in the run up to Ganesh Chaturthi, the markets in Lucknow are abuzz with activity as Ganpati idol sellers line up hundreds of idols, both big and small, for devotees to buy and take home. This year, while not deserted, the markets are not as busy with idol makers across Lucknow reporting a 70-80% decline in their sale. Also, unlike every year, this year there are no pandaals in the city, making the celebrations again a low key affair. In fact, given the COVID-19 situation, all visarjan in public places is banned and as a result, most devotees are opting for eco-friendly smaller Ganeshas, mostly made of clay. “The sale for small and simple idols made of kachchi and pakki mitti is high this year and the Ganesh idols made of POP (Plaster Of Paris), which don’t dissolve easily is negligible,” says Ravi, a seller at IT College crossing. (BCCL/Aditya Yadav)MANY WILL SKIP THE CELEBRATIONSMukesh, a stall owner in Jankipuram, says the sales have been disappointing. “We had ordered a few eco friendly idols which can be immersed at home in a tub. Since they are slightly costly, not many people are going for them. And since you can’t do visarjan, people aren’t buying POP ones as well. In short, a majority is skipping to celebrate the festival this year,” he says. (BCCL)Mehak Arora, a homemaker in Vikas Nagar, who celebrates the festival in a lavish manner every year will skip it this year. Our friends and family used to eagerly wait for the Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations every year at our place as we would really go all out to bring Bappa at our house. But this year, since we are so scared about the COVID 19 situation in the city, with cases touching new benchmark every day, we will not be bringing Bappa home this year. We don't want to take any chance. We will just do routine pooja at home," says Mehek. MY ECO FRIENDLY HOME MADE GANESHALucknow-based artist Pankaj Gupta who makes six to eight feet tall handmade idols of Lord Ganesha says, "Due to COVID-19 majority of us have been taking precautions and staying at home. So this year I've introduced an eco-friendly Ganesha made out of Sadhu clay which comes from Maharashtra. The best part about this is that I don't use any paint or chemical while making the idol. It dissolves completely in a bucket full of water in just a few hours. Later the same water can be used in watering the plants." Pankaj Gupta's Ganesha idol (BCCL)Monica Bhonwal who has been making Ganesha idols for many years out of kacchi mitti said, "We have been receiving so many phone calls from customers this year enquiring about eco-friendly Bappa idols. Due to the pandemic people aren't allowed to carry out processions, hence are opting for smaller environment friendly idols. There's no denying that procuring the required raw material for the idols has been difficult considering the current scenario, we have tried to manage and get most out of whatever we had." (L) Anuradha Gupta's Seed Ganesha and (R) Monica Bhonwal's Ganesha idol (BCCL)CELEBRATIONS GO VIRTUALManu Shukla, main organiser of Peeli Kothi Ganesh Utsava, says. “This year we are going low-key by avoiding the pandals and any public gatherings. The festival along with the pooja and visarjan shall be shared live on Facebook for all the devotees.” Bharat Bhushan Gupta, Trustee of Shri Ganesh Prakritic Committee has also planned to keep the celebrations low key. Gupta said, “Since there will be no pandals, the idol of Lord Ganesh will also be smaller. Outsiders won’t be allowed to attend the Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations. Only committee members shall be allowed to be a part of the Bhoomi Visarjan this year. Devotees can perform darshan on Facebook live.” Anuradha Gupta's Seed Ganesha idols (BCCL)PLANTABLE GANESHASAnuradha Gupta founder of Prithvi Innovations, follows the principle of upcycling and afforestation while making God’s idols. She says, “We’ve made plantable beej Ganesh idols. We have varying sizes but due to Covid, this year most people are opting for smaller sized idols. Also our enquiries have almost doubled since people got to know that we have implanted Neem seeds in all our idols.” — With inputs from Yashi agarwal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/coronaeffect-ganesh-chaturthi-celebrations-are-a-low-key-affair-in-the-city/articleshow/77696026.cms||Akash Wadhwa
August 23, 2020||India||Covid-19: India's case count tops 3m; biggest spike on Sat||NEW DELHI: India became the third country in the world to register three million Covid-19 infections, going past the grim milestone on a day when more than 70,400 fresh cases were recorded, the highest single-day count so far. With 70,488 new cases on Saturday, India's total caseload went up to 30,40,597, as per data collated from state governments. This was the second time the daily tally in the country had crossed the 70,000 mark after 70,101 cases were reported on Wednesday. There was a marginal dip in deaths from the virus, with 917 fatalities recorded on Saturday - the lowest in five days - taking the total Covid-19 toll to 56,764. The daily death had remained above 950 in the past four days, with the highest toll so far of 1,099 bei-ng recorded on Tuesday. The two other countries to register more than three million coronavirus cases are the US (current tally 5.8 million) and Brazil (3.5 million). While India has recorded the fastest rise in cases from one million to three million, the good news is that active cases in the country are lower than what the US and Brazil had at the three-million mark. The US had around 16 lakh active cases and Brazil eight lakh as compared with India’s 7.1 lakh at the same stage. On Saturday, at least five states recorded their highest single-day spike in cases, led by Maharashtra, where 14,492 fresh infections were reported. The other states were UP (5,375), Telangana (2,474), Gujarat 1,212 and Madhya Pradesh (1,226). The new cases in Maharashtra matched the highest single-day spike witnessed only two days ago, taking the case tally in the state to 6,71,942. After a 13-day gap, Andhra Pradesh once again reported over 10,000 new coronavirus cases in a day, pushing the tally to 3,45,216 on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-indias-case-count-tops-3m-biggest-spike-on-sat/articleshow/77698449.cms||---
August 23, 2020||India||Focused strategy on testing helped India contain spread||NEW DELHI: The focus of India's Covid-19 testing strategy in the initial weeks of the pandemic on symptomatic foreign returnees helped detect the spreaders as more dispersed testing would have squandered limited resources and allowed many positive cases to remain undetected. The lock down imposed as the numbers - though still low - began to double and triple in short periods of time helped slow down the incidence of the disease. The linear growth in cases remained slow through the March 24 to May 6 period by when cases climbed past the 50,000 mark. This interval helped the Centre and states significantly increase the bed capacity while doctors gained experience in dealing with the coronavirus. "The numbers have risen considerably since unlock began but this has not overburdened the system. Specific problems relating to cities like Mumbai and Delhi and some others like Ahmedabad have been brought under control," said a senior government source. States that have a high case load remain a concern but higher testing has led to better identification of hot spots and containment. The testing capacity, given India's population size, remains low but this is a hurdle that the Centre and states will have to work with, said the official, adding that containment and contact tracing were key elements to slowing down the pandemic. The strategy seems to be paying some dividends as the positivity rate has declined from the high of 9% earlier this month and seems to stabilising though it needs to drop to 5% to meet WHO norms. The number of labs has now touched 1,511 of which 983 are government as against just one at Pune in January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/focused-strategy-on-testing-helped-india-contain-spread/articleshow/77698497.cms||---
August 23, 2020||India||Don’t curb transport of goods & people, Centre tells states||NEW DELHI: In an important direction aimed at ensuring smooth functioning of supply chains vital for the economy, the home ministry on Saturday asked states to ensure unhindered inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods in accordance with 'Unlock 3' guidelines issued by it on July 29 and applicable countrywide till August 31. Such curbs are a violation of the MHA guidelines, the Centre has said. Drawing attention to the norms, home secretary Ajay Bhalla in a communication to all state chief secretaries said they clearly stipulate that no separate "permission/approval/e-permit" will be required for such movements, including the movement of persons and goods for cross-land border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries. Several states continue to impose restrictions on movement of goods and even state and private transport like buses in view of the Covid situations in parts under their jurisdiction. This has been seen as a problem for supply chains and has affected availability at the retail end. It is seen as disruptive of efforts to get the economy moving after having ground to a halt during three phases of the lockdown. “It has been reported that local level restrictions on movement are being imposed by various districts/states. Such restrictions are creating problems in inter-state movement of goods and services and are impacting the supply chain, resulting in disruption of economic activities and employment, besides affecting supply of goods and services,” Bhalla stated. He said such restrictions amount to violation of MHA norms issued under Disaster Management Act, 2005.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dont-curb-transport-of-goods-people-centre-tells-states/articleshow/77698628.cms||---
August 23, 2020||India||Cong, BJP in Rafale dogfight as Rahul attacks deal again||NEW DELHI: Rahul Gandhi launched a fresh attack on the government on Saturday over the Rafale deal, provoking a sharp response from Union minister Piyush Goyal who said the opposition party is welcome to contest the 2024 elections on the issue and claimed that many Congressmen had confided that the former Congress chief's obsession with the deal is damaging the party. The fresh controversy cropped up after Rahul cited media reports which claimed that the CAG had submitted its performance audit on defence offset contracts to the Centre with no mention of any offset deals related to the purchase of Rafale fighters. "Money was stolen from the Indian exchequer in Rafale," Rahul tweeted while quoting Mahatma Gandhi: "Truth is one, paths are many." Money was stolen from the Indian exchequer in Rafale.“Truth is one, paths are many.”Mahatma Gandhihttps://t.co/giInNz3nx7— Rahul Gandhi (@RahulGandhi) 1598070603000In a sharp reaction to the Congress member's comments, railway minister Piyush Goyal claimed that people within Congress feel that Gandhi was obsessed with the Rafale deal to wash off his father's "sins". "Many of @RahulGandhi's Congress colleagues confide in private that Rahul's obsession with Rafale to wash off his father's sins is damaging the party. But if someone is wanting to self-destruct, who are we to complain? We invite him to fight 2024 elections on Rafale," Goyal tweeted. Many of @RahulGandhi’s Congress colleagues confide in private that Rahul’s obsession with Rafale to wash off his fa… https://t.co/PmezmNc6f8— Piyush Goyal (@PiyushGoyal) 1598088394000Meanwhile, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that the CAG report on defence offset performance will be tabled in the next session of Parliament. "The C&AG Report No 20 of 2019... Defence Offset Performance was scheduled to be tabled in Parliament during the budget session (2020). The session ended, before date, due to Covid. Now the report will be placed in the next session. The contents will be known only after that," Sitharaman said in a series of tweets. The first Rafale was handed over to India in October 2019. There is a year-wise phasing of how much offset obligati… https://t.co/NoSWNnFsHD— Nirmala Sitharaman (@nsitharaman) 1598092074000Rahul continues to take up the Rafale deal even after the Supreme Court gave a clean chit to the government in the purchase of the fighter jets. The deal was part of Congress' campaign in the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. India has already received the first set of five Rafales from France in July this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cong-bjp-in-rafale-dogfight-as-rahul-attacks-deal-again/articleshow/77698837.cms||---
August 23, 2020||India||New high: India tests 10L samples in a day||NEW DELHI: India has crossed a significant milestone of testing 10 lakh samples in a day to detect Covid-19 as the average number of tests conducted every week rises rapidly with the aim of the detection, containment and contact tracing strategy keeping the positivity rate below 10%. With 10,23,836 samples tested on Friday, positivity for the day dropped to 6.8%, even as fresh cases continued to remain high at nearly 70,000 - in line with the trend during the week. The week-wise average daily positivity rate - which was hovering in the range of 9.03% to 10.94% between July 8 to Aug 11 (nearly a month) - is signaling a downward trend during the last two weeks. The average daily positivity dropped to 7.7% during the week of August 12-18 and even in the current week so far, after average daily tests increased to over 8 lakh samples. Despite the rise in testing, the cumulative positivity rate - indicating the trend of the total burden of the infection in the country so far - has been around 8.6% over last one week, whereas it has remained below 9% since August 11. While the number of tests by private labs has gone up, the proportion remains between 10-12% of total tests carried out. Of 1,511 labs, 983 are government. As on Saturday, India had carried out the second largest number of tests (34.4 million) after US (74.7 million), inching ahead of Russia (33.8 million). China has conducted many more at 90 million tests but is not now a high case load country. However, with around 24,000 tests per million population, India is considerably behind US, Brazil and Russia, though its population is much larger. On another count, at 747 tests per day per million population, India is well above the WHO norm of 140. While both government and private labs contributed to ramping up of testing in the country, testing at government facilities was proportionately higher and increased faster than that at private labs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-high-india-tests-10l-samples-in-a-day/articleshow/77698871.cms||Sushmi Dey
August 23, 2020||India||Kerala minister faces probe for UAE consulate’s ‘gifts’||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Centre is likely to institute an inquiry into Kerala higher education minister K T Jaleel accepting "gifts" from the UAE consulate in alleged violation of protocol. The minister has already acknowledged that during Ramzan, he had received food packets worth Rs 5 lakh and also copies of the Quran from the UAE consulate for distribution in Thavanoor, his assembly constituency in Malappuram district. According to Section 4.2 of the Code of Conduct for ministers, a Union or state minister cannot accept personal gifts valued at more than Rs 5,000. Jaleel said he was ready to face any probe. "What is there to fear if one is confident that he hasn't committed any mistake?" Jaleel has also been in the spotlight for alleged links to Swapna Suresh, among the key accused in the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case. He is on record as saying that he called Suresh nine times in June regarding the Ramzan kits sponsored by the UAE consulate. Based on multiple complaints received by authorities in this regard, the Centre is likely to rope in a central agency - most probably the ED - to probe if the minister breached protocol. The allegation against Jaleel is that he not only received gifts as a state minister, but also involved Consumerfed - a government agency - in it. The customs protocol office has already told investigating agencies that no exemptions were made for any package received as diplomatic cargo. Kerala Congress working president V D Satheesan said a probe was essential given the nature of the allegations. State BJP chief K Surendran, who has repeatedly demanded Jaleel's resignation, has planned a "satyagraha" on Sunday in Thiruvananthapuram to demand the "resignation of the government which has harboured anti-nationals".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-minister-faces-probe-for-uae-consulates-gifts/articleshow/77698878.cms||---
August 23, 2020||India||CWC to meet tomorrow amid fresh debate on leadership||NEW DELHI: The Congress Working Committee is set to meet on Monday to discuss the "political situation and organisational matters", the brainstorming scheduled to come in the wake of a reignited debate on the leadership issue in the party and general concern over corona pandemic and Chinese intrusion. What has raised interest in the forthcoming meeting of the apex decision-making body is the renewed debate on leadership issue which has been hanging since Rahul Gandhi quit as party chief in the wake of Lok Sabha election debacle in May 2019. Sonia Gandhi, who then assumed the charge of "interim president", completed one year this month. While Congress leaders have renewed the chorus that Rahul take back the reins of the party, the issue being discussed in last few in-house meetings, including the CWC, there have been signs of unrest with seniors complaining that lack of clarity on the organisation was leading to disarray. The party has also become susceptible to rumours. Recently, a claim that 100 leaders have written a letter to the Congress president that the leadership vacuum be sorted out triggered a controversy and Congress had to deny that any such letter had been received by the party chief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cwc-to-meet-tomorrow-amid-fresh-debate-on-leadership/articleshow/77698887.cms||---
August 23, 2020||India||Forces: May have to seek waiver on imports bar if our cos fail to deliver||NEW DELHI: NEW DELHI: The armed forces say they will be forced to seek waivers for certain products in the recently-announced negative arms import list if the domestic defence production industry fails to deliver in terms of quality standards and specified timelines. A cross-section of senior officers from the Army, Navy and IAF told TOI the negative list was “a welcome step” to boost the indigenous defence-industrial base (DIB) but is fraught with “a number of uncertainties” for the armed forces. “Implementation of the list will have to be contingent on the success of the indigenization and production process for the specified weapons and ammunition. Operational military readiness cannot be sacrificed, or compromised, at the altar of indigenization,” said a senior officer. The over 15-lakh strong armed forces are also in the process of “seeking clarifications” about the negative arms imports list because it broad-brushes certain categories of items. The policy, however, has been recently announced and its effects are yet to be fully evaluated in terms of what production capacities will be. It was on August 9 that defence minister Rajnath Singh announced the acquisition of 101 weapon systems and platforms from abroad will be progressively banned from December 2020 to December 2025. The negative list ranges from some types of ammunition, sonars, radars, artillery guns and assault rifles to missile destroyers, transport aircraft, light combat helicopters, wheeled armoured fighting vehicles and conventional diesel-electric submarines. It does mark a significant step towards eventually getting India out of its strategically-vulnerable position of being among the world’s top two arms importers. “Yes, foreign arms supplies can be choked in times of emergencies. They are also very expensive. But then, the Indian defence industry has a long track record of dismal performance,” said another officer. Army vice chief Lt-General S K Saini, just a few days ago, had said his force was more than ready and willing to fight with indigenous weapon systems but they must pass stringent quality checks and adhere to delivery timelines. Experts say it is critical to systematically augment the domestic DIB, with a sustained R&D thrust on cutting-edge weapon technologies. For one, DRDO and its 50 labs, Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) and its 41 factories, the four defence shipyards and five defence PSUs have to be drastically overhauled. For another, the private sector has to incentivized to jump into defence production in a big way. “Otherwise, whenever there is a national security crisis, like after the 2016 Uri terror attack or the 2019 Balakot air strikes, the armed forces have to inevitably go for emergency and fast-track imports to plug operational voids,” he added. Contracts worth around Rs 24,000 crore were inked with countries like Russia, Israel and France after the Uri attack to build reserves for “10 days of intense fighting” with Pakistan. The ongoing military confrontation with China in eastern Ladakh has led to yet another similar scramble. The acquisitions in the pipeline range from Spice-2000 precision-guided bombs, Spike Firefly loitering munitions, Excalibur and APFSDS (armour piercing fin stabilized discarding sabot) ammunition to Spike anti-tank guided missiles, SiG Sauer assault rifles, man-portable air defence systems and different types of drones, as was reported by TOI earlier. The Army is particularly worried about ammunition. TOI in May last year had reported that the force had sounded the red-alert over the unacceptably high number of accidents and casualties taking place in the field due to the poor and defective quality of ammunition being supplied for tanks, artillery, air defence and other guns by the OFB. The government, on its part, is firmly pushing ahead with the “corporatization” of the OFB, which includes converting it into one or more 100% government-owned public sector corporate entities, to improve its functional autonomy, public accountability and efficiency as the main supplier of arms, ammunition and clothing to the Army.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/forces-mayve-to-seek-waiver-on-imports-bar-if-our-cos-fail-to-deliver/articleshow/77698894.cms||Rajat Pandit
August 23, 2020||Kolkata||Webinar focus on importance of citizen-centric news||Kolkata: A webinar conducted by Press Information Bureau on Saturday highlighted how news needed to be more citizen-centric and bring forth facts. The webinar on ‘dissemination of news by government and private media during Covid-19’ deliberated on the way dissemination of news had changed. Viswa-Bharati’s Centre for Journalism and Mass Communication head Biplab Loha Choudhury said journalism needed to be more citizen-centric. Senior journalist Pulakesh Ghosh said reporters should take into account facts and figures and visit spots. Among the panelists were ex-head of AIR, Kolkata, news unit Dibyendu Das, associate professor at Surendranath College for Girls Uma Shankar Pandey and Doordarshan correspondent Snehasis Sur. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/webinar-focus-on-importance-of-citizen-centric-news/articleshow/77698092.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Patna||BJP harps on ‘good governance’ in Bihar||PATNA: The state BJP on Saturday exuded confidence in its “most efficient, able and tested leadership” with clear vision to fight the upcoming assembly polls and promised to follow the formula of ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas (everyone’s support, everyone’s development)’. In its political resolutions adopted at the two-day executive committee meeting of the party, the saffron party said the state and central governments were committed to uplift all sections of the society and take the state to a new height of development. Launching a scathing attack on the opposition parties in the state, the BJP said the Mahagathbandhan can’t provide a stable and development-oriented government in the state as political ideologies of its constituents were poles apart. “On the other hand, the NDA partners are supportive of the development,” it claimed. ‘Sabka saath, sabka vikas’ and ‘samajik nyay ke saath vikas’ are the two mantras, which the NDA would follow in the ensuing assembly polls scheduled to be held in October-November, the political resolutions said. The resolutions talked about the initiatives taken by the central and the state governments to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. “While the opposition is insensitive and making baseless accusations, the governments in the state and at the Centre have left no stone unturned to check the spread of the virus,” the resolution said, revealing the recent steps taken to increase the testing facilities in the state. Reiterating its political commitments towards the country as a whole and state in particular, the BJP said the state’s budget during the RJD regime was Rs 23,855 crore, which has now been increased to Rs 2,11,761 crore. Similarly the state’s GDP was 3.19%, which has gone up to 11.3%. Drawing a parallel between the RJD regime and that of the NDA, the political resolution said the growth rate of the state was 2% during the RJD rule, which has increased to 8% now. “Similarly, power supply has been provided to 100% households, while it was confined to only 22% households during Lalu-Rabri regime,” it said. The resolution also highlighted the measures taken by the central and state governments to provide relief to returnee migrant workers. It covered issues related to abrogation of Article 370, construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya, new education policy of the Union government, CAA and special economic package.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-harps-on-good-governance/articleshow/77696909.cms||Ramashankar
August 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 'Low pressure to bring rain on Monday, Tuesday’||KOLKATA: The city is set to be lashed by showers, including a couple of heavy spells, that could leave streets waterlogged and push the water-level up across south Bengal rivers on Monday and Tuesday. A low-pressure area is likely to form over northwest Bay of Bengal on Monday and trigger 100mm rain in the city over the next 48 hours. According to the RMC, intermittent rain will continue in Kolkata and south Bengal on Sunday. “We expect the system to intensify into a well-marked low-pressure and sail across the Bengal-Bangladesh border triggering moderate to heavy rain across south Bengal. While East and West Midnapore and Jhargram are likely to receive heavy showers, North and South 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly, Nadia and Burdwan will get consistent rain on Monday and Tuesday,” said RMC director G K Das. Kolkata will remain cloudy during the first half of the week, added Das. “A spell or two of heavy rain is likely in Kolkata and could push the rain count up,” he said. The KMC has alerted its sewerage and drainage department officials, who are concerned about large areas off EM Bypass, Behala and areas adjacent to Garia as they have no underground drainage system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/low-pressure-to-bring-rain-on-mon-tue/articleshow/77698051.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kolkata||Liquor bodies write to Bengal govt on price concern||KOLKATA: International Spirits and Wines Association of India (ISWAI) and the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC), who account for most of the branded liquor industry in India between them, including Diageo, Perno Ricard and Radico Khaitan, have submitted a joint representation to the state about the concerns of liquor companies following the proposal of a new tax regime. They have written to the chief minister and the finance minister, with copies sent to the additional chief secretary finance and the excise commissioner. CIABC and ISWAI have pointed out that under this proposed policy, consumer prices of fast-moving brands will go up substantially — translating to a rise of Rs 150 to Rs 450 per bottle — as a consequence of the changes in taxation and trade margins. CIABC director general Vinod Giri said, “The Bengal government is one of the most progressive and business friendly in the country. Its liberal and forward-looking excise policy has allowed alcoholic beverage companies to prosper here and contribute towards tax revenues and financial health. In this context, the industry considers it its duty to highlight pitfalls of the proposed policy that, if implemented in the current form, will lead to a great loss to all stakeholders.”  “It is frightening to envisage what further hiking of taxes on spirits will do to liquor sales in the state and to the government’s tax collections. Consumer price differences between Bengal and neighboring states will go up if this policy is implemented. This will give rise to illegal manufacturers,” it added. An ISWAI spokesman said, “Historically, the state has been very supportive of the industry. We hope that our views will get due considerations and the proposed policy will be revised.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/liquor-bodies-write-to-state-on-price-concern/articleshow/77698049.cms||Udit Mukherjee
August 23, 2020||Patna||Cop accused of accepting Rs 500 as bribe||BAGAHA:: Bagaha SP Rajiv Ranjan on Saturday ordered an inquiry into a viral video clip showing an ASI of Bathawaria police station, Rakesh Singh, accepting Rs 500 as bribe from a local trader, Nikesh Jaiswal, at the latter’s shop. SDPO Ramnagar Arjun Lal has been asked to probe the matter. Sources said the ASI had intercepted a cement-laden tractor trolley of Jaiswal recently on the pretext of vehicle checking and allegedly demanded Rs 10,000 from the driver, Saroj Yadav, as bribe. Later, he agreed to release the tractor by accepting Rs 2,000. The driver handed over Rs 1,500 to him and said the remaining Rs 500 would be paid at Jaiswal’s shop. On Saturday, CCTV camera at the trader’s shop caught the ASI accepting Rs 500. The clip later went viral in the area, prompting the police to take note of it and order an inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cop-accused-of-accepting-rs-500-as-bribe/articleshow/77696891.cms||Thirthraj Kushwaha
August 23, 2020||Patna||Survival at stake for startups in Patna||PATNA: Around 30% of the startups in the state capital have become inactive because of operational and financial challenges posed by Covid-19 pandemic, said Abhishek Kumar, general secretary of Bihar Entrepreneurs Association. “There are around 4,000 registered startups in Patna. Of them, only 50% were active before Covid outbreak. However, even these units have also become inactive now,” Kumar added. Ankit, head of operations at a leading advertising startup at Patliputra Colony, said there is a paradigm shift in consumer purchase behaviour due to Covid-19. As a result, startups have to revise their market strategies in order to survive. “There has been a 20% decrease in our client acquisition rate over the course of the last three months. Because of market uncertainty, our potential clients have cut expenditure on advertisement. They prefer holding on to cash rather than investing it in a supporting function,” said Ankit. Alok Kumar Singh, whose Kankarbagh-based real estate startup provides co-working space to mid-sized companies, said, “There is a lot of uncertainty in the market because of the lockdown. Even after a rise in the number of queries post March, our client conversation rate is not promising. Since startups don’t have big buffer of cash that they can burn for long, we are hopefully awaiting some relief measures such as tax relaxation, early reimbursement of TDS and fast loan disbursal from the state government.” “Also, the startup funding scenario in the state is gloomy. Venture capitalists and angel investors are avoiding putting their money in an uncertain market. But I believe it’s a great time to identify sustainable and exponentially expandable startups from tier 2 and 3 cities.” Singh added. Vinit Rai, who started his agri-tech startup in February this year, said they have been operating at 50% less capacity than projected. “We procure fresh and organic vegetables from local farmers of Naubatpur and Bakarpur (Vaishali district) and deliver them to our customers. We had targeted to deliver more than 100 orders every day till December, but we are still stuck at 50 orders per day,” Rai said. While existing startups are struggling to navigate the economic slowdown induced by Covid-19, recently established startups that were eyeing to capitalise on the business opportunities created by the pandemic are having difficulties in penetrating the market. Amitesh Anand Singh from Boring Road, who ventured into healthcare business witnessing a demand in protective medical equipment, said, “I started my venture in March this year with wholesale supply of Covid-19 safety products, such as N-95 masks, sanitisers, gloves and disinfectants. But soon I realised that penetrating the market is very difficult as there are already established players who have a large market share in this segment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/survival-at-stake-for-startups-in-city/articleshow/77696602.cms||Arunima Lal
August 23, 2020||Patna||Shop timings curtailed in Gaya||GAYA: Amid rise in Covid-19 cases, the administration has curtailed the shop opening hours in Gaya Municipal Corporation area, Bodh Gaya nagar panchayat, sub-divisional headquarters at Sherghati, Tekari and Khizarsarai (Nemchak Bathani sub-division headquarter) and all the block headquarters of the district. The time curtailment was imposed through a joint notification issued by district magistrate Abhishek Singh and SSP Rajiv Mishra. The notification, issued late on Friday evening, will remain effective till September 6. As per the notification, the shops will remain open only between 10am and 6pm. Earlier, shopkeepers were allowed to operate between 6am and 9pm. Medicine shops and health delivery system has been exempted from the revised time slot. Vegetable, meat and fish shops will remain open for only four hours every day from 6am to 10am. There will be total lockdown on Sundays. The earlier notified staggering arrangement mandating shop opening on the left side of the roads on Monday, Wednesday and Friday and those on the right side of the road on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday will continue. As per earlier notification, shopping malls, educational institutions, coaching centres and training institutes will remain closed. All kinds of public gathering other than those relating to marriage and funeral will remain banned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/shop-timings-curtailed-in-gaya/articleshow/77696646.cms||Abdul Qadir
August 23, 2020||Patna||Six youths arrested in gang-rape case in Bihar||PATNA: Six youths were arrested within a few hours of lodging the gang-rape case whose video went viral on social media Friday night. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma had formed a special investigation team to nab the culprits. Even Bihar State Women’s Commission took cognisance of the crime and sought a report from police. The arrested accused were identified as Dina Kumar, Vikash Kumar, Roushan Kumar, Sunny Kumar, Pintu Kumar and Mukesh Kumar, all residents of Fayampur under Gaurichak police station area in Patna district. One more accused was evading arrest. Sharma said all the accused are in their early 20s and friends. “Police came to know about the incident around 8pm and arrested six accused from Deedarganj, Fatuha, Khagaul and Fayampur in the next six to eight hours,” he said. “Police will put the case for speedy trial. The victim will have to identify the arrested youths in test identification parade (TIP),” he said. Sharma said the victim, a 50-year-old widow, was traced after the video went viral. She lodged an FIR against unknown youths with Gaurichak police station. “The incident took place around six days before Rakshabandhan,” the SSP said. City SP (East) Jitendra Kumar said Dina is the prime accused in the case. “He was the one who had raped the widow. Altogether seven youths were present there. All of them will face gang-rape charges,” Kumar said. He said all those who had recorded the video had deleted it later, but only Vikash kept it stored in his cellphone. “Vikash forwarded the video to one of his friends who made it viral. The cellphone along with the video clip stored in it has been recovered from his possession,” the SP said. Kumar said some more information had surfaced after the arrests and police were investigating the case further. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/six-arrested-in-gang-rape-case/articleshow/77696932.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 23, 2020||Patna||Recovery rate up to 79.54%, death toll crosses 600-mark in Bihar||PATNA: The state recorded 2,238 new Covid-19 cases and 14 deaths in the past 24 hours. The Covid-19 tally increased to 1,19,909 cases whereas the death toll mounted up to 601 on Saturday. Bhagalpur registered maximum six deaths due to Covid-19, followed by three in Muzaffarpur, two each in Sitamarhi and Vaishali and one in Banka district. However, the number of Covid patients recovered was almost 36% higher than the new cases reported in the past 24 hours in Bihar. The state has 79.54% recovery rate, which is much higher than the national average of 75%. “Altogether 3,531 patients have recovered in Bihar in the past 24 hours after their subsequent tests results came negative. So far 95,372 people have recovered in the state. There were 23,936 active cases on Saturday. The number of active cases has also declined sharply in the last one week with the improvement in the recovery rate,” health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said Saturday evening. Singh said a total of 1,02,945 samples were tested in a day and only 2,238 people were found infected with the virus. So far, 23,21,461 samples have been tested in the state since March, he added. Principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit said with more tests, the positivity rate has declined to 2.3% from 3% in the state. “The positivity rate will come down with more tests,” he said. Patna reported 279 fresh Covid cases on Saturday, taking the corresponding tally to 18,683. With 15,572 recoveries, the district has 2,995 active cases. The death toll in Patna went up to stood at 116 on Saturday. Other districts after Patna with maximum Covid-19 cases were East Champaran (143), Madhubani (113), Purnea (101) and Gaya (83). Three Covid patients died at AIIMS-Patna on Saturday, including a 66-year-old woman from AG Colony. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid Dr Sanjeev Kumar said two men from Bagaha and Madhubani were among the deceased. A 35-year-old man from Motihari and a 60-year-old man from Buxar succumbed to Covid at NMCH, the daily bulletin released by its nodal officer Dr Mukul Kumar Singh stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/recovery-rate-up-to-79-54-death-toll-crosses-600-mark/articleshow/77696553.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar's Bhagalpur hospital targets to test 500 samples a day||BHAGALPUR: An additional RT-PCR machine is likely to be installed at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) here for Covid testing. The existing RT-PCR machine had developed faults on Wednesday, thereby hindering Covid testing for three days. As a result, samples of suspected Covid patients piled up at the hospital. JLNMCH principal Dr Hemant Kumar Sinha said efforts were on to get the second RT-PCR machine installed at the hospital. After the installation of the second RT-PCR machine, the number of Covid tests at the hospital will jump to more than 500 per day. The additional RT-PCR machine was handed over to the JLNMCH by Bihar Agricultural University department (BAU) recently. Since the RT-PCR machine was earlier procured by the university for plant related researches, it needed some modifications for Covid-19 tests, said BAU sources. The second RT-PCR machine will be able to test 280 samples per day. JLNMCH principal Dr Sinha said technical experts from Kolkata have already started the process of installing second RT-PCR machine at the hospital after certain modifications. Referring to the first RT-PCR machine which had developed snag, Dr Sinha said the faults have been rectified and the machine has become functional now. “RT-PCR is one of the most accurate laboratory methods for detecting, tracking and studying Covid-19,” Dr Sinha said, adding it is a variation of polymerase chain reaction and different from the rapid antibody (serological) tests and cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test. The Union ministry of health and family welfare had recently described RT-PCR test as the “gold standard frontline test” for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhagalpur-hospital-targets-to-test-500-samples-a-day/articleshow/77696625.cms||Kumar Rajesh
August 23, 2020||Patna||Three men arrested for clash in Aurangabad village||PATNA: At least three people were arrested on Saturday in connection with Friday’s group clash in which nine people were injured at Anccha village under the Daudnagar police station area in Aurangabad district. Police said two groups from a same community clashed over a petty issue in which eight people – Aman Kumar (16), Sumitra Devi (40), Jitendra Kumar (24), Rajesh Kumar (28), Soldier Kumar (20), Chotu Kumar (18), Ravi Raushan (17), Mukesh Sao (17) and Ramesh Singh (45) – were injured. Aurangabad SP Sudhir Kumar Podika said the two sides showed aggression on Thursday night after some people drew power for two cellphone towers from a transformer installed at the village. “The tension flared up on Friday and the two groups clashed,” he added. The SP said one Dayashankar Singh had opened fire using his licenced rifle during the clash on Friday. “We have initiated process to impound the rifle. At least seven rounds were fired during the clash. Empty cartridges were also seized from the spot,” he said, adding two separate FIRs were lodged by the two sides with Daudnagar police station. “Raids are on to arrest others involved in the clash,” he added. A five-member CPI-ML team, led by the party’s national politburo member-cum-former Obra MLA Raja Ram Singh visited the village on Saturday to take stock of the situation. Kumar Parwez, a CPI-ML functionary, said at least six injured people from the village were admitted to Patna Medical College and Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/three-men-arrested-for-clash-in-aurangabad-village/articleshow/77696757.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 23, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Cyber frauds offer app-cab discounts to dupe Covid warriors||KOLKATA: The police are in a fix trying to ascertain how cyber frauds are managing to target victims while using the prevailing pandemic to suit their cause. The latest to be targeted are Covid warriors, mostly doctors and healthcare workers who have to travel to work daily in app cabs. A doctor from Murshidabad who comes to work at a Bowbazar hospital was stumped when he completed an app-cab ride earlier this week. “It was a day before the lockdown. I got a call from a person saying he was representing an the app-cab aggregator and asked me my profession. When I said I was a doctor, he asked me if I was interested in concessions as I am a Covid warrior. I agreed and he induced me to click on a link and share the OTP. The moment I did, I lost around Rs 20,000. Fortunately, I did not have much money in my wallet or I would have ended up losing more,” said Asis Jana. Another doctor, Pragati Sharma, has approached Bowbazar police saying she lost Rs 1 lakh to a similar fraud. In her complaint, she claimed unidentified people cheated her by impersonating customer care executives of an app-cab aggregator. They induced her to click on a link shared by them, after which, Rs 1 lakh was deducted from her account. Recently, the CBI was alerted by Interpol about a banking Trojan known as Cerberus. This malicious software impersonates links from a legitimate source and tricks users into installing it on smartphones. Some of the common methods used by these cyber criminals to target Covid warriors include sending fake documents, like health advisories, Covid response documents and e-books, in the name of reputable sources like the government and World Health Organization, creating malicious websites or applications related to Covid, like maps and real-time Covid tracking apps, and running spam campaigns for selling masks, sanitizers and Covid vaccines. The Kolkata Police cyber cell has also busted a fake call centre — the fourth in less than two weeks — in Survey Park that duped Australians using the pandemic fear. The call centre was operating from the fourth floor of Kaibalya Bhawan and three persons — Rohit Kumar Bhagat, 28, of Katju Nagar, Krishna Prasad Singh, 28, of New Santoshpur Main Road and Sagar Limbu, 31, of Azadgarh — were arrested. “Three hard disks, four cellphones, ATM cards, cheque books and several incriminating documents were seized from the accused who have been charged under sections of IT Act and IPC,” said joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cyber-frauds-offer-app-cab-discounts-to-dupe-cov-warriors/articleshow/77698040.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 23, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal: Doctor’s wife, son die in accident on NH-2 in Hooghly||HOOGHLY: A woman and her son were killed in an accident on NH-2 at Kapasaria in Hooghly’s Chanditala around 1.45pm on Saturday while the family was returning to Kolkata.  Sanjay Banerjee, a doctor, who was driving, was injured while his wife Aparna died on the spot. His son Kaustav, who was ferried to SSKM Hospital, died on the way. Dr Banerjee is associated with a number of city hospitals and the family used to stay at Lake Gardens. “Banerjee and his son, both wildlife lovers with a hobby of photography, had gone to Hooghly to click some photographs,” said Rajarshi Banerji, a family friend who is also a wildlife photographer. He said Kaustav was an IT professional and had recently returned from Ireland. “Boudi’s body is now at Walsh Hospital in Serampore and Kaustav’s body is in SSKM hospital. Dr Banerjee is in trauma,” he said, adding that the family would frequently venture out of the city to click photographs. Police said the car hit a truck in front after losing control. Sudipto Sadhukhan, Chanditala police station OC, said the driver may have lost control due to the incessant rain and the slippery road. Shyamal Sadhukhan, a local petrol pump worker, said the car was speeding down the road and hit two trucks one after the other while navigating a pothole.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/docs-wife-son-die-in-nh-2-accident/articleshow/77698045.cms||Falguni Banerjee
August 23, 2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar takes a jibe at RJD, says lantern not needed in Bihar anymore||PATNA: Taking a jibe at the main opposition RJD’s election symbol, CM Nitish Kumar on Saturday said there is no need of ‘lalten’ (lantern) in Bihar as electricity connection has already been provided to each household across the state. “The requirement of ‘lalten’ has totally ended in the state as the electricity has reached all the households in Bihar. Now, what is the utility of ‘lalten’ and ‘dhibri’ (kerosene lamp) in Bihar?” Nitish asked while speaking at an energy department event. The CM, however, didn’t take the name of any political party. Recalling the grim power supply scenario in Bihar before 2005 when he came to power, Nitish said, “Before winning the October 2005 assembly election, I was touring different parts of the state as part of the ‘Nyay Yatra’. One day when I was returning from Jehanabad and Arwal soon after the sunset, I saw total darkness throughout the route. There was no trace of electricity. Not a single person was seen on the road. I clearly recollect those frightening scenes even today.” The CM further said everybody in the state knows very well about the electricity supply scenario in the state before 2005. “But some people have the habit of making baseless statements about the state government’s work to remain in the media. Such people can say anything to get publicity,” Nitish said with reference to RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav without taking his name. “But those who give publicity to such baseless statements should ask from their own heart about the situation of electricity supply in Bihar before 2005,” Nitish said. Earlier in his speech, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi lauded Nitish for making a complete turnaround in the power sector in Bihar. Recalling the pre-2005 phase, Modi said generators used to create noise in all urban areas as there was no sign of power supply even in the market areas during the peak hours. “Power supply was so pathetic those days that generators were used even in the government offices during the working hours,” Modi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-takes-a-jibe-at-rjd-says-lantern-not-needed-in-bihar-anymore/articleshow/77696911.cms||Madan Kumar
August 23, 2020||Patna||Only NDA govt can usher in growth in Bihar: Devendra Fadnavis||PATNA: Former Maharashtra CM and BJP’s incharge for Bihar elections Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday said the 2020 assembly polls would decide the fate of Bihar and indicate whether the state wants to march to a golden era or not. Addressing a two-day virtual state executive committee meeting of the party, Fadnavis said Bihar would continue its onward journey towards development with the NDA governments in state and at the Centre. Alleging that Bihar was pushed 25 years back during 15-year Lalu-Rabri regime, Fadnavis said the journey towards development started in Bihar with the formation of the NDA government in 2005. “The NDA government in the state tried to set things right and accelerated the pace of development in the last 15 years,” he said. Exhorting youths to come forward and lend their support for all-round development of the state, Fadnavis said 58% of the state’s population was below the age of 25 years. “The support of the 58% youth is of paramount importance and will pave the way for driving the state towards the golden era,” he said. Highlighting the main achievements of Narendra Modi government part-II at the Centre, he called upon the workers of the party to create awareness among people about development works undertaken by the central government. He also referred to abrogation of Article 370 in J&K and the construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya. In a bid to strike a chord with Bihar, the former Maharashtra CM started his speech by reciting a few lines of a poem written by Ramdhari Singh Dinkar, a Bihar-born Hindi litterateur of national repute. He appreciated the role of the party workers in providing help to people fighting against Covid-19 pandemic and floods in the state. Fadnavis said he would visit the state on August 25-26 to chalk out strategy for the upcoming assembly elections. Speaking on the occasion, state president of the party Dr Sanjay Jaiswal called upon the workers of the party to work hard so that the NDA could form the next government in the state. State road construction minister Nand Kishore Yadav said the Congress, which was bestowed with the responsibility of taking the country on the development path after independence, indulged in corrupt practices. He described the alliance between the Congress and RJD as ‘thagon ka bandhan’. The meeting will conclude on Sunday. National president of the party J P Nadda will address the concluding ceremony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/only-nda-govt-can-usher-in-growth-in-bihar-fadnavis/articleshow/77696948.cms||Ramashankar
August 23, 2020||Varanasi||VDA stops demolition of shehnai maestro’s house||Varanasi: The Varanasi Development Authority (VDA) has stopped the demolition of shehnai maestro ‘Bharat Ratna’ Ustad Bismillah Khan’s house by his family members, who want to develop the property as a commercial complex, amid calls for conservation of the house as a ‘national cultural heritage’. A team of VDA consisting of zonal officer and junior engineer had visited the maestro’s house (CK-46/63) in Hadaha Sarai locality on August 17 for inspection. According to the VDA inspection report released on Friday, the room on the second floor was demolished by Mohammad Shiftain, the grandson of the Ustad and son of late Mehtab Hussain. Presently, Shiftain resides in the house. It also came to light that there is a property dispute among the family members. Khan had five sons. “Since it is a case of a private property, the VDA team verbally and through notice directed the family members to get permission from the municipal corporation as per rule for the demolition of the building if it is in a dilapidated condition. They were also directed to get the map approved from the VDA before starting any new construction,” said VDA officials. Days before his death anniversary on August 21, the upper floor room of the maestro’s house, where he lived and did ‘riyaz’ (practice), was demolished by his kin to develop the house as a commercial complex. The other members of the family raised objections to it. Many youth organisations also raised the issue saying that it is the duty of the Central government and cultural ministry to conserve the belongings of the maestro. In a joint press statement, the state secretary of All India Democratic Student Organisation (AIDSO) Dilip Kumar, state secretary of All India Democratic Youth Organisation (AIDYO) Makardhwaj and state secretary of All India Mahila Sanskritik Sangathan (AIMSS) Vandana Singh demanded that the Central and state governments should protect the house. “It should be developed as a shehnai training centre,” they said, “adding that the family members should be rehabilitated somewhere else and given financial assistance.” Khan’s foster daughter and singer Soma Ghosh and former MLA and Congress leader Ajay Rai also demanded government’s intervention saying that the government should come forward to conserve his house as a museum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/vda-stops-demolition-ofshehnai-maestros-house/articleshow/77697452.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Patna||Minister washes hands of Gaya’s ‘dirtiest’ tag||GAYA: Under attack from different quarters for Gaya being ranked the ‘dirtiest’ town in the less than 10 lakh population category, state agriculture minister Prem Kumar on Saturday held Gaya Municipal Corporation (GMC) responsible for bringing disrepute to the town as well as the state. Prem is an MLA from Gaya Town constituency. Maintaining that the GMC was an independent body and the government has no role to play in its functioning, the minister said the poor ranking was on account of performance and he, as the MLA, had nothing to do with the matter. Asked about the matter being made an election issue, he said people were aware of the facts and as such no mud would stick on him. The ranking has been purely on performance and had little to do with the Urban Development Policy of the government, said Kumar, who was earlier the urban development minister. Offering his support to the GMC in setting things right, Kumar said it is time for all stakeholders to sit together and work for the town’s betterment. Congress leader and Wazirganj MLA Awadhesh Kumar Singh said Prem cannot escape his share of responsibility as he has been representing the area for the last three decades. Seven wards of the GMC were parts of the Wazirganj assembly constituency. According to Gaya watchers. it will be a major election issue. Two of the likely contestants have closely been associated with the GMC functioning. Deputy mayor Mohan Srivastav and former municipal commissioner Vijay Kumar are said to be among the serious Congress ticket aspirants for the Gaya Town seat. Criticizing the GMC functioning, former municipal councillor from South Gaya, Asad Perwez @ Commander, said mayor Birendra Kumar has abdicated his responsibility and played second fiddle to the deputy mayor. When contacted, the mayor passed on the phone to Mohan. Meanwhile, municipal commissioner Sawan Kumar has served show-cause notices to assistant municipal commissioner Shahab Yahya, nodal officer (sanitation) Dinkar Prasad and City Manager Vishnu Prabhakar Lal. The officers, as per the notices, did not upload the required information to the online format of the Swachhta Survey, thereby causing deep drop in the town’s ranking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/minister-washes-hands-of-gayas-dirtiest-tag/articleshow/77696787.cms||Abdul Qadir
August 23, 2020||Vadodara||Art sector paints canvas differently to stay afloat during pandemic||Vadodara: Like many other sectors, Covid-19 pandemic has created a dent in the art industry that thrives on the physical and aesthetic experience of art lovers. The pandemic has thrown new challenges which even the well-established artists are struggling to battle.But in this era, art galleries and independent artists are trying to make a difference by helping young artists stay afloat in the market- by embracing virtual world, making art affordable and searching for new buyers.A city-based art gallery has been putting spotlight on young artists annually through its exhibition – ‘Embark’ that provides a platform to young graduates of M S University’s famed Faculty of Fine Arts.“Hosting a physical exhibition in the current scenario is nearly impossible. So, we started hosting the third edition – Embark III – entirely digitally through an online viewing room from August 1,” said its director Nupur Dalmia.The art works were priced affordably with most of them under Rs 10,000 to encourage younger and first-time collectors. “At the same time, as a commitment to supporting the young talent pool, we did not take any commission this year and 100 % of the proceeds were directly given to the artists,” she said.The gallery has decided to continue supporting artists and offering “affordable art” with its next show in which all the artworks by its permanent artist roster - Teja Gavankar, Deepak Agastya, Mrugen Rathod and Vimal Ambaliya - will be priced under Rs 30,000.“During the lockdown, all sectors got hit but the art sector took the biggest hit because of the common sentiment that art is a luxury. In March itself art professionals from more than ten countries had joined hands to form Art Circle International (ACI),” said Sachin Kaluskar, an art curator.ACI launched its first virtual art exhibition – ‘Togetherness’ – on August 19 exhibiting works of 50 plus artists from ten countries including India, United Kingdom, United States, Italy, Malaysia, Poland, Hong Kong, Mexico, Nigeria and Uganda showcasing artworks in a variety of mediums, genres and styles.“The proceeds will go directly to the participating artist,” said Kaluskar, one of the six international curators who along with Kannan Asher and Maharishi Panchal, coordinated with artists.Delhi-based artists duo - Ayesha Singh and Purvi Rai - have created Art-Chain India, an Instagram movement where artists can upload pictures of any work of art priced under Rs 10,000 with #ArtChainIndia. Once they sell work worth Rs 50,000, they pledge to spend Rs 10,000 on the work of another artist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/art-sector-paints-canvas-differently-to-stay-afloat-during-pandemic/articleshow/77696250.cms||Prashant Rupera
August 23, 2020||Patna||Sero survey concludes in Bihar, results by mid-September||PATNA: Collection of blood samples for the second round of serological survey in the state concluded on Saturday with the RMRI-Patna teams collecting more than 800 samples from Madhubani and Purnia districts. The results of the survey are expected to be out by the second week of September. The sero survey will indicate the percentage of the population which has developed antibodies against the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19. Altogether 2,477 blood samples were collected randomly from people in six districts – Arwal, Begusarai, Buxar, Madhubani, Muzaffarpur and Purnia – during the second round of sero survey in the state. The samples were collected upon written consent from people to analyse the prevalence of antibodies against the novel coronavirus. The highest number of samples, 432, was collected in Begusarai, followed by 422 in Buxar, 412 in Muzaffarpur and 411 in Arwal. The survey was undertaken by 20 teams, each comprising a lab technician and a field investigator. RMRI- Patna director Dr Pradeep Das said the sero survey was completed in four days and the teams have collected more samples than the target of 2,400. “The collected samples will be sent to the National Institute Research in Tuberculosis (NIRT)-Chennai for the analysis. As 70 districts across the country are sending their blood samples to the NIRT, we expect to receive the results by mid-September,” he said, adding while 2,400 samples will be sent to the NIRT in cool box having -22 degrees Celsius, the remaining samples will be analysed at RMRI-Patna. The survey has been conducted on the instruction of Indian Council of Medical Research and 70 districts in the country were selected for it, including six in Bihar. Dr Das said in the second round, more people came forward for the sero survey. “Now, people are aware about the survey. They willingly volunteer by giving their blood,” he said. In the first round of sero survey, only 17 blood samples showed antibodies against Covid from 2,400 samples collected in May when positive cases in the state were less than 3,500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sero-survey-concludes-in-state-results-by-mid-sept/articleshow/77696564.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 23, 2020||Patna||Special care unit for Covid-hit pregnant women at NMCH in Patna||PATNA: As the number of pregnant women testing Covid positive has increased in the state, Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal on Saturday asked the authorities of Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), a dedicated Covid hospital here, to start a special care ward to treat such patients. Agarwal said the ward would be set up in the gynaecology department of the hospital and it would be operational from Sunday. “The ward will have general beds, ICU beds and ventilators for pregnant Covid patients. The doctors will take all precautionary measures while carrying out normal as well as caesarean deliveries. Neonatal intensive care unit and other facilities will also be there for newborns. The babies will be tested for Covid as well.” The divisional commissioner said pregnant women were facing lots of problems after contracting Covid. “They had no clear idea about where to go for delivery. The new facility at NMCH will go a long way in helping them,” he said. During his visit to NMCH on Saturday, Agarwal also inspected facilities for Covid patients. NMCH superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh said there are 40 beds in the gynaecology department for Covid-hit pregnant women, 28 ICU beds and around 30 ventilators. “There are 40 doctors, including senior residents, in the gynaecology department and they will work round-the-clock,” he said. Plasma therapy starts: Convalescent plasma therapy started at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) on Saturday under the guidance of Dr Ramchandra Kumar and Dr U S Prasad. A 51-year-old man from Saharsa received one unit of plasma (200ml) on the first day. The B+ plasma was collected from the IGIMS blood bank. NMCH superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh said the patient was suffering from breathlessness and he was put on oxygen support. “The doctors will monitor his health status. If required, another unit of blood will be given to the patient. However, it is too early to say anything about the effects of plasma therapy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/special-care-unit-for-covid-hit-pregnant-women-at-nmch/articleshow/77696578.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar's Sheikhpura migrant worker’s daughter tops exam in Kerala||KOCHI: While pursuing her graduation at the Mar Thoma College for Women in Perumbavoor, Payal Kumari confided in her teachers more than once about dropping out as her father Pramod Kumar, a migrant labourer from Gosaimadhi village in Sheikhpura district of Bihar, lacked a steady income. “I would have quit my studies if it were not for the financial and emotional support provided by teachers of my college,” said Payal, who was born in Bihar and arrived in Kerala along with her parents in 2001 at the age of four. The perseverance shown by the family to educate the children despite financial hardships has paid off with the 22-year-old taking the first rank in Mahatma Gandhi University’s BA archaeology and history course with 85% marks. Inspired by her success story, the Pama institute for the advancement of trans-disciplinary archaeological sciences has offered Payal a two-month residential fellowship aimed to equip her for higher studies. “Payal scored 95% marks for her Plus Two and we were surprised when she opted for Module2 archaeology and history because we usually get only students who don’t gain admission for other courses. She joined the course out of genuine interest and was quite studious. She also used the library a lot and was active in the NSS,” said Bipin Kuriakose, head of the department of history at the college. “I chose the course out of my deep interest. I am greatly interested in excavations and ancient sites,” said Payal, who has now applied for Kerala University’s postgraduate courses in archaeology and history. She also plans to pursue her civil services dream. Payal’s mother, Bindu Devi, said she was always a good student. “When we arrived in Kerala, we decided to educate our children despite the hardships. We struggled to meet rent and school fees,” she added. Payal’s sister, Pallavi Kumari, is a second-year student of physics at Kochi’s Bharat Mata College, while her elder brother Akash Kumar, who holds a BCom degree, has started working after undergoing training in GST. R V G Menon, chairman of Pama, said our fellowship will provide Payal with an intellectual experience different from the normal arts and science education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sheikhpura-migrant-workers-daughter-tops-exam-in-kerala/articleshow/77696733.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Floods hit 83 lakh people in 16 districts||PATNA: Flood situation continues to be grim in Bihar as over 83 lakh people in the 1,333 panchayats of 16 districts remained affected on Saturday. According to the state disaster management department (DMD), altogether 83,62,451 people were hit by floods and 9,62,617 affected families had been provided Rs 6,000 each as gratuitous relief. The DMD claimed that 5,50,79 people had been evacuated to safer places and 5,186 others were taking shelter at the relief camps being run by the state government. Darbhanga remained the worst hit as its 20,82,005 population was affected by floods, followed by 19,69,740 in Muzaffarpur and 10,20,009 in East Champaran districts. Major rivers like Bagmati, Burhi Gandak, Kosi, Kamla, Khiroi and Ghaghra were flowing above the danger mark at many places, but the water level either had a falling trend or remained static on Saturday. The Ganga was above the danger mark with increasing trend at Gandhi Ghat and Hathidah in Patna district, but was decreasing at Kahalgaon flood gauge in Bhagalpur district. According to Patna Meteorological Centre, rainfall with thunderstorms is very likely in several districts on Sunday. Heavy rainfall occurred at one or two places over northeast parts of Bihar and light to moderate rainfall at most places of north-central, northeast, south-central, south-east parts of Bihar during the past 24 hours. Light rainfall was recorded in the Nepal basin areas of Kamla, Bagmati-Adhwara group and Gandak rivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/floods-hit-83l-people-in-16-districts/articleshow/77696750.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Patna||Clean potable water eludes many in Bihar||PATNA: The state government may have gone in election mode, but it has not been able to fulfil its promise of supplying drinking water free from contaminants to all the people. According to the statistics of the public health engineering department (PHED), the groundwater in 5,635 wards of 896 panchayats in Bihar is contaminated with arsenic or fluoride and that in 20,737 wards of 1,513 panchayats has iron content beyond the permissible limit. This has posed a serious health problem for a vast populace. The government had assured the people of these panchayats that they would get potable water free from contaminants by the end of 2020. However, experts have serious doubts about the efficiency of the state machinery in achieving the target. Bihar State Pollution Control Board chairman Ashok Kumar Ghosh told this newspaper, “Even if the work on supplying pure drinking water in the affected areas is in progress, it is unlikely to be completed soon. Ensuring supply of potable water to millions of people in different districts is a challenge.” Environmentalist Mehta Nagendra Singh pointed out that a majority of the people residing in different parts of the state continued to get water contaminated with various toxic substances like arsenic, fluoride and iron. “Drinking contaminated water amid the Covid-19 pandemic is more dangerous,” he said. However, PHED minister Vinod Narain Jha claimed that the residents of most wards affected by fluoride and arsenic contamination had started getting clean water. “Work in the remaining areas is in progress and will be completed soon. Tenders for supply of iron-free water have also been floated,” the minister said, adding that there were altogether 110 water quality-testing labs in 38 districts of the state. He also urged the people to get the quality of water checked at the laboratories for free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/clean-potable-water-eludes-many-in-state/articleshow/77696857.cms||B K Mishra
August 23, 2020||Patna||Will contest all 243 seats: BSP||PATNA: The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Saturday claimed to have started preparations on all the 243 seats to contest in the upcoming assembly polls due in October-November. BSP state president Bharat Prasad Bind said, “We are contacting our party’s district presidents as well as workers through digital platforms.” He said the party has sought from the district presidents the list of probable candidates for each assembly constituency. The senior leaders recently toured the districts to get feedback from the workers about the forthcoming election. Bind said they have been compelled to use digital platforms to contact the workers as well as functionaries due to Covid-19 pandemic and social distancing norms. “As a result, we have been able to contact limited people on a given day,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/will-contest-all-243-seats-bsp/articleshow/77696959.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Patna||Railway staff take part in fitness events||BHAGALUR: The railway officials and employees took part in marathon and other sport activities, yoga and meditation to mark the launch of ‘Fit India’ campaign in Malda Railway Division under Eastern Railway (ER) on Saturday. The events were organized at Malda Town and Bhagalpur railway stations. It would also be held for the railway employees of other stations under the division for their physical and mental fitness and smart appearance. It’s inspired by PM Narendra Modi’s ‘Fit India Movement’ campaign launched on July 22 to encourage the citizens to take up physical activities and sports in their daily lives to remain physically and mentally healthy. Divisional railway manager (DRM) of Malda, Yatendra Kumar, said busy work life, challenging jobs, work conditions, modern lifestyle, bad food habits, mental stress, lack of physical activities besides other factors cause majority of health ailments. “We need to be physically and mentally fit to take up the work challenges in professional life and also shoulder the family and worldly responsibilities,” he said. Railways’ can achieve additional feats with healthy employees, he asserted and said the families of railway employees would also benefit from it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/railway-staff-take-part-in-fitness-events/articleshow/77696772.cms||Kumar Rajesh
August 23, 2020||Kolkata||Online Lok Adalat at Calcutta high court disposes of 60 cases||KOLKATA: The Calcutta high court organised its first online Lok Adalat on Saturday, during which 60 cases were disposed of. The next Lok Adalat at the HC will be on September 26. Justice Soumen Sen urged the central and state governments, insurance companies and banks to send more cases for adjudication on that date. Chief Justice TBN Radhakrishan inaugurated the online Lok Adalat while Justice Debangsu Basak, Justice Shampa Sarkar and Justice Sougata Bhattacharyya presided over three benches. A total of 120 matters were listed for adjudication, of which 60 were disposed of. Justice Sen, chairman of the Calcutta high court Legal Services Committee hailed the development. Most of the matters that came up for adjudication on Saturday were related to motor vehicles claims, electricity disputes, pension and gratuity dues and compassionate appointments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/online-lok-adalat-at-hc-disposes-of-60-cases/articleshow/77698067.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
August 23, 2020||Patna||Police arrest man for firing in Gopalganj||PATNA: Police on Saturday one Guddu Singh for his alleged involvement in the firing on a private hospital run by Anup Upadhyay at Arar Mor under Town police station in Gopalganj late Friday night. Guddu also owns a private hospital in the town. Anup had lodged an FIR with the Town police station against Guddu and his younger brother Rinku Singh. Incidentally, the JD(U) party office of Gopalganj is located just above the hospital floor. Police sources said at least a dozen rounds were fired on the hospital building. There were bullet marks on its windows and walls. However, no one was injured in the incident. Gopalganj Sadar SDPO Naresh Paswan said the incident took place around 9pm. “The JD(U) party office is located just above the hospital, but the incident had nothing to do with it. Firing was actually the fallout of business rivalry between the owners of the hospitals in the same locality,” he said. Town police station SHO Prashant Kumar said five empty cartridges were found on the road in front of the hospital building. He said that Guddu was picked up after midnight for interrogation and was finally arrested. “Guddu had threatened Anup at least four times in the past to get his hospital shifted to some other locality,” the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/police-arrest-man-for-firing-in-gopalganj/articleshow/77696819.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Lucknow||No difference between Ram and Parshuram: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Joining the issue over raging politics over Brahmins in the state and taking a dig at the Opposition for 'suddenly developing an affinity for Lord Parshuram', Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said that there was no difference between Ram and Parshuram. "Both Ram and Parshuram are incarnations of Lord Vishnu. The difference is in just some people's mind," he said while speaking on the floor of the house on the last day of monsoon session. Both SP chief Akhilesh Yadav and BSP president Mayawati had recently said that they would install idols of Parshuram and the foundation of Ram temple was laid in Ayodhya. Yogi quoted three couplets from Ramcharitmanas to show the kind of respect Ram and Parshuram had for each other. "But some people indulge in dirty politics by harping on the difference between the two." The CM's speech was perceived as a swift damage control by the BJP to placate Barahmins, who are being openly wooed by all opposition parties. Even a BJP MLA from Sultanpur has recently questioned his own government about the steps being taken for the protection of Brahmins. Attacking the Samajwadi Party without naming it, he said “every body knew a Brahmin youth was beheaded in Kannauj". Similarly, he reminded the BSP about the slogan “tilak, taraju aur talwar…,” coined by its idologue, Kanshi Ram. "How can these party claim to get support of the Brahmins when they had perpetrated so much atrocities and injustices upon them,” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-difference-between-ram-parshuram-yogi/articleshow/77698680.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 23, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Tribeswoman killed for tipping off smuggling||IDUKKI: A tribeswoman was shot dead in Marayoor on Friday night in front of other community members by an accused in a sandalwood smuggling case allegedly for tipping off forest officers on the illegal activity. Chandrika (30) of Palappetty tribal settlement inside Chinnar wildlife sanctuarywas shot by her nephew Kaliyappan, Munnar deputy SP M Ramesh Kumar said. Kaliayappan was arrested on July 29 in connection with a sandalwood smuggling case and was later released on bail, said police. Kaliyappan accused Chandrika of informing forest officers about smuggling activities. After a heated argument, he fired at her before other tribespeople who later tied him to a tree and handed him over to the police. “Police arrested three people in connection with the incident: Kaliappan (20), Manikandan (19) and Madhavan (18),” Ramesh Kumar said. Meanwhile, it has been reported that forest department seized tush (the tusk of apparently a cow elephant) from Manikandan’s house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tribeswoman-killed-for-tipping-off-smuggling/articleshow/77697650.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Jaipur||Discoms facing difficulty in recovery of dues of lockdown||Jaipur: The power department, which had allowed deferment of bills during lockdown, is facing a major challenge in recovering due amounts. The dues were to be paid in two instalments with the current bills after lockdown was lifted, but consumers have been demanding waiver of bills for two months claiming that they were not in a position to clear it. Bills of consumers using more than 150 units per month were deferred during lockdown. The BJP, meanwhile, has demanded that power bills for two months be waived and made it a political issue. The chief minister at a review meeting of the power department directed the officials to look into the grievances of the public and address them. “Since spot billing was disrupted from March due to Covid and lockdown, the consumers were not used to the new rate. Consumers are now feeling the pinch with the new rate while their income took a hit due to Covid restrictions,” said a senior official. Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission in February hiked power tariff for different categories of consumers by up to 11 per cent, a move in which an additional annual revenue of nearly Rs 4,800 crore for power utilities in the state. The chief minister also directed the discoms to shift power lines passing near residential houses. The live wires passing close to houses are a cause of accidents, but discoms have been refusing to shift them without the residential welfare associations bearing 50% of the cost. The discoms were also arguing that in many colonies people made houses close to the lines violating norms. The chief minister now asked the discoms to bear full cost of shifting such lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/discoms-facing-difficulty-in-recovery-of-dues-of-lockdown/articleshow/77698260.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Nagpur||Don’t apply for NMC licence: NVCC to traders||Nagpur: The Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce (NVCC) has appealed to traders not to apply for licence till further notice and they should inform the Chamber if any coercive action is taken by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) officers or they put pressure for applying or obtaining trade licence. President Ashwin Mehadia, secretary Ramawtar Totla and vice-president Sanjay Agrawal said that the recent order issued by municipal commissioner mandating every shop/office to obtain trade licence from NMC not only lacks jurisdiction but also is in violation of procedure prescribed under the Maharashtra Municipal Corporation (MMC) Act, 1949. Commissioner without following the provisions to make, add, alter or rescind the rules, regulations and by-laws by Corporation has directly issued the trade license order, they said. Agrawal further said that the Section 376 of the MMC Act, under which the order is claimed to be issued, in unequivocal terms states that only specified things, trades and operations as specified in rules can be asked to obtain a licence. “The list of goods, trades and operations which can be regulated by commissioner are mentioned in Chapter XVIII of Schedule-D of the MMC Act. The Act doesn’t empower the commissioner to control the goods, trades and operations not mentioned in the said chapter,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dont-apply-for-nmc-licence-nvcc-to-traders/articleshow/77697617.cms||Ashish Roy
August 23, 2020||Nagpur||Food is best medicine for asymptomatic Covid +ves||Nagpur: With thousands of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients under home isolation in city, lifestyle changes and diet has become an important part for all of them. TOI spoke to doctors and dieticians who shared valuable tips for the patients in home isolation. “Home isolation is allowed to those asymptomatic patients who don’t have any immune compromised status lke HIV, transplant recipients, cancer therapy etc. Most patients in home isolation in Nagpur city are young. They need to maintain their health parameters and keep themselves fit by staying at home. Secondly, they must ensure that they are not spreading the infection to any other individual,” said Dr Nirmal Jaiswal, critical care specialist and member of Nagpur Covid Task Force. Asymptomatic patients hardly need to take any specific medicine or drugs. So, they have to rely on good diet to be fit and maintain immunity. Clinical dietitian Malvika Fulwani said body gets all required energy and vital nutrients to form defense against invading coronavirus from food only. “It’s important for both symptomatic as well as asymptomatic Covid-19 patients to have proper diet and rest to fight the virus,” she said. “We believe that nutrition is the only remedy that can bring full recovery and can be used with any treatment. So, good food is a best medicine,” she added. Dieticians have also suggested some food changes for such patients. Garlic is known to have immune-enhancing effects which maybe, in part, responsible for reduced severity. Vitamin C is an antioxidant which contributes to immune defense by supporting various cellular functions. So, having vitamin C is beneficial to fight the virus. Green vegetables such as spinach, fenugreek, broccoli etc are packed with phytonutrients that our immune system needs for optimal function. They are also rich in folate which is important for producing antibodies. Beans are also important part of Covid diet. “Seventy per cent of our immunity lies in digestive system. Beans along with peas and lentils are rich sources of resistant starch which helps enhance gut microbiome thereby boosting immunity,” said Malvika. Onion also known to have immune-boosting benefits while nuts and seeds like chia seeds, flax seeds, walnuts, almonds are rich in disease-preventing nutrients like omega-3 fats and micronutrients like vitamin E, zinc and calcium. Studies have shown that people with vitamin D deficiency are 11 times more likely to get viral infections so it is very important to include this sunshine vitamin in our diet. It is naturally made by our skin when exposed to direct ultraviolet light.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/food-is-best-medicine-for-asymptomatic-covid-ves/articleshow/77697641.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 23, 2020||Kochi||Onam festivities kick off with Atham sans ‘chamayam’||TRIPUNITHURA/KOCHI: Onam festivities in two sides of the city — Tripunithura and Thrikkakara — have been toned down in the wake of Covid-19. The Atham procession and the Vamanamoorthy temple festival which began on Saturday were curtailed to conducting rituals, without the public display and celebrations. At the Thrikkakara temple, the ten-day Onam festivities will be restricted to temple rituals only. “We have not had to restrict festivities in several decades, from the time the temple became part of the Travancore devaswom,” said temple committee secretary Pramod Kumar. “More devotees have been turning up to offer prayers, compared to the previous days. However, we have all the Covid protocols in place,” he added. Atham 2020, which is the traditional beginning of ten-day long state-level Onam celebrations, was confined to just a flag hoisting. On Friday, S Anujan Thampuran, representing Kochi Royal family, handed over the flag to municipal chairperson Chandrika Devi. Tripunithura MLA M Swaraj hoisted the flag at Atham Nagar at 9am on Saturday. Municipal chairperson Chandrika Devi, vice-chairman O V Salim and a few councillors participated in the flag hoisting. This is the second time in three years that the Atham procession has been cancelled. In 2018, the celebrations were cancelled due to heavy rain which was followed by flooding. “Until the merging of erstwhile Kochi state with Indian Union in 1950, there was no break for royal Athachamayam till 1949, when Rama Varma Pareekshith Thampuran, the last Kochi King, headed the Athachamayam from Hill Palace,” recalled Anujan Thampuran. “Since Athachamayam was not a religious ceremony, Kochi Kings participated in it. Actually, the Athachamayam procession used to start from Hill Palace around 100 years ago,” said Rameshan Thampuran of Bungalow Palace. As per records Hill Palace was built during the royal reign of the Kochi King Maharaja Rama Varma (popularly known as the Kochi King who passed away in Madras) who ruled the State from 1914-32. Till then the Athachamayam started from various palaces in Tripunithura like Kalikottta Palace or Puthen Bungalow, Rameshan says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/onam-festivities-kick-off-with-atham-sans-chamayam/articleshow/77697615.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot lays foundation stone for 25 projects||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot laid the foundation stone for 25 projects via video conferencing on Saturday which will be developed by the Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB) in the state. These projects include 14 housing schemes, four affordable housing schemes, city park (Jaipur), coaching hub and others. Appreciating the efforts, Gehlot said the board which was lying defunct during the tenure of previous BJP government, is now playing a crucial role in systematic development. Gehlot said, “The previous government was seeing the RHB as a white elephant and planned to close it. However, the spirit of employees has given a new lease of life to the board. It is not only working in direction to provide roof to poor and others, but also developing infrastructural projects,” he said. In Jaipur, two major projects such as city park and coaching hub will be developed. An official said, the RHB will develop the city park on around 52 acre in Mansarovar area which is expected to benefit more than 50 colonies. The board plans to plant 21,000 trees of 32 different species in the area. The jogging track will be 3.5-km long, slightly shorter than Central Park. However, the size of the park is claimed to be bigger the Central Park which is 42 acres, he said. Around 75% area of the earmarked land will be developed as green. The project has parking for 799 cars and 325 two-wheelers. The main entrance plaza of the park will be constructed at Madhyam Marg end. The park will have three other gates which will open on Aravali Marg, V T Road and New Sanganer Road. Similarly, the board will develop a coaching hub in Pratap Nagar of the city which would accommodate nearly 70,000 students. An official said, “The estimated cost of the project will be Rs 231 crore. Construction will be done only on 40% of the earmarked land and 60% land will remain open.” As per the plan, there are eight education towers proposed in the project. Construction of five towers will be undertaken in phase-1 and the remaining three towers will be developed in phase-II.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-lays-foundation-stone-for-25-projects/articleshow/77698269.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Nagpur||One Covid death, 48 fresh cases in Chandrapur||CHANDRAPUR: A 79-year-old person from Ballarpur town died of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the district’s death toll to 14. The deceased was suffering from pneumonia. He was admitted to the Covid hospital on August 20. The Covid count of the district climbed up to 1,354 with detection of 48 new cases during the day. The day also saw 27 patients getting discharge, taking the count of recovered patients of 893. There are 447 patients under treatment at Covid care centres and Covid hospital. The new patients include 19 from Chandrapur city, eight from Korpana, five each from Ballarpur and Gondpipri, two each from Rajura, Bhadrawati and Warora and one each from Chimur, Sindewahi, Jiwti, Bramhapuri and Mul tehsils, and one each from Chichpalli and Ghugus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-covid-death-48-fresh-cases-in-chandrapur/articleshow/77696940.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: BJP launches helpline for party workers, people||JAIPUR: State BJP president Satish Poonia on Saturday launched a helpline number to establish direct contact with party workers and people. The helpline number 9116767676 will be operational 24 hours all days. A team of volunteers have been assigned with the task of attending to calls and directing it to BJP internal team and administrative officers for time-bound redressal. Outlining the purpose of the helpline number, Poonia said that the Congress government has failed to provide basic governance to the people. In this situation, it becomes our duty to provide relief to people in the state. “The volunteers will attend to calls and segregate it on the nature of the calls or response it required. The calls from party workers sharing any idea or highlighting any problem will be directed to an internal team. While calls from common man highlighting any struggle, relief or complaint will be directed to our MLAs, district leaders and administrative officers,” said Poonia. The number is also for state citizens residing in other states and abroad. The helpline number will be fully functional in the coming months and will provide time-bound solutions for the delay in any social welfare schemes, law and order problem and relief. Another role of the helpline number is to share the central government’s social welfare schemes to people. New team’s first meet todayBJP will hold the first meeting of its new team on Sunday to decide the framework for the next three months. The meeting will be held in two phases. In the first phase, party national president J P Nadda will address the new team, while in the second phase the team will discuss and decide on the issues related to the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-launches-helpline-for-party-workers-people/articleshow/77698293.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Army jawan killed, 4 others injured in accident||JAIPUR: One Army jawan was killed while four others seriously injured in Sriganganagar’s Raisingh Nagar police station area on Saturday when their vehicle toppled. The driver had lost control over the vehicle. The army jawan died on the spot and of the four others who were admitted to the hospital, two are critical. The deceased soldier was identified as Kishan V who hailed from Andhra Pradesh. “The Army vehicle was traveling from the cantonment area in Lalgarh to Srivijaynagar when it went over a pothole due to which the driver lost control of the vehicle and the truck toppled. The driver, unfortunately, died on the spot while four others were seriously hurt,” said an official of Raisingh Nagar police station. The incident happened around 9am on Saturday near Bajuwala village and the locals were the first ones to reach the spot. They helped the jawans out of the damaged vehicle and admitted them to the Raisingh Nagar government hospital, though after looking at the serious injuries of the Armymen, they were referred to Sriganganagar after being administered initial treatment. The officials did not find any other reason for the accident apart from the sudden loss of control of the vehicle. According to officials, one of the jawans also lost a limb due to the accident. “It appears when the vehicle overturned a jawan’s leg got trapped beneath it due to which it was crushed,” an official said. Police officials stated that the Army officials had been informed about the accident. The deceased soldier’s mortal remains will be sent to his native state after the formalities are completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/army-jawan-killed-4-others-injured-in-accident/articleshow/77698295.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Jaipur||Unmarried couple found dead in rented house in Sanganer||JAIPUR: An unmarried couple’s bodies were found inside a rented accommodation in Sanganer on Saturday. While the youth was found hanging, the deceased woman was found lying on the bed. Police are yet to unravel the motive behind the alleged suicide and murder case. However, they suspect it to be a case of relationship gone wrong. The deceased have been identified as Sanjay Meena and Maya Meena, both in their mid-20s. Shiv Dayal, SHO, Sanganer police station, said “While Sanjay was found hanging from the fan, Maya lay dead on the bed when we found them. Prima facie, it seems that Sanjay first killed Maya by apparently strangling her and then committing suicide himself.” The bodies were found at Maya’s rented accommodation where she stayed while preparing for competitive examinations. Sanjay stayed in another rented room around a few kilometre away. While police found no suicide note, the preliminary investigation indicates that the duo was in a relationship. The SHO said, “Either, the two had a suicide pact possibly because of non-acceptance of their relationship or they had an altercation because of which Sanjay killed Maya. While the cause of her death will be confirmed after post-mortem, we are almost certain that she died because of strangulation.” Meanwhile, the families of both the deceased have claimed that were not aware of any relationship between the two. “The girl’s family claimed that they had no idea about Sanjay’s existence while his cousin also repeated the same fact. His cousin claimed that Sanjay had left his room around 5:30pm on Friday following which his mobile phone was switched off. They had apparently tried to look for him as well and finally we were informed,” said police. The FSL team also collected evidence from the crime spot though the deceased’s autopsy will be conducted after their samples are tested for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/unmarried-couple-found-dead-in-sanganer/articleshow/77698319.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rojgar Mahasangh urges CM Ashok Gehlot to clear pending recruitments||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan Rojgar Mahasangh – a civil society group – has written to chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday requesting him to clear the recruitments of 1,751 junior accountants, which is pending since 2013. While the advertisement for junior accountants’ admission test was released in 2013, the examination was finally held in 2016. “The matter pertaining to the examination for recruiting junior accountants, which was to be held in 2013, went to the court on the issue of the number of posts. The examination was again cancelled in 2015 after the question paper got leaked and later the test was held in 2016.” “When the exam was held many changes in rules were introduced in the new format. Thus, many candidates got rejected. Due to this, many posts remained vacant,” said Aslam Chopdar, state president of the Rajasthan Rojgar Mahasangh. “Also, the appointments to 1751 posts are still pending. We have written to the CM requesting him to clear these recruitments,” he added. In another letter, the group demanded that pending recruitments to 1,005 Ayush nursing posts must be cleared. “We have also written to the chief minister requesting him to clear the pending recruitments to the posts of Ayush nurses. These admissions are also pending since 2013. Apart from these, we have urged the chief minister to clear all the pending recruitments since 2013 including the hiring of information assistants,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rojgar-mahasangh-urges-cm-to-clear-pending-recruitments/articleshow/77698317.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Two held for duping family of over Rs 2 crore||KOCHI: District Crime Branch (Ernakulam Rural) on Saturday arrested two persons for allegedly duping a family of around Rs 2.25 crore on the pretext of helping to bring back a person who was stuck in Qatar due to a travel ban. Muhammed Aslam Maulavi (50) of Pezhakkapilly and Muhammed Bijli (54) of Kanjirappally are the arrested persons. Police said it was the family of a man from Perumbavoor — who ran into trouble after a cheque of his bounced in 2016 — which was cheated by the accused. The accused approached the family claiming that they have connections in the UAE to bring him back and sought money from them. In the next three years, the family kept paying them money. However, the man was arrested in Qatar in the case. The family later lodged a complaint with the CMO and police. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/two-held-for-duping-family-of-over-rs-2cr/articleshow/77697629.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Lucknow||Three Lucknow University-affiliated colleges to release merit list by August 31||LUCKNOW: If you have applied for admission to colleges affiliated to the Lucknow University, you will get to know about your prospects by the end of this month. Isabella Thoburn College, Lucknow Christian College and Shri Jai Narain Misra Postgraduate College (JNMPC) will declare merit list on their official websites. Principal, Isabella Thoburn College, Vinita Prakash said, “The merit list of undergraduate courses offered by the college will be made available on the notice board as well as the website on August 29. Document verification will begin from August 31.” She said the candidates need not come to the campus as verification would be done online. Classes will begin from October 1. Officiating principal of Lucknow Christian College Pronoti Singh said, “The merit list for undergraduate courses will be declared on August 31. Document verification will be done offline amid Covid-19 norms. The college will start online classes for new session by September 15.” Admission coordinator of JNMPC Arun Mishra said, the merit list of UG courses would be declared on August 24 while document verification would be offline with all safety precautions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/three-lu-affiliated-colleges-to-release-merit-list-by-month-end/articleshow/77698716.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kolkata||With more fresh cases in last one week, North 24 Parganas racing ahead of Kolkata||KOLKATA: With nearly one fourth of the total Covid-19 cases in the state being from Kolkata, the city has been the worst affected since the beginning of the pandemic. But over the last one week, neighbouring North 24 Parganas has surged ahead of Kolkata in terms of fresh cases. The district as recorded more cases than the city during this period. “This was expected. The virus arrived in Kolkata first and travelled to the districts. So Kolkata was the first to be hit the hardest. Now its periphery will start showing more cases,” said Institute of Child Health associate professor Sumon Poddar, who is also in charge of the molecular biology lab at the institute. North 24 Parganas started taking over Kolkata in terms of fresh cases since mid-August. In between August 15 and 21, the district reported a total of 4,604 cases against 4,093 cases in Kolkata during the same period. Till August 21, Kolkata recorded 35,178 Covid positive cases since the beginning of the pandemic and North 24 Parganas has had 28,072 cases. The city currently has 6,114 active cases against 5,806 active cases in North 24 Parganas. “While Kolkata was the worst affected, neighbouring Howrah, North and South 24 Parganas was also badly affected compared to other districts. Now, North 24 Parganas seems to be racing ahead of Kolkata,” said a health department official. While Covid-19 cases were initially reported from north and south Dum Dum in the district, infection rates in localities like Kamarhati, Panihati, Barrackpore near the city and Barasat, Habra and pockets Bongaon are steeply rising. “It also reflects that testing in the periphery has increased. It could mean more people in the rural areas are having access to testing facilities. They are shedding the stigma to come forward and get tested. It is a good sign. This is the correct way of containing the infection,” said infectious diseases control specialist Debkishore Gupta of CMRI. Kolkata was recording more than 700 fresh cases in the first week of August. But the number saw a gradual decline and has been reporting around 584 cases daily on an average in the past one week. “The number of cases in Kolkata is going down slightly in the past few days. Active cases have gone down due to the better discharge rate. But this trend has to persist for a longer period for us to conclude that we are going downhill,” said microbiologist Bhaskar Narayan Chaudhury of Peerless Hospital. Health experts said that along with Kolkata, its twin city Howrah too is seeing a slow decline in numbers. But they fear infection rate in districts like Murshidabad and Malda will surge in days ahead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-more-fresh-cases-in-last-one-week-north-24-pgns-racing-ahead-of-kolkata/articleshow/77697659.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Uthra murder: Sooraj’s kin held||KOLLAM: Crime branch investigators arrested Uthra’s husband and first accused Sooraj’s mother and sister on Saturday, framing them under various sections of IPC related to conspiracy, destruction of evidence and domestic violence against Uthra. Sooraj’s mother Renuka and sister Surya were arrested from their house at Adoor. According to the crime branch officials both the accused had conspired to kill Uthra. Investigators point out that a snake was used to kill Uthra with the intention of avoiding any evidence leading to the accused. Last week, the crime branch investigation team filed the over-1,000 page chargesheet against Sooraj at Punalur chief judicial magistrate court. The snake charmer who gave the snake to Sooraj to kill Uthra was made an approver. Uthra, died of snakebite while she was asleep in her house, in Anchal, on May 7 after a failed attempt on May 2. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/uthra-murder-soorajs-kin-held/articleshow/77697661.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: How it’s virtually back to school for teachers||NEW DELHI: Neelam Gupta has taught commerce in a Delhi University college for 28 years. After all these years of lugging her books and teaching materials and commuting for three hours, the 53-year-old suddenly found herself relearning everything about teaching. Her schedule starts later in the morning now because she doesn’t have to travel, and her accessories are a newly purchased laptop, digital pen and various software, the use of which she learnt from her son and friends. Gupta, who teaches at BR Ambedkar College, misses the physical classes, but isn’t unhappy about more youngsters telling her that they have no problems comprehending the lessons, which leaves her fully contented. Like Gupta, university teachers are adapting to post-Covid-19 education with classes for second- and third-year students under way in online mode. They are taking tech tips from each other and their colleges have also conducted workshops for them. Now, many are going the extra mile to make lessons more immersive by integrating quizzes, virtual labs and interactive sessions. “When the pandemic broke out, we had no access to online materials or books. I wrote on a whiteboard and my son took photos to use on YouTube,” Gupta recalled. “When the lockdown eased, we bought a laptop and this has proved a great help. Friends and colleagues also assisted me because these technologies were something I had never used earlier in life.” Having a podcast enthusiast for a son was a bonus. Amrita Bajaj, assistant professor of geography at Shaheed Bhagat Singh College, spends some time in the college library after her online lectures. “Students do not have access to reading materials, so I get them scanned and mail them,” she said. “Geography requires explanatory drawings. I send scanned diagrams to the students and ask them to have it handy during the online class.” Bajaj, however, yearns for the actual classes because unlike in a school, where teaching is prescriptive, “in college, a lot of learning takes place through interaction”. This exchange of views in class is what is missed by many teachers. Zoom, Google Meet and Microsoft Teams are the buzzwords in the teaching community. These being new platforms, Siddharth Rathore, assistant professor of economics in Gargi College, started a YouTube channel called The Pink Professor to explain how these operate. Some others, like Gurpreet Singh Tuteja, share tips on teaching online. Tuteja, mathematics teacher at Zakir Hussain College, conducted a course with teachers at Hansraj College on how mathematics can be taught online. “I introduced to the teachers and students an open-source software, and covered many applications in calculus, linear algebra and other concepts,” revealed Tuteja. Likewise, Amit Jain, physics professor at Rajdhani College, has incorporated virtual laboratories for his students to make up for practicals. “DU is looking to promote online practicals through virtual laboratories, but I have been using them for some time now,” claimed Jain. “These labs are essential tools for providing simulated experiments for students and give them an experience that is nearly identical to a physical lab.” The week-long training for teachers at Ambedkar University Delhi was welcomed by the staff. "We did upload readings on Google classrooms before the pandemic, but when it came to online teaching, we had to learn newer ways,” admitted Rachna Mehra, assistant professor of global affairs. Her colleague, Bidhan Chandra Das, added that they received training on the use of a software through which “we can enter class assignments, add readings and assess student data on one platform”. Das also disclosed there was some resistance from the older teachers to the new technologies, but “we were able to make them understand why we needed to use modern methods”. Students themselves feel that online teaching boosts learning. “It allows us to go back and sit through the video recordings of the classes again,” pointed out Sparsh Singh, a BTech student at DU’s Cluster Innovation Centre. “While we have fewer classes than earlier, we manage to learn more.” But it’s not as if everyone has taken to online education like duck to water. While the new means increased workload and pressure for teachers, many students are struggling because they do not have laptops or smart devices. Attendance is still thin. There are also some, like Yuvaan in a village in West Bengal, for whom being a part of the classes is a challenge. “It has been raining incessantly here, so net access is patchy,” the youngster said. “I have only been concentrating on reading materials sent to our class WhatsApp group.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-its-virtually-back-to-school-for-teachers/articleshow/77709534.cms||Shradha Chettri
August 23, 2020||Nagpur||Coaching centres witness sharp drop in outstation admissions||Nagpur: Coaching classes across the city have witnessed a sharp drop in garnering outstation students even though online classes are being held regularly. The drop in admissions varies greatly from institute to institute, but for some there has been a fall of over 90%. On an average, the bigger institutes have witnessed a 75% drop in outstation admissions. Students from nearby districts would flock to Nagpur for undergoing JEE/NEET coaching, but due to lockdown this has not happened. “Even introduction of online classes have not been able to bring back as many students,” said Rajnikanth Bondre, president of Association of Coaching Institutes. “Reason mainly for that is poor net connectivity in non-urban areas. The feedback we are getting is that parents want to wait till the vaccine is out before confirming admissions,” said Bondre. Sameer Pale, treasurer of ACI said that parents, too, are aware that this is a temporary phase. “Holding back on online classes is also because parents know that eventually offline classes will resume,” said Pale. He added that less that a quarter of outstation admissions have been wrapped up in the well known institutes. But outstation students are apparently not enrolling in their local institutes either for online classes or committing to join whenever offline classes resume. Outside the city too, things are not looking good for coaching institutes. Shegaon’s coaching institute owner Yogesh Sharma said, “It’s a gloomy situation for all. Less than 10% admissions as compared to last year are getting confirmed. The apathy towards online classes is not only related to technical issues, but also economics.” He elaborated that buying a separate set up, topping up data etc is a cost which has to be spent upfront. “This on top of the coaching institute fee is obviously something parents are not convinced about,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/coaching-centres-witness-sharp-drop-in-outstation-admissions/articleshow/77697656.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 23, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Panel fixes bed charges for Covid patients at pre-pandemic rate||KOLKATA: The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Commission (WBCERC) has asked private hospitals to levy the same bed charges from Covid patients that existed on March 1, 2020, when the pandemic was yet to spread in the state. The commission has also directed hospitals not to turn away any patient if s/he is unable to pay the deposit amount while seeking admission. Moreover, the hospitals have been told to offer a discount on medicines and consumables or else allow patients’ kin to procure them from outside. The doctor consultation fee that hospitals charge from patients, however, has been doubled. “We cannot take an abrupt decision on bed charges. But we are telling hospitals to stick to the bed charges that existed in March for all beds, including ICU, ICCU and ITU, including for Covid patients,” said Justice Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairman of WBCERC. The commission members met on Saturday to discuss various issues on Covid treatment cost and management of patients. The commission felt that bed charges, along with medicine and investigative tests, are three main elements that push up hospital bills. Hospitals have been asked to offer a discount of 10% and 20% on medicine and consumables, respectively. Else, they should allow patients’ relatives to procure them from outside, the commission has advised. Moreover, while directing hospitals not to turn away any patient if s/he is unable to pay the deposit amount, the health panel has revised the doctor fee from Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,000 per day per critical patient. “It is a regular practice for hospitals to review its charges, including for beds, every financial year and implement the tariff by April 1. So increased bed rates do not have anything to do with Covid-19. However, we will be meeting on Monday and honour the commission’s advisory because this is an extraordinary situation,” said Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra. Private hospitals review their services charges yearly and accordingly, bed charges are increased by 5% to 10% every year. This time, the review coincided with the pandemic. Hospitals are expected to receive the commission’s advisory by Sunday. “We welcome this move and are ready to abide by the advisory to extend whatever help to the common people. But we need some time for internal discussion. We also seek more clarity from the commission before we start implementing it,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. “But bed rates have not been increased for Covid treatment. All clinical establishment reviews charge every year, factoring in inflation. Like every year, this year it came into effect from April 1,” added Barua. The commission is also likely to issue a fresh advisory on deposit amounts that hospitals can take from patients. On August 8, the commission issued an advisory that said hospitals can charge Rs 50,000 or 20% of the estimated cost of treatment from patients. And if the patient is unable to pay the amount within 12 hours, hospitals could ask the family to take the patient back. This last clause of this advisory had drawn criticism from different quarters. “No hospital should turn away or stop treatment for treatment for want of money,” Banerjee said on Saturday. This apart, the commission is expected to come out with its pathological guideline for Covid-19 treatment in the next few days. “The expert medical team has submitted a report on this pathological guideline,” said Banerjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/panel-fixes-bed-charges-for-covid-patients-at-pre-pandemic-rate/articleshow/77697663.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 23, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: ASI sacked as video shows using drugs||TARN TARAN: Acting on the orders of Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale has dismissed an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Jorawar Singh, after a video showing the ASI taking ‘chitta’ (synthetic drug) went viral in the social media. Prima facie, the video has evidence that the ASI posted at Sarai Amanat Khan police station was consuming the drug with the help of a lighter and a silver foil, an official release issued on Saturday said. It said that the chief minister felt that retention and continuation of ASI Jorawar Singh in the service would be detrimental to the interests of the state, police force and the general public at large. Therefore, the dismissal was necessary to send a strong message that the state government would not tolerate such criminal acts, it stated. Taking a serious note of the viral video, also reported by a section of the media on Friday, the chief minister had during his #AskCaptain Facebook Live session announced his decision to dismiss the ASI after an inquiry. Not only was the dismissal essential to prevent erosion of the police and government image in the eye of the citizens, but also for the success of the anti-drugs fight of the Captain Amarinder-led government, which had declared zero-tolerance to drugs immediately after taking over the state’s reins, the release added. Watch Punjab cop caught on cam consuming drugs, sacked||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/asi-sacked-as-viral-video-shows-him-taking-drugs/articleshow/77698359.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Lockdown, supply hiccup & rain make veggies dearer||KOLKATA: Two successive lockdowns, supply-line issues and the possibility of a heavy rain in the next couple of days pushed up the prices of perishables on Saturday. Worse, the expected downpour may make vegetables even dearer over the next few days. On Saturday, markets got crowded with people rushing out to the markets after exhausting their stock over the last two days. But they were shocked to find that there was hardly any vegetable below Rs 50 a kg. Even before the lockdown, most of the vegetables were selling at Rs 25-30 a kg. Price of chillies has shot up to Rs 250 a kg yet again. Tomato, which was selling at Rs 30-40 a kg, jumped to Rs 80-90 a kg on Saturday. “Saturday’s market prices proved a major shocker for most of us. Prices of some vegetables suddenly jumped 100%. I just came to pick up some vegetables but I have already exceeded my day’s budget. Yet, my bag is half empty,” said Sunirmal Nag, a teacher at a private college who goes to Jadubabu’s Bazar at Bhowanipore. The situation may worsen if the rain is heavier than usual over the next two days. “With the Met department warning of more than natural rainfall in south Bengal, the damage to standing crop in the field is inevitable. This would result in further spike in prices, with the widening of demand-supply gap,” said Kamal Dey, president of the West Bengal Vendors’ Association. According to retailers, the supply-line has also suffered a huge setback. The supply of vegetables to wholesale markets was disrupted and so was the supply from the wholesale to retail markets. “Haats could not be held, where would wholesalers get their bulk supply from?” asked a wholesaler at Koley Market. The impact on the retail market was immediate. Demand-supply mismatch added to woes. “Two successive lockdown days hit the supply chain badly. There is hardly any vegetable in the market. Moreover, thanks to Ganesh Chaturthi, the demand is on the higher side,” said Gour Saha, a vegetable vendor at Barisha bazar. Ganesh Chaturthi has also resulted in an unnatural spike in the fruit market. Prices of most of the fruits spiralled abnormally, said Samar Das, a fruit vendor at Lake Market. However, fruit prices are expected to dip since the supply has been stable. “We hope the supply chain issues will be resolved in the next few days. If rain remains moderate, the prices are likely to dip,” said Dey, also a state market task force member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-supply-hiccup-rain-make-veggies-dearer/articleshow/77697672.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
August 23, 2020||Kanpur||Pollution Board axe falls on 3 tanneries, hefty fine imposed||Kanpur: The Regional Pollution Control Board, Kanpur has taken action against three tanneries for violating their allotted roaster. It has also recommended closure of one tannery and fine against all the three. Regional Pollution Control Board officer Dr S B Franklin said the three tanneries penalized are Sabra Leather Finishers, Mona Nagar, Universal Tanning Industries, Asharfabad and Eagle Tannery, Makku Sayeed Ka Bhatta. During a routine inspection it was found that all tanneries were violating the roaster. They had to operate in the second roaster but were being operated in the first roaster too. All of them had been asked to pay a fine of Rs 75,000 each. Sabra Leather Finishers was also charged for working with enhanced capacity which was against the terms and conditions of operation of the unit. The state government had permitted the tanneries to work with 50 percent capacity and operate in two roasters. Under the first roaster, around 140 out of 266 tanneries operate and remaining tanneries operate in the second fortnight. The Regional Pollution Control Board officer stated that he had recommended closure of Sabra Leather Finishers and a fine of Rs 75,000. Other two tanneries had violated the roaster therefore he had recommended a fine of Rs 75,000 against them. The matter and his recommendation had been sent to the State Pollution Control Board for final order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/pollution-board-axe-falls-on-3-tanneries-hefty-fine-imposed/articleshow/77697791.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
August 23, 2020||Vadodara||Man cheated of Rs 17L, two arrested by SOG||Vadodara: The special operations group (SOG) of the city police arrested two persons from Bhavnagar on Friday for cheating a resident of Chhani of Rs 17.4 lakh. Police officials said that a few days ago a message was widely shared on the social media and WhatsApp warning people about two men who promise to settle family and property disputes through religious ceremonies. “There were some details about the duo, so we laid a trap to nab them,” said inspector M R Solanki of SOG. The two accused Vinod Jani and Ravi Joshi were nabbed in Alkapuri on Friday night. During the interrogation they admitted having cheated a man living in Chhani. Police said that the two accused had promised the victim to settle his family disputes by giving him ‘yantra’ and religious threads. The conmen took Rs 17.4 lakh from him and then disappeared. “So far they have admitted of just one crime, but we are hopeful that more victims will come forward in coming days,” Solanki said. The two accused used to charge Rs 10 lakh for the ‘yantra’. Cops said that they used to take Rs 5 lakh is advance payment and remaining amount after the work was done. Several such ‘yantra’ made of copper and threads were found from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-cheated-of-rs-17l-two-arrested-by-sog/articleshow/77696277.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt demands battle casualty certificates of Galwan martyrs||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab defence services welfare department has written to the integrated headquarters of the ministry of defence (Army) to release battle casualty certificates of the martyrs of Galwan Valley and other counter-insurgency operations, so that ex gratia payment could be released to their next of kin. The state government has also allocated the budget for enhanced ex gratia payment to the kin of battle casualties and disabled soldiers. The Punjab government had recently enhanced the ex gratia from Rs 12 lakh to Rs 50 lakh. The ex gratia amount in respect of disabled soldiers has been increased to Rs 20 lakh, depending on the percentage of disability. The state government has asked the integrated headquarters to release on priority the battle casualty certificates in respect of martyrs Sepoy Gurbinder Singh (3 Punjab), Sepoy Gurtej Singh (3 Punjab), lance naik Saleem Khan (58 Engineer Regiment), Naik Rajwinder Singh (24 Punjab/53RR) and Sepoy Lakhveer Singh (4 Sikh LI). Sepoys Gurbinder and Gurtej were martyred fighting Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley in June, while Lance Naik Khan had drowned after his boat capsized in Ladakh’s Shyok river in the same month. Naik Rajwinder was martyred fighting terrorists in Pulwama (Kashmir) in July and Sepoy Lakhveer had lost his life after he fell while crossing a log bridge on a fast-flowing water stream near the line of actual control in Arunachal Pradesh in the same month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-seeks-battle-casualty-certificates-of-galwan-martyrs/articleshow/77698350.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kochi||Chellanam protest crosses 300 days||KOCHI: The hunger-strike protest by the residents of Chellanam against the delay in implementing a permanent solution to the sea erosion and flooding in the coastal hamlet has completed 300 days on Saturday. To mark this, hundreds of residents including women and children under the banner of Chellanam Janakiya Vedi staged different kinds of protests. While most of the residents observed hunger strike at their houses, many others gathered at beach and stood under the sun for two hours to create a human seawall. A few others entered the sea and stood there for hours holding placards. Though there was a plan initially to conduct a march on the road, it was later dropped after police did not give permission in the wake of the pandemic. V T Sebastian, one of the patrons of the Janakiya Vedi, held his protest by fetching out seawater in a pot to symbolically say that he tried “to dry up the sea to prevent erosion as government does nothing to stop it.” “Our protest has been ignored by the authorities but we will not stop until a solution is given by the government. We have been adhering to Covid-19 protocols and lockdown restrictions by conducting the protest from our homes with the hope that the authorities will complete the geotube works before the monsoons started as promised. But the promises still remain mere promises. We are not worried about the legal repercussions of our protest because our lives are at stake,” said Chellanam Janakiya Vedi convener Joseph Arakkal. The residents also said that constructing breakwaters or installing interlocking tetrapod barriers will be the ideal solution to the sea erosion and it was said to be in the plan while constructing Chellanam harbour. “The harbour has changed the course of waves and now we bear the brunt of the sea. Government says that breakwater is not feasible due to the unavailability of rocks. But they permit the use of rocks to strengthen the harbour area to defend the waves,” Arakkal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/chellanam-protest-crosses-300-days/articleshow/77697652.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kochi||Marthoma Church head bats for rights of Jacobites||KOCHI: Joseph Mar Thoma, the metropolitan of the Marthoma Syrian Church has written to the metropolitan trustee of Jacobite Syrian Church ‘expressing his personal solidarity in the pain of the Jacobites and the assurance of the Malankara Mar Thoma Church for further guidance’. The letter dated August 20 was released by the Jacobite Church and it is addressed to the metropolitan trustee of the Jacobite Church, Joseph Mar Gregorios. “I believe God will not hear the prayers offered by a minority who are willing to use the authorities to recruit the army to take over Kothamangalam Church over the rights of a majority, who consider the church as a sacred place of the Antiochian Bava. The ecumenism in India considers these events as shameful to the Christian faith and the cause for which Christ died. But the risen Lord is our hope. To consider a rule, a law or tradition, or even Constitution literally by its letter kills it, but to move with the spirit of the same is regenerative,” Dr Joseph Mar Thoma wrote in his letter. The support comes at a time when the Jacobite faction is losing ground as major churches, including Piravom Valiyapalli and Mulanthuruthy Marthoman Cathedral were taken away from them. The letter should also be seen in the backdrop of the Synod of Jacobite Church recently deciding to increase their affinity towards Marthoma Church and to cut sacramental ties with Orthodox Church. The strongly worded letter begins with a reference to the incident at Mulanthuruthy church. “The events on Monday early morning, the police breaking open the gates and doors of the Church, entering when people were asleep, dragging the bishops who were in the church, reminds me of what had happened on a Friday morning when Jesus was back after praying in much agony that ‘Thy will be done’. By evening the dazzling white robes of Jesus had turned red. Likewise, lakhs of people and families were dragged along the streets with no provisions being made by the government to worship according to their faith. Democracy cannot accept this injustice, even though some people say that this is justice,” the letter states. The prelate added that three thousand families who constructed the church and worshiped there for centuries were thrown to the streets while less than two hundred families who were defiant and did not follow the centuries-old faith that was practised in that place are being given possession of that property. “I think it is not acceptable to basic democratic principles — a minority enjoys what the majority has contributed. This kind of tendency prevails even in the church.” the letter reads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/marthoma-church-head-bats-for-rights-of-jacobites/articleshow/77697693.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Allahabad||SC verdict in Sushant case showsMaha police incompetent: ABAP||Prayagraj: The Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad on Saturday once again demanded a CBI inquiry into the lynching of sadhus in Palghar, Maharashtra, on April 16, and said the Supreme Court’s recent decision on entrusting probe into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death to the premier investigating agency has proven the incompetency of Maharashtra police and ths bolstered its request. ABAP president Mahant Narendra Giri said, “The parishad is holding an important meeting on August 26 in Haridwar in which besides discussing preparations for Kumbh next year, it will also pass a resolution demanding CBI inquiry in the killing of sadhus in Palghar”. If the need arises, the Akhara Parishad would also go to the court, he added. On the night of April 16, two sadhus and their driver travelling from Kandivali, Mumbai to Surat in Gujarat for attending a funeral amid nationwide lockdown were brutally attacked and killed by a mob in Gadchinchile village in the presence of police officers after stopping their vehicle. Two seers Kalpavriksha Giri Maharaj, Sushil Giri Maharaj and their driver Nilesh Yalgade were brutally lynched by mob while police stood as mute spectators. “After passing the resolution, the Akhara Parishad will write to the Maharashtra chief minister demanding a CBI probe into the killings,” said Giri.nABAP has also demanded that huge gates should be constructed at all main entry points of the state in remembrance of former international president of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) Ashok Singhal. “Singhal ji gave his life for the cause of Ram temple and now that the dream of crores of Hindus has become a reality, we want he should be given the respect he deserves. ABAP hence demands that huge welcome gates named after Ashok Singhal ji should be constructed on highways connecting the state in all the four directions,” the ABAP chief added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/sc-verdict-in-sushant-case-showsmaha-police-incompetent-abap/articleshow/77698047.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kolkata||Greens, ashramites pitted against VC in VB wall row||Santiniketan: A high-voltage battle of opinions erupted in Santiniketan on Saturday as Visva-Bharati VC Bidyut Chakrabarty took on “Rabindriks” opposed to building of a wall and activist Subhas Datta accusing the varsity administration of “misinterpreting” the National Green Tribunal’s orders. In an open letter, Chakrabarty said: “I am intrigued by those who stay away from participating in what Gurudev established as ashramik practices, and yet claim to be ‘Rabindrik’ merely because they grew up on campus as part of the KG-to-PG-to-job tradition.” The VC began his letter by terming August 17 as a “red letter day” for “hypocrites” whose avowed love for Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore and his Santiniketan “manifested itself in a power trip full of vandalism”. Datta, a National Green Tribunal-nominated watchdog for Santiniketan’s environment, said: “Nowhere did NGT mention of raising a wall around the Pous Mela ground. Visva-Bharati, in its affidavit following my arguments in NGT, gave an undertaking to demarcate and barricade the mela ground.” The VC cited instances since Tagore’s days when VB had raised walls on campus. “Let me remind that China Bhavan was encircled by a wall for security of students back when Gurudev Tagore was very much on the scene,” he wrote. Chakrabarty said Ashram Math — a huge playground within the Santiniketan ashram — was fenced off with a “land mat” earlier and barricaded with a wall/fencing in 2011-12. “Pous Mela began here 20 years after Gurudev Tagore’s death,” he said, adding that VB’s bid to raise the wall was part of an “ongoing process” following CAG’s special security observations. Datta, however, drew a line between a court directive and a proposal put forward during a hearing on which the court puts its seal of agreement. “Visva-Bharati in its affidavit had proposed to barricade the mela ground. Barricading a place is of temporary nature like it happens during Nabanna or Lalbazar Abhiyan. Police put up barricades to prevent thousands of people from entering the state secretariat or police headquarters. A barricade and raising a wall/fencing is not the same thing,” he said. NGT had nominated three members, namely West Bengal Pollution Control Board chairman Kalyan Rudra, former state advocate general Jayanta Mitra and green activist Datta to oversee environmental matters in Santiniketan based on VB’s proposal. Datta said he was opposed to raising permanent structures on campus though he had nothing against VB constructing outer boundary walls to demarcate the campus from the rest of Santiniketan. “Santiniketan, and Visva-Bharati in particular, has an undulating landscape. Structures put up here and there within the campus might affect the natural slope of the undulating land and biodiversity. No one opposed the university’s building a wall at Ratan Pally or at Deer Park,” he said. Datta turned to NGT’s order on August 19 directing both the state government and Centre to set up a waste management plan for Santiniketan within a year. “The environmental problems on the mela ground — littering of plastic and others — are only symptoms of a bigger environmental malaise afflicting Santiniketan,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/greens-ashramites-pitted-against-vc-in-vb-wall-row/articleshow/77698769.cms||Someswar Boral
August 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Failing to find support, SFJ offers money for ardas||Amritsar: US-based separatist outfit Sikh for Justice (SFJ) has now offered money to anyone performing ardas for Khalistan at Akal Takht on August 23. In a release issued on Saturday, SFJ’s Gurpatwant Singh Pannu has tried to lure people into offering such arads at Akal Takht by offering $5,000, and $500 for offering ardas at other local gurdwaras. After having failed to garner support for his secessionist movement ‘Referendum 2020’ in Punjab, Pannu had begun offering cash awards to the gullible people to indulge into illegal activities, without making clear possible consequences. In recent past, he had offered $200 for removing Indian tricolor and raise Khalistan flag instead at gram panchayat on August 14, the Independence Day. Earlier, ahead of July 26 “voter registration” drive, announced by SFJ, he offered Rs 2,000 to every Covid-19 patient in Jammu and Kashmir. Pannu had announced to pay Rs 5,000 more than the salary to anyone who refused to join the Indian Army or any Sikh soldier who would quits the Army. Like his all other such announcements, there were no takers for this either. In April, Pannu had announced to increase the humanitarian aid amount from Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000 for Covid19 patients in Punjab. “He is not helping anyone. He is only exploiting poverty since he has failed to exploit sentiments of people here. There is no example of anyone getting any money after his announcements,” said intelligence agencies sources here, adding that anyone keeping in touch with SFJ and helping it fulfil its nefarious designs in Punjab would be on their radar and dealt with accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/failing-to-find-support-sfj-offers-money-for-ardas/articleshow/77698372.cms||Yudhvir Rana
August 23, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: GCDA ex-chief, 3 others arrested||KOCHI: Kadavanthara police on Saturday recorded the arrest of Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) former chairman N Venugopal and three others in a case registered against them in January 2017. The case was registered after GCDA filed a complaint in connection with the missing of furniture and other objects from the official residence of the chairman. The objects were found missing when the new chairman visited the official residence after taking charge from Venugopal. As per an estimate taken in 2017, objects worth Rs 1,51,000 were missing from the official residence. Three air conditioners, three cots, a settee, TV stand, kitchen utensils, etc. were found missing from the house. “We were able to recover some of the missing equipment. However, most of it remained untraceable,” said an officer. The other accused persons were identified as Dileep Gopalakrishnan, Mohanadasan and Shiny. A senior police officer said all four of them came to the station on Saturday to surrender. All of them were let off on bail after the arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gcda-ex-chief-3-others-arrested/articleshow/77697658.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Varanasi||UP: Senior doctor at Mirzapur divisional hospital goes missing||VARANASI: Dr JP Tripathi (55), a senior consultant at divisional hospital of Mirzapur district, went missing mysteriously after leaving his car to respond to nature’s call near Bhatauli bridge under Dehat Kotwali police station in Mirzapur on Saturday morning. Mirzapur SP Ajay Singh, who camped at the incident site to monitor search operations on Saturday afternoon, said that while alert has been sounded across the district to search him, teams of NDRF and divers had also been engaged in the Ganga. Despite all these efforts, Tripathi was nowhere to be found till late evening. Police said, Tripathi had left his home in Varanasi to reach Mirzapur divisional hospital. When the car reached near Bhatauli bridge, Tripathi asked his driver to stop the vehicle as he had to go to urinate. However, when he did not return even after 15 minutes, the driver started looking for him, but to no avail. He then called Tripathi’s wife Dr Sunanda, who is employed at HB Cancer Hospital Lehartara, and reported the matter. Tripathi’s son is also a medical practitioner. Mirzapur SP said that after Dr Sunanda alerted Mirzapur police, the search operation was immediately launched. Tripathi was initially posted in Basti as a medical officer, and he had joined Mirzapur divisional hospital in July. Tripathi’s driver told his family members that he was upset over providing consultation to patients amid the Covid-19 pandemic, as many suspected cases also visited him. The motorboat of UP Bridge Corporation was also engaged while over five divers continued searching him in the Ganga. A large number of locals remained at the site till late evening to watch the search operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/senior-doctor-at-mirzapur-divisional-hosp-goes-missing/articleshow/77697741.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Bareilly||Police on hunt for absconding private hospital staff after kin claim negligence||BAREILLY: Police have sealed a private hospital under the Asmoli police jurisdiction in Sambhal and started searching for absconding staff after the family members of a woman, who had delivered a stillborn, alleged medical negligence. According to the family members, the woman went into labour on Friday and was admitted at Sabina Nursing Home in Sambhal. However, the staff refused to treat her and referred her to another hospital. “We completed all the hospital formalities and soon after my sister Munni Bai (26) went into labour, her condition deteriorated. Instead of treating her, the hospital asked us to take her to some other facility. We then took her to another hospital in Joya, Amroha, where she delivered a dead child,” the woman’s brother, Sunil Kumar, alleged. When they decided to confront the nursing home staff in Sambhal, they found the facility locked and staff absconded. “This irresponsible behaviour of that nursing home led to the death of the child,” Kumar said. Meanwhile, police have registered an FIR against the nursing home staff under section 316 (causing death of quick unborn child by act amounting to culpable homicide) of IPC. “The hospital staff is absconding ever since the incident came to light. The hospital premises have been sealed and further legal action will be initiated in the case,” Asmoli SHO Ranvir Singh told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/police-on-hunt-for-absconding-pvt-hospital-staff-after-kin-claim-negligence/articleshow/77696218.cms||Maria Khan
August 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pradipsinh Jadeja to inaugurate projects worth Rs 87 crore today||AHMEDABAD: As the local body elections loom, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation is going on an inauguration spree. Projects worth Rs 87 crore will be inaugurated on Sunday. According to AMC officials, the projects will be inaugurated by minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja. The officials said that in Lambha ward, projects worth Rs 2.26 crore will be formally opened. They include a skating rink, a children’s area, and a gazebo among others. A party plot in the area will also be dedicated to the public. The officials said a new civic centre will be opened in Hathijan. The civic centre will house a medical officer’s room, a pharmacy, pediatric and gynaecology OPDs, and a laboratory. An air-conditioned library and a gymnasium will also be inaugurated in Hathijan. The chief minister had recently inaugurated a series of similar projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pradipsinh-jadeja-to-inaugurate-projects-worth-rs-87-crore-today/articleshow/77697621.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kanpur||Enhance sample collection, testing in dist: DM to CMO||Kanpur: District magistrate Dr Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari has directed the chief medical officer Dr Anil Kumar Mishra to enhance the sample collection and testing in the district during a review meeting on Friday. The sample collection and testing haven’t geared up in Kanpur despite the instructions. Rajendra Kumar Tiwari, principal secretary of the health department, dring his visit to the medical college few days ago, had asked the authorities to achieve the 3000 figure of testing per day. The district has not even touched the antigen testing target According to sources, sample collection and testing are slower in Kanpur than in Lucknow. Few other districts too are ahead of Kanpur in this regard. For Kanpur, target of antigen card tests is 2000, and 960 RT PCR tests per day. But the health department is hasn’t been able to achieve it yet. According to the data available, maximum 1.673 antigen tests were recorded on August 18, and 1,628 on August 16. More than 1,000 antigen tests were recorded on August 12,14 and 20. Minimum 721 antigen tests were carried out on August 16. Maximum 1,138 RT PCR tests had taken place on August 20, and 1,093 on August 19. And the minimum 484 RT PCR tests had taken place on August 15. Dr R P Yadav, additional director of Kanpur Division, Medical Health and Family Welfare, informed that the state government was monitoring the testing continuously and there were directions to enhance it in the district. In UP, maximum 2.5 lakh tests were recorded in Lucknow, while Ghaziabad and Gautam Buddha Nagar (Noida) stand second in testing. Around 1.5 lakh tests were recorded in Meerut and Kanpur, and they jointly stand third in testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/enhance-sample-collection-testing-in-dist-dm-to-cmo/articleshow/77697799.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kanpur||In new August low, only 193 new corona cases reported||Kanpur: For the first time in August, new Covid-19 cases recorded in a day were below the mark of 200 on Saturday, as during the last 24 hours only 193 positive cases came to light. The highest single day tally was recorded on August 5, when 536 novel coronavirus cases were noted. While on August 2, 479 new corona cases were recorded, on August 16, a total of 462 cases had come to light. With 193 cases recorded on Saturday, the district and the health department could hope that new corona cases stay in check and that they stay below 100 or 200 mark. So far, a total of 12,244 people have got infected with the novel coronavirus, of which 4,061 have recovered and discharged from hospitals. This figure also includes 61 people who were discharged on Saturday. Meanwhile, six more people died of Covid-19. They were residents of Swaroop Nagar, Latouche Road, Birhana Road, Shastri Nagar, Govind Nagar and Lal Bangla. According to the district health authorities, all the deceased were also suffering from other ailments or complications. Now, there are 3,188 active cases. Active cases are actual caseloads. These persons are undergoing treatment at hospitals in the city. Altogether, 710 teams of the health department visited 46,837 homes and conducted surveys where they identified 235 persons having symptoms and samples from 227 people were collected. The health department, meanwhile, collected 2,266 samples for tests, the reports of which will arrive soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/in-new-august-low-only-193new-corona-cases-reported/articleshow/77697814.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
August 23, 2020||Kochi||Pineapple farmers approach Kerala HC||KOCHI: The association of pineapple farmers has approached Kerala high court for immediate intervention to help stop any further suicides among pineapple farmers, in debt trap following two floods and the Covid pandemic. All Kerala Pineapple Farmers Association (AKPFA), in their petition, is requesting a minimum support price of Rs 25 per kg and writing off loans for pineapple cultivation, provided the borrower had a good track record till August 2018. “Currently, the exposure of loans in the region amounts up to Rs 450 crore and not a single farmer could service his credit in the near future. We urge both the central and state governments to initiate quick and appropriate action, including governments to initiate action to write off loans of creditors with good track record, restructure remaining loans, streamline corporate CSR funds to support the sector, issue a minimum support price of Rs 25 per kg and revival of industrial units on war-footing for the various value additions of the fruit,” said James George, president, AKPFA. According to George, around 5.4 lakh tonne of the fruit are produced in Kerala every year from nearly 18,000 hectares under cultivation. For the last 8 to 10 years, average turnover of this sector was Rs 1,250 crore per year. More than 5,000 farmers are in the sector whose cost of production would be around Rs 6.25 lakh per hectare. Of these 18,000 hectare, a major share would be of leased land and farmers heavily depend on banks and other institutional loans for farming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pineapple-farmers-approach-hc/articleshow/77697722.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kanpur||In new August low, only 193 new corona cases reported||Kanpur: For the first time in August, new Covid-19 cases recorded in a day were below the mark of 200 on Saturday, as during the last 24 hours only 193 positive cases came to light. The highest single day tally was recorded on August 5, when 536 novel coronavirus cases were noted. While on August 2, 479 new corona cases were recorded, on August 16, a total of 462 cases had come to light. With 193 cases recorded on Saturday, the district and the health department could hope that new corona cases stay in check and that they stay below 100 or 200 mark. So far, a total of 12,244 people have got infected with the novel coronavirus, of which 4,061 have recovered and discharged from hospitals. This figure also includes 61 people who were discharged on Saturday. Meanwhile, six more people died of Covid-19. They were residents of Swaroop Nagar, Latouche Road, Birhana Road, Shastri Nagar, Govind Nagar and Lal Bangla. According to the district health authorities, all the deceased were also suffering from other ailments or complications. Now, there are 3,188 active cases. Active cases are actual caseloads. These persons are undergoing treatment at hospitals in the city. Altogether, 710 teams of the health department visited 46,837 homes and conducted surveys where they identified 235 persons having symptoms and samples from 227 people were collected. The health department, meanwhile, collected 2,266 samples for tests, the reports of which will arrive soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/in-new-august-low-only-193new-corona-cases-reported/articleshow/77697774.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
August 23, 2020||Agra||Bah SDM, SNMC doctor & KHS prof test Covid +ve||AGRA/BAREILLY/MEERUT: A sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of Bah in Agra district was tested Covid-19 positive on Saturday. He is suffering from a co-morbid condition and has been admitted to a private hospital. A doctor of SN Medical College, who was on Covid duty, tested positive as well. A professor of Kendriya Hindi Sansthan (KHS) was also found positive. The doctor and professor were placed under home isolation. At least 36 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra district on Saturday, taking the district tally to 2,481. The patients included three suffering acute respiratory distress syndrome, two of influenza-like illness, two of severe acute respiratory infection, a patient of coronary artery infection and a kidney patient. Also, 35 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Saturday. Of the 2,481 cases, 84.8% have been declared "cured and discharged", and there are now 272 active Covid-19 cases left in the district. In Bareilly, at least 71 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, according to additional chief medical officer Dr Ashok Kumar. Total cases in Bareilly now reached 5,599, with 103 deaths. Meanwhile, 67 new cases were reported from Meerut on Saturday, taking the tally to 3,200. Five healthcare workers were among those infected, confirmed Meerut's chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar. One more patient succumbed, taking the toll to 108.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bah-sdm-snmc-doc-khs-prof-test-covid-ve/articleshow/77697022.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Bareilly||Roaster system for opening of markets in Bareilly city to return from Monday||BAREILLY: Considering the consistent hike in the Covid-19 positive cases in the city, the Bareilly district administration is planning to resume the roaster system for the opening of markets to control crowding at public places and ensure the maintenance of social distancing. Holding a meeting with Vyapar Mandal members on Saturday, Bareilly district magistrate Nitish Kumar informed them that the roaster system would return Monday onwards, according to which shopkeepers on each side will be allowed to open stores on alternate days. UP Udyog Vyapar Mandal district president Shobhit Saxena said, “During the meeting, the members gave various suggestions and demanded the opening of shops on Saturdays if the alternate day schedule is implemented from Monday as, according to many shopkeepers, it will be difficult for them to meet their expenses by opening the shops for only three days a week. It was, however, finalised that the shops would be opened on a roaster basis from August 24.” “According to the roaster, the shopkeepers will be allowed to open the market on the one side while the shops on the opposite side will remain closed on that day. By doing so, it is expected, there will be fewer crowds and it would be easy to maintain social distancing,” said Saxena. The DM said, “Covid-19 cases are rising significantly in the district. The primary reason is the violation of basic protocols such as social distancing by locals. Therefore, we are planning to resume the roaster system in Bareilly. From Monday, markets are likely to open on alternate days.” “Shopkeepers have been directed to ensure that Covid protocols such as social distancing and wearing of face masks are not flouted at marketplaces. Moreover, in some of the prime city markets —Bara Bazaar, Shyamganj, Qutubkhana and Quila— that remain overcrowded, the vehicular movement will remain completely suspended to do away with traffic jams and road congestions to check the spread of the virus,” said the DM. “All vehicles, including public transport such as three-wheelers, e-rickshaws and manual rickshaws, and two-wheelers and four-wheelers will be barred in the restricted areas until further orders,” added the DM. As many as 5,528 Covid-19 cases have been reported in Bareilly district, so far. At present, there are 1,615 active cases, while 103 people succumbed to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/roaster-system-for-opening-of-markets-in-bareilly-city-to-return-from-monday/articleshow/77696240.cms||Maria Khan
August 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bypolls delayed, ECI unclear on schedule due to Covid||GANDHINAGAR: Byelections for eight assembly seats in Gujarat have been delayed, probably for the first time ever, as the Election Commission of India (ECI) has not issued guidelines on holding the polls. The maximum six-month period for vacancy of an assembly seat expires on September 14, while a minimum time of 27 days is needed to conduct an election. The chief electoral officer (CEO) Gujarat has not received any communication about the elections from the ECI so far. Even if the ECI announces the schedule for byelections to these eight assembly constituencies, the process of the polls – notification, filing nominations, scrutiny of papers, voting and counting – cannot be completed until the last week of September, which means the September 14 deadline will be missed for five of the eight vacant assembly seats of Gujarat. Key sources privy to the development said, “The CEO, Gujarat has not yet not received any instructions or schedule to conduct the byelections, so it will not be possible to conduct these polls before the September 14 deadline.” Sources said the ECI had sought a Covid management plan for districts where byelections are to be held. “The CEO has asked all district collectors concerned to submit a detailed action plan for holding the byelections and they may take time to finalise the plan considering the Covid-19 situation. The byelections may be delayed until November this year,” sources said. S Murali Krishna, CEO Gujarat, said, “So far we have not received any directions from ECI to conduct byelections and we could miss the September 14 deadline. We have directed district collectors to be ready to conduct elections while taking safety measure to prevent the spread of Covid-19.” Both the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress had earlier requested the ECI not to delay byelections in state and conduct them on time under strict social distancing and other rules. Byelections are to be held on the Dang, Karjan, Morbi, Limdi, Abdasa, Gadhda, Kaprada and Dhari assembly seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bypolls-delayed-eci-unclear-on-schedule-due-to-covid/articleshow/77697633.cms||Kapil Dave
August 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Dirty hands stain hand-rubs||AHMEDABAD: Back-alley operators have begun peddling spurious hand sanitizers. Some carry fake labels and others are diluted with coloured liquids. These malpractices can have serious health consequences. A majority of the 22% of the 362 hand sanitizer samples that failed the quality tests of Food and Drugs Control Administration (FDCA) were found to be misbranded or containing non-standard ingredients. They had lower than the mandated content of isopropyl alcohol or ethanol (ethyl alcohol); it was less than 65%. What has worried the FDCA is the suspected use of spent industrial solvents procured as waste from pharma or chemical manufacturing plants in Bharuch or Ankleshwar and later packaged as sanitizers. Two such instances have already come into notice of the FDCA in the recent raids at a Sarkhej and Palanpur. “Our worst fear is the use of additives like methanol in the manufacturing of fake sanitizers,” said a senior health department official. “These can damage organs or our endocrine system and cause serious health issues once absorbed by our skin.” The official also pointed out that today consumers have to buy sanitizers that aren’t familiar brands. The department is waiting for a detailed report on the ingredients of the sanitizers that were seized during the raids. A gradual rise in the number of fake sanitizer manufacturers arose out of pure demand. IPA, the key ingredient for sanitizers, was in short supply during March when the government ran hygiene campaigns. The new central government rules had allowed sugar mills and distilleries to manufacture ethanol for sanitizers for three months. The FDCA in every state was asked to issue licences within three days of receiving an application. “The cost rose from Rs 80 a litre to Rs 240 and there was a huge queue for procurement,” said FDCA commissioner H G Koshia. “Within 12 hours on March 19, the state government introduced a policy change in licensing by allowing the use of denatured ethyl alcohol.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dirty-hands-stain-hand-rubs/articleshow/77697737.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||With Covid-19 upsetting their carts, entrepreneurs look to greener pastures||AHMEDABAD: Chef Pranav Joshi, who is a consultant with various restaurants and cafés realized the business has slowed post pandemic. Looking for an alternative source of revenue and income, Joshi turned to his passion of farming. Having partnered with another businessman, Dhenuk Kavi, who earlier undertook liasoning work for several infrastructure projects, the duo started their firm, Desi Roots, to retail farm-grown vegetables. “Farming is something I wanted to pursue since long and there was perhaps no better time to start than the lockdown. My partner’s family was already into farming of vegetables. Since we started, the response has been overwhelming and we are trying our best to meet the growing demand,” said Joshi. Echoing a similar view, even Kavi said, his business was slow and income sources were drying up after the lockdown. “The work was limited and since my family was already into farming, starting off was not difficult. We have been providing 100% natural vegetables freshly grown at the farm,” he said. Be it giving wings to their passion for farming or simply addressing the need of the hour to diversify into an alternate business, many in Ahmedabad have turned to either farming or selling vegetables. Yet another Ahmedabad-based businessman, Suyog Desai, who has a business of outsourcing for e-commerce firm, has also recently taken to retailing sanitised vegetables. “My job involves frequent travel to foreign countries. However, during the lockdown travel was not an option and the revenues began getting affected. Meanwhile during the lockdown, when the supply of vegetables was shut for a week to curb the spread of Covid-19 through super-spreaders, the idea of providing clean, germ-free vegetables in a sanitised manner struck me,” said Desai, who now has started with a venture called Hetfy vegetables and groceries. “We have served more than 1,000 customers in two months and have 350-400 regular customers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/with-covid-19-upsetting-their-carts-entrepreneurs-look-to-greener-pastures/articleshow/77697668.cms||Niyati Parikh
August 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Policemen in classroom too, learning to fight cybercrime||NEW DELHI: Twenty-seven-year old sub-inspector Vishvender Singh posted in East district has always been anxious about investigating cases pertaining to online frauds. However, for the past few days, Singh has been familiarising himself with the nature of cybercrime cases and learning new techniques to probe such computer-oriented crimes. With cases of online frauds on the rise in the coronavirus pandemic, East district police have created a cybercrime prevention training unit for its investigating officers. The classes are held daily from Monday to Friday for two hours wherein sub-inspector KK Sharma from the special staff unit has been sharing the knowledge with the investigating officers. In an order dated July 20, Jasmeet Singh, DCP (East) had stated that a specialised training unit would be set up at the DCP office to train the staff in cybercrime prevention and technical analysis of electronic data. “We do take up cases pertaining to online frauds but at times, the investigations take a long time and we lose out on crucial initial days. Currently, we are learning analysis of call data records since all online complaints usually have one or more numbers involved in them. At times, SIM cards are also cloned and the same number is being used in another device,” said Singh. Jagsoran (40), posted at the Patparganj police station, has been in the service for the last 18 years but was never taught about online crimes. “When a victim approaches us with his/her complaint, we try to crack the case as soon as possible. But our limited knowledge sometimes proves to be a hindrance. I was interested in learning about cybercrimes for a long time. We are currently acquiring knowledge about ways to deal with e-wallet frauds and also how to monitor social media accounts posting offensive content,” said Jagsoran. Senior police officers said that many officers were reluctant to handle online crime cases and hence, it was decided to create the training unit. “Having the unit in the district allows the officers to conveniently come and learn new things. All ACPs have been asked to identify their officers who are interested in learning about cybercrimes. There are many officers within the district who have great knowledge about cybercrimes and they all will come and address the officers. We are also planning to invite experts,” said the DCP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/policemen-in-classroom-too-learning-to-fight-cybercrime/articleshow/77709619.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kanpur||Man makes threat call in name of gangster Vikas Dubey, probe launched||KANPUR: A telephone caller, who claimed himself to be a friend of slain gangster Vikas Dubey, has now been found threatening an Army personnel to take his wife along with him or be ready to face dire consequences on Friday. He further went on to claim that he has murdered an official inside the court. The police said that the Army personnel, who is posted in Nagaland, is a resident of Dabauli area of the city. Since the past few years, the Army personnel and his wife were not on good terms and staying separately. A probe has been launched by SWAT following instructions by SSP Preetinder Singh. Police said that the Army personnel posted in Nagaland had come to his native place in the city in his complaint and said that he got the call from a man who introduced himself to be friend of slain gangster Vikas Dubey, and threatened him to take his wife along with him. The caller further warned that if he did not pay heed to his demand, he would eliminate him, the complaint said. He also said that Vikas Dubey was his friend. He also said that once he had executed the killing of an official inside the court. “This was the second time in the city when anyone has threatened anybody in the name of Vikas Dubey. Earlier, a computer institute owner was threatened of dire consequences. Following instructions from senior officials, we have launched an investigation and will for sure nab the culprit soon and take strict action against him,” said SWAT in charge Dinesh Yadav. A case has been registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code at Govind Nagar police station and further investigations are on, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-makes-threat-call-in-name-of-gangster-vikas-dubey-probe-launched/articleshow/77697781.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||BPA teacher to get national award||AHMEDABAD: The ministry of education on August 21 announced the names of teachers from the state selected to receive national honours on September 5, Teacher’s Day.The three teachers are Mahipalsinh Jetavat, a teacher at Tidana Primary School at Muli in Surendranagar and Prakashchandra Suthar, principal of Kanjeli Primary School in Vadali in Sabarkantha district. Sudha Joshi, a teacher at the Secondary School for the Blind at the Blind People’s Association (BPA) campus was selected in the category of schools for disabled students. “I have been associated with BPA since 1987. It was indeed a new world for me. The added challenge for me was I teach science and mathematics, which is difficult for the higher sections to grasp if it’s not taught with the right method,” Joshi told TOI. But she devised unique methods of tactile models for several scientific concepts and developed ways to teach difficult mathematical formulae to visually-impaired students of Classes IX and X. In the past few years, she has also taken the BPA dance and drama team to venues in India and abroad. “The most memorable one was the performance at Rashtrapati Bhavan last year, where our students got a chance to perform. As a teacher, my biggest reward is the remembrance of students years after they leave the school,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bpa-teacher-to-get-national-award/articleshow/77697647.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kochi||Artists protest draft EIA through online art show||KOCHI: As many as 143 visual artists from across the country have come together to be part of Green Dreams, an online national exhibition of art to protest against draft EIA 2020, considered as anti-p eople and anti-environment. The exhibition will go live at 12:30am on Sunday. This is the third in the series of virtual exhibitions organized by White Rose Movement. “The painting exhibition voices the concerns of artists about the proposed EIA-2020 that will result in huge environmental degradation. Most of the art works in the exhibition are landscape paintings chosen to highlight the cause of the environment,” said artist Satyapal T A, key organizer and member of White Rose that is curating the show. Photographs are also part of the exhibition and six of the art works are based on tribal themes to highlight the plight of the community which would be severely impacted by the provisions of the Act. Altogether there are more than 280 works of art available for viewing on social media pages of White Rose including Facebook, blog and Youtube. “The voice of artists across the nation is a clarion call that rings the alarm bell. Awake, arise, rest not until we save our motherland,” said Kalyan Kumar Chakravarthy who inaugurated the show. The long list of artists include Gogi Saroj Pal, Ved Neyyar, Ramesh Rao, Rekah Bhatnagar, Amit Sing Salathia, Ifthikhar Jaffar, Shaffi Chaman, Chaitali Chanda, Rakhi kumar, Deepak Maheshram. Manoj and Hari Krishna. Whiterose, an ant-Fascist movement inspired by the non-violent, resistance group in Nazi Germany, utilizing social media platforms like Facebook, YouTube and blogs had earlier organized a show called Black Rainbow, which paid tribute to George Floyd and Sky-Blue - The Shadows of Nagasaki.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/artists-protest-draft-eia-through-online-art-show/articleshow/77697745.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: 2,007 people contained in western part of Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Covid is now catching up in western parts of the city and after high a number of cases emerged in their vicintiy, the dwellings of 569 families with 2,007 people have been notified micro-containment zones in the western part of the city. Most of these micro containment zones are in the South West Zone, which comprises the Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Bopal-Ghuma Maktampura and Sarkhej areas. This part of the the city accounts for 369 families and 1,200 people who have been contained. The North West Zone, comprising the areas of Bodakdev, Thaltej, Gota and Chandlodia, has 73 families and 312 people who have been contained. Officials in the AMC said a society is declared a micro-containment zone if there are three or more cases in it. Officials said that of the 26 societies declared micro-containment zones, 16 are in the western part of the city. Officials said that more micro-containment areas means an area has more cases. He said sporadic cases were not a worry for the corporation but such clusters were. He further said that the AMC has also increased testing and thus more cases are being reported. Officials said that the western parts also have more active cases, of the 2,916 cases in the city, 1,411 are from the western part. The South West Zone accounts for 450 active cases, while the North West Zone has the highest number, 493, while the West Zone has 468 cases. There are 314 active cases in the Central Zone, 320 in the North Zone, 424 in the East Zone and 449 in the South Zone of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2007-people-contained-in-western-part-of-the-city/articleshow/77697738.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Heavy rain triggers landslides, house collapse in HP||Manali: Heavy rains in most parts of the state have triggered landslides while rivers and nullahs are in full spate. Five members of a family were buried after their house collapsed late on Thursday night at Dayargi panchayat of Nachan area of Mandi district. All of them were rescued by the villagers. Sources said two houses in Nachan area of Mandi district had been damaged in the downpour. A house of Nanak Chand, resident of Pali village, collapsed, but family members came out of it safely. In another incident, Lakshman Das’s two-room house collapsed. Lakshman, his wife, two children and his mother got buried in the debris. They were rescued by the villagers and panchayat pradhan. Meanwhile, the water level has increased in Beas, Parvati, Satluj, Ravi rivers. The boulders are falling on the Mandi-Manali national highway at many places, making driving on the highway a risky affair. The nullahs along Manali-Leh highway have also swollen while some are flowing over the road. The Darcha-Shinkula, an alternate road link between Himachal and Ladakh, had also been blocked at Palmo after a chunk of road got washed away by flooded nullah. The road was repaired by the Border Roads Organization (BRO). According to officials, as many as 28 roads in Mandi district were lying blocked on Friday morning, of which 14 were restored for traffic. Twelve irrigation schemes were also disrupted. The public works department and NHAI officials were asked to deploy extra machinery at landslide-prone areas. The Kullu administration has also asked people not to go close to rivers and nullahs which can witness a sudden rise in the water level. Kullu DC Richa Verma said, “People are advised to avoid driving in the night. Vehicles should not be parked towards mountain side. Water level in rivers is already high. Sudden rise in level can put people in trouble. So, everyone is advised to maintain a safe distance. There is a high possibility of landslides. The migrant labourers are also being sensitised about hidden dangers.” Snowfall on high peaks Heavy downpour and light snowfall on high peaks of the state have provided relief from the heat. Sudden decrease in temperature has forced residents to wear woolens. The peaks in Lahaul-Spiti, Manali, Chamba and Kinnaur experienced light snowfall on Friday. At 11.9°C, Keylong in Lahaul valley was the coldest in the state. The minimum temperature of Kalpa, Manali, Shimla and Dharamshala was recorded at 13.3°C, 14.8°C, 15.6°C and 18.2°C, respectively. Rain Meter Naina Devi | 161mm Arki | 158mm Bhoranj | 95mm Dalhousie | 66mm Baldwara | 64mm Sundernagar | 60mm Sujanpur Tira | 51mm Karsog | 47 mm Bilaspur | 41mm ‘Heavy rain in Bilaspur, Solan’ Most places of Himachal received rain in the last 24 hours. Very heavy rainfall occurred at isolated places of Bilaspur and Solan districts and heavy rainfall occurred at isolated places of Hamirpur and Chamba districts. The maximum day temperature has decreased by 1 to 2°C Manmohan Singh | director, Shimla meteorological centre||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/heavy-rain-triggers-landslides-house-collapse-in-hp/articleshow/77691053.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Chandigarh||PTI selection in Haryana:HC dismisses plea to defer written exam||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday dismissed the petition seeking deferring of the written examination for selection of physical training instructors (PTIs) in Haryana on the ground that some of the candidates are Covid-19 positive. The examination is scheduled for Sunday. HC’s Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal dismissed the petition after hearing the reply of the Haryana government that elaborate arrangements have been made by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) to contain the spread of Covid-19 during the examination. Haryana advocate general Baldev Raj Mahajan gave complete details about the steps taken by the state authorities in various districts to ensure the infection does not spread due to the examination on Sunday. Mahajan also told the court that the examination was being done in compliance of the Supreme Court order that had asked the state to complete the selection procedure within five months. A detailed affidavit was also filed by the HSSC on Friday, informing the HC that there are around 9,500 applicants who are going to appear for written examination and the commission had arranged 95 centres in five districts of Hisar, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Panipat and Kaithal. It submitted that apart from maintaining social distancing while entering the examination centres, they had ensured that one examination centre did not have more than 100 candidates whereas the minimum seating capacity of a school 240 to 600 candidates. HC was also informed that in view of the Covid-19 situation, the commission had kept two schools as reserve in each district so as to meet any sudden exigencies on account of any centre being situated in contained zone. The candidates having symptoms of fever, cough, cold should be made to sit in a separate room, HC was told. After hearing the reply and the contentions made by AG, the HC refused to interfere in the matter and dismissed the petition. The matter had reached before the HC in the wake of a petition filed by Rekha Rani and several other candidates who had applied for the post of PTI seeking directions for quashing the notice issued by the HSSC on July 30 through which the state had decided to conduct written examination for the post of PTI during pandemic. It was also argued that some of the petitioners were Covid-19 positive and kept in isolation by the administration and they were not in a position to appear for examination scheduled to be held on August 23. Directions were sought to defer the examination till the pandemic is over. On April 2, the SC had upheld the decision of the Punjab and Haryana high court passed in September 2013 setting aside the appointment of 1983 PTIs selected through the HSSC in 2010. The apex court had also directed the state to complete the fresh selection process within five months. In pursuance to the SC order, the Haryana government on May 15 released a fresh advertisement to start the selection process and fixed the written examination for August 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pti-selection-in-haryanahc-dismisses-plea-to-defer-written-exam/articleshow/77691063.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Sirsa sweet shop owner wins Rs 1.5 crore lottery||Sirsa: Residents of Kalanwali, a town in Haryana’s Sirsa district, have a reason to celebrate — a local again has won the top prize of the Punjab government lottery. Dharm Pal Midha, who runs a sweet shop with his brother Devi Lal Midha at Kalanwali Mandi, struck gold with the Rs 1.5-crore Rakhi bumper lottery. The town, near the Punjab border, already has two lottery crorepatis — Bhagat Ram, a vegetable hawker, had in 2013 won the Punjab government’s Rs 1-crore Lohri bumper lottery and Purushottam Bansal, who won Punjab’s Rs 1-crore Baisakhi bumper lottery after him. Dharam Pal Midha has been regularly buying lottery tickets on Diwali, New Year, Rakhi and Baisakhi for the last 10-12 years but has never won a prize till now. This time, he had bought six Rakhi bumper lottery tickets from different agents and the lucky ticket was from an agent in Sirsa.the agent called him up late on Thursday and told him that he had won Rs 1.5 crore. Like the two previous winners, Midha too wants to use the money for his business and also help needy relatives and donate to social organizations. Bansal, used to run a grocery shop, now owns a readymade garment shop and Ram, who was vegetable vendor, now owns a grocery shop. Caption: Family members of Sirsa sweet shop owner celebrate his Rs 1.5 crore lottery win and the lottery winner with his brother at their shop||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sirsa-sweet-shop-owner-wins-rs-1-5-crore-lottery/articleshow/77691093.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Nagpur||City lawyer moves MoEFCC to scrap licenses to 50 saw mills||Nagpur: The controversial issue of giving additional horizontal bandsaw licences to 50 timber units in the state has once again come into focus. A city environment lawyer has filed an appeal with the environment ministry (MoEFCC) demanding scrapping of these licenses, which were issued in violation of apex court orders. A copy of the appeal has also been sent to Central Empowered Committee (CEC), monitoring implementation of the Supreme Court orders. Though the forest department has put the issue on the back burner, environment lawyer Manish Jeswani has filed an application before MoEFCC regional office last week for condonation of delay and quashing the order passed by state level committee (SLC) headed by then PCCF UK Agrawal. The SLC had on July 23, 2018, granted additional horizontal bandsaws to 50 units. This was in addition to existing cutting machines. The order violated apex court order issued on March 4, 1997, as well against Maharashtra Forest Rules 2014. SLC member-secretary, state’s chief secretary and PCCF (HOFF) have been made as respondents. Jeswani being a third party and unaware about the impugned decision taken on July 23, 2018, urged for condonation of delay of 754 days mentioning various court rulings and existing circumstances in the present case. Affected parties are allowed to file objections in 60 days. Jeswani has said that he learnt about the SLC decision this month and he took time to collect the documents. Therefore, there is no delay in filing appeal and requested for condonation in his appeal. The lawyer has said there is serious violation of Supreme Court order (in writ petition 202/1995) which states: “All unlicensed saw mills, veneer and plywood industries in Maharashtra and the UP are to be closed forthwith and the state governments would not remove or relax the condition for grant of permission or license for opening of any such industry and it shall also not grant any fresh license for this purpose.” Senior forest officials, who were co-opted as members in SLC, pointed out decision to issue 50 licenses was against apex court order. Learning that SLC committed a mistake, on February 28, 2019, then PCCF Agrawal sought to amend Maharashtra Forest Rules, in order to regularize the ‘illegal’ licences for 50 additional 42 inch horizontal bandsaws, but government rejected the demand. The petition says that SLC meeting held on June 27, 2017, had decided that grant of additional bandsaws shall be considered only after timber availability report received from the state. However, SLC under Agrawal took decision to issue licenses on July 23, 2018, without waiting for the timber availability reports. Petition further says granting additional bandsaw licenses without timber availability report violates SC orders which mandate grant of licenses only after assessing availability of legal timber, carrying capacity and sustainability of forests. Jeswani pointed out, “Granting additional bandsaws to existing licenses amounts to grant of fresh licence. It creates every possibility of illegal felling of trees inside forests for securing timber availability.” He alleged deliberate violation of rules and demanded quashing of SLC order to grant licences for additional horizontal bandsaws. FOREST DEPT MUM * On July 23, 2018, SLC headed by UK Agrawal issues horizontal bandsaw licenses to 50 saw mills * This is in violation of apex court order dated March 4, 1997 * Senior forest officials in SLC had pointed out decision was against apex court order * Learning this, SLC ex-chairman Agrawal in February 2019 sought to amend Maharashtra Forest Rules to regularize licenses * State government rejected SLC’s demand, asked it to review decision||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-lawyer-moves-moefcc-to-scrap-licenses-to-50-saw-mills/articleshow/77707180.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Notices to 4 depts over discharge of effluents into WJC||Yamunanagar: The Yamunanagar regional office of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has issued notices to four government departments, asking them to submit their plan of action to stop discharge of effluents into the Western Jamuna Canal (WJC). Regional officer (RO) Nirmal Kashyap said the notices have been sent to the Yamunanagar district development and panchayat office (DDPO), Yamunanagar municipal corporation (MC), public health department and the Radaur municipal council, as these four entities were found releasing effluents into the WJC. As per information, during an inspection in July, it was found that effluents, including domestic sewage and sewage water from the treatment plants in villages and urban areas of Yamunanagar, are being released into the WJC at 22 spots. The canal supplies water to Delhi and the southern districts of Haryana for drinking and irrigation purposes. After collecting the samples of effluents, the same were sent for testing the biological oxygen demand (BOD). “Recently, we received the results of testing and most are found not as per the set standards. In some cases, the BOD level has been found as high as about 260mg, whereas the acceptable level is about 30mg,” said RO Nirmal. “WJC is not a drain but a canal. Therefore, we have issued notices and asked these departments to submit their plan as to how they are going to stop the discharge of polluted water into the freshwater canal. We have sought their replies within 15 days and further course of action will be decided after their submissions,” the officer said. According to the report, maximum polluted effluents are being released into the canal in the Darwa dairy complex area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/notices-to-4-depts-over-discharge-of-effluents-into-wjc/articleshow/77691078.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Vadodara||Man running fake call centre detained||Vadodara: A fake call centre used for cheating American citizens by promising loans was busted in Gorwa area on Saturday. Officials from the detection of crime branch (DCB) had received information about the accused, Rohit Sahoo, running the call centre from his house in Jalanand Township in Gorwa. DCB sleuths raided the house, detained Sahoo and seized a laptop and five mobile phones from him. Police have declared his accomplices Jinnie alias Maksud Beg Mirza, a resident of Ahmedabad, and David Markson alias Vijendra alias Viju Parmar, who lives in Gotri, as wanted. According to police, Sahoo used to call the victims using special applications and promise loans at interest as low as 4% to 5% to the victims. “He used to take processing fees from the victims in the form of payment cards but the loans were never disbursed,” said inspector A B Jadeja of DCB. The accused used to give details of payment cards to Mirza and Parmar, who would process the payment. Sahoo used to be paid 30% of the amount for his job. During preliminary investigation, he revealed that he had been running the call centre for the past three years. On Saturday his swab samples were submitted for coronavirus test and he was kept under quarantine. Police said that he will be formally arrested after his test report turns out to be negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-running-fake-call-centre-detained/articleshow/77696307.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Chandigarh||3 soldiers hurt as Army truck falls into gorge amid rain||Manali: Three Army personnel sustained injuries after a military truck in which they were travelling on Mandi-Pathankot highway fell into a deep gorge near Urla village of Himachal’s Mandi district on Friday. According to sources, the jawans were on the way from Army transit camp in Pandoh to Pathankot when the truck slipped from the road and fell into the gorge. It was raining heavily during that time. Local rushed for help and brought all three injured to the road. The jawans were moved to civil hospital at Padhar for first aid from, where they were shifted to Military Hospital in Palampur. The jawans were identified as Krishan Kumar (45), Rahul Vishwakarma (22) and Akhil Kumar (24). According to Mandi superintendent of police Gurdev Chand Sharma, one of the jawans sustained grievous injury. “Police are investigating the reason behind the accident,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-soldiers-hurt-as-army-truck-falls-into-gorge-amid-rain/articleshow/77691073.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Jaipur||Now, an integrated office in Jaipur to take care of forests & wildlife||JAIPUR: For better efficiency and reduction in administrative delays in the state forest department, the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change has decided to set up an integrated regional office (IRO) in Jaipur in October. The IRO will include the offices of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), Central Zoo Authority (CZA), Forest Survey of India (FSI) and Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) under one roof. Pink City is among 19 cities of the country where such regional offices will be established. For the same, the ministry issued a notification regarding the reorganisation of regional or sub-regional offices across the country. The move has been welcomed by office bearers and wildlife lovers as it aims to improve efficiency and ensure better coordination. Rajasthan NTCA member Diya Kumari said “The Jaipur office will have the additional responsibility of also handling Delhi apart from Rajasthan. It is indeed commendable that the MoEFF&CC is setting up 19 IROs in the country. These offices will surely provide improved, timely, effective and coordinated action and also optimally utilise the existing resource.” The notification further reads that these IROs will have a combined strength, including the ministry’s 319 personnel, NTCA (6), CZA (4), and WCCB (74). All the offices will be under one roof and it will be headed by the deputy director-general of forests. Mahendra Singh Kachhawa, an advocate at the high court (forest and environment) said, “All offices under one roof will ensure better efficiency and coordination. People can also receive appropriate clearances for industries, roads, mining, irrigation projects, cement and power projects without delay and in a transparent manner.” Many believe this will also reduce illegal activities including mining, poaching, cutting of trees in the sanctuaries and tiger reserve of the state. Moreover, speedy correspondence with agencies like NTCA could benefit in tiger conservation. Tapeshwar Singh Bhati, president of the Mukundra Hills Environment and Wildlife Society, Kota, said, “The state has three tiger reserves and two are in the offing. After the death of two big cats in MHTR, the reintroduction programme is facing crisis. If NTCA office is established in the state, the officers will be able to regularly monitor the situation and can issue timely directions. Also, it will curb rampant illegal mining in Sariska and Mukundra as it will keep a check on forest staff.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/now-an-integrated-office-in-city-to-take-care-of-forests-wildlife/articleshow/77698386.cms||Ajay Singh
August 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: 23% of district’s cases from Sanand||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat’s motown, Sanand, reported six more Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking its tally to 373 so far. Sanand taluka thus accounts for 23% of the 1,626 cases in Ahmedabad district, excluding Ahmedabad city. Dholka has the highest tally of all talukas in the district with 388 cases. On Saturday, Sanand town reported six fresh cases while the district reported 22. The district had on Friday crossed the 1,600-case mark. Officials said that for the past few days, the district has seen a marginal increase in Covid cases. The officials said fresh cases were reported from Aangan Apartment in Adani Shantigram in Khodiyar, while one case was reported from Safal Vihan Bungalows near Gokuldham in the Sanathal area of Sanand taluka. Cases were also reported from Gokuldham Bungalows in Sanand and Akash Residency in Shela. Of the 22 cases reported on Saturday, six were from Sanand, four each in Daskroi and Bavla, three in Dhandhuka, two in Dholka and one each in Dholera, Mandal and Viramgam talukas. Taluka-wise, of the 1,626 cases in the district, 388 are from Dholka, 373 from Sanand and 264 from Daskroi, 174 from Viramgam, 179 from Bavla, 123 cases from Dhandhuka, 76 from Mandal, 36 from Detroj and 13 from Dholera. As of Saturday, the district has 89 active cases and 58 Covid patients have died. Some 1,480 patients have been discharged. The district has 4,239 people under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/23-of-districts-cases-from-sanand/articleshow/77697789.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Ahmedabad passes 30,000-case mark, toll now 1,680||AHMEDABAD: With 179 new Covid-19 cases in the 24 hours ending 5pm on Saturday, Ahmedabad district’s tally of cases crossed the 30,000-mark, at 30,105. Analysis of the cases reveals that the district added 10,000 cases in 57 days at the rate of 176 cases a day. In this period, 282 Covid patients died, a mortality rate of 2.8%. Gujarat, in the 24 hours ending 5pm on Saturday, added 1,212 cases, taking the total to 85,678. The state also recorded 14 Covid deaths, taking its death toll to 2,883. This was the second consecutive day the state posted 1,200-plus cases and was the highest daily tally so far. The deaths on Saturday included six from Surat, three from Ahmedabad, two from Junagadh, and one each from Vadodara, Kutch, and Patan. The new cases include 238 from Surat, 179 from Ahmedabad, 122 from Vadodara, and 99 from Rajkot. Cumulative cases in Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot are now at 18,288, 7,077 and 3,852, respectively. Jamnagar and Amreli districts recorded 80 and 67 new cases, which were among the highest so far. A total of 980 patients were discharged in these 24 hours, taking the total number of people discharged in the state to 68,257. The discharges include 308 from Surat, 176 from Ahmedabad, 85 from Rajkot, and 47 from Vadodara. With these numbers, the total number of active patients in the state is 14,538, or 17% of total cases. The share of discharged and deceased patients is 80% and 3%, respectively. Gujarat carried out 75,258 tests in 24 hours – its highest so far – taking the total number of tests to 16.95 lakh. The state is carrying out 1,158 tests per day per million people, the state health department said. As on Saturday evening, Gujarat has 4.69 lakh persons under quarantine, of which 653 are in institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-passes-30k-case-mark-toll-now-1680/articleshow/77697808.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Surat||17 infected cops to donate their plasma||In a mass plasma donation drive by Surat city police, a total of 22 cops have agreed to donate plasma out of which 17 were shortlisted after antibody test. “Apart from preventing spread of the virus it (plasma donation) is an additional contribution by police to the society,” said Ajay Tomar, city police commissioner. Till date, 67 cops have tested positive for Covid-19, while one assistant sub-inspector has died of the virus infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/17-infected-cops-to-donate-their-plasma/articleshow/77697109.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||11-year-old gets new ‘face’ at Ahmedabad hospital||AHMEDABAD: Mayank (name changed), 11, a resident of a village near Palanpur in Banaskantha district, posed a medical challenge for doctors at KD Hospital in Ahmedabad, when he was brought in on May 29. The victim of a road accident, Mayank had deep lacerations on his face and chest that had exposed the interiors of his eye, nose, mouth, neck and chest. “He was not only put on a ventilator, but also given CPR. He was fed through a tube for nearly a fortnight as a team of experts – ranging from a paediatric intensivist to a plastic surgeon and a neurosurgeon – were put on the case,” said a senior official at KD Hospital. The team consisted of neurosurgeons Dr Sandip Modh, Dr Gopal Shah, ER consultant Dr Vivek Ambalia, plastic surgeon Dr Rutvij Parikh, oculo-plastic surgeon Dr Sapan, and neonatologist Dr Snehal Patel. It worked on the case and decided on suturing instead of surgery. “One of the major factors for the decision was multiple fractures including those of facial bones. There was the danger of a tear to the meninges – the the layer between the skull and the brain. Thus, suturing was performed to close the wounds,” said an official, adding that he was discharged after a month’s treatment. Mayank recently came back to the hospital for a check-up and the doctors are happy with his condition. “He may undergo plastic surgeries after some more time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/11-year-old-gets-new-face-at-city-hospital/articleshow/77697788.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Start early and chase down your dream career||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Experts, who spoke at Mission Admission webinar series organized by Times of India in association with Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, advised students to start a disciplined pursuit from the first year in college so that they will be able to avoid unnecessary stress in the final year and thus choose the right career. ‘Campus recruitment and stress on final year students’ was the topic and the series which started on August 19 concluded on Saturday. Jenty Joy, key coordinator of the placement officers’ group in Kerala, said an engineering student won’t be burdened by stress in the final year if he/she started dreaming of a job in the second year and start working accordingly. “Companies that come for recruitment do not ask a student about anything other than what he/she learned. If students get their basics right, they can easily get a job on course completion,” he said. Dr Sebind Kumar, secretary, Indian psychiatric society (Kerala), said a little bit of stress helped students to get focus, meet targets and fare well in exams. However, one needs to know the breaking point where the stress starts affecting performance. “Stress levels vary from person to person. If one feels depressed for more than two weeks, it’s time to seek medical help,” he said. Mithun Vijay, former student coordinator of Sacred Heart College placement cell, said students need to exercise more caution while choosing courses and institutions for their degree and PG courses. “Teachers may not be able to help you much during job hunt. It’s the responsibility of students to prepare for a job and improve skills required for campus selection. Placement cell and the ecosystem on campus play a major role in this endeavour,” he said. Aswin Ashok, another panellist and 2020 batch BTech graduate from Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham who got placed in an MNC recently, said students should identify courses and subjects they like. “There is no problem if you lose out a year or take a break. If your basics are fine and you are passionate about it. Opportunities will come to you,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/start-early-and-chase-down-your-dream-career/articleshow/77697793.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Teachers, students to run for Fit India Freedom||AHMEDABAD: The state education department has directed faculty members and students of all universities to post a one-minute video of all their faculty members doing physical exercises. This could be in the form of running or walking, the department said in a press statement. The videos have to be posted on the website of Swarnim Gujarat Sports University till September 2. The initiative is part of the Fit India Movement launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last year. This time around, the Fit India Freedom Run has been organized by the Centre as part of the initiative. The event is being organized keeping in mind the social distancing norms. The government has recently sent a circular to the heads of all universities and colleges in the state, informing them to participate in the event by posting videos of all faculty members and students doing jogging, running or walking activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/teachers-students-to-run-for-fit-india-freedom/articleshow/77697807.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad receives 88% of season’s rainfall||AHMEDABAD: The area under Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), which has received 88% of its total rain so far, received nearly 4mm of rain after a heavy spell on Saturday morning. The city has so far received 702 mm of rains while in the last 36 hours it has received more than 35 mm of rains. Some parts of the city also received light to moderate showers late on Saturday night. The south west zone area of the city including Jodhpur, Sarkhej, Maktampura and Vejalpur has received the maximum 791 mm of rains so far followed by 750 mm in Odhav area. Meanwhile, the state has received 91% of seasonal rainfall with heavy to moderate showers in several districts on Saturday. According to State Emergency Operations Centre (SEOC) data, Saltasana in Mehsana district received 150 mm rainfall till 10 pm on Saturday, followed by 130 mm in Bhanvad in Devbhoomi Dwarka, and 117 mm in Bhiloda in Arvalli district. A total of 16 districts received 50 to 99 mm rainfall. Ahmedabad city recorded 4 mm rainfall. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) website on Saturday mentioned that multiple weather systems are active over the region. While a cyclonic circulation persists on northeast Arabian sea, a well-marked low-pressure area over northwest Madhya Pradesh is likely to move westwards. In next two days, heavy to very heavy rainfall is expected in Dahod, Mahisagar, Chhota Udepur, Kutch, Banaskantha, Patan, Mehsana, Sabarkantha, Gandhinagar, Arvalli, Kheda, Ahmedabad, Panchmahal, Vadodara, Narmada, Bharuch, Surat, Junagadh and Devbhoomi Dwarka. The heavy rainfall is likely to get reduced from August 26, mentioned IMD forecast. In terms of regional rainfall so far, Kutch has received 159% of seasonal rainfall, followed by 122% in Saurashtra, 83% in South Gujarat, 69.5% in East-Central Gujarat, and 68% in North Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/drench-mark-88-of-seasons-rainfall/articleshow/77697809.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Road caves in at Surdhara Circle||AHMEDABAD: A portion of the road caved in at Surdhara Circle in Thaltej ward. It was ostensibly caused by a leak in a recently-laid drainage line. Officials said that as soon as the cave-in was reported, the area was barricaded and the leak discovered. Officials also said that the contractor for the work had not properly filled in the area, which led to the cave-in. Officials said the cave-in was not a big one, and was about 1.5 feet deep and was would be easily filled. They said the road will be motorable again in 24 hours. An officer added that the leak had also been plugged. Officials said that they are also checking the strength of the road nearby to ensure no more cave-ins take place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-road-caves-in-at-surdhara-circle/articleshow/77697812.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Nagpur||Woman moneylender held||NAGPUR: Sleuths of the crime branch on Saturday arrested Preeti Raipure (32), a resident of Subhash Nagar, for allegedly extorting excess money from an LIC agent. Police said Khamla resident Shabnam Hafiz Sheikh (23) had borrowed Rs2 lakh at 10% interest from Raipure. Sheikh had paid back Rs9 lakh. Despite earning an enormous sum via interest, Raipure had threatened Shabnam and was demanding more money. Shabnam then lodged a complaint with crime branch DCP Gajanan Rajmane. Further investigation is under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/woman-moneylender-held/articleshow/77697806.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Vadodara||Five swept away by currents in Gujarat's Dahod river||VADODARA: Five persons were swept away Anas river in spate near the Thuthi Kankasiya village in Jhalod taluka of Dahod district on Saturday. Four of these persons remained stranded for at least a couple of hours on a landmass in the river before they too were dragged away by the strong current even as a large crowd and officials watched helplessly. Six persons had gone to the Anas river to immerse the ashes of relative who had died in the village. #Gujarat: Four men were stranded on a land mass in Anas river near Thunthi Kankasiya village in #Dahod district. On… https://t.co/w7tnEY3FIp— TOI Ahmedabad (@TOIAhmedabad) 1598090281000 They waded through water to reach an island-like place in the river on Saturday morning. When the group was present there, water started rising menacingly in the river and before they could call for help they found themselves stranded there. Seeing the situation two men tried to swim back to the bank, but only one of them managed to reach there. Kadakiya Garasiya was swept away in the gushing waters and was later declared dead while Bharat Garasiya had a miraculous escape as he managed to reach the bank of the river. Four persons remained stranded on the river. These included Bhimji Garasiya, Kalu Bhabhor, Valsing Damor and one unidentified person. The teams of fire brigade from Jhalod rushed to the spot but were not equipped to handle the situation. Deputy superintendent of police Bhavesh Jadhav said that a team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) was also called from Lunawada in neighbouring Mahisagar district. But before this team could reach the spot and help those stranded on the island, they were swept away by the swelling river. Villagers present at the spot and the relatives of the victims of the tragedy vented ire and the delay in help reaching the place. They claimed that they were told that a helicopter would also come, but it did not happen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/five-swept-away-by-currents-in-dahod-river/articleshow/77696321.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Strict police bandobust over sales of Ganesh idols||AHMEDABAD: As the festival of Ganesh Chaturthi starts from Saturday, city police chief Sanjay Srivastava has reiterated that people should recognize the hazards of overcrowding to buy Ganesh idols or for immersion in times of Covid-19. DCP (control room) Vijay Patel has informed that the festival has to observed according to the guidelines issued by the government. Every senior police official of the city, police station in-charges and “She” teams have been informed to educate the people about the dos and don’ts of the festival. The press release issued by the police commissioner’s office stated that to prevent violation of notification issued earlier by the city police chief, enough police bandobust has been deployed. The commissioner also appealed to the citizens to ensure immersion of Ganesh idols at their homes. Earlier, the police commissioner had issued a notification banning use of materials and colours that are not environment-friendly, for the making of Ganesh idols and tazias. The notification stated tazias and Ganesh idols cannot be bigger than 2ft in height and processions, DJs and loudspeakers for celebration were banned, during Muharram, Ganesh puja and subsequent immersions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/strict-police-bandobust-over-sales-of-ganesh-idols/articleshow/77697843.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Rajkot||Notorious criminal, wife stab transporter||Rajkot: A notorious criminal, Hardik Pandya and his wife Bhumi were booked for attempting to murder a 22-year-old man on Morbi Highway in Rajkot on Friday late night. The victim, Yashraj Manjariya, who is into transport business, was stabbed several times in the chest, back and the neck, allegedly by Hardik over a petty issue. According to a complaint registered by Manjariya, when he was going on his two-wheeler a man and a woman in their 30s approached him near Khandheri stadium on Jamnagar Road. The couple accused him of staring at them. Following this Manjariya and the couple had an argument and the former left the place. The complaint further mentioned that the couple followed Manjariya in their car and tried to stop him near Madhapar Chowkdi. But when Manjariya did not stop and turned towards Morbi Bypass, they followed him and rammed his two-wheeler from behind. Manjariya fell down and before he could get up, the man came out of the car and shouted: “Do you know me? I am Hardik Pandya and she is my wife Bhumi, how dare you stare at us.” The man then allegedly stabbed Manjariya several times while Bhumi took out a gun from the car and was about to shoot, when Hardik stopped her. After the couple left, Manjariya, called his friend who took him to hospital, where his condition is stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/notorious-criminal-wife-stab-transporter/articleshow/77697228.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara case tally nears 7K-mark||Vadodara: With 115 new Covid-19 cases being registered in the city and district since Friday evening, the total number of cases registered so far went up to 6,991. Testing too continued to gain momentum with 2,271 tests being conducted since Friday evening, the highest so far. According to data shared by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), new Covid-19 cases were almost evenly distributed across the city. The new cases included 24 from the east zone, 21 from the west zone, 16 from the north zone and 21 from the south zone. The new cases in the city were reported from Gorwa, Maneja, Bapod, Dandiabazaar, Waghodiya Road, Harni Road, Manjalpur, Ajwa Road, Ellora Park, Makarpura, Karelibaug, Atladara, Chhani, Sama, Wadi, Tandalja, Diwalipura and Gotri. The areas of the district outside VMC limits reported 32 cases including those from Bil, Sevasi, Waghodiya, Dabhoi, Shinor, Karjan and Padra. One person from Anand also tested positive for Covid-19 in Vadodara. The officials also confirmed the death of one person due to Covid-19 being the primary cause. With this the total number of deaths in the city reached 128. After 51 more patients being discharged, 1,333 remained under treatment including 58 patients in a serious condition on ventilators or BIPAP machines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-case-tally-nears-7k-mark/articleshow/77696337.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Surat||Fire erupts at closed Dahej chemical factory||Surat: People in villages near the chemical factory Yashashvi Rasayan Private Limited in Dahej special economic zone (SEZ) in Bharuch, were in for a shock on Saturday morning as they woke up to another fire in the already closed unit. However, there was no casualty due to the fire, said a fire official. On June 3, a huge blast had triggered a massive fire at the same factory killing 12 people and injuring over 70 others. Saturday’s fire broke out while gas welding work was going on at the site for the dismantling of machinery parts from the closed unit. A spark from the gas welding sparked the fire in the fibre material lying in the premises along with the debris. The fire was brought under control by the fire department of Dahej SEZ within 30 minutes. Confirming the fire incident, Niraj Shah, manager (Infra) at Dahej SEZ told TOI, “Fire was triggered during the gas welding work at the closed Yashashvi Rasayan Pvt Ltd in Dahej SEZ. The fire occurred due to a spark in the fibre material when the workers were dismantling the parts at the earlier blast site.” Shah added, “Our fire tenders immediately reached the spot and doused the fire within half-an-hour. Due to the fire in the fibre material, there was heavy smoke. However, there is no casualty as workers rushed to safety after the fire in fibre material.” After the major blast in the chemical company on June 3, the Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health (DISH) and the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) had ordered the closure of the Yashashvi Rasayan Pvt Ltd on June 4. The Dahej Marine police had registered an FIR against seven senior company authorities on June 11. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) in its order on June 8 had slapped penalty of Rs 25 crore on the chemical company and asked it to pay Rs 25,000 per person for the displacement of over 2,000 villagers following the fire on June 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/fire-erupts-at-closed-dahej-chemical-factory/articleshow/77696386.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Low-lying areas inundated; dozen slums washed away in rain fury||BHOPAL: Post heavy rains, about a dozen slums were washed away, while another 50 were damaged in Damkheda area of Bhopal after opening of Kaliasot dam sluice gates here on Saturday. SDRF team was deployed in the area. No injury or loss of life has been reported, according to government officials. Torrential rains led to flood-like condition in many areas of the state capital, here on Saturday. After 14 years in Bhopal, more than 8½ inches of rainfall was recorded in 24 hours. Low-lying areas were submerged due to continuous rains from Friday night till noon on Saturday. In some places, two to three feet water accumulated on most the roads. Traffic movement came to a standstill in some areas. Traffic on the Ratibabd-Sehore Road road was disrupted due to flooding in the Kolans river, which is also a catchment area of the Upper Lake. Over a dozen slums washed away in Damkheda B sector, according to reports. It was due to release of water from Kaliasot Dam. The water level of Kaliasot River had risen to dangerous levels after Bhadbhada sluice gates were opened. Damkheda B sector lies in Kolar area along the river bed. Residents of the area have been shifted to nearby government schools. Due to sudden rise in water level, people fled to save lives, said a resident. “Everything kept in the houses was washed away. More than 50 slums are still submerged,” he added. After opening of Bhadbhada gate, administration swung into action and reached the low-lying areas to provide relief and rescue. People were evacuated just in time. Local MLA Rameshwar Sharma, including Bhopal collector Avinash Lavania and DIG Irshad Wali reached the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/low-lying-areas-inundated-dozen-slums-washed-away-in-rain-fury/articleshow/77697882.cms||Jamal Ayub
August 23, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Record 210 mm rain in 24 hours; nip in air as temp down at 24 °C||BHOPAL: After a dry July, city recorded the second highest ever rainfall in the past 24 hours in August. Heavy showers brought the city to standstill. Bhopal (Bairagarh observatory) recorded 210.6 mm showers in 24 hours till 8.30 am on Saturday. It was second highest rainfall in 24 hours after 2006. As per the met office, the all-time heaviest fall in Bhopal in 24 hours was 291.6 mm, recorded on August 14, 2006. Bhopal city received more rainfall than Bairagarh observatory in the past two days, with 243.4 mm showers recorded from 8.30 am Friday to 5.30 pm Saturday. Heavy showers are in store for the city and state in the next couple of days too. Day temperature in Bhopal was recorded at 24.3 degrees Celsius, four degrees less than normal mark while night temperature was recorded at 22.4 degrees Celsius, a degree less than the normal mark. In the forecast for the state, met office issued a red alert of heavy rainfall for Khargone, Alirajpur, Jhabua, Dhar and Ratlam. Orange alert warning was issued for Burhanpur, Barwani, Indore, Ujjain, Dewas, Shajapur, Agar, Nemeuch and Mandsaur. Yellow alert was issued for Betul, Harda, Hoshangabad, Khandwa, Rajgarh, Sehore, Bhopal, Raisen and Vidisha. Red alert means extremely heavy rainfall, orange alert is for very heavy rainfall and yellow is for heavy rainfall alert, as per the met department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/record-210-mm-rain-in-24-hrs-nip-in-air-as-temp-down-at-24c/articleshow/77697893.cms||Ankur Sirothia
August 23, 2020||Bhopal||First of the season: Bhopal's Upper Lake breaches FTL, 10 Bhadbhada sluice gates opened||BHOPAL: For the first time this season, 10 sluice gates of Bhadbhada dam and all 13 sluice gates of its downstream Kaliasot dam were opened, here on Saturday. Heavy rain inundated Bhopal, which recorded the highest 24-hour rainfall since 2006. According to sources, some gates of Kaliasot dam were shut in an emergency on Saturday evening. It lead to closing of two gates at Bhadbhada dam too. Flooding in low areas downstream along Kolar is said to have led to this decision, said sources. Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner, KVS Chaudary informed, “12 lakh cubic feet of water is released every hour from a gate of Bhadbhada dam. Till 5 pm on Saturday, about 600 lakh cubic feet of water was released from the Upper Lake. With the opening of 10 gates of Bhadbhada dam, the water level of Kaliasot dam increased rapidly and all its 13 gates were opened.” Water level of Upper Lake increased in the past three days due to heavy rains in the catchment area. The water body is a millennia old lake and caters drinking water needs of nearly 40 per cent population of Bhopal. It is the second consecutive year that Upper Lake sluice gates have been opened, after reaching full tank level of 1666.80 feet. On Saturday morning after heavy overnight rainfall, when water level reached above 1666.60 feet, first sluice gate of the Upper Lake was opened at 8.40 am. Other gates were opened in a sequence. At 10 am gate number 5, at 10.30 am gate 7, at 11:15 am gate number 3, at 11:30 am gate number 8, at 12:20 pm gate number 2 and 9, at 1:30 pm gate number 1, 2: 40 pm gate number 6 and gate number 10 was opened at 3:15 pm, according to BMC officials. There are 11 gates at Bhadbhada dam. 10 gates were set open on Saturday. Chaudary along with BMC officials reached Bhadbhada Dam on Saturday and inspected it. At around 11.30 am the administration took a call to open 10 sluice gates. Water gushed into the water stream leading to sudden increase in water levels at Kaliasot dam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/first-of-the-season-upper-lake-breaches-ftl-10-bhadbhada-sluice-gates-opened/articleshow/77697898.cms||Jamal Ayub
August 23, 2020||Bhopal||Runway waterlogged, flights stay off, passengers stranded in Bhopal airport||BHOPAL: Heavy rains that lashed the state capital on Saturday, severely affected the movement of flights at Bhopal airport. With 3 ft water logged at the airport runway, no flight could land. Out of five flights scheduled, three were cancelled while two were diverted to other routes. Till the time of filing this report, airport team was busy removing water from the runway. This is the first time in the recent past that water has been logged at runway at such a scale that it caused cancellation of all flights in a day. Several parts in the state capital were waterlogged due to heavy rains in Bhopal in the past 24 hours. The central line of Raja Bhoj Airport runway was also flooded, due to which all the five flights from Bangalore, Hyderabad and Delhi to Bhopal were cancelled. After overnight heavy rains, airport officials tried to remove water but it couldn’t be done in time, forcing IndiGo flight to divert from Mumbai to Nagpur in the morning. IndiGo flights from Delhi-Bhopal-Delhi, Hyderabad-Bhopal-Hyderabad, Bangalore-Bhopal-Bangalore had to be cancelled. Director airport, Anil Vikram, said, "Our team has been working to remove water from runway. As a lot of water has still been logged at the runway, flights could not land today.” Due to these cancellations, several passengers who had to reach Bhopal were quite upset. "As Ganesh festival began on Saturday, I had planned to stay with my family on weekend. Rain has played a spoilsport. My entire weekend has been ruined now," said a passenger Aniruddh. He was to reach Bhopal from Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/runway-waterlogged-flights-stay-off-passengers-stranded/articleshow/77697905.cms||Ramendra Singh
August 23, 2020||Dehradun||What rejuvenation? Rampant dumping of waste by locals in Rispana, Bindal||DEHRADUN: To avoid paying garbage collection fees levied by Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC), many people living in areas near Rispana and Bindal are simply dumping their household waste into the rivers, cocking a snook at plans drafted by the state government to rejuvenate these water bodies. The waste eventually goes on to pollute the Ganga too, since the two Doon rivers merge into the Saung which further ahead merges into the Ganga. Talking to TOI, a retired Army officer and resident of Vijay Colony said, “It is unfortunate that the household waste is being dumped into the rivers for which a rejuvenation programme by the government is currently on. The waste is further polluting the Ganga at a time when the central government is running major projects to depollute the rivers.” Pollution of the riverbeds, already severe through the year, has become worse in monsoon when the rivers are in a spate. Vijay Kutiyal, another resident of the area, said, “It shows the amount of muck, kitchen waste and garbage are being dumped into the riverbed upstream before the rains. It is indeed shameful that we citizens lack basic civic sense to keep our city's surroundings clean. The municipal authorities have arranged proper garbage collection covering the entire city for a nominal rate of Rs 50 per month, which many residents avoid paying and are instead dumping their waste into the riverbed.” When municipal commissioner Vinay Shankar Pandey was queried about the matter, he said, “Keeping the city clean and garbage-free is a collective responsibility of the citizens and the agencies involved. As and when the matter is brought to our notice by the residents, we take prompt action and stop any such activities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/what-rejuvenation-rampant-dumping-of-waste-by-locals-in-rispana-bindal/articleshow/77696399.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Cash-strapped state govt defaults on power subsidy payment||Patiala: With the economy hit hard by the Covid-19 crisis, the state government has failed to clear payment for power subsidies being given to various categories of consumers during the first four months of the current fiscal. According to official documents, the state government is yet to pay Rs 3,489.74 crore to Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) for free power. From April 1 to August 15, the state government was supposed to pay Rs 6,696.07 crore to PSPCL. However, the government has only released Rs 2,384.76 crore to the power corporation. Records show that in April, the government released three installments of Rs 135.43 crore, Rs 165.87 crore and Rs 200 crore to PSPCL. In May, the government released three installments of Rs 100 crore, one installment of Rs 200 crore and one installment of Rs 535.3 2 crore. In June, five installments of Rs 150 crore, Rs 16.25 crore, Rs 31 5.15 crore, Rs 117.95 crore and Rs 14.68 crore were released. In July, a single installment of Rs 150 crore and in August Rs 379.22 crore was released to PSPCL. The state government also asked the power corporation to adjust electricity duty worth Rs 267.37 crore and infrastructure development fund worth Rs 821.57 crore collected by the power utility from consumers against power subsidies. The total subsidy bill for the current fiscal stands at Rs 16,400.26 crore, which is more than 53% of the annual revenue requirement of the power corporation. This also includes a carry forward of Rs 5,297.55 crore from previous years. This year, the government is providing free power worth Rs 6,810.51 crore to agricultural connections, Rs 1,599.87 crore to LS supply consumers and Rs 1,263.37 to Scheduled Caste (SC) domestic supply (DS). Backward class DS consumer will get free power worth Rs 173.10 crore, medium supply consumers will get a subsidy of Rs 165.51 crore and small power industrial units will get Rs 162.41 crore against concessional tariff of Rs 4.99 per unit. Non-SC BPL DS consumers will get Rs 75.58 crore and freedom fighters will get Rs 0.83 crore as subsidy on power during the current fiscal. Sources in the power corporation said that during the lockdown, the Corporation lost Rs 20 crore every day, which had an adverse effect on its financial health. According to an order issued by Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC), Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) can impose full tariff on all categories of power consumers in case the state government fails to release subsidy amount in advance. Former chief engineer of the erstwhile Punjab State Electricity Board (PSEB), Padamjit Singh, on whose petition PSERC had empowered the PSPCL to charge full tariff in case of subsidy default, said the electricity duty and infrastructure development fund are collected from consumers and are supposed to be ploughed back into power or infrastructure development so that the resulting benefits flow back to consumers. However, neither the electricity duty nor infrastructure development fund were utilised as envisaged. Meanwhile, the government is trying to implement direct benefit transfer of electricity (DBTE) for agriculture consumers, for which a pilot project was launched in a few districts in 2018. Under the scheme, farmers get the subsidy in cash ( Rs 48,000 for each connection annually) against power used, irrespective of the actual power consumed. The state government is also considering the proposal to fuel agricultural feeders with solar power to the use cost of power subsidies being provided to agricultural pump sets without affecting the facility of free power for agriculture. However, a final decision in this regard is yet to be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cash-strapped-state-govt-defaults-on-power-subsidy-payment/articleshow/77698435.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Police recover new-born stolen from civil hospital, arrest 5||JALANDHAR: Police safely recovered the new-born boy kidnapped from the civil hospital soon after his birth on Friday. Police arrested five persons, including a panchayat member and a sanitation employee of the civil hospital. The accused have been identified as Gurpreet Singh Gopi, 22, panchayat member of Maheru village, Gurpreet Singh Peeta, 24, Ranjeet Singh Rana, 25, Davinder Kaur of Khurshaidpur Colony in Nakodar and Kiran, 28, of Lamba Pind. Kiran has been working as a sanitation employee in the civil hospital for the last seven years. Police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the accused intended to sell the infant for around Rs four lakh and distribute the money among themselves equally.  “Preliminary interrogation of the accused revealed that on August 20 at 12.40pm, the accused, Gurpreet Singh Gopi and Gurpreet Singh Peeta reached the civil hospital in an SUV. They were in constant touch with Ranjeet, Davinder Kaur and Kiran on the phone. They came to the Mother and Child Centre of the hospital where Kiran picked up the baby from the ward and handed him over to Gurpreet Singh Gopi and Gurpreet Singh Peeta near the stairs. The duo escaped with the baby,” Bhullar said. Bhullar said the accused handed over the baby to Davinder Kaur and Ranjeet Rana at Gandra-Pandori road. Police nabbed Gurpreet Singh Gopi from his office and the others from their houses. The baby was safely recovered from a room where Ranjeet Rana and Davinder Kaur were living, he said. Davinder Kaur, he said, used to arrange deals of egg donation by women for childless families. “The accused will be questioned further to ascertain the involvement of more persons in this racket and to whom they were going to sell the baby boy,” he said. The baby was handed over to his mother in the civil hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/police-recover-new-born-stolen-from-civil-hospital-arrest-5/articleshow/77698437.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Surat||PCR vans to reach crime spot in less than 8 mins: Surat CP||Surat: Now a police control room (PCR) van in Surat city will take a maximum of eight minutes to reach the place of crime once help is sought from the cops. This new benchmark has been set by city police commissioner Ajay Tomar after observing the overall performance of the PCR vans. The Diamond City has 60 PCR vans distributed among different police stations. These vans are used for patrolling and are the first to respond to any crime scene. After receiving a call, the control room alerts the specific police station and PCR van which reaches the spot at the earliest. “I was examining the performance of PCR vans and found that they are working efficiently. In a few cases the cops have responded in a short time and I have also rewarded,” said Tomar. A PCR van of Athwalines police station reached a spot of wall collapse within five minutes of being alerted on August 13. In another incident on August 16, a PCR Van of Khatodara police station reached New Civil Hospital within five minutes and prevented conflict between relatives of a deceased patient and hospital staff. In four incidents PCR vans successfully prevented probable mob lynching in different parts of the city with timely response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/pcr-vans-to-reach-crime-spot-in-less-than-8-mins-surat-cp/articleshow/77696415.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Bareilly||In a first, UP to pay compensation for killing of pet dogs by big cats; proposal sought||PILIBHIT: In a first, farmers whose pet dogs are killed by big cats will soon be getting compensation in accordance to the breed and market value of the pet, with the UP government gearing up to clear the deck by introducing an amendment in the forest law. “Principal secretary (forest) Sudhir Garg has sought a proposal for amending the forest law to include a new provision that will enable the government to pay monetary compensation to farmers whose pet dogs are killed by big cats. The compensation will, however, be decided based on the dog’s breed and its monetary value,” Pilibhit Tiger Reserve field director H Rajamohan told a nine-member farmers' delegation from Amaria block led by Paramveer Singh Perry during a meeting on Saturday. Speaking to TOI, Rajamohan said, “The principal secretary took the decision when I informed him about the protest by farmers of villages under Amaria block following the killings of their costly pet dogs by a stray leopard and no corresponding compensation in the absence of any provision of compensation in such cases in the forest law.” More than one and a half dozens of fine breeds of dogs were killed by big cats in a year. Farmer Harjeet Singh from Rasoola village claimed that his Great Dane, the price of which was Rs 90,000, was killed by a feline. When farmers raised the issue of killing of their cattle by the big cats, Rahamohan assured them of providing on the spot postmortem facility in the future to ensure each such cases was entertained for the payment of compensation. PTR authorities and the farmers also agreed to help each other in trapping the prowling leopards and translocation of sugarcane tigers after successful estimation. “Authentic estimation by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and the state forest administration is required for getting an approval to translocate Amaria tigers,” said Rajamohan. “The process of relocating the tigers will be raised as soon as the tiger estimation report reaches the state headquarters and the NTCA,” added Rajamohan. Following the meeting, the farmers lifted their protest after five days over the killing of their 25-30 domestic animals, including dogs, by a prowling leopard in one year — during which they had barred the entry of forest staff in their farms and halted the camera installation process by WWF for the first official estimation of sugarcane tigers in Amaria. Perry from Surajpur village, meanwhile, complained about the negligent attitude of the forest officials in addressing their issues. “Farmers in my village grow mango and guava on over 50 acres following repeated appeals by forest and wildlife division officers, but monkeys in packs have been damaging the fruit crops, but the officials are completely negligent in addressing the situation.” Divisional forest officer Sanjeev Kumar, however, assured the farmers that last Friday, he received the chief wildlife warden’s permission to catch the monkeys and the work would be started on ground zero from Monday and completed within a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/in-a-first-up-to-pay-compensation-for-killing-of-pet-dogs-by-big-cats-proposal-sought/articleshow/77696395.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Opening of elevated carriageway will go long way in tackling traffic bottleneck on NH at Phagwara||Jalandhar: The biggest traffic bottleneck on six-lane Jalandhar-Panipat National Highway was partially cleared on Saturday, with the opening of the traffic from one side of the elevated main carriageway at Phagwara. The carriage was opened by Union minister Som Parkash in the presence of National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) officials. Local officials and Congress leaders were conspicuous by their absence. As there has been credit war for construction of the carriage way, local administration and Punjab government were not involved in the opening. The Union minister opened the carriage way by breaking a coconut in the presence of NHAI officials and local leaders of SAD-BJP, including district SAD president and SGPC member Sarwan Singh Kular. The one side of the main carriage way has been opened making it possible for two-way traffic for vehicles bypassing Phagwara. Though only one side has been opened, it has come as a big reprieve for the long-route traffic as well as for the local residents. Unlike the usual congestion throughout the day on the two sides of the NH, where traffic would snarl, the side lanes had minimal traffic on Saturday. The earlier design for the carriage-way was unfeasible as it cut the town in two with provision of just two underpasses. However, after local residents protested, then Union minister of state Vijay Sampla got the work halted and lobbied for a new design. Even Union minister Nitin Gadkari, while laying the foundation stone of the 2.55 km long project on February 25, last year had said the incomplete work at Phagwara was a major bottleneck among half dozen bottlenecks on Panipat-Jalandhar National Highway and the issue had much complications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/opening-of-elevated-carriageway-will-go-long-way-in-tackling-traffic-bottleneck-on-nh-at-phagwara/articleshow/77698442.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Probe ordered against Jinsi police||AURANGABAD: City police commissioner Chiranjeev Prasad has ordered a high-level probe against Jinsi police for allegedly framing two men in a false case of molestation. The decision has been taken after residents of the locality, Arish Colony, and several journalists raised the issue and highlighted facts. “We have asked DCP (zone-II) to conduct an inquiry into the matter, the report of which is likely to be placed at the earliest. Action will be initiated if policemen are found guilty,” Prasad told TOI. Senior police officers have expressed anguish over the Jinsi police not keeping them in the loop about registering of offences. A senior officer confirmed that he learned about it only on Friday morning. Based on the complaint lodged by a 45-year-old woman, Jinsi police late on Thursday night booked two men on the charges of molestation, using foul and abusive language, and threatening her with dire consequences. The woman claimed that the alleged incident took place on the night of August 9. However, residents of the posh locality, along with the journalists, lodged a strong protest against the police action. While demanding that the CCTV cameras installed in the locality are scanned, serious allegations have also been made against the Jinsi police and its detection branch for registering the offence “without verifying things” and “trying to shield the woman complainant”. The residents said the woman rented a flat in the locality a few months ago. They alleged that men, some of them in an inebriated condition, started coming to her flat even during odd hours, following which they took an objection with the landlord. The residents said that they lodged complaints against the woman with the Jinsi police as well as with the commissioner of police’s office, but in vain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/probe-ordered-against-jinsi-police/articleshow/77696436.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Dehradun||IDPL retirees living in township in financial trouble, fear eviction||Haridwar: Retirees from Indian Drugs and Pharmaceuticals Limited (IDPL), Rishikesh — once Asia’s biggest antibiotics plant and India’s the biggest pharmaceutical company — say they are facing “tough times”. Seventeen years after they retired, they are yet to receive part of their retirement benefits, while they are being asked to pay penal rent for their apartments in the IDPL township, even though a 1997 high court order specifies not to do so unless all their dues are cleared, said Retirees Welfare Association (RWA) president Asheem Kumar Majumdar. “We’ve been running from pillar to post for justice, but to no avail,” he added. IDPL general manager Sanjai Kumar Sinha told TOI over the phone from Delhi that the “allegations are without substance”. IDPL has paid them all their dues, including provident fund, gratuity and leave encashment, besides compensation for their remaining service period, he said. Yet, 1,335 of them are still occupying houses in the township, which they should have vacated within six months of their retirement, he added. All except 170 of the 2300 employees, opting for voluntary retirement from service (VRS) in 2003, signed a bond with IDPL in September the same year committing that they will claim no interest on their unpaid dues and that IDPL will be free to get their houses vacated any time after six months of their retirement. But about 1335 retirees still continue to occupy IDPL houses, and have caused the company huge financial damage during the 17 years, Sinha alleged. Majumdar though claimed penal rent (22 times the original) was imposed on them in 2003 for not vacating the houses, thus violating a 1997 high court order which said no penal rent can be charged unless an employee’s dues have been cleared. The rent was reduced to half the penal amount in 2004, with the intervention of then Union minister of chemicals and fertilisers Ram Vilas Paswan, though the order was implemented only in December 2006. Ever since, retirees have been paying Rs 550 per month for a C-type house, for example, whose original rent was Rs 50, Majumdar explained. Founded by Jawaharlal Nehru in 1962, in collaboration with Russia, IDPL was commissioned in 1967. In 1992, the company with around 5,000 employees was declared a sick unit by the Bureau of Industrial Financial Reconstruction (BIFR), and production stopped in 1996. But the company continued to pay salary to employees for no work until 2003, when VRS was introduced. Out of 2,500 remaining employees, around 2,300 opted for the scheme and the company was practically closed. At that time, their salaries, which had not been revised since 1984, were very low. As such, their retirement benefits were meager. Yet, even these were not paid in full, Majumdar regretted, adding that the dues range from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 2.5 lakh (plus 10% interest since 2003), as per a Supreme Court order. A delegation of RWA members met Union chemicals and fertilisers minister Sadananda Gowda on September 6, 2019, who assured that he will write to the state chief minister not to evict the retirees from their houses. He also assured that as demanded by the delegation, he will recommend to the CM that the state government should run the company’s formulation block, which had been functioning till October 2019 with about 200 contractual employees. Earlier, in 2006, a high powered committee sent to IDPL by the Prime Minister’s Office had recommended that the retirees’ benefits be paid out, Majumdar said. But no action in the matter was taken, he added. Apprehending that water and electricity connections to their houses could be severed any time, as there was no management body for the township, the retirees demanded that it should be included within Rishikesh municipal corporation. Mayor Anita Mamgai told TOI, “A resolution to the effect has been adopted by the corporation and will be sent to the government. But it might take time to get approved and implemented.” RWA has contemplated going to court to get the retirees’ grievances redressed. However, they have been advised against it by Union MoS for chemicals and fertilisers Mansukh Mandviya and joint secretary (pharmaceuticals) Rajanish Singhal, who have assured an early resolution of their issues, said Majumdar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/idpl-retirees-living-in-township-in-financial-trouble-fear-eviction/articleshow/77693541.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
August 23, 2020||Rajkot||Notorious criminal, wife stab transporter||Rajkot: A notorious criminal, Hardik Pandya and his wife Bhumi were booked for attempting to murder a 22-year-old man on Morbi Highway in Rajkot on Friday late night. The victim, Yashraj Manjariya, who is into transport business, was stabbed several times in the chest, back and the neck, allegedly by Hardik over a petty issue. According to a complaint registered by Manjariya, when he was going on his two-wheeler a man and a woman in their 30s approached him near Khandheri stadium on Jamnagar Road. The couple accused him of staring at them. Following this Manjariya and the couple had an argument and the former left the place. The complaint further mentioned that the couple followed Manjariya in their car and tried to stop him near Madhapar Chowkdi. But when Manjariya did not stop and turned towards Morbi Bypass, they followed him and rammed his two-wheeler from behind. Manjariya fell down and before he could get up, the man came out of the car and shouted: “Do you know me? I am Hardik Pandya and she is my wife Bhumi, how dare you stare at us.” The man then allegedly stabbed Manjariya several times while Bhumi took out a gun from the car and was about to shoot, when Hardik stopped her. After the couple left, Manjariya, called his friend who took him to hospital, where his condition is stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/notorious-criminal-wife-stab-transporter/articleshow/77696450.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Record 1,226 cases in 24 hours, 38% total cases reported in August||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh on Saturday reported its highest ever single-day spike in Covid-19 positive cases with 1,226 people testing positive. In three of the last four days the positive cases have been more than 1000. Along with it, 21 deaths were also reported from across the state. The Covid-19 tally in the state crossed 51,000 mark and reached 51866 while the death toll has risen to 1,206. 38% percent of the total positive cases in MP (20,060) has been reported in the month of August while about 75% of the positive cases have been reported in the last two months. While 13,593 cases were reported in state between March and June 30, 18,213 cases were reported in July alone and now, August tally has surpassed it. Officials attribute the rise in positive cases to the increased testing. A total of 3.9 lakh tests have been done so far in August, while in the entire month of July total of 4 lakh tests were done and in the first three months between March 20 and June 30 only 3.65 lakh tests were done. Alarmingly 51 out of the 52 districts of the state reported fresh cases on Saturday and of these 51 districts cases in double digits were reported from 31 districts, says the state health bulletin. On Saturday 24,684 tests were conducted in the state and rate of people testing positive out of the total samples tested was 5% which is above the average positivity rate of around 4%. Positivity rate is number of people testing positive out of every 100 samples that are being tested. It is clearly evident from the recent spike that now it is not only Indore and Bhopal but other districts too which are reporting more cases. Meanwhile, 872 people recovered taking the total of people who have recovered to 39,399. Thus, overall recovery improved to 75.9% on August 22. Number of active cases in the state has also gone up while there were only 2625 active cases on July 1, it has jumped to 11216 on August 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/record-1226-cases-in-24-hrs-38-total-cases-reported-in-aug/articleshow/77697947.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Sub-inspector faces inquiry as driver complains of extortion||AURANGABAD: Deputy commissioner of police (zone-II) Rahul Khade has initiated a probe against a sub-inspector of the Jinsi police station for allegedly taking Rs 15,000 from a driver. The driver has said in his complaint to the DySP that he took a loan against gold of his niece to pay the PSI, who had threatened him with arrest in a case. “The allegations are very serious in nature and we are probing them. Depending on the findings, we will definitely initiate stringent action against the PSI or whoever is found at fault,” Khade told TOI on Saturday The driver, Imran Khan (32), and his two nephews were recenly booked by Jinsi police under section 326 of IPC for voluntarily causing grievous hurt by using deadly weapon, following a complaint by a person. “The PSI summoned Imran and his two nephews and presented them before inspector Vyankatesh Kendre, who asked him to arrest one of them and release Imran and his another nephew. However, the PSI allegedly kept Imran in detention and sought money for his release, following which he paid Rs 15,000,” said the driver in his complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sub-inspector-faces-inquiry-as-driver-complains-of-extortion/articleshow/77696449.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Pandemic scales down Ganesh festivities to mere rituals at home||KOLKATA: Virtual darshans, smaller idols and no processions to mark the arrival and immersion of idols: Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in homes, complexes and even shops are witnessing several changes this year due to the pandemic. The city has been witnessing a steep rise in Ganesh Puja over the past decade with several ‘barwari’ committees as well as residential complexes joining in the celebrations. Among many business families, however, it has been a tradition to organize Ganesh Puja at home or at their offices, seeking blessing from the god of prosperity. But this time, several families have cut down on all festivities and reduced the celebrations to a mere ritual to minimize the risk of the spread of the novel coronavirus. The two back-to-back days of lockdown before the Puja also did not offer much time for preparations. A lot of people went out shopping for idols, flowers and sweets at the last moment on Saturday. “We went out on Saturday morning and bought a 3ft-high Ganesh idol, along with some flowers and sweets for the puja on Sunday. In previous years, it used to be an occasion for the entire family to celebrate the festival together. The arrival of the idol would be the highpoint and then, we would decorate the place and make arrangements for the puja. This year, it will be a mere ritual,” said Harish Bali, a Posta businessman and Lake Town resident. At CE Block in New Town, only a handful people could be seen inside the pandal on Saturday. “It is a basic affair this year. The puja will be live-streamed online, especially for darshan for senior citizens and those who are unwell. We have allowed very few people in the mandap, keeping in mind the safety measures in place,” said Samir Gupta of the CE Block Cultural Association. Several businessmen even shifted the puja from their shops and offices to their homes to ensure minimal gathering. “Last year, we invited everybody from the market to the puja at my shop. But this year, it would have been very risky to do that. So, I decided to hold a small puja at home,” said Vineet Saraf, a businessman at Bagri Market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pandemic-scales-down-ganesh-festivities-to-mere-rituals-at-home/articleshow/77698015.cms||Zeeshan Javed
August 23, 2020||Dehradun||Unavailability of Covid antigen test kit, lack of oxygen support claims life of five-months pregnant woman in Almora||Dehradun: Five-months pregnant Asha Devi, 24, lost her life shuttling to and fro between two hospitals located 5km apart in Almora. She was initially being treated for typhoid at Almora district hospital but was referred to Base Hospital Almora, a Covid facility, after she developed breathing difficulties. The district hospital, suspecting Covid, referred her to Base Hospital saying they did not have antigen test kits. However, Devi’s report came negative at the Base Hospital. But by that time, her condition had deteriorated. The hospital provided her an oxygen cylinder but refused to admit her, saying it did not have an ICU facility and only treated Covid patients. By the time Devi reached district hospital, she had nearly lost her battle with life. “The oxygen cylinder Base Hospital gave us ran out within 20 minutes. We begged for another cylinder at the district hospital and the adjoining district female hospital, but the authorities refused, saying they did not have one to spare,” said Sundar Singh Bisht, Devi’s brother-in-law who was with her in her last moments. The 24-year-old eventually passed away at the district hospital around 7:30pm on August 20. According to her family, the back and forth travel took a toll on Devi’s already fragile condition, made worse by her pregnancy, and ultimately led to her death. The hospitals concerned meanwhile shrugged off responsibility. On being asked why they refused to admit a patient in need of emergency treatment, Dr SC Garkoti, principal medical superintendent (PMS), Base Hospital Almora said, “The patient was stabilised and sent back. Our hospital is solely for Covid patients and since she tested negative, we couldn’t admit her.” On why it didn’t have antigen kits handy, Almora district hospital’s PMS Dr RC Pant said that they had placed an order for antigen test kits a month ago but were yet to receive any. As for why the patient was refused oxygen, Pant said, “They probably didn’t approach the right officials. We do have sufficient oxygen cylinders.” Dr Kamla Singh, senior medical officer, district female hospital, Almora, added, “Breathlessness cannot be treated at our hospital as we treat only gynaecology-related problems. Also,the attendant of the deceased hadn’t asked for any oxygen cylinder from us.” Meanwhile, Almora chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Savita Hyanki said that all hospitals had been advised to “ensure that emergency patients’ rapid antigen test is done at the hospital itself”. “We have asked for an audit report of all three hospitals involved,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/unavailability-of-covid-antigen-test-kit-lack-of-oxygen-support-claims-life-of-five-months-pregnant-woman-in-almora/articleshow/77696437.cms||Shivani Azad
August 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Probe against Harsul SP for nCoV ‘blunder'||AURANGABAD: On the directives of the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court, the prison administration has finally ordered a high-level probe against Harsul prison superintendent Hiralal Jadhav for allegedly ‘mishandling’ the Covid-19 situation in the prison. ADG (prisons) Sunil Ramanand said: “The Bombay HC has converted a news report accusing Hiralal Jadhav of mishandling the Covid-19 situation into a public interest litigation. The HC has directed the deputy inspector general (prisons) to conduct an inquiry and submit the report within three months.” The officer said this is one of the two probes being faced by Jadhav. The other one was ordered after the recording of an inmate’s call to a fellow inmate’s family demanding money went viral on social media. Taking cognizance of the news reports out in the vernacular media, the HC admitted a suo motu PIL in the case of alleged mishandling of a Covid-19 case. It has been alleged that a Covid-positive inmate was kept with others, which let to 29 inmates getting infected at the prison. Citing the contents of the affidavit, division bench of HC, comprising Justices Ravindra Ghuge and MG Sewlikar, observed: “Before his (Covid-19 positive inmate’s) swab test dated May 30 was received, he was shifted to the temporary prison at SBOA school along with several inmates. This was a blunder resulting in infecting 29 prisoners. Therefore, we find that an enquiry needs to be conducted by an officer of the level of the Deputy Inspector General of Prisons, State of Maharashtra, or any such officer of equivalent rank as may be directed by the Additional Director General of Prisons at Pune.” HC has asked ADG (prisons) “To adopt an appropriate procedure to conduct an enquiry into the issue...” It added: “We expect that the enquiry would be concluded within a period of three months and the report would be submitted by the concerned enquiry officer to the ADG (Prisons), Pune, for disciplinary action, if any person is held guilty of negligence or dereliction of duties.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/probe-against-harsul-sp-for-ncov-blunder/articleshow/77696513.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 23, 2020||Bhopal||187 fresh cases take Bhopal Covid tally to 9,680||BHOPAL: As many as 187 people were diagnosed with Covid-19 in the state capital on Saturday. Since the pandemic began, a total 9,680 people have been diagnosed with the infection in Bhopal. So far, Covid-19 has claimed 255 lives in the city alone. On Saturday, seven people were diagnosed with the infection in CRPF, Bangrasia. The infected are said to be in the local hospital on the campus. Arera Colony E1 to E4 — all four areas — reported fresh cases of the infection. Three people were diagnosed with the infection in E-7 Arera Colony. Two of them were from the same family. Green Meadows (Arera Hills) reported one positive case, going by the health department report. Four positives in the same family were detected in Jail Colony. Same was the case in Tulsi Nagar where four family members were diagnosed with the infection. A similar situation was reported from Phanda area, on the outskirts of the state capital. Four persons in the same family were diagnosed as Covid-19 positive in Phanda. BDA colony in Koh-e-Fiza reported three positive cases. Covid-19 infections were also reported from Bhavani Dharohar (Ayodhya Bypass), Jain Bhavan (Shahjahanabad), Indira Vihar (Airport) and Rajiv Nagar. ITBP (Kanha Saiya) campus, SBI LHO, Panchsheel Nagar, once again reported Covid-19 infections. Other impacted areas of the state capital include Akash Ganga (Shahpura), Rohit Nagar, D-Mart (Hoshangabad), GRP Colony, Tilajamalpura and other areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/187-fresh-cases-take-city-covid-tally-to-9680/articleshow/77697952.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Bareilly||Sharp rise in cases of ‘killer’ PF malaria strain in Bareilly||BAREILLY: Bareilly has reported a sharp increase in cases of plasmodium falciparum (PF), the "killer" strain of malaria, as 435 people have been infected this month, up from 11 cases in July. Only 152 PF cases were reported between January and July. Officials said of the total 435 PF cases reported in August, nearly 20% cases are of relapse as the patients didn't complete a full course of treatment last year and were carrying malaria parasites in the body. According to the latest data compiled by health department, Bareilly reported a total of 1,314 malaria cases in August. Of these, 879 are plasmodium vivax (PV), a common variant of malaria, and 435 PF. In July, 853 malaria cases were reported and of these, 11 were PF. District malaria officer D R Singh said the transmission of malaria is usually at its peak from August to mid-October. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Vineet Shukla said, “In monsoon, the malaria cases go up due to mosquito breeding. We have been conducting active case surveillance by sending our teams to affected villages to screen suspected cases. We are conducting preventive measures, including spraying of pyrethrum and larvicidal, and conducting indoor residual spray and fogging in villages which have been reporting cases.” Experts said a patient tested positive for PF malaria has to undergo a three-day treatment while a patient with PV malaria has to complete a 14-day course. “However, many patients leave the medication halfway after a few doses. These patients then carry malaria parasites in their blood. We have learnt through our ASHA workers and patients that nearly 20% of the total 435 PF cases reported this month are due to relapse,” Singh added. Last year, health workers visited houses of PF patients daily to ensure that they complete treatment. PV patients are covered by health workers in first, third, seventh and 14th days of treatment. “We have directed ASHA workers to visit the houses of malaria patients to ensure radical treatment,” the CMO added. Bareilly has reported a malaria outbreak in the past two years. Though only 271 people tested positive for malaria in Bareilly in 2017, the number of cases drastically increased to 37,482 in 2018, and 46,717 in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sharp-rise-in-cases-of-killer-pf-malaria-strain-in-bareilly/articleshow/77696433.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 23, 2020||India||Child marriage: SOS calls reveal U16 kids vulnerable||NEW DELHI: At a time when the government is exploring raising the legal age of marriage, SOS calls to the national helpline (1098) that led to interventions in 14,775 cases related to child marriage during January-July period show that a significant number of children below 16 years remain vulnerable. While 59% (8,732) of the cases involved children between 16-18 years, a worrisome 38% (5,629) involved children in the age group of 11-15 years. The age-wise data also shows that there were 91 cases involving children in the 6-10 years' age bracket and 87 cases were of those below five years of age. During the same period last year, total interventions related to child marriage were higher at 17,181.Data from pre-Covid, lockdown and post-lockdown periods reflect that barring the lockdown period, child marriage cases were up by 17-20% when compared to data from last year. During lockdown, there was an evident decline when compared with last year's figures for March to May. Times ViewThe first law banning child marriage was passed way back in 1929. The prevalence of the regressive practice over 90 years later, despite strengthening the law further intermittently, only highlights how deep rooted the problem is. It also tells us that the best way to end the custom is through stronger social awareness and stricter implementation of a law that is reasonable. Raising the legal age of marriage is unlikely to make a significant difference and might end up criminalizing marriages at ages that most of the world considers legitimate.During lockdown while the helpline intervened in 5333 child marriage-related cases, there was an evident decline when compared with last year’s figures for March to May. The data shows that while in March 2019, Childline intervened in 2424 cases, the number was down by 6% to 2267 this year. In April, which was the peak of the lockdown, there were 849 child marriage cases which was a 70% decline over last year’s 2840 cases in the same month. In May, 2217 cases required intervention as against 3957 last year-a decline of 44%. Childline officials pointed that this decline in numbers must be studied with caution in the context of the lockdown as it was largely a result of restrictions on movement and public functions. Also under-reporting during the lockdown cannot be ruled out. The data for June explains the problem at hand and how post lockdown period has brought along new challenges. It turns out that when unlock 1.0 came into force, child marriage-related interventions shot up to 3300. The June interventions were 17% more than last year’s 2869. July too registered an increase over last year with 1966 interventions as against 1675 in 2019. According to Chidline, in nearly 99% of the cases, the helpline intervened to prevent the marriage. In about 1% cases, the teams intervened to get cases registered as the marriage had taken place. Voluntary organisations pointed that the months ahead would be critical, given that economic hardships, loss of livelihood and fear of many girls dropping out of schools could lead to an increase in child marriage cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/child-marriage-sos-calls-reveal-u16-kids-vulnerable/articleshow/77698945.cms||Ambika Pandit
August 23, 2020||Vadodara||Three leopards captured after woman’s death in Chhota Udepur||Vadodara: A day after a leopard mauled an elderly woman to death in Chhota Udepur district, the forest department rescued three leopards within few hours from the same vicinity.A woman, Budhli Rathwa (72), from Ghutanvad village in Pavi Jetpur taluka was attacked by the leopard in the wee hours on Friday. According to the forest department officials, after being attacked at her home, Rathwa was dragged 20 metres away in the bushes by the leopard due to which she died. The forest department had then placed five cages in and around the village to catch the leopard. Dart gunners were also called in from Devgadh Bariya and Vadodara to tranquilize the leopard.“Three leopards which are two males around three-and-half to four-year-old and a female were caught between 7 pm on Friday and 4.30 am on Saturday morning. We will find out which one of these had attacked the woman,” said deputy conservator of forest Nilesh Pandya. He added that if none of these leopards would have attacked the woman, they will be released back in the forest. The leopards have been kept at a nursery in Fatehpura.On August 3, too, a five-year-old boy Vansh Rathwa was killed at Umarva village which is around four kilometres from Ghutanvad village. The boy was playing near the cattle shed outside his house when he was dragged away and killed by the leopard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-leopards-captured-after-womans-death-in-chhota-udepur/articleshow/77696358.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Rajkot||Auto driver killed over liquor dispute||Rajkot: An auto rickshaw driver in Thorala area of Rajkot who was earlier booked for several offences under prohibition Act was allegedly beaten up and stabbed to death in a dispute with alleged liquor sellers on Friday night. In a complaint lodged with police, the victim’s wife, Jyotsna, alleged that her husband, Dharmesh Chavda (28), was held by two accused on both sides while two accused stabbed him and others beat him with sticks and pipes. Cops said the woman also alleged that her husband was trying to convince the accused to stop selling liquor in their area. Based on her plaint, police booked Meghji Parmar, Maulik Parmar, Naresh Davera, Bhikha Chavda and Rasik Chavda under IPC sections 302, 323, 504 and other relevant sections. The woman accused Rasik Chaku and Bhikha Chaku of selling illegal liquor on Thorala main road. On the other hand, accused Maulik Parmar also registered a cross complaint against deceased Chavda alleging that the latter was drunk on Friday night and hurling abuses at him. Parmar futher said that the deceased often created drunken ruckus in the area, threatening people to give him money. On that night too, inebriated Chavda was holding a knife in his hand and accidentally hurt himself, Parmar alleged. Police inspector of Thorala police station, G M Hadia said, “We are investigating allegations of both the sides and gathering evidences.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/auto-driver-killed-over-liquor-dispute/articleshow/77696486.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Bhopal||BJP begins membership drive in Gwalior with eye on bypolls||BHOPAL: BJP launched a three-day special membership drive from Saturday in the Gwalior-Chambal region to bring Congress workers and supporters of Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia into its fold. BJP claimed that the drive would be a major setback for the Congress party in the region, where bypolls are scheduled to be held on 16 assembly constituencies. The membership drive will continue till Monday, covering the entire region. The drive was launched from Gwalior with an eye on the upcoming bypolls on 27 assembly constituencies, especially in Gwalior-Chambal region of the state that accounts for 16 of these seats. The drive began in the presence of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar, BJP MP Scindia, state BJP president V D Sharma and other senior party leaders and ministers. In his address, Chouhan said that PCC chief Kamal Nath was reciting the ‘Hanuman Chalisa’ on the foundation stone laying ceremony day (of Ram temple). Chanting ‘Hanuman Chalisa’ helps devotees, not devils. On Congress calling Scindia traitor, Chouhan said in the past too, big leaders have left Congress due to its policies. Nath had bluffed people of the state, he added. Launching a scathing attack on former CM Nath, Scindia said, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi imposed a Covid-19 lockdown to save the lives of people, but Nath had put Vallabh Bhavan under lockdown for the public for his entire 15-month term”. BJP leaders said thousands of Congress party workers will join the saffron party in the ongoing drive and people of the region will teach Congress a befitting lesson in the upcoming bypolls. A statement issued by BJP on Friday claimed that a large number of Congress workers from all 16 constituencies in the Gwalior-Chambal region are set to join the party. During the three-day drive, Chouhan, Scindia, Tomar and Sharma will hold talks with the party’s public representatives and office-bearers of the region to draw a strategy for the bypolls, the dates of which are yet to be announced, it added. Twenty-two rebel Congress MLAs, mostly from the Scindia camp, resigned in March, reducing the Nath-led dispensation to a minority and paving the way for BJP to form the government in Madhya Pradesh. BJP sent Scindia to Rajya Sabha, while many of his loyalists got important portfolios in the Chouhan cabinet. Last month, three more Congress MLAs resigned and joined the saffron party, taking their number to 25, while two assembly seats had fallen vacant due to the demise of legislators. Congress has 89 MLAs in the House, while the ruling BJP has 107. The effective strength of the 230-member House has come down to 203 due to the resignations and deaths of legislators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-begins-membership-drive-in-gwalior-with-eye-on-bypolls/articleshow/77697945.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Cheap China models a bother for smog gun startups||NEW DELHI: With anti-smog guns being touted as an effective way of combating air pollution, several startups have come up over the past few years. With models ranging between Rs 1.5 lakh for small mist generators and Rs 35 lakh for truck mounted smog cannons, various anti-smog guns and ionising cannons are now being sold in the market. The cost depends on the size of the area to be covered and mist droplet variations. Many manufacturers who have launched their companies in the past two-three years told TOI that they had received orders from many big private construction companies. However, cheaper, less effective Chinese variants are a cause of concern, rued some entrepreneurs. These are being used just to show compliance with the anti-pollution guildelines, they alleged. An anti-smog gun sprays atomised water — tiny droplets — into the atmosphere, creating artificial mist, which is expected to stick to airborne pollutants and bring them down to the ground. The Supreme Court has not only okayed installation of anti-smog guns in the capital but also made them mandatory for construction projects that require environmental clearance and have a built-up area of over 20,000 square metres. Ashwani Srivastava, managing director of Ghazibad-based Quality Enviro Engineers, said they had sold more than 200 anti-smog guns. “We sell customised machines covering 20m, 50m or even 100m radius. The droplet size of mist varies from 10 to 60 micron,” he said, adding that private construction companies were their main clients. “Most of the customers are located in highly polluted areas in north India and some mining towns.” The company has boycotted Chinese components, said Srivastava. “Many people are using cheap Chinese versions but those machines are not successful,” he claimed. Last year, various government agencies, including Delhi government and municipal bodies, carried out test runs for anti-smog guns. However, Sushant Saini of Cloud Tech, an environmental management company that had carried out a demonstration at Anand Vihar in 2017, said, “Most orders are from the private sector and very few government agencies have come forward. An average anti-smog gun costs around Rs 5 lakh.” The technology has improved in the past few years and more orders are coming now, Saini added. He admitted that cheaper Chinese versions did pose a threat. “Every mist producing machine can’t be called an anti-smog gun. Cheap quality alternatives from China are being used to just meet compliance. Agencies ensuring compliance should fix standards that can be measured during checks,” Saini pointed out. Green Genra Technologies in Okhla started manufacturing anti-smog guns this year and has received 10 orders. Mridul Maurya, its director, said, “Our main customer base is Delhi-NCR. We are selling models, covering 25-100m radius, starts from Rs 3 lakh.” Pointing out that the cost difference with Chinese products is a lot, he said, “We have not seen what kind of quality they are offering.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cheap-china-models-a-bother-for-smog-gun-startups/articleshow/77697962.cms||Paras Singh
August 23, 2020||Agra||‘Starving’ and sick, five-year-old dies in UP||AGRA: For about a month, the Singhs at Nagla Vidhichand village in Agra’s Baroli Ahir block had gone without work. For over a week, their family went without food. And on Friday night, their daughter, five-year-old Sonia died, hungry and sick. “I failed her,” said Sheela Devi, her 40-year-old mother who has been looking for a job, any job, to feed her family. “I could not get her any food. She had been growing weak. She had a fever for three days. And now, I have lost her.” On Friday night, they buried the child. Hemant Gautam, a neighbour who helped the family with the burial, said local authorities did nothing to help families like theirs secure food in the lockdown-induced crisis. On Saturday, the district administration said it will find out where things went wrong. “We have taken cognizance of the matter. An investigation has been ordered into the child’s death,” said district magistrate Prabhu N Singh. “The family buried the body, which they should not have done. A postmortem would have ascertained the cause of death.” But the indicators of starvation death have always been difficult to pin down. For years, the problem with acknowledging such deaths has been just that — the signs show up slowly and manifest as separate ailments. “Starvation first leads to dehydration, then the glucose level rapidly decreases. The body passes into hypoglycemia (low blood sugar) and hypovolemia (loss of blood volume). Starvation also causes electrolyte imbalance. After all this, following exhaustion, a person who has been starving usually dies of cardiorespiratory arrest,” said Dr Sharad Gupta, an Agra-based physician and social worker. To Sheela and her husband, Pappu Singh, a 45-year-old daily wager, what happened to their daughter is a tragic reminder of the circumstances in 2016, right after demonetisation, when they had lost their son, Rohit, after running out of money. Sheela, meanwhile, is worried about her husband now. Pappu was diagnosed with tuberculosis and has been bed-ridden. “I can’t afford his medicines. I don’t know what to do,” Sheela said. The roof of the 400-square foot run down house has been leaking, like it does every monsoon. Power supply was snapped a year ago when they could not pay the bills. They never had a phone — it’s too expensive. And the lockdown made things even more difficult. “We had been surviving by asking people for food. But for the past 10 days, we couldn't manage even that. We don’t have a ration card and did not get any help during lockdown,” said Pooja, Sonia’s 16-year-old sister. The unaddressed gap in access to basics appears to have been the norm for Dalit families in Nagla Vidhichand, those in the village said. “There are 274 poor Dalit families in the village who do not have ration cards. I had forwarded their applications but those at the subdivision office never acted. I will try and help in my personal capacity,” said gram pradhan Rajendra Singh. On Saturday afternoon, secretary of Congress’s UP unit Amit Singh visited the family. “They are in urgent need of assistance. No ration card, no gas connection — they didn’t even get the Rs 1,000 that had been promised to daily wage labourers by the state government,” he said. The district magistrate said help is on its way: “It is true they are suffering. I will ensure all possible help is provided to the family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/no-food-for-days-5-year-old-girl-from-dalit-family-dies-in-up-village/articleshow/77696492.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 23, 2020||Delhi||Just 5 construction sites in south Delhi ‘ready’ for winter||NEW DELHI: With the air pollution season just a couple of months away, South Delhi Municipal Corporation has ordered its executive and assistant engineers to initiate action against the big construction sites, which have not yet deployed anti-smog guns. A senior corporation official said that a meeting in this regard was held by the additional commissioner and area engineers have been asked to prepare a report on the deployment of anti-smog guns at large construction sites. “According to an order issued by SDMC on February 20, 2020, such anti-smog guns are mandatory at sites, which are larger than 20,000 sqm and less than 1.50 lakh sqm. The lockdown period caused some delay, but now action will be initiated against owners of construction sites if they do not comply,” added the official. The engineers have been asked to prepare a list of all the project sites in their respective jurisdictions and the number of smog guns deployed at each of them. “A report is to be submitted in the court. Engineers are directed to ensure guidelines are met failing which action will be initiated,” the order stated. An SDMC engineer said that reports of only five construction sites with smog guns in south Delhi areas have been received so far. “Two of these construction sites are located in Dwarka under Najafgarh zone, while three others in Central zone. Instructions have been given from the headquarters, but no notices have been issued so far,” the official added. Last year, the apex court had directed the use of anti-smog guns in Delhi and other NCR areas for large construction sites, road construction stretches, mining activities, large parking sites on unpaved areas and during large public gatherings and demolition activities. “It be made compulsory to make use of anti-smog guns in Delhi-NCR in projects that require environmental clearance from the State/Central level and which have a built-up area of more than 20,000 sqm, including excavation, material handling and other dust-generating activities. Let an appropriate policy decision be also taken with respect to cost of installation, duly considering the principle ‘polluters pay’ evolved by this court,” the bench had said. While some experts have raised doubts over the efficacy of anti-smog guns, the top court had junked the intervention application by a Delhi-based doctor, who doubted the efficiency of these towers in the backdrop of limited research data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/just-5-construction-sites-in-s-delhi-ready-for-winter/articleshow/77697988.cms||Paras Singh
August 23, 2020||Bhopal||Congress targets Jyotiraditya Scindia, stages protest ahead of BJP campaign||BHOPAL: Hours before BJP’s mega membership drive in Gwalior, Congress on Saturday displayed its show of strength in an area where BJP Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia wields influence. Hundreds of Congress workers hit the roads in Gwalior to protest the BJP’s membership drive amid the Covid-19 scare. Former ministers Lakhan Singh, Bhagwan Singh Yadav and Balendu Shukla courted arrest. Police arrested hundreds of Congress workers and local leaders who were later released. Sixteen of the 27 assembly seats going for the upcoming bypolls fall in the Gwalior-Chambal region. It is here that chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar, state BJP chief V D Sharma and Scindia are scheduled to spend the next three days to mobilise party workers and lead a massive membership drive. But Congress is not willing to give the ruling party a cakewalk. The PCC claimed that the protests proved that Congress is not run by Scindia in the Gwalior region. Former MP Ram Sevak Singh told the media, “When Scindia was in the Congress party, I was with him. But Congress cannot be weakened because someone has chosen to leave. The protest is Congress workers’ rage against traitors. We will win all the 27 seats in the bypolls.” Even before the BJP leaders could reach Gwalior on Saturday, state Congress workers gathered at Shinde Ki Chavni area to protest. With a three-layered security arrangement, police barricaded the area from Phool Bagh Maidan to Shibde Ki Chavni as Congress under the leadership of local leaders marched in huge numbers with black flags. The protest, however, broke all norms of social distancing. Former minister and state Congress vice-president Shukla said, “Does BJP want to contain the Covid pandemic or help it spread? Congress party wanted to peacefully hold a demonstration at the foot of the Mahatma Gandhi statue. But cops stopped us on the road while BJP has called its workers from Bhind, Datia, Morena and all across the Chambal region. What corona protocol will be maintained when their crowds reach the city? And why blame us when they started it all.” Congress’s media in-charge in Gwalior-Chambal, K K Mishra alleged, “The administration speaks of safety guidelines on Covid. If the virus spreads in Gwalior region then it will be none other than the administration and police who will be responsible. How did they give BJP the permission for such a function? ” As Congress workers gathered in the area at around 11am, there were exchanges of fisticuffs with cops. The leaders, including Ram Sevak Singh, district party president Devendra Sharma and hundreds of workers were arrested. State Congress spokesman Durgesh Sharma said, “The protests registered by Congress workers in Gwalior was a message for Scindia. The message was that no one in the Congress party is a bonded labourer. Those who had to leave, have left. We have shown Scindia that Congress made him, he didn’t make the party.” “Congress workers showed Scindia their true power and that they stand with the leadership. The entire country has seen that Congress cannot be shaken,” Sharma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-targets-jyotiraditya-stages-protest-ahead-of-bjp-campaign/articleshow/77697990.cms||Suchandana Gupta
August 23, 2020||Agra||24 prisoners, deputy jailor in Mathura district jail test Covid positive||Agra: At least 500 prisoners in Mathura district jail were quarantined in their barracks on Saturday after 24 prisoners and the deputy jailor tested positive for Covid-19 in the past 48 hours. The jail is being sanitized by the district administration. Dr Kafeel Khan, whose detention under the stringent National Security Act was extended by the UP administration for another three months recently, is also lodged in the same jail and he will also be tested for Covid, a senior jail official said. Dr Bhudev told TOI that 15 prisoners had tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday and nine others on Friday night. He said, “Sample testing is going on and all prisoners will be tested for Covid 19.” When contacted, senior superintendent of Mathura district jail Shailendra Maitreya said, “Even though we are taking care of everyone at the jail, the fact that some staff members are coming from outside and the food products are also being delivered in the jail could be the source of infection. Two separate barracks have been formed to put Covid positive patients who are asymptomatic as everyone can’t be sent to the medical facility.” The overcrowded district prison has 1,516 prisoners, including 96 women inmates, against the capacity of 554. Till now, 1,831 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the district and of these, 43 have succumbed to the disease. According to the health officials, only 564 cases are active as of now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/24-prisoners-deputy-jailor-in-mathura-district-jail-test-covid-positive/articleshow/77696504.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Delhi||Landpooling: Delhi Development Authority work on model sectors to begin soon||NEW DELHI: Delhi Development Authority’s landpooling project may soon see work for the model sectors begin in three zones, as the agency said that it has received a good response. So far, DDA claims to have pooled 6,575 hectares of land and sectors in zones N, P-II and L may soon be qualify for the policy. These model sectors will set the template for other locations where DDA will play the role of facilitator instead of developer. A senior DDA official said that a total of 6,219 applications have been registered and 1,371 applications have already been verified by the revenue department of Delhi government. The landpooling policy is applicable for the urban extension areas of Delhi, comprising 95 villages falling in zones J, K-I, L, N and P-II. The entire area has been divided in to 109 sectors. On an average, each sector is about 250 to 350 hectares, and is anticipated to accommodate about 80,000 to 1 lakh people. A DDA official explained that for a sector to qualify for development, a minimum of 70% contiguous land in a sector is required to be pooled. Of the pooled land, the developer will retain 60% for development of residential, commercial, public and semi-public facilities while the remaining 40% will be utilised by DDA for development of city infrastructure. The official said that the rest of the applications are being scrutinised. “DDA is mapping the pooled land on a GIS platform to ascertain the eligibility of sectors, which will be verified by Delhi government,” he said. The landpooling policy allows residential FAR of 200 and 15% additional FAR for development of EWS housing. DDA has developed a web portal for expression of willingness regarding participation in landpooling which was launched last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/landpooling-dda-work-on-model-sectors-to-begin-soon/articleshow/77697996.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Bareilly||13 cows run over by a speeding goods train in Bareilly||BAREILLY: At least 13 cows were run over by an unidentified train at Mirzapur village under Bisharatganj area of Bareilly district on Friday night. The villagers found the carcasses near the railway track on Saturday morning and informed the police about the incident. Railway officials said a few good trains passed on the route on Friday night and 13 cows died while two suffered injuries. The injured cows are undergoing treatment at a veterinary hospital. Station officer, government railway police, Vijay Singh Rana, said, “ At least 15 cows were hit by an unidentified train in Bisharatganj area. Two injured cows have been sent to veterinary hospital in Ramnagar for treatment.” The bodies of cattle have been buried, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/13-cows-run-over-by-a-speeding-goods-train-in-bareilly/articleshow/77696470.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 23, 2020||Delhi||No large procession, Shias to mark Muharram at home in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Following Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s decision to bar public gatherings during Ganesh Chaturthi and Muharram due to Covid-19, there will be no largescale procession during Muharram. “This year, the congregation will not be the same as we have to follow the Covid guidelines issued by the government,” said Bahadur Abbas Naqvi, the general secretary of Anjuman-e- Haideri, Karbala in Jorbagh. The Shia community will follow the law “and instead of participating in the procession, people can observe the day at their home”, he added. “The taziya is symbolic as it signifies the funeral of Imam Hussain in the battle of Karbala 1,300 years ago. It has to reach Karbala of Jorbagh as part of a tradition. According to the guidelines, we will conduct the procession with less than 20 people while maintaining social distancing norms,” Naqvi said. Several members of the community said the restriction won’t harm the observation of Muharram, which is usually done indoors through storytelling and singing of marsiya (elegy) poetry. Asad Zaidi, a digital marketing executive who stays in Okhla, said “the objective of Muharram is to spread the message of Imam Hussain through tools like majlis or congregations. We tell people the significance of standing for what it means to stand for rights.” But due to the Covid-19 situation, people must follow the government’s directions and must not congregate, he emphasised. “People can still pray at home and observe the Muharram days.” Historian Rana Safvi pointed out that people had in the past observed the events of Muharram and made the taziya at home. “We can still do that this year,” she said. The first month in the Islamic calendar is observed with a lot of sorrow as it marks the martyrdom of Imam Hussain, the grandson of Prophet Mohammad. The first 10 days are marked by a procession with horses, which culminates into the 10th day of Ashura. Watch Muharram 2020: Virtual Majlis telecasted on first day of holy month||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-large-procession-shias-to-mark-muharram-at-home/articleshow/77698002.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Dehradun||BJP summons 4 ‘controversial’ legislators to seek responses on issues||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand BJP unit has summoned four legislators – including Dwarahat MLA Mahesh Negi, Lohaghat MLA Puran Singh Furtayal, Jhabreda MLA Deshraj Karnwal, and expelled Khanpur MLA Kunwar Pranav Singh ‘Champion’ — to seek their response on various issues before the state leadership in Dehradun on August 24. All these MLAs were involved in some controversy or had given statements contradictory to the party line, the party said. Mahesh Negi has been accused of rape by a woman who also claimed he had fathered her child. However, Negi’s wife has accused the woman of trying to blackmail her husband. A probe is underway. CM Trivendra Singh Rawat also commented on the ongoing controversy regarding the Dwarahat MLA on Saturday. When queried, he said, “Law will take its own course since the matter is being probed. In fact, the MLA has also agreed for a DNA test.” Notably, a woman has accused MLA Negi of rape while adding that he is the father of her girl child. Similarly, Jhabreda MLA Karnwal, who had earlier got involved in a verbal spat with MLA Champion, was accused of going against party lines and misbehaving with members. “He has been accused of going against the organisation and working in individual capacity. The matter was brought before the state leadership and it was decided that his statement should be heard,” said Uttarakhand BJP vice-president Devendra Bhasin. Lohatghat MLA Puran Singh Furtyal had expressed his displeasure over an ongoing project and reportedly said things which were not in favour of the party and the incumbent government. “Taking cognisance of his statements, which were not in accordance with the party principles, he has been called to present his views,” informed Bhasin. Lastly, Champion’s name features in the list as he was earlier expelled for six years after a video of him dancing and brandishing guns surfaced. “The state leadership wants to listen to his views on some issues,” added Bhasin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-summons-4-controversial-legislators-to-seek-responses-on-issues/articleshow/77696500.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 23, 2020||Nagpur||Divya upsets Chinese WGM, Praggnanandhaa shines as India reach quarters||Nagpur: For the third time in as many days, youngsters Divya Deshmukh and Praggnanandhaa R earned crucial points as India upset top-ranked China 4-2 to emerge toppers in Pool ‘A’ to qualify for the quarterfinals of the Fide Online Chess Olympiad on Sunday. While Divya and Praggnanandhaa scored crucial wins on their U-20 boards, seniors held the higher-ranked Chinese champions in the ninth and final round. With the juniors leading the way for the second successive day, India regained the lead to finish the nine-round Pool A tournament with 17 points. India became the first team to book their quarterfinal spot. The second and third placed China (16) and Germany (11) will fight in the play-offs. In a pulsating final round, Indian skipper Vidit Gujrathi and Harikrishna Pentala held higher-rated Chinese Grandmasters Ding Liren and Yu Yangyi respectively. Rapid champion Koneru Humpy and Harika Dronavalli, too, played vital draws against World No 1 Hou Yifan and world champion Ju Wenjun respectively. After four drawn games, the onus was on the juniors and both 15-year-olds Praggnanandhaa and Divya rose to the occasion. On the fifth table, the 1781 Elo Indian GM Praggnanandhaa R utilized his opening advantage with the white pieces well to surprise 2427 GM Liu Yan 2427 in 66 moves. On the sixth table, two-time World Youth champion and 1775-rated Divya Deshmukh defended well with her black pieces to upset Chinese WGM and 2326 Elo Zhu Jiner in a marathon 71-move battle. The Indian chess fraternity was all praise for the young side. “Nerve wracking moments throughout the day! So happy to see India win all the matches today. Defeating China in the last round made sure we qualified to the quarterfinals,” Gujrathi tweeted. India No 2 Harikrishna credited both Praggnanandhaa and Divya for the table top finish. Earlier in the seventh round, India outclassed Georgia 4-2 after five-time world champion Viswanathan Anand and experienced Koneru Humpy were held to a draw by lower-ranked GM Pantsulaia Levan and IM Arabidze Meri, respectively. In the first round of the third day, Praggnanandhaa and Divya posted pivotal victories over Kacharava Nikolozi and Lomaia Diana respectively. In the penultimate round, India made light work of third-placed Germany 4.5-1.5. With eight victories and a draw India collected 17 points and scored 39.5 board points. The 12-team quarterfinals will begin from August 27. RESULTS (ROUND 9) India beat China 4-2 (Vidit Gujrathi drew with Ding Liren; Yangyi Yu drew with Harikrishna Pentala; Koneru Humpy drew with Hou Yifan; Wenjun Ju drew with D Harika; R Praggnanandhaa bt Yan Liu; Jiner Zhu lost to Divya Deshmukh). Final standings (Pool A) 1 India (17, 39.5), 2 China (16, 39), 3 Germany (11, 28.5), 4 Iran (9, 30), 5 Mongolia (8, 27.5).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/divya-upsets-chinese-wgm-praggnanandhaa-shines-as-india-reach-quarters/articleshow/77710877.cms||Amit Sampat
August 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad district reports 146 cases||AURANGABAD: The district recorded 146 fresh Covid-19 patients on Saturday, including 79 from Aurangabad city and 67 from the rural parts, taking the total number of cases to 20,190. A total of 15,152 have recovered from the contagion in the district. There are 4,416 active cases. Four patients succumbed to Covid-19 on Saturday at the government medical college and hospital’s Covid treatment centre. The death toll stands at 622. The deceased include a 29-year-old woman Jikthan in Gangapur taluka, a 45-year-old man from Garkheda, a 40-year-old man from Mahetpura and a 50-year-old man of Yashwantnagar in Paithan taluka.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-dist-reports-146-cases/articleshow/77696528.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Rajkot||Fraud poses as cop to dupe firm manager||Rajkot: A marketing manager of a well-known Namkeen manufacturing company of Rajkot was duped by a person who posed as Rajkot crime branch officer. In the incident which took place in January, complainant Sagar Bhalara, said he got a call from prime accused Prakash Desani, who identified himself as ‘police sub inspector Jadeja’ of Rajkot crime branch. The cheating complaint was submitted to cyber crime department in February. After investigation, cyber crime cops found out at it was actually a case of cheating and transferred the complaint to Lodhika police station for further investigation on Friday. According to cops, accused had told Bhalara that his family had met with an accident in Udaipur of Rajasthan and they need immediate money. He asked Bhalara to ask his distributor in Udaipur to provide them with Rs 30,000 immediately. Bhalara did as was directed and when his distributor went to give the amount, he met two women who identified themselves as Reshma Kodia, a resident of Dhrangadhra and Binal Patel, a resident of Mehsana. The duo demanded Rs 25,000 more from the distributor who paid them that amount too. Desani then called Bhalara again and assured him of returning the money to his office in Rajkot. A few days later, Bhalara called up Desani and the two women whom his distributor had paid the money to in Udaipur but did not get replies and a few days later their phones were switched off. He then tried to contact ‘PSI Jadeja’ in the crime branch though other sources but found out that there is nobody working here with that name. Knowing that he had been duped, Bhalara approached the cyber crime department in February. Cyber Crime cops found out that Prakash Desani is a resident of Limdi, while Reshma is the wife of one Hidayat Kodia. The other two accused, Binal Patel and Kisan Desani, are residents of Surendrangar and are also part of the conspiracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fraud-poses-as-cop-to-dupe-firm-manager/articleshow/77696546.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Aurangabad||‘Resume interdistrict train services’||AURANGABAD: As the Maharashtra State Road Transport resumed its interdistrict services, activists have demanded similar measure, like starting few trains, from the railways. Veteran railway activist Omprakash Varma reiterated the demands for starting a few trains, including the Diesel Electric Multiple Unit (Demu) train between Jalna and Manmad and Secunderabad-Mumbai Devgiri Express. “Earlier, the railways was late to respond to the demand for starting Shramik special train. Now, it should not waste time in resuming passenger trains as the lockdown norms are eased out,” he said. Currently, Nanded-Amritsar-Nanded Sachkhand Express is the only train among the selected special trains, which have been running daily via Aurangabad. The long-distance trains, restored from June 1, however, still does not permit interdistrict travel within Maharashtra. When contacted, Rajesh Shinde, public relations officer of the South Central Railway’s Nanded division, said the authorities were awaiting policy decision from the railways for resuming passenger trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/resume-interdistrict-train-services/articleshow/77696533.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Delhi||1,412 new cases, Delhi crosses 1.6 lakh mark||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 1,412 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, the city’s biggest single-day spike in infections this month, bringing the infection tally to over 1.6 lakh while the death toll rose to 4,284. Fourteen more fatalities linked to infection by the novel coronavirus were recorded in the last 24 hours. According to the Delhi government’s health bulletin, a total of 19,435 tests — 6,090 RTPCR, CBNAAT or TrueNat tests, and 13,345 rapid antigen tests — have been conducted in the last 24 hours. So far 14,12,363 Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the capital while the number of tests per million population stands at 74,334 in the city. The positivity rate stands at 7.3% while the recovery rate is 90%. Delhi has seen a fluctuation in the number of coronavirus cases since August 1. On August 1, the number of cases was 1,118 while for the next three days, the number of infections reported in a single-day stayed below the 1,000 mark. Three days between August 11 and August 22 saw less than 1,000 fresh cases being reported — August 13 (956), August 16 (652), and August 17 (787). With the 1,412 new cases, the tally has now risen to 1,60,016, the Saturday’s health bulletin said. The active case count stands at 11,594, up from 11,426 the previous day, while 1,44,138 patients have either recovered from the infection, been discharged or have migrated out of the city, according to the bulletin. The number of patients in home isolation is 5,791. Out of 14,124 total beds in hospitals, 3,600 are occupied. As many as 3,597 beds of Covid Care Centres are occupied by people under quarantine, including travellers who came by Vande Bharat Mission and bubble flights. In a related development, an order has been issued for winding up healthcare facilities operating in banquet halls in linkage with the designated Covid hospitals of Delhi government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1412-new-cases-city-crosses-1-6l-mark/articleshow/77698012.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ex-IPS officer Sanjiv Bhatt moves Gujarat high court against virtual court proceedings||AHMEDABAD: Ex-IPS officer Sanjiv Bhatt has approached the Gujarat high court seeking directions that the trial court in Palanpur should adjourn proceedings till the physical opening of the court on various applications that are being heard in connection with the 1996 drug planting case. The trial court in Palanpur rejected a request by Bhatt and decided to continue hearing miscellaneous applications through video conferencing. Bhatt had insisted that due to voluminous record, lengthy arguments are not possible in the virtual proceedings and the hearings on these applications should take place in open court physically. The applications , which Bhatt insisted should not be heard through video, include one filed under Section 319 of IPC seeking to treat certain witnesses as accused citing their involvement in the alleged offence and an application by a co-accused, I B Vyas, proposing to turn an approver. Upon Bhatt’s lawyer insisting on delay for these applications, the state government submitted that Bhatt would seek bail on the ground of delay. To this, Bhatt’s advocate Saurin Shah submitted that Bhatt is lodged behind bars and he would not be interested in delay. Moreover, Bhatt would give an undertaking that he would not seek bail on the ground of delay in hearing these applications. The HC has posted hearing on August 26, when the lawyer is expected to place on record Bhatt’s undertaking that he would not seek bail for the delay caused due to his insistence on physical hearing. Bhatt was arrested in this case in September 2018 on allegations of attempt to frame a Rajasthan-based advocate, Sumersingh Rajpurohit, in a false narcotics case. This was allegedly done to pressurize him to vacate a commercial property in Pali town of Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bhatt-moves-hc-against-virtual-court-proceedings/articleshow/77697350.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kolkata||100% jump in sweet biz; flower sales shoot up||Kolkata: As the lockdown lifted on Friday night, workers at sweet factories and workshops swung into action to ready thousands of kilograms of laddus and modaks—the two “favourites” of Ganesha—so that on Saturday, there was no dearth of offerings during the Ganesh Chaturthi pujas. Most sweet shops opened shutters by 5am, while Kumartuli and Jagannath as well as Mullick Ghat were abuzz with activities from the crack of dawn as last-minute purchase of idols and flowers began. Though sweet shops did brisk business throughout Saturday, the owners rued they lost out on sales on locked down Thursday and Friday; traditionally, at least 90% laddus and modaks were sold the days before Ganesh Chaturthi. However, the huge demand drove up sales on Saturday, leading to over 100% jump in business, with most shops running out of stock by early evening. They had to start production all over again. “Despite the lockdown, orders came pouring in online and we also took orders on phone. It looked quite daunting when we started work at 10pm on Friday night. Laddus were popular for years but modaks have become a craze for the past five years or so. Apart from traditional modaks made of rice flour and grated coconut, we have experimented with myriad flavours,” said Sudip Mullick of Balaram Mullick. The popularity of modaks, a Maharashtrian favourite, has caught on with customers in the city so much that most traditional Bengali sweet shops are selling them now. “We, too, made modaks in more than 10 flavours and experimented with fillings. Those sold more than laddus this time,” said Tapan Das of Nalin Chandra Das. The Haldiram’s store near Rabindra Sadan saw brisk sales, too, but owner Avni Agarwal rued that stocks could not be given to many distributors on the city fringes owing to the lockdown days before that. “Usually, the two days prior to Chaturthi sees 60% sales of laddus alone. We made up for that on Saturday though,” she said. The flower market at Mullick Ghat below Howrah bridge teemed with people since early in the morning. While many people bought the idols on Wednesday, flowers couldn’t be stored three days in advance. “We will be going to Kumartuli to buy the idol after purchasing flowers. It is going to be a very basic affair this time without relatives joining in,” said Puja Rajgaria, a resident of Kankurgachhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/100-jump-in-sweet-biz-flower-sales-shoot-up/articleshow/77698048.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 23, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit Cong district, city presidents, 25 others booked for violation of Covid norms||PILIBHIT: Congress's district unit president Harpreet Singh Chabba and Pilibhit city president MP Saxena and 25 party workers were booked late on Friday night for allegedly violating Covid-19 protocol and prohibitory orders against gathering of four or more persons in a public place. The Congressmen had assembled in Nehru Park on Friday afternoon, without obtaining any official permission to stage a protest against the alleged scarcity of fertilizers in the district. Shrikant Dwivedi, SHO of Pilibhit Kotwali police station, said the two Congress presidents along with 25 unidentified Congress workers were booked under IPC section 188 (disobedience with an order duly promulgated by a public servant), 269 (unlawfully or negligently doing any act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life), sectio 270 (malignantly doing any act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) of IPC and provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-cong-district-city-presidents-25-others-booked-for-violation-of-covid-norms/articleshow/77696509.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: NDMC starts pruning of trees, corporations yet to act||NEW DELHI: To minimise incidents of trees falling during rain, New Delhi Municipal Council’s horticulture department has initiated a drive to identify hanging or dead branches, which restrict visibility on roads, and prune them. This also includes finding trees damaged by insects. “We do deep pruning of trees from November after taking permission from the forest department. Tress leaning on one side and uneven branches hamper overall growth,” an official said, while giving details of the yearlong exercise. However, except for NDMC, none of the other three civic agencies — north, south and east corporations — make specific action plans for pruning of trees and, an official said, the process was “requirement based”. While mild pruning is good for the health of trees and can minimise incidents of falling, lack of staff, delay in permission and objections by people makes it a cumbersome exercise, the official added. “We do pruning for the first 2-3 years, when the trees are young. Our staff strength is just around 60% and it not possible to visit grown trees unless people report issues,” said an EDMC official. An SDMC official said people want trees to be pruned in winter to get sunlight. “But there are others who are against pruning. Added to this is the long procedure in getting permission from the forest department, which requires filling a form, clicking pictures of trees, getting signatures of residents, etc,” he added. Residents, however, had mixed opinions on this issue. While some believed that pruning was a must for ensuring long life of trees and reducing accidents, others said this exercise was often misused and healthy trees were cut. MK Gupta, president of GK S-Block RWA, got six out of 20 trees pruned after pursuing the matter with the corporation for 15 days. “In our area, trees have a height of nearly 50 feet, which restricts air flow. The trees along the nullah are bent on one side and can get uprooted any time. I had even taken up the matter with the forest department to get the task done,” he said. Environment lawyer Aditya Prasad said the situation wouldn’t arise if the corporation carried out pruning round the year. “Most trees fall because of excessive lopping or concretisation. The pruning guidelines issued by the forest department are only followed by the corporations under pressure. Tenders are given to contractors, who often cut in excess to get additional wood. The tree authority formed under Delhi Preservation of Trees Act has not acted in years,” he added. A senior official from the forest department, however, said they always revert to the corporations regarding deep pruning of trees within seven days. “We either give them permission after a survey of the area or demand more documents within seven days, so there’s no question in delaying sanction of permission. In fact, there have been instances where we have granted approval to the corporations, but local residents continue to pursue us for updates,” he added. Bhavreen Kandhari, a resident of Defence Colony and an environmentalist, said that it was a “myth” that deep pruning of trees was needed to keep them healthy or increase their life. “In urban areas, deep pruning only benefits people. They want to cut trees because falling leaves and flowers make a mess. Even civic agencies do the work thoughtlessly. To conduct the exercise, we need proper equipment and knowledgeable people,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ndmc-starts-pruning-of-trees-corpns-yet-to-act/articleshow/77698055.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 23, 2020||Dehradun||Within hours of escape from quarantine centre, 2 persons caught by police||DEHRADUN: Two persons escaped from an institutional quarantine centre at Aravali Hostel under Prem Nagar police station area late on Friday night. However, the two were soon caught by police and handed over to the health department. Both of them were then brought back to the quarantine centre, said police officials. A total of 35 people, who recently returned to the state from Delhi, have been kept in the aforementioned quarantine centre. Dr Ramesh Singh Chauhan, nodal officer for the centre, said that two persons – Intezar Shehzad, 18, and Ravi Kumar, 20 – had escaped from the centre. Subsequently, police registered a case against the two at Prem Nagar police station under sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 51 of the Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/within-hours-of-escape-from-quarantine-centre-2-persons-caught-by-police/articleshow/77696532.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat ATS nabs four more for plot to kill Gordhan Zadafia||AHMEDABAD: Teams of the Gujarat anti-terrorist squad (ATS) and other security agencies late on Friday night picked up four more persons for the alleged plot to assassinate Gujarat BJP vice president and former MoS, home, Gordhan Zadafia, and other political leaders. These four include the alleged supplier of the firearms, the person who provided logistics support and two who allegedly financed the alleged attempt. ATS sources said the conspiracy to eliminate Zadafia and other political leaders was hatched in Pakistan by Dawood Ibrahim’s lieutenant, Chhota Shakeel and a man named Shabbir was handling the would-be assassins. Though the officials of Gujarat ATS are tight-lipped about the identities of the persons held, one of them is said to be Salman, the alleged second would-be assassin who was missing when sleuths raided Hotel Vinus on Relief Road, late on Tuesday night. Irfan Shaikh alias Kalia, a resident of Chembur in Mumbai, was held from room number 105 of the hotel, allegedly with two firearms. ATS officials said based on information given to them by Shaikh, who tested positive for Covid-19 and is being treated at present, teams of the ATS and security agencies raided places within and outside Gujarat and held the four other accused. “They have been sent for pre-arrest Covid-19 tests and only after they test negative will their identities and role in the assassination plot be disclosed,” said an ATS official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-ats-nabs-4-more-for-plot-to-kill-gordhan-zadafia/articleshow/77697362.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University demand for 5 articles in 7 days irks law students||NEW DELHI: First and second-year students of Delhi University’s law faculty are up in arms as the university has asked them to submit a 1,000-word article each for five subjects in just seven days. Though the assignments are not going to affect their marks, students are still supposed to submit them. Exams for these subjects will be conducted later. The Bar Council of India had recently released a directive in this regard. Why has the university decided to inform us about the assignments at the last moment?, rue students. The student union of the campus law centre has questioned the need for the assignments when exams are to be conducted later. Shivank Trivedi, vice-president of the student union, said, “The notification released on Thursday states that the assignments will neither be marked nor affect the percentage. Exams for the respective subjects will be conducted later when possible. In such a scenario, asking the students to submit the assignments makes little sense.” The circular of the law faculty earlier stated, “However, it is to be clearly understood that the submission of this assignment is a requirement was a promotion only and will not affect your marks percentage in the LLB course. As for the direction of the VC in the above-mentioned letter dated June 9, you will have to appear in the end-term examination to be conducted by the university as per the practical feasibility and also clear all subject papers with the investment period of the LLB course.” The online method of submission is not feasible for many of us, say the students. “We have been continuously pointing out that the online method of submission is not feasible for a large number of students. There are states in the country that are hit by floods and a few others still do not have internet connectivity above 2G. It is unjustified to expect the students to submit assignments online within such a short deadline” added the letter. University officials were not available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-demand-for-5-articles-in-7-days-irks-law-students/articleshow/77698042.cms||Shradha Chettri
August 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Another accused caught by Gujarat ATS tests positive for Covid-19||Ahmedabad: One more accused caught by Gujarat ATS tested positive for Covid -19 on Saturday. Abdul Razak Gazi was nabbed from West Bengal. Earlier, Irfan Shaikh, who was arrested for alleged plot to eliminate state BJP vice-president Gordhan Zadafia and other political leaders had tested positive for Covid-19. Gazi has been sent for treatment and the cops who went to West Bengal will also undergo tests for Covid infection. ATS officials said Gazi was an accused in the 2006 Ahmedabad railway station blast case and was on the run for 14 years. He was detained by ATS on Thursday from Bangudi village of West Bengal, which is located on the Indo-Bangladesh border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gazi-too-tests-covid-ve/articleshow/77697368.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Surat||Limbayat relieved from receding water||Surat: With rains taking a break in Surat and Tapi districts in the last 12 hours on Saturday, flood waters receded in affected areas of Limbayat after water levels at Mithi and Bhedwad creeks also subsided, bringing much relief to the area’s residents. Official sources in Limbayat zone said that flood waters in Pandesara, Bhestan, Limbayat and Parvat Patiya receded after water levels in Mithi khadi decreased to 7.4 metres from 7.9 metres on Saturday. Similarly, Bhedwad khadi’s level too decreased from 8.2m to 6.7m with no rainfall in the catchment areas. However, certain low-lying areas are still flooded and zone officials will place de-watering pumps to remove the stagnated flood waters. Bhairav Desai, executive engineer of Limbayat zone told TOI, “The flood waters have receded with the water levels in both the creeks coming down to below danger levels. We have still kept the de-watering pumps in the affected areas, anticipating the water levels may increase again due to rains in catchment areas.” Desai further said that a team of 60 safai kamdars and health workers have been deployed in areas where flood waters have receded for cleaning and spraying of insecticides. These areas include Magob, Parvat Patiya, Mithi Khadi, Bhestan etc where along with Gulfer drain cleaning machines, sewer jetting machines and eight tractors will also be utilized to clean muck and sludge. About 35 metric tonnes of and other debris were removed from the affected areas till now. Meanwhile, inflow of water into Ukai reservoir increased from 94,000 cusecs to 1.32 lakh cusecs within two hours between 2pm and 4pm on Saturday. The dam authorities, however, have maintained the discharge of water at 1.24 lakh cusecs with water levels at the dam touching 332.36 feet, which is well below the rule level of 335 feet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/limbayat-relieved-from-receding-water/articleshow/77696584.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Dams in western Maha continue water release||KOLHAPUR: With most of the reservoirs in western Maharashtra almost full and the IMD predicting heavy rain in Sangli, Satara and Kolhapur districts over the next two days, water discharge continued from most of the major dams on Saturday. Around 27,000 cusec was discharged from Koyna in Satara district on Saturday evening. While the capacity of the dam is 105 thousand million cubic feet (TMC), the water storage in the dam stands at 95 TMC. Radhanagari dam in Kolhapur district is more than 98% full. It has around 8.50 TMC storage. The water level of Panchganga river stood at 39ft at Rajaram bund — 4ft below the danger mark (43ft). Around 12,000 cusec was discharged from Chandoli dam on Saturday evening though the water level has receded considerably. The dam continues to receive around 12,000 cusec water. While the capacity of the dam is 34 TMC, the storage stands at 32 TMC. The water level of Krishna river at Karad was 45ft while the danger mark is 55ft. Irrigation officials said that the water level of Krishna river at Irwin bridge in Sangli was 40ft — 5ft below the danger mark. The Almatti dam in Karnataka continued to discharge 2.50 lakh cusec on Saturday. Almatti dam is receiving 2.92 lakh cusec water currently. The dam has 103 TMC storage while its capacity is 113 TMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/dams-in-western-maha-continue-water-release/articleshow/77696587.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two held with four 90-ml booze bottles||AHMEDABAD: While on patrol on Friday night, a team of Vastrapur police held two persons — Vikas Chhabaria, 42, a resident of Orchid Whitefield in Makarba, and Bhavna Parmar, a resident of Vastrapur — with four 90-ml bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL), from a car parked in a dark spot near an Amul parlour in Thaltej. Vastrapur police officials said both of them have been sent for pre-arrest Covid tests in the prohibition case registered against them. Police sources said they were on patrol when the saw the car, bearing a Maharashtra number, parked in a dark spot. “On checking the car, we found Chhabaria at the driver’s seat and the woman seated next to him. “They had four 90-ml bottles of IMFL in a white bag. They did not have a permit for possession of IMFL and we detained them,” said a Vastrapur police station official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-held-with-four-90-ml-booze-bottles/articleshow/77697375.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Dehradun||12-year-boy run over by speeding bus||DEHRADUN: A bus ran over a minor boy, who was walking on the roadside near ISBT in Dehradun, on Saturday afternoon. The 12-year-old boy died on the spot as his head came under the tyre of the bus. The passers-by handed over the driver to the police. The deceased was identified as Mayank Baliyan of MDDA Colony area near ISBT, and the driver was Rishikesh-resident Amardeep Singh. Eye witnesses told police that Mayank, along with his friend, was walking on the left side of the road. The other boy also sustained injuries. According to the locals, the victim boy was dragged by the vehicle for some distance before the accused driver applied brakes. A case under section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) was lodged against the driver at Patel Nagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/12-year-boy-run-over-by-speeding-bus/articleshow/77696557.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Two boys die as they fall in a pit||AHMEDABAD: Two children died after they fell in a pit dug for the pumping station work in Danilimda on Saturday evening. Police said the two boys — one 11 years old and another 12 years old — were residents of the Barrel Market area. “The boys died as they got stuck in the mud in the pit,” said a police official. Police have registered a case of accident death. “We are investigating whether the two had jumped in the water to take bath or had fallen in the pit accidentally,” the official added. An AMC official said that according to initial reports there was no security guard at the spot, as a result the boys entered the area where the construction was going on. AMC is investigating if the contractor had deputed any guard at the site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-boys-die-as-they-fall-in-a-pit/articleshow/77697387.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kolkata||Puja mantra: Smaller Durga idols in spacious pandals||Kolkata: The pandemic may have dealt a blow to the larger-than-life sizes of Durga idols this year, but the stature remains undiminished. Barring the big Pujas, most organizers have brought down the deity’s size to eight to 10ft from 14ft to 16ft for reasons, varying from logistic convenience to budget restrictions, from creating more space inside pandals for social distancing to keeping it minimal this time. Members of Puja committees said this was a reverse trend because the height and form of idols had been increasing with every Durga Puja to add grandeur and splendour, but this year, the pandemic had forced them to restrict the size. “We have had no option but to maintain austerity. We had to go in for a smaller idol this year for several reasons. The height of the pandal has been reduced and the idol has to be proportionate to it. At the same time, we will have to keep more space inside the pandal for the movement of people so that social distancing can be maintained,” said Somnath Das, secretary Santoshpur Lakepally. Forum for Durgotsab, an association of all major Durga Pujas in and around Kolkata, has issued a list of safety guidelines for this year’s celebrations, urging all committees to reduce the size of the deity this year. “Durga Puja is the biggest festival for us and people from all walks of life wish to visit pandals and admire the skills of the craftsmen. But the situation this year demands that we stick to all the safety guidelines so that that the virus does not spread,” said Saswata Basu, secretary of the Forum for Durgotsab. Organisers also feel smaller idols would be convenient to transport to pandals, set them up inside and then, take them for immersion. “Smaller idols do not require too many people for transportation to pandals and later, to the immersion ghats,” said a committee member of the Mohmmad Ali Park Puja committee. According to Shankar Pal, an artisan in the potters’ enclave in Kumartuli, last year, a Durga idol of 12 ft, along with the idols of her fanily, was sold for Rs1.5 lakh. Now, the same organization wanted to buy the idol of a much smaller size at Rs 40,000, he said. The reduced prices are a matter of concern, given that Kumartuli artisans depend on Durga Puja to earn a living to help them sustain through the rest of the year. The pandemic has also led to shortage in manpower in the hub. “We are working with an acute shortage of artists and labourers. Most of our labourers have gone back to their villages. With uncertainty looming large, many don’t want to return. We started receiving bookings quite late and Puja organisers are asking for smaller idols at half the price they used to pay even last year,” said Apurba Pal, general secretary of Kumartuli Clay Artists’ and Artisans’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/puja-mantra-smaller-durga-idols-in-spacious-pandals/articleshow/77698066.cms||Zeeshan Javed
August 23, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand records 483 new Covid cases, three deaths||DEHRADUN: With 483 fresh infections, the Covid-19 tally reached 14,566 cases in Uttarakhand on Friday. The state also reported three deaths. With this, the toll of the virus rose to 195 in the state. As on Saturday, the test results of 13,837 samples were still awaited. The highest of 133 cases were registered from Haridwar, followed by Nainital (97), Dehradun (82), Udham Singh Nagar (81), Uttarkashi (41), Almora (19), Rudraprayag (12), Pithoragarh (5), Chamoli (4), Tehri (3), Pauri (3), Bageshwar (2), and Champawat (1). The state, at present, has 4,296 active cases. Meanwhile, the maximum of 100 deaths have been reported from Dehradun, followed by 40 from Nainital, and 27 from Haridwar. As for the number of cases, the maximum have surfaced from Haridwar (3,555), followed by Dehradun (2,919), and Udham Singh Nagar (2,706). On the day, 345 patients recovered from the virus. With this, the overall cured cases in the state have now become 10,021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-483-new-cases-three-deaths/articleshow/77696571.cms||Shivani Azad
August 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Man held for raping woman||KOLHAPUR: Mohol police in Solapur district have arrested one Jainiddin, aka Shaikh, for allegedly blackmailing a Scheduled Caste woman with her objectionable photographs, which were taken without her consent when she was in a washroom, and raping her for over eight months. He had allegedly also threatened to kill the woman’s husbsand and son if she disclosed the incident. Police have slapped section 376 of the IPC and relevant sections of The Scheduled Castes and The Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-held-for-raping-woman/articleshow/77696605.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Nashik||Bappa welcomed home with great enthusiasm without loud processions||NASHIK: The 10-day Ganeshotsav began with great enthusiasm though the grand processions that usually mark Ganapati’s arrival was missing on Saturday. Given the Covid-19 restrictions and health advisory, under which the state government has banned gatherings for religious purposes, big Ganesh mandals had put off their celebration plans this year. However, the festivities at the individual home and housing society levels were not lacking in vibrancy. “Though loud processions were missing, there were hectic activities in the homes and housing societies,” Sanket Shukla, one of the residents of the Old City area, said. “This year, instead of all of our members going to bring the idol from the market, only a select number was dispatched with a customary band,” said Ramesh Bairagi, a resident of Panchavati. “My children and I had resolved to have a green Ganeshotsav. Therefore, we experimented with a homemade idol. We got local soil to make the idol and our decoration items were also sourced from the things available at home,” said Radhika Pawar, a resident of Gangapur Road. Market places, including the flower market, saw a rush in the early hours of the day, though shops selling decorative items did not have too many customers. “Business was not that great this year. But we have no complaints given the problems faced by everybody due to the prevailing conditions,” said Shrikrishna Patel, a shopkeeper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bappa-welcomed-home-with-great-enthusiasm-without-loud-processions/articleshow/77698469.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 23, 2020||Delhi||Lockdown high: Yamuna water records more oxygen||NEW DELHI: The novel coronavirus-forced lockdown has had a positive impact in the Yamuna, with the river increasing its dissolved oxygen (DO) levels, a study carried out by researchers at University of Chicago’s Tata Centre for Development have found. The team of researchers used real-time monitoring of the river, comparing the data from February 12 to the readings from May and June, the latest of which was collected on June 5. While the DO levels touched 9 mg/l in May, the average reading ranged around 2.82 mg/l for the month. In comparison, the DO levels — essential for sustaining aquatic life in the river — were 0 mg/l when the readings were taken in February. Similarly, Coloured Dissolved Organic Matter showed a 75% reduction during this period. Priyank Hirani, team head at the Water-to-Cloud Project, said two boat rides were taken on February 12 and February 13, collecting 1,824 data points in the process. From May to June, three boat rides were taken (May 22, May 27 and June 5) which saw 1,868 data points being collected. Hirani said while in February, the DO levels ranged between 0 and 2.17 mg/l and had a median value of 0 mg/l; it improved to 2.31 to 9.16 mg/l in May-June, with a median value of 2.82 mg/l. “While it did rain on June 4, which may have helped the river clean up, 1,232 data points collected on May 22 and May 27 ranged the DO levels between 2.31 and 7.92 mg/l. This signifies a drastic improvement in the DO levels present in the Yamuna, which is critical for a flourishing aquatic life,” Hirani claimed. The team said they also plan to monitor parameters like biological oxygen demand (BOD), chemical oxygen demand (COD) and e-coli levels — all of which will require lab testing. “Since everything was shut during the lockdown, we could not get these parameters analysed in the lab. Their readings will, however, be crucial,” Hirani added. Despite the improvement, team head at the Water-to-Cloud Project said the Yamuna was nowhere near where it should be — stating the DO levels should be around 4-5 mg/l at the least. The team also said it was possible that the improvement had been due to an increase in the flow of water, with more water being released at this time of the year. “High levels of electrical conductivity and DO levels below the 5 mg/l mark indicate that there is still a lot of pollution that is entering the river. This could largely be domestic sewage,” said Hirani, adding that agencies could use this period to identify the composition of industrial waste as compared to domestic sewage in the river. Earlier studies by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee and the Central Pollution Control Board CPCB have found an improvement in the quality of the river during the lockdown as compared to data from before. Watch Lockdown’s positive impact: Yamuna records better oxygen levels||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lockdown-high-yamuna-water-records-more-oxygen/articleshow/77698061.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 23, 2020||Nagpur||Streaming live: Ganesh sthapna, puja and aarti||Nagpur: In a first for most of the devotees who install Ganesh idols it was an experience of uncompromised faith using virtual technology on Saturday — the first day of the 10-day Ganesh festival. Following the Covid-induced curbs, many homes and Ganesh mandals in Nagpur took to the virtual platform for the lord’s sthapna, puja and aarti. Some mandals planned online events while others announced online competitions.Every year, festival organizers spend months in planning the pandals, decoration, events and gatherings. This year they are busy creating social media links, arranging digital darshans and ensuring safety and Covid-19 health protocols for the devotees.Adarsh Ganesh Utsav Ramdaspeth, one of the oldest Ganesh mandals in tony Ramdaspeth, has arranged a live telecast of Ganesh sthapna on their Facebook page from 8pm Saturday. “We have also organized various online competitions for our devotees,” said Mangesh Badwaik of the mandal, and added that their Facebook page mentions the programmes to be held during these 10 days.Sanjay Chinchole from Shri Santi Ganesh Utsav Mandal, Itwari, said, “Covid-19 has led to restricted celebrations this year. We have planned for e-darshan via Facebook Live during morning and evening aarti. We will also organize various virtual cultural programmes this year,” he said.In a marked departure from previous years, several homes did not invite priests for idol installation. Shripad Joshi, a priest, said that Ganesh Chaturthi used to be one of the busiest days of the calendar. “But many devotees politely expressed their unwillingness to call me this time due to coronavirus scare,” he said.Many tech-savvy priests have created their own app to help devotees. “Using one of these apps, we performed the installation and other puja rituals. We could feel that the priests were present at our home,” said one of the devotees Mukesh Bankar, who performed puja with the help of Pandit app. A devotee, who did not wish to be named, said, “It seems that the Lord of Wisdom wanted to teach us to keep up with the times and adopt e-skills to learn and enhance our knowledge.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/streaming-live-ganesh-sthapna-puja-and-aarti/articleshow/77697396.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Nashik||Gradual dip in Nashik city’s Covid-19 curve, claims NMC||NASHIK: The city has started showing initial signs of a “dip” in the Covid-19 pandemic curve, said the officials of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). The civic officials said various parameters indicated that although gradually, things on the Covid-front are improving in the city. “About a month back, we used to conduct on average about 1,500-2,000 daily tests and detected around 650-700 positive patients. Now, we have ramped up the number of daily tests to more than 2,500 and we are identifying less than 500 cases a day,” they said. What has further enthused the NMC officials is that there has been a steady decline in the number of active Covid-19 cases in the city since August 8, which was not the case until the first week of August. On August 7, there were 3,111 active cases in the city. The number fell slightly to 3,099 by August 15. On Friday (August 21), there were only 1,816 patients under treatment in the city. The current recovery rate is 86.5%. “Even the fatality rate has fallen from 2.7% on August 7 to 2.2% on August 21. We are optimistic that things would further improve by early next month,” said the officials. According to the civic officials, the NMC’s efforts to track, test and treat early have helped patients to recover. The credited the untiring efforts of the frontline health workers to trace Covid-19 suspects and get them tested. However, the NMC has warned people against lowering their guards as this is a critical stage. “Our finding is that a section of citizens is getting infected because of blatant violation of safety protocols including not wearing masks, not maintaining physical distance etc. The NMC is working overtime to tackle the issue, but we need people’s support,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/gradual-dip-in-nashik-citys-covid-19-curve-claims-nmc/articleshow/77698474.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
August 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Neighbours file plaints over fan noise||AHMEDABAD: Cross complaints were registered at Vasna police station by neighbours sharing the same house on Saturday regarding noise from a ceiling fan. The fan in question belongs to the family staying on the ground floor. In the first complaint, Pradeep Joshi, 68, of Kankavati Apartment in Vasna has alleged that the ceiling fan of Dhaval Kayasth who stays at ground floor is making so much noise that they experience tremors on the upper floor. “Minakshi, daughter-in-law of Dhaval Kayasth has lodged a complaint that earlier too Joshi used to enter their house when nobody was around and tell them their fan is creating noise and abused them,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/neighbours-file-plaints-over-fan-noise/articleshow/77697405.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Vadodara||Footwear brand’s store manager cheats company of Rs 16 lakh||Vadodara: A store manager of an international footwear brand was booked at Gotri police station for cheating the company of over Rs 16 lakh.The accused Kushalraj Chauhan, who handled the footwear brand Skecher’s store at Chakli circle, sold 302 pairs worth Rs 16.2 lakh between December last year and July 25 and did not deposit the money with the company. Chauhan, a resident of Subhanpura, went missing when his scam was unearthed during the audit last month.The company’s officials told police that Chauhan’s role in handling the store became suspicious when there was a deficit of Rs 17,000 in store’s card account and covered it by making the payment through a single card. When the regional manager of the company found during the preliminary investigation that Chauhan was selling the stock independently, he was asked to resign on July 10 and serve notice period of a month. However, on July 25 Chauhan was asked to handover the store’s operations the next day and leave the job. Police said that Chauhan, instead, fled the city next day.Later, the company’s officials checked the stock of the store and found out that 302 pairs of shoes were missing from the stock. Cops said that Chauhan sold the shoes on his own and did not deposit the money. He also took away Rs 12,000 cash which were received from sale on July 25 and two ATM cards of the store.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/footwear-brands-store-manager-cheats-company-of-rs-16-lakh/articleshow/77696345.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Nashik||1.3 lakh e-passes issued in Nashik dist||NASHIK: As many as 1.35 lakh citizens have used e-passes for travelling in and out of Nashik district so far, authorities concerned have said. According to authorities, they had issued 11,170 passes during the lockdown period so that Nashikites who were stuck outside the district can return to their home towns and vice-versa. Authorities said that they had issued 4,967 passes to 37,716 passengers for travelling outside the state from Nashik district while 3,169 passes were issued to 87,346 passengers for travelling to places outside Nashik district within the state. Similarly, 10,054 people were given 1,452 passes for entering Nashik district from other parts of the state. Revenue and police officials have said that the number of people seeking travel passes has decreased over the last 15 days. When asked about unauthorized entry in the district, the authorities refused to comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/1-3-lakh-e-passes-issued-in-nashik-dist/articleshow/77698475.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 23, 2020||Nagpur||2 die in separate road accidents||Nagpur: Two persons, including a security guard, were killed in separate road accidents in the last 24 hours.The security guard, identified as Sushant Dawre (59) from Manish Nagar, worked in Mihan. At around 1.30am on Saturday, Dawre was heading to Mihan when the driver of a crane deployed at Container Corporation of India reportedly hit his vehicle. Dawre sustained serious injuries and died. The Sonegaon police have booked crane driver Ravi Sharma.In the second incident, Bandu Lakshne (57), an employee of MSEDCL, Khaparkheda, was killed after a speeding unidentified vehicle hit him near KTPS Colony, gate no. 2, Koradi road, at around 8am on Friday. Koradi police said the accident occurred when Lakshne, a resident of Mankapur, was returning home from office. The vehicle sped away after the accident. Passers-by rushed Lakshne to a private hospital from where he was shifted to Government Medical College and Hospital, where he breathed his last. Koradi police are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-die-in-separate-road-accidents/articleshow/77697411.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Covid testing facilities in 8 more districts soon, says Ashwini Kumar Choubey||PATNA: Eight more polymerase chain reaction (PCR) labs would be set up in Bihar in the next few weeks to increase the number of RT-PCR tests for Covid-19 in the state in coming days, Union minister of state for health and family welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey said on Saturday. Out of the eight labs, three will be set up through the PM Cares Fund in Motihari, Munger and Purnea. The remaining labs would be established in Buxar, Kaimur, Banka, Nalanda and Bettiah, the minister said during a videoconferencing with the officials of health department and medical colleges. The minister said the ICMR-Delhi has given permission for setting up the eight PCR labs in Bihar. Choubey said the labs apart, nine RT-PCR machines would be installed in government labs and 17 in government medical colleges to double the daily testing capacity in Bihar. “The number of tests is rapidly increasing in the state and has reached up to over 1 lakh per day. So far, more than 23 lakh Covid tests have been conducted in Bihar,” he claimed. “Of the 17 proposed RT-PCR machines, four will come up at Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRI) at Patna, where two machines are already operational. Three more machines are to be set up at PMCH, which has only one now. Two machines each will be installed at AIIMS-Patna and IGIMS-Patna. These two institutes already have two RT-PCR machines,” Choubey said. Giving further details, he said Shri Krishna Medical College at Muzaffarpur, Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College and Hospital at Gaya, JLNMCH at Bhagalpur and Jan Nayak Karpoori Thakur Medical College and Hospital at Madhepura will get two machines each whereas five RT-PCR machines have been proposed for Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital. Presently, there are 21 RT-PCR machines across the state. After the setting up of 17 more machines, their number will go up to 38. Around 65% of the Covid-19 tests are being done through rapid antigen testing in Bihar. The minister said with the increase in testing capacity, people would get better facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/labs-for-rt-pcr-testing-in-8-more-dists-soon-choubey/articleshow/77697413.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||A doctor proposes ayurvedic way of disinfecting public places||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: An Ayurveda doctor in the district has come up with a disinfectant using medicinal herbs. Fumigation using ‘Ayurveda dhoopnam’ prepared by Dr Anilan S, medical officer, Government Ayush Primary Health Centre, Kottukal, is said to reduce bacterial and fungal infection in the disinfected area. Dr Anilan prepared the fu migation powder, Aparajitha Dhooma Choornam, with reference from texts on Ayurveda. The doctor and his team then experimented it at Kottukal panchayat for 15 days during the Covid outbreak in April-May, distributing it to around 1,000 houses. “We noticed that after each day, bacterial, fungal and other infectious species reduced drastically in the region. And after 15 days of regular fumigation, aerobic bacterial count, yeast and mould count were nil,” the doctor said. He later used the choornam at Covid first-line treatment centre at Kovalam when he was assigned duty there. Dr Anilan said Ayurveda gave much importance to preventive medicine and it has described several modes for disinfection purposes. “Fumigation (dhoopana) with medicinal herbs is one such method that is safe, natural and cost effective. In addition to disinfection, the fumes from herbal plants are good for stress relief and well-being,” Dr Anilan said. “Anyone can make the Aparajitha Dhooma Choornam at home with prescribed ingredients. Panchayat and ward representatives can take initiatives to carry out fumigation using this drug at junctions and streets in mornings and evenings. It will be effective when the fumigation is done at the same time every day. It is available in some dispensaries at Rs 35 per 50 grams,” Dr Anilan said. The rhizome of Acorus Calamus (Vayambu), Actiniopteris Dichotoma plant (Nanmukha Pullu), wood part of Aquilaria Agallocha (Agaru), bark and leaves of Azadirachta Indica (Veppu), root of Calotropis Gigantea (Erukku), wood part of Cedrus Deodara (Devedaram), gum resin of Commiphora Mukul (Gulggulu) and resin of Shorea Robusta, (Chenchallyam) are used to make the powder. The powder can be added to a heated coconut shell in an earthen vessel. The fumes emitting from the mixture is used for fumigation. The doctor said powder can be used for disinfecting rooms and environment; controlling pests, rodents and insects; purifying and sterilising therapeutic rooms, puerperal and neonatal rooms; administrated as drug for wounds, fever, poisoning, ENT diseases, gynaecological and psychological disorders and disinfecting vessels used for medicine preparation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/a-doctor-proposes-ayurvedic-way-of-disinfecting-public-places/articleshow/77697424.cms||Anasooya.S
August 23, 2020||Rajkot||Two siblings drown in Savarkundla village||Rajkot: Two children drowned in a river in Nesdi village of Savarkundla taluka on Saturday afternoon. According to police, Gopi Sarviaya (12) and her brother Manav (10) drowned in the river when they were playing. Police and fire brigade department launched search operation to find the bodies while a team of NDRF too also called. In another incident, a resident of Madhapar Chowkdi in Rajkot, Jagdish Dave (23), too drowned with his bike on the Dholera-Kangasiyali causeway in Lodhika taluka after water level increased suddenly owing to heavy rains. A man with his tractor too got trapped near Raval river in Umej village of Una taluka of Gir Somnath district on Saturday. The water level in the river belt increased after three gates of Raval dam were opened because of heavy rain in the upper stream. The tractor was later rescued with the help of an earth mover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-siblings-drown-in-savarkundla-village/articleshow/77696630.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Engineer, back from Qatar, robbed businessmen with friends, caught||NEW DELHI: Three men, including an engineer who had lost his job in Qatar during the Covid-19 pandemic, were arrested for kidnapping and robbing two businessmen from Punjab. The engineer, Swapnil, roped in his two friends — property dealer Keshav Sehgal and Ravi, an employee of an MNC — and procured satellite phones to pose as police officers. They intercepted the businessmen near Najafgarh and abducted them in an SUV. They then drove around Dwarka and snatched their belongings, including some gold jewellery and money. Later, the businessmen were dumped at the same spot from where they were kidnapped. DCP (Dwarka) Anto Alphonse said the businessmen went to Baba Haridass Nagar police station and told cops that they were kidnapped by three men on the Najafgarh Road. “We scanned the CCTV footage of the area and the number of the SUV led us to the prime accused, Swapnil. It was found that the car was registered on his elder brother’s name who stays abroad,” said Alphonse. During questioning Swapnil identified his two associates. It was found that the entire plot to kidnap a businessman was hatched by Swapnil. He told cops that he was a resident of Loni and had completed his engineering from a private college after which he got a job at an MNC in Qatar. However, he lost his job due to the pandemic and returned to India. At Qatar, he used to live lavishly and wanted to keep up with the lifestyle in India as well. He decided to rob someone rich to earn enough money for this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/engineer-back-from-qatar-robbed-bizmen-with-friends-caught/articleshow/77698094.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Nashik||ICT to be set up at Nashik airport||NASHIK: The Centre has decided to set up an international courier terminal (ICT) at Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) managed Nashik airport. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has issued the notification on Friday to set up the ICT at Nashik airport, which would be the second one in the state after Mumbai. The ICT facility will be set up at Halcon Cargo Complex jointly operated by HAL and Container Corporation of India Ltd (Concor). ICT at Halcon will enable courier clearance facility for incoming and outgoing international courier shipments, including documents, e-commerce, industrial, pharmaceutical products, samples. Nashik city MP Hemant Godse, who was pursuing the issue with CBIC, told TOI that the facility would spur economic growth of Nashik. “The Union government is establishing the facility after many deliberations. Nashik airport would be the new point for handling of courier shipments not only for the entire North and parts of western Maharashtra but also part of Gujarat, MP,” added Godse Sudhakar Sen, the CEO of Halcon, said the decision would enable the growth of the area with freighters operating from Nashik. Halcon, a business venture between HAL and Concor, is involved in facilitating export of various products from Nashik to other countries by sea and air. “Nashik will emerge as the hub for overseas shipments of products through courier services. It will generate employment in Nashik. I am confident that in future international passenger flights will also start from Nashik airport since such flights also take cargo along with passengers,” added Sen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ict-to-be-set-up-at-nashik-airport/articleshow/77698480.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
August 23, 2020||Nagpur||NMC notice to pvt hospital over Covid care sans nod||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has issued show cause notice to Alexis Hospital at Mankapur for allegedly treating Covid-19 positive patients without permission and taking excess charges from them. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Friday directed the hospital to submit reply within two days. NMC deputy commissioner Nirbhay Jain told TOI, “NMC team which conducted an inspection last week found the hospital treating some Covid-19 without permission. Also, some patients at the hospital were charged more than rates finalized by the state government,” he said. As per government’s norms, Covid-19 positive patients should be treatment at facility developed in a part of hospital or entire building as per guidelines. Norms do not allow for treatment of Covid-19 patients and non-Covid patients in one wing or together. According to Niranjan Joshi, senior manager of marketing and corporate communications of Alexis Hospital, the hospital has always been following all guidelines of the government as well as the NMC. He said hospital had admitted suspected patients and immediately informed the NMC. “Some of the suspected patients tested positive which was also immediately informed to the NMC. We transferred them to Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs) as per NMC’s instructions. Some positive patients were retained and treated only after they did not get admission in DCHs and that too only after informing the NMC. We have not violated any norms,” he said. Joshi added that the hospital has started the process to refund excess charges to five patients. “Excess charges amount worked out by the NMC is Rs4,446 for five patients,” he said. The civic body has directed the hospital to start Covid-19 services couple of days ago. Joshi said, “Hospital will start the services with 29 beds within a week.” Alexis Hospital is the third private hospital in the city after Wockhardt DCH and Seven Star DCH to get notice from NMC. But it is first hospital to get notice for treating Covid-19 positive patients without permission. The earlier two hospitals had faced action only for recovering excess charges from Covid-19 and non-Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-notice-to-pvt-hospital-over-covid-care-sans-nod/articleshow/77697403.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Traders lock down over parking fines||AHMEDABAD: Saturday morning, traders of Relief Road shut their shops to protest against what they say is arbitrary imposition of parking fines by traffic police. Inspector D B Dabhi, who is in charge of the Kalupur police station, said that a proper bandobust has been put up to prevent matters from going out of hand. “We told the traders that the government has provided three public parking zones,” Dabhi said.  “Moreover, the odd-even system is in place for parking vehicles.” However, the traders alleged that traffic police are harassing them. They said that parking should be allowed in front of their shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/traders-lock-down-over-parking-fines/articleshow/77697416.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Dehradun||If required, use choppers for collecting samples in far flung areas: CM tells DMs||DEHRADUN: In a video conference session held with district magistrates (DMs), Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat assured them that there is no dearth of funds to combat Covid-19 and asked them to use a chopper service, if required, to collect test samples from far flung areas of the Himalayan state. He pointed out that the state, at present, has the capacity to test 5,000 samples in a day and the efforts are on to increase this to 10,000 tests per day. The CM also launched a mobile app ‘Medical Setu’, which is specially designed for frontline workers like doctors, paramedical staff, nurses, security personnel, and police officials. He also asked the district authorities to strengthen the surveillance so that people under home quarantine and institutional quarantine do not violate norms. On being asked about the increase in the number of Covid-19 patients in the state, CM Rawat said that cases are going up as daily testing has been increased considerably. “We started with 200 tests a day but now this number is close to 6,000. We are trying to increase it to 10,000 tests a day as soon as possible,” the CM said. Uttarakhand chief secretary Om Prakash said that it is necessary to contain coronavirus so that the state does not reach the community spread stage. To this end, he laid thrust on special vigilance in Dehradun, Haridwar, Udham Singh Nagar, and Nainital as these districts have reported the maximum number of Covid-19 cases. During the meeting, CM Rawat said that those who have returned to the state after losing jobs should be made aware of CM Swarozgar Yojana and the steps being undertaken by the state government to help them start their own work. The CM instructed the DMs to offer the required assistance to people who want to start their own project. He added the DMs to make sure that all calls from state locals are received. The CM also asked all the district magistrates to remain alert in regards to any natural disaster and ensure that the roads affected by landslides are cleared quickly. CM Rawat said that the required machinery and manpower should be made available near locations, which are prone to natural disasters. He said that in case of any loss of life, the financial assistance and other help should be provided to the affected families within a period of three days. In the meeting, secretary disaster management SA Murugesan informed that since January 2020, 62 people have died in the state, 33 others have sustained injuries, and 4 people have gone missing in natural disasters. Besides, 357 small and big animals were lost and 237 buildings were severely damaged. According to official data, Gaila, Pattharkot, Bata, Tanga and Sirtol areas of Pithoragarh district suffered the most damage in landslides triggered by rainfall. Under the Disaster Relief fund, the state has made a request for Rs 468 crore from the Centre. A total of Rs 103 crore has been allocated to the districts through State Disaster Response Funds. Also, a total of Rs 189 were given to other departments for relief and rescue related works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/if-required-use-choppers-for-collecting-samples-in-far-flung-areas-cm-tells-dms/articleshow/77696593.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Rainfall in district to taper off over next 3 days, says IMD||PUNE: There is relief on the horizon from the incessant rain that has battered the city and the district over the past two weeks. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday said rainfall activity in the city — and the state — will reduce in the coming 72 hours. Despite overcast skies, Pune was largely dry on Saturday — Shivajinagar received 2.6mm of rainfall in the 24 hours from 8.30am on Friday, followed by no rain till 5.30pm. Lohegaon recorded 7.6mm till 8.30am on Saturday, and 0.2mm in the 12 hours after that. On Saturday, Tamhini ghat received a staggering 170mm in just 24 hours. Other places that recorded triple-digit rainfall included Shirgaon, Dawdi, Dungarwadi, Koyna and Tulsi lake in northern Mumbai. The hill station, Lonavla, received 49mm of rainfall in 24 hours. Vasai, Matheran and Kalyan in Konkan, and Igatpuri in Madhya Maharashtra received 100mm of rainfall from 8.30am on Friday to 8.30am on Saturday. “The rainfall activity in the Pune city/district as well as the state will reduce in the next 72 hours, while the very heavy rain warnings will also be downgraded to isolated heavy rain alert, especially over north Konkan and north Madhya Maharashtra. There would be no warning for Marathwada and Vidarbha,” Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD Pune told TOI. “The sheer zone aiding the rainfall in the state has dissipated,” Kashyapi said, adding that other weather systems that boosted rainfall activity in the state are likely to move, causing a dip in the rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rainfall-in-district-to-taper-off-over-next-3-days-imd/articleshow/77698487.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Ujani reservoir adds more than 33 TMC in 22 days||PUNE: Water stock in Ujani, the largest dam in the Bhima basin in terms of storage, surged beyond 70% on Saturday, adding over 33 TMC in the last 20 days after water was released from many upstream dams located in Pune district. Ujani has a total storage capacity of 56 TMC live stock and 59 TMC dead stock. On Saturday, the water storage reached up to 39 TMC, adding over 33 TMC water from August 1, when the reservoir’s storage was around 6 TMC. Rise in storage will ensure adequate supply of water to the areas of Pune, Solapur district and agriculture activities in both districts, an official from the irrigation department said. The officials from the state irrigation department said water levels of Ujani were rising continuously for the last two weeks. The dam has received water discharge from Khadakwasla, Mulshi, Panshet, Vir and other dams. Last year, the stock in the dam had reached its full capacity by the end of August. This year too, the water level may reach 100% if the reservoir continues to receive similar inflow of water, officials said. However, the water discharge from Khadakwasla and Panshet was stopped on Saturday afternoon after the intensity of rain in the catchments of both dams reduced. An official from the state irrigation department said, “We had initiated water release from Khadakwasla and Panshet at the rate of 13,000 cusec and 4,000 cusec, respectively, on Saturday morning. By afternoon, the discharge from both dams was pulled down to zero because Khadakwasla did not record any rainfall on Saturday, while Panshet recorded 7mm. The discharge will resume if rainfall activity in catchments intensifies,” an official said. Water release from Khadakwasla was stopped after almost a week. The state irrigation department continued with the release of water from Mulshi dam at 7,500 cusec. The collective stock in the four dams — Khadakwasla, Panshet, Varasgaon and Temghar — reached 28 TMC (96%) by Saturday evening. Stock in 10 dams at 100% in Bhima basinWater stock in 10 out of 25 dams in the Bhima basin reached its full capacities on Saturday. The dams included Bhatghar, Panshet, Kalmodi, Andra, Vir, Khadakwasla, Mulshi, Nazare, Gunjawani and Nira Devghar. Boil water before consumption: PMC The PMC’s water supply department has appealed to citizens to boil and filter PMC-supplied tap water before consumption. The administration said it was getting muddy water via the water pipeline coming from Khadakwasla because of increased rainfall in the dam’s catchments, which was released into river. “The water is being treated and purified at the treatment and purification plant and is fit for consumption. The citizens are appealed to boil and filter water before used,” officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stock-in-ujani-surges-above-70/articleshow/77698490.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 23, 2020||Kolhapur||People forget Covid worries while bringing idols||KOLHAPUR: There were so signs of any Covid panic on the city streets on Saturday when people welcomed Ganapati home at the start of the 10-day festival. At many places, residents burst firecrackers and played traditional music while welcoming the Lord amidst loud chants of “Ganapati Bappa Morya”. “These are very different times. Every year, all my family members, young or old, are out on the streets cheering to welcome the Bappa. However, we have to take care this time. My elderly father and mother are at home preparing meals while we (the younger generation) have come out to get the idol,” said Pratik Shinde, a resident of Kadamwadi. The administration had appealed for the festival to be low-key and eco-friendly this year. The appeal has so far been heeded by the citizens. Most citizens wore face masks while bringing the idols home. However, social distancing was not strictly maintained. Many also picked clay idols, despite the higher cost. Artificial ponds of immersion of idols The civic body has placed artificial kunds/ponds at 150 places in the city for immersion of idols and flower offerings. The KMC has appealed to the citizens to immerse the idols in these kunds and not to crowd around water bodies. Also, those who want to donate the idols can do so at the local pandals to be set up to especially accept idols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/people-forget-covid-worries-while-bringing-idols/articleshow/77698485.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Nashik||District administration sounds alert after dam water levels increase||NASHIK: The district administration has sounded an alert across the district after the water levels in various dams went up following good rainfall in August. The Gangapur Dam, which is located upstream of the Nashik city and supplies drinking water, has 93% water in store. As per the reservoir operation plan, the WRD must maintain certain levels of water considering the copious rain in the catchment areas of the dams. If there are more heavy showers, the WRD will be compelled to release water. This could cause flooding in the low-lying areas along the river — most of them in Nashik city and in the twin village Saikheda and Chandori in Niphad taluka. “We have alerted the local civic bodies and have asked them to ensure that people do not go near the Godavari,” district collector Suraj Mandhare said. The administration has prepared a district flood action plan in which the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has been given the responsibility of raising awareness among the people living along the banks, and also keeping an evacuation plan ready for the vulnerable population living along the banks. The plan includes rehabilitation while maintaining Covid-19 protocol, besides ensuring medical supplies for the people in the temporary camps if and when required. While the WRD has been asked to stay in touch with the district authorities and alert them if water has to be released from any of the dams, the district collectorate also has the responsibility to ensure people’s safety through its tahsildars, especially in Nashik and Niphad talukas. In the case of Nashik city, the district disaster management authority (DDMA) has in place nearly 12 volunteers, besides 10 volunteers of the Bhonsala Adventure Foundation and about 15 of Vainteya Girbhraman Sanstha (organization of trekkers) who are ready to help the administration in relief and rescue operations. In the Chandori and Saikhed villages, there are about 50 local volunteers trained at National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Pune facility. The DDMA has five motorboats that can be used for rescue operations in Nashik city and the twin villages even as the Bhonsala Adventure Foundation is also ready with two. This apart, the administration is also in contact with the Artillery Centre of Deoali Camp which can fly in helicopters in case of an emergency. NDRF have also been alerted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/district-admin-sounds-alert-after-dam-water-levels-increase/articleshow/77698481.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 23, 2020||Delhi||Tumour gone, woman’s weight drops by half in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The doctors at a city private hospital recently removed a 50kg tumour from the ovary of a woman. The woman, 52, weighed 106 kg before surgery and after the surgery her weight came down to 56 kg, doctors said. “In over 30 years of my experience as a surgeon, I have never come across a case where a tumour weighed almost half the person’s body weight. Previously, the largest case was in 2017 from Coimbatore where a lady was operated for a 34-kg tumour in her ovary,” Dr Arun Prasad, senior consultant for surgical gastroenterology and bariatric surgery at Apollo hospital said. He said the woman, identity withheld, was diagnosed with tumour in the ovary about five months ago. However, due to the lockdown she delayed the surgery. “The cause of the tumour isn’t known. Also, luckily for the woman, she did not have any life-threatening complications in the five months when the tumour was progressively expanding in her ovary even as it put pressure on her intestine and other organs,” Dr Prasad said. She recently started having difficulty in breathing, acute pain in her lower abdomen and consequently problems in walking and sleeping, the Apollo doctor said, adding that this prompted her to seek surgery. It took nearly three and a half hours for the team of surgeons to extract the 50-kg tumour from the ovary. Dr Prasad said extraction of the tumour was a challenge for the team especially because the patient had exceptionally low haemoglobin and had to undergo in total six units of blood transfusion before, during and after the procedure. “This procedure was a perfect example of how important it is to understand the traditional methods of surgery while evolving with new minimal access procedures, the doctor said. Here, there was no space in the abdomen for insertion of equipment via laparoscopy or robot-assisted methods, hence we had to resort to traditional methods of surgery. With the combined effort of experts from the gastroenterology, gynaecology and anaesthesiology teams, the extraction was done successfully,” the doctor said. Dr Geeta Chadha, senior consultant, gynaecology and obstetrics at Apollo hospital said there is no proven reason for the emergence of a tumour in the ovary, but it can happen during the formation of the cells in a human body. As the first-ever case of a 50-kg tumour in the ovary, this was a challenging procedure. Due to the giant tumour, the intestinal tract was compressed and flattened which was putting pressure on the gut leading to a risk of rupture in the ovary, Dr Chadha said. “The surgery had to be done with utmost precision, keeping in mind seamless extraction of the tumour and simultaneously ensuring no harm is caused to the ovary or the gut. Post-surgery the patient showed tremendous recovery and is set to be discharged on Saturday evening,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tumour-gone-womans-weight-drops-by-half/articleshow/77698096.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Sect followers fill potholes||Ludhiana: The followers of Namdhari sect on Satyrday took upon themselves to improve the road condition near Sherpur Chowk on the national highway as commuters had been facing tough time due to potholes. They have started the work of filling these from SPS Hospital to Sherpur chowk. Sukhwinder Singh Lyallpuri, one of the sect followers, said there were big potholes on this service road and whenever there was rain, there was water-logging, causing people difficulties. He claimed that they had raised the matter with mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal as well but they did not provide any relief, and the NHAI was not paying attention towards the problem. He said they had just filled the potholes and tried to level the road with the help of road roller and if situation did not improve they would start its construction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sect-followers-fill-potholes/articleshow/77697427.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Patna||CM Nitish Kumar launches power projects worth Rs 4,855 crore in Bihar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar launched a series of power projects worth Rs4,855.37 crore through videoconferencing on Saturday. Of the total amount, Rs3,130.54 crore was spent on replacing rickety and old electrical wires in different parts of the state. Addressing the event, Nitish said the state government’s programme to provide electricity connection to all households under the ‘Har Ghar Bijli Lagataar’ programme ended in October, 2018, two months prior to the deadline for completing the project. All rickety wires across the state were replaced by the end of December, 2019. “Now, I wish that all consumers must be provided prepaid meters so that the frequent complaints regarding over-billing becomes a thing of the past. Once, a prepaid meter is installed, people will use electricity as per their requirement and recharge in advance like they do for their prepaid mobile phone connection. There will be no billing complaints thereafter,” Nitish said. He asked the power officials to expedite the ongoing work of providing prepaid meters to all the consumers. The CM said the Centre had earlier adopted Bihar government’s scheme for providing electricity connection to each household. Now it was going to adopt our scheme of prepaid meter to every consumer. He further said there would be no curtailment in subsidy being provided to electricity consumers despite adverse economic situation due to Covid-19 pandemic in state. “Our government will continue providing subsidies and all other facilities to the consumers despite adverse scenarios prevailing in the state due to Covid-19,” he said. The CM said the state government was currently spending around Rs6,000 crore per annum on payment of subsidy to electricity consumers and would continue with that. “I have already announced irrigation water to each farm land across the state, if people give me another chance to serve them,” Nitish said, while referring to the coming state assembly election due in October-November. He said the departments like water resources, minor water resources and energy would work together on the scheme of providing irrigation water to all farm land. The CM asked the energy department officials to take necessary steps to promote solar energy in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-launches-power-projects-worth-rs4855-crore-in-state/articleshow/77697426.cms||Madan Kumar
August 23, 2020||Nashik||33 locations identified for immersion of idols||NASHIK: The civic administration has identified 33 locations across the city where artificial ponds will be created for immersion of idols on Ganesh Visarjan. Citizens are requested to book their time slots online for immersing the idols so that they don’t crowd the artificial ponds and every person/family gets enough time to bid adieu to Lord Ganesh. “People are being given the choice of slots so that they get enough time to immerse the idols by observing social distancing and thereby prevent the chances of Covid-19 from spreading,” said commissioner of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) Radhakrishna Game. Citizens are being given the option of choosing between immersing the idols in ammonium bicarbonate or donating the idols at the collection centres. “Once people arrive at their designated time slots, our teams will help immerse the idols in a solution of ammonium bicarbonate or collect them for donation,” said Kalpana Kute from the NMC’s solid waste management cell. While booking the slot, the person has to provide his mobile number and other details. The unique identity number allotted to him would have to be shown to the civic authorities deployed at the artificial ponds. Registering for immersion is mandatory without which citizens would not be allowed near the artificial ponds. No more than three people would be allowed to stay with the idols near the immersion points. People should reach 30 minutes prior to their designated time slot. Any person coming from the containment zones will not be allowed near the immersion points. The NMC has plans of collecting the idols from their venues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/33-locations-identified-for-immersion-of-idols/articleshow/77698489.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 23, 2020||Nashik||Covid paves way for eco-friendly Ganeshotsav||Aurangabad: With the start of the 10-day-long Ganeshotsav on August 22, many devotees preferred to make Ganesh idols at home, paving way for eco-friendly celebrations. The toned down celebrations also witnessed no large processions that invariably gives birth no noise pollution. Deepali Puranik, a home-maker said that she brought Shadu clay from the market and prepared Ganesh idol at home. “Moving out of the house in possibly crowded markets would have been a risky preposition. The home-made idol are also eco-friendly and can be immersed by temporary arrangement at home,” she said, adding that she prayed for early eradication of the pandemic and safety of her family members. Nilesh Dharashivkar, who sells Ganesh idols every year, said that the market conditions were gloomy due to Covid-19. “The sale of idols has been reduced by 30% to 40% this year and so are the prices. Anticipating lesser sale, we also arranged fewer number of idols this year,” he said. Amid curbs announced during Ganesh festival this year by district administration, the number of public Ganesh mandals celebrating the annual festival has also gone down. Besides, Ganesh mandals have been specifically asked to keep thermal guns and pulse oxymeters with them for regular screening of volunteers as well as devotees among other key instructions from the local civic body which has already denied permission to processions during the beginning or the concluding of the festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-paves-way-for-eco-friendly-ganeshotsav/articleshow/77698494.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Nashik||Follow social distancing: CP tells people||NASHIK: Commissioner of police Vishwas Nangare-Patil has appealed to Nashik citizens to keep Ganeshotsav celebrations to a minimum this year and follow social distancing at all times in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. In a video uploaded on social media by city police, the CP said it is important for everyone to ensure that there is no gathering at public places in large number. He also asked people to refrain from violating social distancing norms. Nangare-Patil also appealed to the people to ensure that they immerse Ganesh idols at their homes as approximately 750 mandals and over two lakh families from across the city celebrated Ganesh Chaturthi. And, the rush of so many people at river banks would only lead to the spread of the Covid infection. The CP also said that many mandals have voluntarily decided that they will not hold any procession or use loud speakers. Guidelines in this regard have also been issued to the mandals by the state government. He said that maintaining social distancing was of prime importance considering the rising number of coronavirus cases in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/follow-social-distancing-cp-tells-people/articleshow/77698503.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Dehradun||Monsoon fury: 210 roads remain closed in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: As the downpour continued in most parts of the state on Saturday, traffic movements on 210 roads remain disrupted. Out of the total of 327 roads lying closed, the state authorities were successful in opening 117 stretches, whereas 210 still remain closed for vehicular movements. According to the official data, 104 roads of the Public Works Department (PWD) and 106 of Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana are closed for movements. Four national highways, including Badrinath route, seven state highways, and eight district roads are among the ones that have been affected. A total of 305 JCBs and Pokland machines along with thousands of people are involved in the opening of roads, which have been affected by landslides triggered by incessant rainfall. Hari Om Sharma, chief engineer, PWD, said, “The required efforts are being made but locations where the quantum of damage is more are taking a longer time. Our response time is quick and at most locations, roads were cleared within a span of a few hours.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/monsoon-fury-210-roads-remain-closed-in-ukhand/articleshow/77696640.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 23, 2020||Jaipur||Official apathy stalls development under Mewat area board||Jaipur: The Mewat Area Development Board (MADB) meant for the socio-economic upliftment of the Meo Muslim community in Alwar and Bharatpur has been awaiting its board chairman for the past 12 years. The MADB was allocated Rs 300 crore budget for five years in 2015 for filling the infrastructure gaps which were supposed to be completed by 2020. Many of these projects are yet to see the light of the day due to administrative and political apathy. The MADB was formed in 1987. It is spread across two districts and has a total of 799 villages dominated by Meo Muslim community. Or villages whose 40% and above population belongs to them. The programme aimed at building infrastructure, sanitation, health, rural connectivity, education and medical facilities. The zila parishads of Alwar and Bharatpur have been made the nodal agency to oversee the programme, while the MLAs and MPs have been made part of the governing committees. Pointing at the shortcomings of the administration, Sher Mohammed, a community leader, blamed the poor execution of the programme to meet its desired result on political and administrative apathy. “In the absence of the board members and a chairman, the work is being carried by the respective MLAs under the MLA LAD fund as per the provision. In the previous regime, the designated MLAs have carried out developmental projects in non-Meo areas while flouting the basic criteria of ignoring the Meo-dominated areas,” said Mohammed, who accused the MLAs of preventing the government from appointing a board chairman which will reduce the role of these elected representatives. The MLA LAD fund for every MLA is Rs 2.25 crore, while it gives them additional fund under the scheme for Meos. Reacting to the allegations of misuse of funds, former MLA Tijara Maman Singh Yadav who constituency has 131 villages under MADB, says, “Meo area development means the development of an entire area or region. It doesn’t mean funds were only for a particular community. I must have done the welfare work of Rs 50-60 crores under the MADB from 2015-2018,” said Yadav, who claimed that his party has spent around Rs 290 crore against Rs 300 crore budget. On the contrary to the claims made by the former MLA, the Mewat guidelines 2015 describes Mewat area as 799 villages spread in 11 Panchayat Samitis. Also, an official of the rural development and Panchayati Raj says that amount spent in the last five years was less than 50%. Like BJP, the Congress government too was not able to spend much on the development of Meos since they came to power. “Since the first year of our rule had Lok Sabha elections followed by local polls. Now, the Covid-19 situation has eaten almost the first half of this financial year is a reason that only a fraction of a budget has been utilised. Once the situation is normal, the work will be completed in fast pace,” said Shafia Zubair, MLA Ramgarh in Alwar. Sources said that out of the earmarked 799 villages, barely 200 have got projects. The project was divided into two phases: In the first phase, the developmental work was to be carried out in villages with population below 5,000 and in the second phase villages with population above 5,000. However, even the first phase remains incomplete. Bina Gupta, chairperson of Alwar Municipal Council, said that they are fully aware of the pendency of the work under MADB. “Once the Covid-19 is put under control, the pending work will put on fast track mode,” Bina said. TOI called up Abhijit Jhatav, chairman of Bharatpur municipal council, for his comments, but he was unavailable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/official-apathy-stalls-development-under-mewat-area-board/articleshow/77698103.cms||Shoeb Khan
August 23, 2020||Jaipur||‘Dept delaying in processing issues of disabled people’||Jaipur: Even as the court of the commissioner for specially-abled persons had directed the state’s law and legal affairs department to take appropriate action and forward the proposal to the Centre for consideration so that 4% reservation could be provided to persons with disabilities (PwDs) in the notary public jobs, the state government has not taken any action in the matter in the past 10 months, claimed Hemant Goyal, vice-president, Divyang Mahasangh. “The court had asked the law department to forward the proposal with relevant files to the Centre for amendments in the rules. The department has not taken any action in the matter in the past 10 months. They are delaying the process. We had also demanded exemption on a similar pattern as SC/ST.” said Goyal. “The department was supposed to forward the proposal to the Centre citing reference to the order issued by the court of the commissioner for specially-abled persons. Only the centre can bring amendments to the existing rules. The law department is not at all serious and sensitive towards the issues of the specially-abled persons,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dept-delaying-in-processing-issues-of-disabled-people/articleshow/77698104.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Police form committees to manage markets||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With market places becoming active once again, police have formed local committees comprising cops and traders to manage activities at each market adhering to Covid-19 protocols. These market-management committees are expected to bring order in markets as well as eliminate any possibility of conflicts between police and vendors. Deputy commissioner of police Divya V Gopinath said the committees were formed from the idea that handing over the responsibility of enforcing rules to the traders themselves will yield better results. Each committee will be headed by station house officer of local police station. The local leaders of merchants’ associations and select traders from each market will also be members of the committee. “Each committee of the respective market will come up with the regulations that have to be followed by the traders there,’’ the DCP said, adding that the conditions at each market may be different and they all have distinct characters. Hence, trying to enforce same set of regulations in all markets can be foolish. For example, the traders in Chalai have decided among themselves to implement a rotation system for opening shops of different categories to avoid crowding in the market, Divya said. As per the plan, traders can assign volunteers among themselves to see that customers are provided hand sanitizers and social distancing is followed inside the shops. Any offence has to be reported to the station house officer without fail. “Having said so, police will not be handing over the responsibilities completely. The cops too will be regularly inspecting the markets. If they find any violation, strict action will be taken against the volunteers too for failure of reporting the offence,’’ the DCP said. Now, there are 53 market-managing committees in city limits. The rural district police too have implemented a similar system under the name, market-enforcement groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/police-form-committees-to-manage-markets/articleshow/77697434.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Road caves in, repaired in few hours||Ludhiana: A small portion of the Kaka Marriage Palace road caved in on Friday morning. The municipal corporation officials though rebuilt the portion in a few hours but claimed that some underground cable was responsible for such incidents. Luckily, there was no untoward incident and before the caving in could get larger in proportion, the civic body officials fixed it. Such incidents of caving in of roads have become a routine affair here as earlier a large portion of the same road had caved in. The SDO of operation and maintenance cell, Anshul Garcha, who got the road repaired, said that it was only 2-3ft wide and some underground cable was passing under it due to which the portion of the road had got damaged. He said they checked everything and there was no leakage in the water supply line passing below the road. He said they had fixed the problem and now the road pit had been repaired properly. In the past also, at least four incidents have taken place where road portions have caved in at different locations on this stretch. At that time also the civic body officials had blamed the underground cables for the caving in incidents but despite that they did nothing to find a permanent solution to the problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/road-caves-in-repaired-in-few-hours/articleshow/77697431.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Delhi||Vision 2030: Delhi government plans 100 more model schools||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s education sector is likely to get a major infrastructure boost in the next few years. Over 100 more schools will be developed as model schools. Several other initiatives, including starting science stream in more schools, developing different classrooms for subjects like physics and chemistry and establishing a science museum-cum-interpretation centre, have been planned. The state government is even mulling starting hydroponics in 10 schools on a pilot basis. All these plans have been enlisted as part of the Vision-2030 of the Directorate of Education. So far, 54 schools have been developed as model schools in the capital. These schools are equipped with modern infrastructure and technology. “On the same lines, 100 new pilot schools are to be started by identifying the school buildings, which are in bad condition,” mentions the document. The Public Works Department will be developing these schools. To give a push to science education, the government aims to start science stream in more schools. At present, it is available in 323 government schools. By August 30, the education department hopes to identify the schools where the science stream will be started. Extra classrooms will be built to start these classes. Also, different classrooms will be developed for theme-based learning of subjects like physics, chemistry, mathematics and geography. “Identification of schools for construction of such classrooms can be introduced from the next academic session. The infrastructure required for the construction of the rooms to be finalised by the land and estate branch,” adds the document. The government is also planning to establish a science interpretation centre for school children. “A world-class science museum-cum-interpretation centre will be set up for the students to inculcate a better understanding of science and advances in the technology. A meeting of the expert committee will be organised for it by the science branch,” said an official. Over why hydroponics is being started in schools, an adviser to the government said, “It is basically to help students get an understanding of botany as a subject and how plants are grown. A separate infrastructure for it will not be required.” Hydroponics is a method of growing plants without soil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vision-2030-govt-plans-100-more-model-schools/articleshow/77698105.cms||Shradha Chettri
August 23, 2020||Ludhiana||In Covid times chocolate Ganesha catches attention of devotees||Ludhiana:This year the bakeries in the city are trying to catch the attention of city residents by making chocolate Ganesha idols. The idea is catching up among the residents, especially due to lockdown as immersion of such idols can be done at home in hot milk. Besides, only small idols are being preferred by the residents. Restaurateur and baker from Sarabha Nagar Harjinder Singh Kukreja, who has been making Belgium chocolate Ganesha for the last five years, said, “This year, we have depicted Lord Ganesha in his childhood days where he is sitting over his mouse. The idea was to do something for kids this year.” He said it took 10 days to make the chocolate Ganesha which weighs around 40kg and it is 3 feet tall. Kukreja, however, said this year they have made small idols from chocolate for sale as well because till last year people used to ask if they are making anything for sale and they used to refuse. So, this year they thought they should give option to the residents to get chocolate Ganesha home. He said these idols could be immersed in milk easily and that chocolate milk can be distributed among people as they have been doing for the past five years. Manik Bajaj, who has a bakery at BRS Nagar, said people demand small idols, so they made only these this time. He said due to lockdown it was not possible to go out for immersion, so this chocolate Ganesha idol was the best option and moreover, there would be no impact on the environment. Residents also appreciated the idea and claimed that it would discourage the habit among people to immerse the idols in water bodies. A resident of Aggar Nagar, Deepika Gupta, said, “It is actually a nice idea to get Ganesha in chocolate form as immersion is very easy and that milk can be distributed among the poor as well instead of polluting the water with idols made from harmful chemicals. Moreover, there will be no disrespect towards Lord Ganesha, whom we worship for 10 days and then immerse in the water.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/in-covid-times-chocolate-ganesha-catches-attention-of-devotees/articleshow/77697433.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Delhi||Why FIR delayed in rape case: Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: Coming down heavily on police in a minor rape case, a Delhi court has issued a show-cause notice to an officer asking why he didn’t register an FIR immediately after receiving the complaint and why proceedings under Protection of Children Against Sexual Offences (Pocso) law shouldn’t be initiated against him. “Police have flouted provisions of the Pocso Act, 2012, which mandates a prompt action by police for securing the evidence and ensuring welfare of the child survivor,” said additional sessions judge Sudhandhu Kaushik. While issuing notice to the station house officer (SHO) of the police station concerned, the court asked him to explain why shouldn’t he face action for non-compliance of provision (Section 19 of Pocso Act) of the law that makes it mandatory to register a case immediately and “report the matter to the child welfare committee and the special court” within 24 hours. It was seen that though a complaint was made on January 4, 2020, in this case, police did not register the FIR till March 6. “The SHO is directed to furnish reply (to be forwarded through the concerned DCP) mentioning the reasons as to why he failed to register the FIR immediately despite gaining information that a minor girl had been sexually assaulted,” the judge ordered. The direction came during rejection of the anticipatory bail plea of the accused, who was the survivor’s father. It was alleged that the man had sexually assaulted his six-year-old daughter. The mother noticed that the survivor had become unusually quiet and behaved strangely. She lodged a complaint with police on January 4, and subsequently with the Crime Against Women cell on January 6 after being physically assaulted by her husband. Although the couple compromised the matter by way of a settlement deed, the mother alleged that the accused continued to sexually assault their daughter on two subsequent occasions. The accused contested the allegations stating his wife had cheated on him with an ex-employee and framed him in a false case when he confronted her. The mother’s counsel and the prosecutor argued that the man’s plea was not maintainable if the provisions of law relating to rape and the survivor’s age was considered. The court underscored the “specific allegations” in the mother’s complaint against her husband elaborating penetrative sexual assault by the father on the minor daughter. “I am of the considered opinion that this is not a fit case for exercising the extraordinary discretion of granting anticipatory bail to the accused… bail application is accordingly dismissed,” the court held. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-fir-delayed-in-rape-case-court/articleshow/77698134.cms||Aamir Khan
August 23, 2020||Jaipur||Covid dampens spirit of Ganesh Chaturthi in Jaipur||JAIPUR: The usual serpentine queues, makeshift shops selling Ganesha’s paraphernalia and pavements filled with idols were missing this Ganesh Chaturthi due to Covid restrictions on religious gatherings and processions. The city’s biggest Ganesh temple at Moti Doongri wore a deserted look with only the priest being allowed to perform rituals and ceremonies. Even at homes, the fanfare of installing idols of Lord Ganesh with sweets, flowers and special dishes were a low-key affair. The temple attracts a sea of devotees every year to mark the day. The temple administration has made the online darshan but the number of takers for virtual darshan was fewer than expected. “We have been strictly following all guidelines set by the state government. The temple continues to remain closed but we tried to provide darshan to the devotees through live streaming. Even prasad was distributed in very limited numbers by our volunteers at the corners of the temple. I urge all devotees to stay safe and calm and they are invited for darshan after all restrictions were over,” said Mahant Kailesh Sharma, priest of Moti Doongri Temple. The prominent temples in the city- Ganesh Temple, Moti Doongri, Gad Ganesh Temple, Nahar Ke Ganeshji, Lal Doongri Ganeshji, Parkote Wale Ganeshji, Siddivinayak Ganeshji and Jhandewale Ganeshji - were illuminated with lights and lamps but the absence of devotees had dampened the spirit of the festival. The makeshift markers around all these temples selling modak (laddus) and chunari were seen in limited numbers. “Customers have reduced by 90% as they purchased only flowers, garlands, idols, lamps and sweets. The sales were way below expectations,” said Madan Lal, a salesman outside Moti Doongri temple. The absence of Ganesh pandals at different parts of the city left devotees to celebrate the festival at their homes. Artisans were seen disappointed to see no takers for big-size idols. Those who bought idols plan to immerse it at their homes. “My daughters suggested immersing the idol in a new bucket which is environment friendly. It seems we have to downsize the festivities until the pandemic is over,” said Pankaj Sharma, a resident at Vaishali Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-dampens-spirit-of-ganesh-chaturthi/articleshow/77698106.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Jaipur||HC CJ Mohanty lays foundation of new court premises in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: Rajasthan High Court chief justice Indrajit Mohanty on Saturday laid the e-foundation of the district court premises building to be built on 17.5-bigha plot on the main road near Jaisalmer-Ramgarh bypass. Jaisalmer judiciary area inspecting justice Dinesh Mehta and high court registrar general Nirmal Singh Medatwal also took part in the function. Justice Mohanty congratulated Jaisalmer judiciary area’s entire bar and bench and said all the judiciary officials and advocates should make efforts to give justice to poor people and to each person deprived of justice. He said with this new building, the working area of judiciary will have better results. He hoped that the construction of the building will be of high quality. Mehta said it was matter of great pleasure that the chief justice laid the foundation of this court premises. He said Jaisalmer district court was set up in 1991 and at present there is space constraints and the courts are running in different areas and there is no building for the SC/ST affairs court created in 2019 due to which advocates and parties have to face problems. The e-foundation programme was organised at ADR centre in which district and sessions judge Ravindra Kumar, district collector Ashish Modi, Jaisalmer headquarters court’s returning officers, Jaisalmer bar association president Multanaram Barupal, PWD executive engineer Amritlal Devpal, bar association advocates were resent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-cj-mohanty-lays-foundation-of-new-court-premises-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/77698107.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Nashik||Couple dies by drowning in Dindori||NASHIK: A 42-year-old man and his wife died drowning when the former plunged into a well in which the woman had slipped in the Indiranagar area in Dindori on Thursday evening. The deceased couple have been identified as Kalu Ukha Pawar and his wife Nirmala (35). Police said that Nirmala, who had learning difficulties, went to a farm near their residence around 6.30pm on Thursday and fell into a well. When Kalu saw her falling into the well, he rushed to her rescue and took a plunge. Unfortunately, both of them died. Constable Dnyaneshwar Avhad said that they took up search operation with the help of some local villagers. However, since it was very dark and there were many bushes around the well, they stopped search operations and fished out their bodies on Friday morning. While there were reports that Nirmala jumped into the well following an argument with her husband, Avhad said that none of the family members, including those from the woman’s side, gave any confirmation on the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/couple-dies-by-drowning-in-dindori/articleshow/77698505.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Nashik||Man booked for duping woman of Rs 31 lakh||NASHIK: The city police have booked a resident from Mumbai Naka for allegedly duping a woman from Khed, Pune, of Rs 31 lakh. The woman registered a complaint with the Mumbai Naka police station on Friday. The complainant and the suspect were acquainted in Pune. The suspect, who had an office in Tidke Nagar, Nashik, had promised the complainant of getting her a television dealership in Pune for which he took money from her between April 2019 and March 2020. However, the suspect did not offer any dealership in Pune following which she lodged a complaint against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-booked-for-duping-woman-of-rs-31l/articleshow/77698506.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Jaipur||24-hr shutdown by farmers to press for their demands||Jodhpur: Osian subdivision will observe a 24-hour shutdown on Sunday in support of the demands of farmers. All business activities including agriculture and grain mandis of Osian and Mathania will remain shut during this period. The shutdown has been supported by labourers of industries and stone quarries. The major demand of farmers is withdrawal of the decision to cancel the power subsidy of Rs 833 and exemption of electricity bills. As part of the protest, farmers will burn power bills at each grid substation and will park their vehicles, tractors and carts on the road in protest against the indifference of the government towards demands of farmers. Ex-MLA of Osian Bhairaram Siyol alleged that three farmers committed suicide during lockdown in due to loan pressure, but the government did not show any empathy. “The farmers have been protesting since long abandoning their work to make the government listen to their demands. But so far the government continued to remain indifferent to their voices,” Siyol said. On the other hand, the farmers are also preparing to hold a ‘mahapadav’ in Jodhpur at Discom headquarters on August 25 for the government remaining insensitive to the farmers’ demands. District president of Bhartiya Kissan Mahasangh Naresh Vyas said the farmers have been demonstrating for the past 17 days at different tehsil headquarters striving hard to ensure that their voices reached the government. “Despite giving a memorandum to chief minister by a delegation of the mahasangh, nothing positive has turned out so far,” Vyas said. He said that insensitivity has left the farmers with no alternative then to intensify their demonstration to press the government to act positively on our demands. The farmers will be setting off from their villages on Tuesday towards Jaipur in large numbers and will be holding a mahapadav in the city at the discom office till their demands are met.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/24-hr-shutdown-by-farmers-to-press-for-their-demands/articleshow/77698140.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Irked Preet Nagar residents start road construction on their own||Ludhiana: Residents of Preet Nagar in ward number 15 are up in arms against the alleged apathetic attitude of the MC officials and have decided to get a road constructed on their own. They rued that they have been facing tough time for the past seven years as despite several complaints to officials and elected representatives nobody paid attention towards their issues. So, they collected money for getting the road repaired. One of the businessmen in the area, Vinod Sharma, and his friends shared that the road in ward number 15 was in a pathetic condition and in rainy season the situation turned worst with rainwater getting stagnant leaving mud all around. They have been requesting for the past seven years for the construction of road but they did not get anything except assurances. They claimed that they had been paying taxes to the government for the facilities but these were altogether missing. They rued that now they had decided to get the work done on their own, and it has already been started. They claimed that not only Preet Nagar road but Kakka Dhaula road is also in a pathetic condition. Around two years back construction of that road had been started, but it was left in between. There are so many factories on at Kakka Dhaula road and people going to these factories are facing a tough time. However, on the other hand, councillor of ward number 15 Kanchan Malhotra said, “So many illegal colonies are being developed in the ward and adjoining areas and I am trying to provide facilities in these undeveloped areas. These works will be carried out when these illegal areas will be regularised. The proposal to get these areas regularised is lying with authorities concerned and as soon as approval will come, we will start work on sewerage, roads and water supply on priority.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/irked-preet-nagar-residents-start-road-construction-on-their-own/articleshow/77697449.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||15,000 cyber-scammed of Rs 50 crore in Gujarat in 8 months||AHMEDABAD: While Covid-19 has increased the public’s reliance on digital payments, mainly through e-wallets, it has also given criminals an opportunity to change their modus operandi and expanded their target base. With smartphones becoming ubiquitous, andmost people using them to make electronic transactions, everybody is vulnerable.  As far as Gujarat is concerned, the Instant Response Unit (IRU) of the police set up under the government’s ‘Cyber Aashvast’ initiative, has received more than 15,000 complaints from people who have been cheated or bullied by cyber crooks in the last eight months, with the total value of money swindled hitting Rs 50 crore. “Half of these cases have been reported from Ahmedabad alone. The other main cities are Surat, Vadodara and Gandhinagar,” said deputy commissioner of police, cybercrime, Amit Vasava Most of these complaints are then transferred to the local police station for investigation. “We have been able to help 2,500 victims and retrieve some Rs 5.5 crore taken by the cheats. Of this, about Rs 4 crore has been returned to the victims and Rs 1.5 crore has been frozen in bank accounts. The victims will get this money back after the court procedure,” said Vasava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/15k-cyber-scammed-of-rs-50-crore-in-state-in-8-months/articleshow/77697721.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
August 23, 2020||Nashik||Workers appointed for filling potholes on Mumbai-Agra highway||NASHIK: Officials at the Ghoti toll plaza have appointed workers to fill potholes on the Mumbai-Agra highway after several complaints were made by commuters. Travellers have complained that with the onset of monsoon, the condition of the stretch near Mumbai has started worsening with potholes beginning to emerge. Harish Chaube, a fire safety officer working at an Igatpuri-based industry, said that he regularly travels on the Mumbai-Agra highway. “The highway is in a bad shape, especially the stretch from Ghoti Sinnar Junction till Ghatandevi. It has developed huge potholes which are spread till Kasara ghat and even further. Due to these potholes, motorists find it difficult to drive. Also, these potholes lead to accidents during monsoon.” “This is a common problem faced by travellers on the highway. The authorities concerned should carry out pre-monsoon work on the highway so that such potholes are filled and more do not come up during the monsoon,” he said. Meanwhile, commuters faced a tough time travelling on the highway on Friday. Huge rush was witnessed on Friday with people returning to their home towns for Ganeshotsav. With train and bus services shut, a large number of people were seen travelling in their own vehicles, leading to extra rush on the highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/workers-appointed-for-filling-potholes-on-mumbai-agra-highway/articleshow/77698514.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 23, 2020||Bareilly||Attack on Prasada home turf ‘planted’, say sources; Sibal, Tiwari back ex-Union min||Bareilly: A day after members of the Congress unit in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district staged a protest and wrote a letter to the party's interim president Sonia Gandhi demanding disciplinary action against former Union minister Jitin Prasada for his "anti-party activities", sources close to Prasada in UP said that the attack was “planted”. Prasada was one of the 23 signatories of the recent letter calling for corrective steps in the party. There has been no official word so far from any senior Congress leader in UP. Meanwhile, senior party leader Kapil Sibal has extended support to Prasada through a tweet in which he said, “Unfortunate that Jitin Prasada is being officially targeted in UP". On Wednesday, a meeting was held in Kheri where state Congress secretary Kumud Gangwar along with district president Prahlad Patel and other leaders raised slogans against Prasada and allegedly even called him “an agent of the opposition party”. A video of the protest later went viral on social media. An audio clip, purportedly of Prahlad Patel, went viral on social media in which a voice can be heard saying " I am ruined". He then takes the names of some senior functionaries and says that he is "just a district president" and was "made" to go against Prasada. "I am being made the scapegoat," the voice says. When TOI contacted Patel regarding the audio clip, he said, “I am not aware of it. I am a mere district president and follow instructions from the high command and our loyalty is with the Gandhi family. Since the matter is regarding senior leaders of the party, I won’t be able to comment on it.” TOI contacted Prasada but he refused to comment on the issue. However, a source close to Prasada said, “The protest against Prasada was planted by the party's district unit. Soon the truth will be revealed.” Meanwhile, reacting to the resolution passed by the Kheri district unit of the party, Kapil Sibal tweeted: “Unfortunate that Jitin Prasada is being officially targeted in UP. Congress needs to target the BJP with surgical strikes instead of wasting its energy by targeting its own.”. Another Congress leader, Manish Tewari, who was also a signatory to the letter, tweeted a single word “Prescient”. Prasada represented Shahjahanpur Lok sabha seat in 2004 and Dhaurahra Lok Sabha seat, which is a part of the Lakhimpur Kheri district, in 2009. Recently he has been trying to cultivate an image of a Brahmin leader by raising issues in favour of the caste. Prasada’s father, Jitendra Prasada, had challenged Sonia Gandhi in the elections for the party presidentship in the late 90s.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/attack-on-prasada-home-turf-planted-say-sources-sibal-tiwari-back-ex-union-min/articleshow/77826491.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 23, 2020||Jaipur||Railways to start goods train for Sonu mines, truckers stir||Jaisalmer: The decision of Indian railways to start a goods train for loading limestone at the Sonu mines in Jaislamer district has become a flashpoint for a face-off between the truck union and the contractor. Following the railways’ decision, the contractor has planned to remove over 400 trucks out of 500 which are presently operating at the limestone mine owned by Rajasthan State Mines & Minerals (RSMM). In response, the truck union launched a stir and the drivers are on a dharna from the last six days. On Saturday, a few people allegedly from the truck union, inflicted damage on a few trucks owned by the contractor, following which police arrested the truck union president for disturbing peace. Later, agitated truck drivers of the union ghearoed the police station and expressed their protest. Police later released the truck union president on bail. The dispute arose over loading charges. On Friday night, the contractor lodged a report with police that damage was caused to his trucks near Mokla on Jaisalmer Road after which Ramgarh SHO arrested Kanwar Raj Singh, president of truck union. Later, a large number of people gathered outside the police station and shouted slogans. Police administration called tehsildar Peetambardas Tathi and Singh was released on bail. Singh the contractor will not be allowed to work arbitrarily and they will fight for their rights. Former MLA Chotu Singh Bhati said the first right of getting employment at RSMM is of the residents of the district. The contractor will be called and the issue will be settled through talks. Contractor Mukesh Patel said he is an authorised contractor of RSMM. At present, around 500 trucks carry limestone from Sonu mines to Jaisalmer railway station. In the coming days, goods train will start operating from Sonu railway station and limestone will be loaded from there. Earlier, the limestone was carried for 60km to Jaisalmer railway station, but now the distance will be reduced to 8-10km to Sonu railway station, therefore there will be a need for only 30-40 trucks, but the union is asking to employ all the vehicles, which is not possible. Apart from this, the truck union is demanding Rs 110 per tonne as freight charges from Rs 42 per tonne, which is not possible, he added. District collector Ashish Modi said former MLA Bhati and the truck union members met him on Saturday. He persuaded the union members to settle the issue through talks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/railways-to-start-goods-train-for-sonu-mines-truckers-stir/articleshow/77698108.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Surat||Action sought against Surat airport officials||Surat: The Surat Airport Action Committee (SAAC) has written to the top authorities in the central government including the Ministry of Civil Aviation and Airport Authority of India (AAI) demanding action against the authorities of the Surat airport for their negligence in informing the recovery of the carcasses of two dead foxes from the airport runway to the forest department. In its complaint, SAAC president, Sanjay Ezhava stated that the Surat airport authorities failed to inform the death of two foxes to the forest department after the incident and that these animals fall under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. The carcasses of the animals were disposed by the authorities without doing the post mortem for knowing the exact cause of death of the foxes. “There is a need for strict monitoring and surveillance of animal intrusion into the airport premises for the safety of the passengers and aircrafts,” said Ezhava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/action-sought-against-surat-airport-officials/articleshow/77696683.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Ludhiana||For Rahon road residents rains brings water-logging, choked sewerage||Ludhiana: Rahon road with a large number of potholes has virtually turned into a swimming pool due to water-logging during this rainy season. The situation is such that when residents drive on this road they get the experience of off-roading. Municipal corporation officials had got a new sewerage line laid down here to control the problem of water-logging and sewerage choking, but this one is yet to be connected with the main sewerage line. However, the old sewerage line is already overburdened and it is not able to take any further burden of sewer water coming from colonies. When there is heavy rainfall the rain water also adds to the problem. The civic body officials claimed that by next week they would try to make the new line functional and then the issues would be resolved. A resident of Rahon road, Rahul Kumar, said, “For almost two years we are living in hell-like situation as this road has never remained dry. The civic body officials tried super suction cleaning and also installed a disposal to drain out water but nothing worked.” He said now a new sewerage line was laid and the road got damaged, so driving on this road has become very challenging. He claimed that during rainfall one side of the road remains functional, but that was full of potholes, while on the other side there were long queues of vehicles due to traffic jam. Another resident from Guru Vihar, Rahon road, Gurmeet Singh complained that they were now fed up with the situation here because choking of the sewerage on the main road affected the internal system as well. He said even in the inside areas there was a problem of choked sewerage due to which it had become filthy all around. Congress councillor from east constituency Sanjay Talwar admitted to the problems being faced by the people but he showed helplessness by saying that every day there was heavy rainfall and it was difficult to work when it was raining. He assured that by next week the entire problem would be resolved as the new sewerage line would be connected with the main sewerage and there would be no choking. Talwar, however, commented that the presence of a large number of washing and dyeing units along this road had added to the problem as excess water was being drained out through these units. He also held the nearby villages responsible for the situation because those were also connected with Rahon road without any planning. The MLA added that he had already taken permission for the recarpeting of the road after the sewerage issue was resolved and almost Rs 5 crore had been kept reserved for the purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/for-rahon-road-residents-rains-brings-water-logging-choked-sewerage/articleshow/77697457.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Meerut||After Meerut, huge haul of pirated NCERT books seized in UP's Amroha||MEERUT: In the past 48 hours, two major raids by special task force (STF) in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut and Amroha have unearthed large consignments of pirated textbooks for National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) worth crores of rupees meant for distribution across the country. And this is only the tip of the iceberg, according to the STF. Hours after a team of STF raided a godown and printing press unit in Meerut and seized over 10 lakhs of pirated NCERT textbooks worth Rs 35 crore, the STF made another raid in Amroha's Gajraula area on Saturday and a similar printing press publishing duplicate NCERT books was seized. Pirated NCERT books recovered from a warehouse in Meerut. Similar recovery was made from Amroha.Like the Meerut haul, a large consignment of pirated NCERT textbooks and printing machines was recovered from the warehouse. Investigating STF sleuths claimed the massive haul was on the lines of the recovery made in Meerut and the exact figures of the seizure are yet to be accounted for. Sachin Gupta, a Meerut resident and the alleged kingpin, is still on the run as police detained several of his staffers from the warehouse and printing press on Friday. Sachin is claimed to be the nephew of BJP's city vice-president Sanjeev Gupta. Sanjeev Gupta is also an accused in the case and is claimed to be the owner of warehouse from where the printing machines were recovered in Meerut. Following the expose, BJP has suspended Sanjeev from the party, Mukesh Singhal, the party's city president, told TOI. Earlier on Friday, interrogation of detained suspects hinted at a similar operation of publishing pirated NCERT textbooks being run from Amroha by one of Gupta's partners following which a raid was conducted at the warehouse in Gajraula. Police have now registered an FIR based on its seizure in the two-day operation involving raids at multiple locations. Eight people, including kingpin Sachin and his uncle Sanjeev, have been booked. Senior officials claimed the recoveries in Meerut and Amroha could be only the "tip of the iceberg". "We are yet to determine the scale of operation as the probe could reveal more associates and partners in the business where Meerut was acting as a hub," an STF sleuth said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/after-meerut-huge-haul-of-pirated-ncert-books-seized-in-ups-amroha/articleshow/77696685.cms||Piyush Rai
August 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Demand for ICUs in RUHS rises as Covid cases spiral||JAIPUR: With the city witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases, admission of patients in ICUs have also increased significantly. The government-run RUHS hospital’s ICUs are running with fullest capacity. Even since Sawai Man Singh Hospital was declared a non-Covid hospital on June 1, almost all the burden of corona patients in government sector hospitals is handled by RUHS. Over the past two months, RUHS Hospital has been providing treatment to Covid patients. The number of patients admitted to the hospital has increased significantly and the need of ICUs has also gone up. The hospital has 40 ICU beds for Covid and suspected Covid patients. RUHS officials said the number of beds in ICUs are limited but the requirement of patients has increased significantly. A lot of patients require oxygen support and many of those require intensive care for which they need ICUs. Out of 40 beds in ICUs, 14 are dedicated for patients who have difficulty in breathing and whose Covid test reports are awaited. While the cases are constantly increasing in Jaipur and nearby districts, the need for beds in RUHS hospital has increased but the hospital has enough facility for patients. RUHS is a 500-bed hospital, but more than 400 beds are occupied by Covid patients. “We are admitting all patients coming to the hospital for treatment and providing best facilities,” said Dr Sudhanshu Kacker, principal and controller, RUHS Medical College. With the city is witnessing surge in Covid patients, the RUHS has emerged as a centre of hope them. Health minister Raghu Sharma recently said more facilities at the hospital will be added viewing the increasing number of patients getting admitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/demand-for-icus-in-ruhs-hosp-increases-for-covid-patients/articleshow/77698156.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||22 days, 46 deaths: Thiruvananthapuram zooms past state’s mortality rate||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The mortality rate in the district is now higher than that of the state with 46 deaths officially reported in the district in the last 22 days, including a pregnant woman and her baby.The district, which had a mortality rate of 0.28% in the first week of August, went above the state’s rate of 0.3% on Thursday when the rate touched 0.43%. The state capital accounted for 28% of deaths recorded in the state in August. The youngest of the deceased in the district was a 32-year old pregnant woman who died on August 16. There were two lives — the mother and the baby — at stake, and eight departments at Medical College Hospital joined hands to save them, but in vain. She was 29 weeks’ pregnant and had gestational diabetes mellitus and hypothyroidism. The woman had two miscarriages before and she was diagnosed with bronchopneumonia and severe acute respiratory distress syndrome. She had to be put on ventilator since her oxygenation status did not improve. With no bystander allowed, the consent was taken over phone for an emergency surgery and it was done in ICU owing to her serious condition. She later developed a renal failure and died two days after the surgery due to multiorgan dysfunction syndrome. “She really fought hard but the condition was so worse and lungs were severely infected. Her death is a reminder to all of us as to how we should take care of vulnerable people in our family and society,” said a medical official associated with the treatment team. The death of the 32-year-old pregnant woman due to complications arising out of Covid-19 has aggravated the challenges before the health team in preventing mortalities among vulnerable groups, especially women requiring antenatal care. The health officials said many of the Covid-19 deaths have been in the age group above 60 with a 90-year-old woman from Kalady being the oldest Covid-19 victim in the district. Twenty deaths that occurred in August so far were categorised as non-Covid deaths and there were many cases where the patient was brought dead and then tested positive. While many deaths have occurred in areas marked under community clusters, Covid deaths were also reported from places with nominal number of cases. The district has 35 people in ICU and their condition is daily monitored by the health team. “Given the kind of spike, the capital has witnessed in last two months, the mortality rate was bound to increase. Since Thiruvananthapuram has the best healthcare infrastructure in the state and has been picking up positives and isolating infected persons at a faster rate, we have been doing reasonably well in controlling the mortality rate,” a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/22-days-46-deaths-tvm-zooms-past-states-mortality-rate/articleshow/77697459.cms||Aswin J Kumar
August 23, 2020||Jaipur||Minor raped allegedly by two in Bharatpur||Alwar: A 14-year girl was raped allegedly by two persons in Bharatpur on Friday night while she was staying at her aunt’s house. The two accused absconded following the assault, though cops managed to catch one of them while hunt is on for the other accused. The incident is of Mathura Gate police station in Bharatpur district. Rajendra Sharma, SHO, Mathura Gate police station, said, “We have registered a case of gang-rape against two accused, one of whom has already been arrested while search is actively going on for the other one.” According to the complainant, she was staying at her aunt’s house which had construction work in progress. On the night of the incident, she went out of the house to relieve herself when the two accused caught hold of her and took her to an isolated spot where they took turns to rape her. The girl claimed that when she shouted for help, the neighbours came to her rescue following which the accused fled from the spot. Cops arrested a 25-year-old accused and the official said, “We are interrogating him to find his accomplice in the alleged rape and will find him soon. It appears that they knew that the girl was staying there and were waiting outside the house when she went out to relive herself.” The girl’s medical examination was done and a case of gang-rape under relevant sections of IPC as well as under Pocso Act has been registered against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minor-raped-allegedly-by-two-in-bharatpur/articleshow/77698155.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Surat||VNSGU VC grilled for 2.5 hrs by cops||Surat: In relation to a viral audio in which the vice-chancellor of Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU), Shivendra Gupta, is heard insulting Indian saints and using abusive language, Umra police questioned the outgoing VC for more than two hours on Saturday. Gupta was called to the police station to record his statement in an application submitted by Narendra Chaudhary who was demanding an apology from Gupta. The applicant even demanded an investigation into the viral audio, and also threatened of self-immolation if an FIR was not registered against Gupta within eight days of his complaint. After arriving at the police station in his official car, Gupta was questioned by several top officials including additional commissioner of police, H R Mulyana, the deputy commissioner of police Vidhi Chaudhary besides M L Salunke, police inspector, while registering his statement. Gupta, however, maintained that he had never said anything like this and it was a mischief by someone trying to malign his reputation. Gupta claimed that during his tenure for three years as the VC, someone may have recorded his speeches and made a doctored audio which was uploaded on social media, sources in police said. Gupta further claimed that there is nothing objectionable or insulting in the viral audio and also that the person in the audio is not talking about any specific person or religion. “Police had called the VC to record his statement in the case. Investigation will continue,” said Salunke. Despite several attempts Gupta, however, remained unavailable for his comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/vnsgu-vc-grilled-for-2-5-hrs-by-cops/articleshow/77696724.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Aurangabad||2.85 lakh pre-matric scholarships for students from minority groups||AURANGABAD: The state government has declared over 2.85 lakh pre-matric scholarships for students from minority communities for the academic year 2020-21, in keeping with the directives from the Centre. The eligible students belonging to Muslim, Buddhist, Jain, Christian, Sikh and Parsi communities, which are declared religious minorities in the country, can avail these scholarships. These can be availed in government, semi-government or private schools. The enrolment or renewal for these scholarships can be made through www.scholarships.gov.in among other platforms before October 31. As per the notification, the scholarship is offered in the form of Direct Beneficiary Transfer (DBT) into students’ bank accounts and Aadhaar card is required while making applications. Ones who have applied can provide enrolment ID or other documents such as PAN card etc. Educational activist Prashant Sathe said the maximum number of target beneficiary from minority students should apply for the scholarship.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-85l-pre-matric-scholarships-for-students-from-minority-groups/articleshow/77696693.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Meerut||Abducted Amroha doc rescued after encounter, 3 nabbed||Bijnor: Three of the four men who allegedly abducted an Amroha-based doctor, Pankaj Vishvas, from his clinic on the night of August 11, were arrested after an encounter in the forested area of Daryapur village in the district late on Friday night. One of the abductors managed to flee in a car, that was found later. The doctor has been rescued. A constable and a criminal were injured. The police team had been rewarded. Vipin Tada, Amroha superintendent of police, said Kamal Kumar of Ballupur under Shabad police station area, Neetu from Mundi Milak village under Tada police station were arrested during routine checking. They were in a red car similar to the one used in the crime. Three countrymade pistols and a large number of cartridges were recovered from them. Their absconding aide has been identified as Hemraj of Paitiya village in Sambhal district, the SSP said. The four, one in the guise of a policemen, had gone to the doctor's clinic and abducted him in a red car.The doctor's daughter had clicked a picture of the car. Later, the criminals, phoned victim's family, demanding a ransom of Rs 2 lakh on August 13. The girl noted down the number and shared it with police, the SSP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/abducted-amroha-doc-rescued-after-encounter-3-nabbed/articleshow/77696691.cms||Harveer Dabas
August 23, 2020||Jaipur||Jodhpur crosses 10,000 Covid cases||JAIPUR: Jodhpur district became the first district to breach 10,000 Covid-19 cases on a day the cumulative count in the stated reached 69,264. With 233 new infections on Saturday, Jodhpur’s tally currently stands at 10,230. The state also reported the highest single-day jump in recovering with 1,648 Covid patients being freed of the virus taking the number of such cured patients to 54,144 across the state. With 528 patients being declared cured in Kota in a single day, the number of active cases in the district has dipped to 1,419. Currently, the number of active cases in the state are 14,176, down from 14,525 a day earlier. Deaths in Jaipur crossed the 250 mark as three more persons lost their lives to the virus taking its toll to 251. Along with three deaths, Jaipur reported the highest number of Covid cases as it added 259 new infections to touch a figure of 8,574 cases. “We are taking all the necessary measures to prevent the spread of the virus in the state,” said a health department official. Across the state, 11 persons died, while 1,310 persons tested positive. The state’s casualty count stands at 944. Kota reported its 59th fatality, Pali its 40th, Sikar reported its 15th casualty while Tonk and Udaipur reported their 9th and 22nd Covid deaths. Ajmer reported its 64th fatality, Bhilwara 12th and Hanumangarh its 2nd. Three persons died in Jaipur taking its toll to 251. The situation in Jaipur is also not so encouraging. For the first time, 62 different areas of the city reported new cases, indicating the wide spread of the virus. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (259), Jodhpur (233), Ajmer (133), Kota (90), Bharatpur (78), Alwar (71), Nagaur (45), Bikaner (42), Pali (39), Dholpur (33), Banswara (26), Hanumangarh (25), Rajsamand (24), Bhilwara (20), Sriganganagar (20), Sikar (18), Jhunjhunu (18), Sirohi (15), Karauli (15), Churu (14), Udaipur (12), Baran (12), Jhalawar (11), Dungarpur (11), Tonk (10), Sawai Madhopur (10), Pratapgarh (9), Barmer (9) and Chittorgarh (8). BOX: Former state BJP state president Arun Chaturvedi tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. He tweeted that for the past few days he had been suffering for Covid-19 symptoms and now he has tested positive for the virus. He advised people who came in contact with him to get tested for Covid-19. He further added that no other member and his staff has tested positive for the virus. He is undergoing treatment at his house under home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-crosses-10000-covid-cases/articleshow/77698157.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Sero surveys launched in 3 districts to find extent of Covid spread||JAIPUR: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has launched a sero survey in Dausa, Rajsamand and Jalore districts to access the extent to which Covid-19 has spread. Since no such survey has been done by the state government, the ICMR’s sero survey would be helpful for the state government to find out the level to which the virus has spread in the three districts. The result of sero survey indicates episode of SARS-CoV-2 infection in the past. It is the second phase of the sero survey launched by the IMCR. Talking to TOI, an ICMR official said in the first phase that they had collected blood samples in May from the three districts and found that antibodies against the SARS-CoV-2 was present in less than 1% of the samples collected which confirmed that they were infected in the recent past. In the sero survey, blood samples from random individuals have been collected to check for antibodies against the SARS-CoV-2. Since, the two phases of sero surveys are conducted in a gap of three months, it will be proved instrumental in assessing the actual extent of Covid-19 spread in the three districts in three months. “In the sero survey carried out in May, only four samples were found containing antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 out of the 400 samples taken from 10 different areas. They have collected the same number of blood samples from the same 10 areas for tests of antibodies against SARS-CoV-2,” said Dr PM Meena, chief medical health officer (CMHO), Dausa. In Rajsamand too, ICMR has collected blood samples. “The ICMR team camped in the district for three to four days and collected 400 blood samples for antibodies against the SARS-CoV-2. In the first phase, only three samples out of 400 were found containing antibodies against SARS-CoV-2,” said Dr JP Bunkar, CMHO, Rajsamand. In Jalore, the health department officials cooperated with the ICMR teams. “Whatever help they required, we provided them all including lab technicians,” said Dr SP Sharma, principal medical officer, Jalore. The survey is part of the pan India study of the ICMR. “In the first phase, we found that 0.7% samples had antibodies against SARS-CoV-2,” said a ICMR official. What are sero surveys Sero surveys help to understand the proportion of population exposed to SARS-CoV-2 infection including asymptomatic individuals Depending upon the level of sero-prevalence of infection, appropriate public health interventions can be planned and implemented for prevention and control of the disease Periodic sero-surveys are useful to guide policy makers Antibodies generally start appearing after two weeks of onset of infection The antibodies test is not useful for detecting acute infection but indicates episode of SARS-CoV-2 infection in the past||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sero-surveys-launched-in-3-dists-to-find-extent-of-covid-spread/articleshow/77698159.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
August 23, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Sero surveys launched in 3 districts to find extent of Covid spread||JAIPUR: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has launched a sero survey in Dausa, Rajsamand and Jalore districts to access the extent to which Covid-19 has spread. Since no such survey has been done by the state government, the ICMR’s sero survey would be helpful for the state government to find out the level to which the virus has spread in the three districts. The result of sero survey indicates episode of SARS-CoV-2 infection in the past. It is the second phase of the sero survey launched by the IMCR. Talking to TOI, an ICMR official said in the first phase that they had collected blood samples in May from the three districts and found that antibodies against the SARS-CoV-2 was present in less than 1% of the samples collected which confirmed that they were infected in the recent past. In the sero survey, blood samples from random individuals have been collected to check for antibodies against the SARS-CoV-2. Since, the two phases of sero surveys are conducted in a gap of three months, it will be proved instrumental in assessing the actual extent of Covid-19 spread in the three districts in three months. “In the sero survey carried out in May, only four samples were found containing antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 out of the 400 samples taken from 10 different areas. They have collected the same number of blood samples from the same 10 areas for tests of antibodies against SARS-CoV-2,” said Dr PM Meena, chief medical health officer (CMHO), Dausa. In Rajsamand too, ICMR has collected blood samples. “The ICMR team camped in the district for three to four days and collected 400 blood samples for antibodies against the SARS-CoV-2. In the first phase, only three samples out of 400 were found containing antibodies against SARS-CoV-2,” said Dr JP Bunkar, CMHO, Rajsamand. In Jalore, the health department officials cooperated with the ICMR teams. “Whatever help they required, we provided them all including lab technicians,” said Dr SP Sharma, principal medical officer, Jalore. The survey is part of the pan India study of the ICMR. “In the first phase, we found that 0.7% samples had antibodies against SARS-CoV-2,” said a ICMR official. What are sero surveys Sero surveys help to understand the proportion of population exposed to SARS-CoV-2 infection including asymptomatic individuals Depending upon the level of sero-prevalence of infection, appropriate public health interventions can be planned and implemented for prevention and control of the disease Periodic sero-surveys are useful to guide policy makers Antibodies generally start appearing after two weeks of onset of infection The antibodies test is not useful for detecting acute infection but indicates episode of SARS-CoV-2 infection in the past||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/sero-surveys-launched-in-3-dists-to-find-extent-of-covid-spread/articleshow/77700582.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
August 23, 2020||Kochi||NIA identifies two more accused in UAE||KOCHI: National Investigation Agency (NIA), probing the terror funding angle in the gold smuggling case, has identified two more accused based in the UAE, who are part of the racket. According to a remand report filed by NIA on Friday, they have arraigned Sidhiqul Akbar alias Siddique (A-15) and Ahammed Kutty (A-20) alias Kunjani as accused. Investigators found that the absconding accused were in the UAE. The remand report added that non-bailable warrants were obtained against them from the special NIA court in Kochi. Earlier, similar warrants were obtained by the agency against Faisal Fareed (A3) and Rabins Hameed (A10). The agency also apprised the court that steps were being taken to issue blue corner notices through Interpol to nab them. The agency had searched their houses on August 14. The raids were held on the day in six locations at Malappuram and Kozhikode. The remand report was submitted by the agency when the custody period of accused Mohammed Anwar TM (A16), Hamzath Abdussalam (A17), Samju TM (A18) and Hamjad Ali (A19) expired on Friday. In the remand report, the agency said that during custodial interrogation the accused disclosed their roles and the roles of other accused in the crime committed with the ‘intention of threatening the economic stability of India.’ They have also disclosed the names of some other conspirators in India and abroad, which is being investigated, NIA said. Sources said that the NIA team, which did investigations in the UAE, has returned. NIA repeated in its report that investigation has to be conducted into roles of high-profile persons and consulate officials as it was necessary to unearth all conspirators in the crime. Meanwhile, official sources said that ED probing the money trail in the case are in the process of assessing evidence and information to take the next step. ED sources said that they are in the process of analysing details of the MoU signed between Life Mission and Red Crescent as part of verifying Swapna’s claim about getting commission in the process..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nia-identifies-two-more-accused-in-uae/articleshow/77697484.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid deaths highest in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: With 139 deaths due to Covid-19, Kolhapur city has the highest number of casualties in the district, as it surpassed Ichalkaranji which has registered 131 death due to the contagion. In the last two days, the city witnessed 16 deaths and now tops the chart of highest number of deaths and highest number of cases. Till Saturday, Kolhapur city has reported 5,547 Covid cases followed by Ichalkaranji with 2,483 cases. The death rate of the district is 2.8%, while the city’s death rate is 2.5%. Around 30% is attributed to the city while 29% to Ichalkaranji. It has become challenging for the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation to bring down the death rate. Mallinath Kalshetti, the civic chief said, “We are increasing Covid care centres and private hospitals for treatment of Covid patients. We have initiated a city-wide campaign to ask people not to let their old-aged parents and relatives go out and keep them in isolation as far as possible. Most of the deaths are of those with comorbidities.” The health officials said the maximum number of deaths are from Rajarampuri, which has the highest number of cases in city-388. cases The civic administration has started a door-to-door survey in two hotspots-Rajarampuri and Shivaji Peth. The survey includes rapid antigen testing and isolating senior citizens with comorbidities. This will help bring down the death rate in these two hotspots, said a senior health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/covid-deaths-highest-in-kolhapur/articleshow/77696712.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||ED writes to chief secretary, seeks information on Life Mission||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: After the ministry of external affairs sought details from the state government regarding the memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the UAE Red Crescent Authority, the enforcement directorate (ED) has written to the chief secretary seeking details on the government’s dealings with the NGO for the Life Mission housing project at Wadakkanchery. The ED had earlier sought the copies of the MoU between the Life Mission and the NGO, minutes of the meetings held in this regard and documents related to the issue of tender, if any. The ED is probing the gold smuggling case under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. The agency is following the money trail after Rs 1 crore in cash was found from the bank locker of one of the key accused in the gold smuggling case, Swapna Suresh. It was stated that the money was part of a kickback received by her in the Life Mission deal with the UAE-based NGO. As per the MoU inked between Life Mission and UAE Red Crescent Authority, the authority had pledged funds to the tune of 1 crore Arab Emirates Dirhams (AED) (approximately Rs 20.37 crore) for coming up with an apartment project at Wadakkancherry in Thrissur. The Centre has sought a few clarifications on the mandatory clearance required from the ministry of external affairs and the ministry of home affairs while accepting aid from a foreign agency, it has been learnt. Government sources said the state government will give a reply in this regard soon. The agreement signed between Mohamed Ateeq Al Falahi for the UAE Red Crescent Authority and the CEO of the Life Mission on July 11, 2019, had agreed that the NGO will provide 1 crore Arab Emirates Dirhams (AED) of which 70 lakh AED (Rs 14.26 crore) is to be spent on constructing the houses for flood victims, and the remaining 30 lakh AED (Rs 6.11 crore) on the construction of a health centre to be operated by Life Mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ed-writes-to-chief-secretary-seeks-info-on-life-mission/articleshow/77697471.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Meerut||Four gangsters arrested after encounters, one surrenders in court in Baghpat in three days||MEERUT: Weeks after the murder of former BJP district president, police launched a crackdown in Baghpat — which witnessed dozens of murders of late giving police sleepless nights — and arrested four history-sheeters after encounters in the past three days, while a relative of dreaded gangster Udham Singh with a dozen of cases of heinous crimes registered against him surrendered in the court. According to police sources, the first encounter took place on Thursday in Baraut, where Pawan Tyagi, a dreaded gangster with more than 30 cases of loot, robbery, murder, extortion, etc, registered against him was arrested and shifted to Baraut Primary Health Centre with injuries. The next day another encounter took place, followed by yet another one. According to newly-appointed superintendent of police Abhishek Singh, “We have deployed a two-pronged strategy — identify the criminals or those involved in sinister activities such as liquor smuggling across the border and then find out their source of incomes to break their economic backbone.” Western Uttar Pradesh witnessed a spate of murders in the recent past with Baghpat’s former BJP president Sanjay Khokhar being the third, preceded by Rashtriya Lok Dal leader Deshwal Khokhar’s murder last month and the killing of Paramvir Tugana, a dreaded criminal out on bail. Tugana had succumbed to his injures at a Delhi hospital. The latest development, however, was Anuj Barkha's, a cousin of Udham Singh, surrendering in the court on Friday. “Barka is among top ten gangsters in Baghpat. He was wanted in several crimes, including an attempt to murder. Police had been raiding his probable hideouts for some time, but he surrendered in the court,” said Manish Mishra, Baghpat addition SP. On Saturday, meanwhile, one more criminal Shubham Jain with 21 cases registered against him was arrested after an encounter. Notably, Jain was the prime accused in the case where two policemen were injured after liquor smugglers tried to crush them under their vehicle when the policemen signalled them to stop near Baghpat’s Niwada village, close to Haryana border, on August 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/four-gangsters-arrested-after-encounters-one-surrenders-in-court-in-baghpat-in-three-days/articleshow/77696720.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 23, 2020||Lucknow||Mosque Trust releases logo, team visits Ayodhya village||AYODHYA: The Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation, the Trust formed by Sunni Waqf Board for construction of an alternate mosque in Ayodhya in lieu of Babri masjid, on Saturday released its official logo, which is an octagram, represented by two overlapping squares. Talking to TOI, secretary of mosque trust, Athar Hussain, said, the logo is an Islamic symbol — Rub el Hizb. “In Arabic, ‘Rub’ means one fourth, while Hizb means a group or party. It’s system for memorising and facilitating recitation of the Quran, which is divided into 60 hizbs. The symbol is used as a marker for a chapter in Arabic calligraphy,” said Hussain. The secretary and members of the Trust visited Dhannipur on Saturday to inspect the topography of the five acres of land, which was handed over to the district administration in first week of August. The delegation comprising secretary, Athar Hussain, and trustee Imran Ahmad Shibli met local clerics and members of Muslim community in Dhannipur and adjoining villages. Shadaab Khan, a villager, told TOI that villagers assured the delegation of support and cooperation in building the mosque and other public-utility facilities. The Trust will be building a mosque along with a multi-speciality hospital, a community kitchen and a library on the land. The Trust has already announced that the mosque will not be in the name of Babar and other facilities will be open to people of all communities. The delegation also visited an ancient Jain temple adjoining Dhannipur — Sri Jain Swetambara Mandir Raunahi Ratnapuri of the 15th Tirthankara. Temple priest Chandrashekhar Tiwari, who hosted the Trust members told TOI that the temple dates back 2,500 years of the Samprati period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mosque-trust-releases-logo-team-visits-ayodhya-village/articleshow/77698528.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
August 23, 2020||Meerut||Woman using drain pipe to flee from 3rd floor of hospital caught on CCTV||MEERUT: A video showing a woman scaling down a drain pipe to escape from the third floor of the Medical College here has gone viral on social media. The action was a captured by a CCTV camera in the vicinity. According to doctors, the woman from Ayodhya was undergoing treatment for a mental illness at the hospital. Earlier, she had escaped on August 14 and was brought back. She fled again on Thursday but is yet to be traced. Dr Tarun Pal, department head, mental illnesses, said, "The woman, was admitted on August 7 and on August 14, she had tried to escape but was brought back. Police have been informed and efforts are on to trace her."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/woman-using-drain-pipe-to-flee-from-3rd-floor-of-hosp-caught-on-cctv/articleshow/77696698.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Dehradun||Liquor shops in Doon allowed to operate till 11pm||DEHRADUN: Liquor shops in Dehradun city limits have been allowed to operate till 11 pm. Earlier, the liquor vends were allowed to remain open till 10 pm. The orders issued by the district administration on Friday say that social distancing must be maintained at the vends and there should be no crowding of vends at night. In areas of the district outside Doon city limits, the vends will be allowed to be opened till 10 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/liquor-shops-in-doon-allowed-to-operate-till-11-pm/articleshow/77696686.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Nagpur||NMC order adds to woes of non-Covid patients||Nagpur: Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe’s plan to start treatment for mild to moderate symptomatic Covid-19 patients in around 36 private hospitals has put doctors as well as non-Covid patients in a spot.In Mundhe’s August 19 order, 17 private hospitals were told to start Covid treatment. These hospitals having tertiary care facilities and combined capacity of over 1,600 beds currently have over 1,100 patients of cardiac, trauma, dialysis, chemotherapy, angioplasty, angiography, critical obstetrics, brain haemorrhage, neurological and complicated disorders.On Saturday, another 19 private hospitals claimed they have been asked to start preparing to treat Covid patients, in case needed.Most of the hospitals have tie-ups with WCL, CGHS and TPA whose beneficiaries can’t be refused treatment as it may pose legal complications as well. While the hospitals face a stringent administration’s diktat, the flow of other patients is increasing by the day.Amid this dilemma, some hospitals have started counselling patients to shift elsewhere, others are reaching out to small hospitals where they can send visiting consultants.Private hospital owners feel the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) should first fill up all beds in government and its own hospitals to save the city from problems that may arise in future.Vidarbha Hospitals Association President Dr Ashok Arbat said 50% beds in these private hospitals are occupied. “These patients can’t be discharged all of a sudden,” he said.Dr Arbat said all beds at GMCH, IGGMCH, Shalinitai Meghe Medical College, Lata Mangeshkar Hospital, NMC-run Indira Gandhi Rughnalaya and four other civic hospitals need to be fully occupied. “If needed, some of the big hospitals can then be made Covid centres,” he said.Though the city has 10,000 beds in all private hospitals, emergency and critical patients are treated at these well-equipped big hospitals. During April and May lockdown phase, the patients either held back their planned procedures or stayed back fearing Covid infection. Now, every hospital is witnessing a steady flow of new and old patients.Dr Hema Doble, administration head of Suretech Hospitals, said it will be a big problem for beneficiaries of WCL CGHS, TPA. “People have already invested for emergencies. Such patients would have walked in without tension and get treated. Now, they will face problems,” she said. Dr Doble added the non-Covid patients were already not getting beds. “When we start admitting Covid patients, other patients will be fearful,” she said, adding that there is always government facility for Covid, but this may not be the case for non-Covid.Suretech has 50 beds and 35 other patients right now. “We have asked for some time to shift them. But where to shift them is a big question. Others too have been asked to start Covid centres,” she said.Lodging and boarding of staff is another concern for these hospitals.Pulmonologist Dr Vikram Rathi, who is consultant at a private hospital now treating Covid patients, said the NMC’s directive to convert full hospital as Covid facility is not practical. “Only 30 to 40% should be Covid beds. NMC asked us to refer non-Covid to concerned specialist. Patients of say diabetes or asthma have long association with their doctor. Sudden cut off will make them feel betrayed or cause emotional changes,” he said.Dr Rathi said NMC should be flexible and discuss practical problems with the hospitals’ association.“One size fits all policy won’t work,” he said. Mundhe didn’t answer to TOI’s calls.Problems* Private hospitals already have pact with WCL, CGHS and TPAs* Beneficiaries will be forced to pay despite investment or cashless facility* Bigger issue is once all major private hospitals start Covid, other patients may not find a bed* 17 private hospitals now asked to start admitting mild to moderate patients have 1,600 beds* They specialize in cardiac, trauma, NICU, angioplasty, neuro surgery, obstetrics and other disorders* NMC wants patients under admission now to be referred to specialists* Treating doctors say patients will feel betrayed* Hospitals having two units will assign only one for Covid* Some are making infrastructure modifications||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-order-adds-to-woes-of-non-covid-patients/articleshow/77697487.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala CM asks ministers to work hard, bust anti-government drive||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: On Saturday, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan asked all ministers to work hard among voters to clear the air about recent mala fide campaigns against the government as local body polls were fast approaching. The CM, while speaking to a group of ministers during a routine review of major projects in their departments, said that an organized campaign – triggered by opposition parties against the government – has been going on and each leader needs to do his bit to counter that, said sources. He also suggested to highlight the development and social welfare initiatives of the government, including the progress of Nava Kerala mission schemes to tide over the anti-government campaign. The government, which faced a series of controversies in the recent past including Sprinklr data sharing, gold smuggling, Life Mission project anomalies and CDR collection of Covid patients, didn’t get much support from senior LDF leaders, including ministers. The defence mechanism was largely handled by DYFI and SFI leaders. The meeting convened by the CM also discussed the progress of key projects under various departments. Vijayan directed ministers to prepare a list of projects that could be inaugurated or initiated before the notification for local body polls is issued. The ministers, who are in charge of districts, were asked to coordinate with major local bodies and speed up projects. The review meeting was originally scheduled on August 18. As seven of the ministers were quarantined following the rescue operation at Karipur, the meeting was rescheduled on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-asks-ministers-to-work-hard-bust-anti-govt-drive/articleshow/77697489.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Dehradun||DM directs officials to fix timeline to complete pending Smart City projects||DEHRADUN: Days after taking over as the CEO, Smart City Limited, Dehradun DM Ashish Srivastava on Saturday held a meeting with the officials and contractors involved in Smart City works and asked them to prepare timelines to finish pending projects. The DM said that he had received several complaints about roads which had been dug up for projects and then left unattended, creating major inconvenience, especially during monsoon. The chief executive officer asked officials to first finish work at places where roads had already been dug up. "In case digging up a road is unavoidable, do it at night so commuters aren't inconvenienced," he said. Srivastava has also asked officials to prioritize the development work under smart city projects, so the projects are completed as soon as the monsoon subsides. During the meeting, projects related to Smart roads, water ATMs, sewerage, the Paltan Bazar walk way as well as the integrated sewage and supply augmentation project were discussed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dm-directs-officials-to-fix-timeline-to-complete-pending-smart-city-projects/articleshow/77696696.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kolkata||At 17, Kolkata’s containment zone figure at all-time low||KOLKATA: The new containment zone list brought cheer for vast parts of south and south suburban Kolkata as the total number of zones across the city dropped to just 17 — the lowest in the past two months. The previous list had 20 such zones. Overall, the city saw four zones dropping from the list even as a new area was added to the list. The biggest change came in Patuli that had been at the top of the table about four weeks ago with 13 containment zones. At present, it has no area in the list. Among the other areas that brought relief to both Kolkata Municipal Corporation and police were Rahim Ostagar Road in Jodhpur Park and Niva Park in Bansdroni. Both areas have a mixed and dense population. “We had earlier taken Gobindapur out of the containment zone list and now it's the same with the nearby Rahim Ostagar Road,” said a police officer. Police sources said there was some relief for Ballygunge as well with Panditiya Road walking off the list. Despite the good news, Patuli continues to be on guard. Both antigen and RT-PCR tests will continue at least twice a week. So far, multiple rounds of tests have been conducted in Patuli. The KMC wants to test family members of Covid patients, the traders from the local markets and the Covid warriors. Kidderpore’s Mansatala Lane is the new entrant to the list. Kidderpore, too, has a high-density population and has been moving in and out of the containment zones list for the past four months. “Testing, containment and monitoring of markets will continue in the area,” said an officer. Ballygunge, though, continues to host the maximum number of containment zones in the city with as many as five addresses. Three of these are on Rowland Road and two at Queens Park. Beliaghata-Phoolbagan-Kankurgachhi stretch continues to have five containment zones. For the first time, there is no standalone apartment building in the list. There are five complexes and two slums. The rest of the 10 containment zones are a mixture of flats, standalone houses and shops. The police said they had added some precautions for Motilal basak Lane in Phoolbagan and Suren Sarkar Road near Subhas Sarobar as both areas are not able to get off the list. “We are putting equal stress on slums and apartments. “Targeted testing, along with awareness drives are being conducted in complexes with more than 30 families and slums. We have also requested KMC for regular sanitization of an area when designated as containment zone,” said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/at-17-kolkatas-c-zone-figure-at-all-time-low/articleshow/77698161.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 23, 2020||Meerut||40-year-old Bijnor man shot dead in his house||BIJNOR: A 40-year-old man died after unidentified assailants barged into his house and opened fired at him on Friday night. Fatally injured Abrar, who was sleeping at his house with his 5-year-old son, was rushed to a higher centre in Meerut where he succumbed to injuries on Saturday. The incident occurred here at Bavankhedi village under Hasanpur police station area. According to police, two unidentified assailants barged into Abrar's house and shot him in the head. After hearing the gun shouts, family members and neighbours woke up and came to his rescue. They informed the cops about the matter after which police sent him to a nearby community health centre from where he was referred to Meerut for higher treatment. According to villagers, the deceased is survived by four children. He had two wives who were divorced years ago. Hasanpur station house officer Neeraj Kumar said, “Police have registered a case against the unidentified assailants under relevant sections of the IPC. Cause of the murder is yet to be ascertained.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/40-year-old-bijnor-man-shot-dead-in-his-house/articleshow/77696736.cms||Harveer Dabas
August 23, 2020||Pune||‘Bridge’ system between ventilator & mask proves vital during Covid||PUNE: Doctors in Pune are increasingly using high-flow nasal oxygen (HFNO) to treat respiratory distress in Covid-19 patients, instead of straightaway putting them on mechanical (invasive) ventilation. This treatment modality was not easily available for patients during the H1N1 pandemic over a decade ago. Oxygen therapy comes in three forms: via normal oxygen masks, the HFNO and invasive or mechanical ventilation. “The HFNO method is simple and cheaper than a ventilator. It is a bridge between the oxygen mask and the ventilator. And it has been producing much better results in selected patients,” said senior physician Mukund Penurkar, secretary of the Association of Physicians of India, Pune branch. Analysis of Covid-19 data has revealed that nearly 20% of patients suffered damage to the lungs, which reduced oxygen supply in the body — a condition known as hypoxia (breathlessness). Doctors treating this problem rely on oxygen via facemasks (or a Ventimask system). A majority of patients have been cured via this method. “But in a few patients, oxygenation using cannula (tube) is not enough to maintain optimum blood oxygenation levels. In such cases, an HFNC cannula has proven to be an extremely beneficial remedy,” Penurkar added. The HFNC is a piece of equipment that delivers warmed (37°C) and humidified (100% relative humidity) oxygen at very high flow rates (nearly 60 litres per minute) through plugs that are fitted to patient's nostrils. Anesthetist Milind Belsare said: “Unlike standard oxygen therapy, which uses dry O2, the HFNC’s warmed and humidified oxygen maintains body temperature, reduces airway inflammation and maintains mucociliary function — the cleaning mechanisms of the respiratory tract.” A Sassoon hospital doctor said they were increasing HFNO beds from 12 to 50. But not every patient with respiratory distress will benefit from this system. Intensivist Urvi Shukla said, “The HFNO works for patients who don’t need a lot of oxygen to keep saturation levels at 90%. But it won’t help if patients’ ability to breathe on their own is compromised. Also, HFNOs cannot deliver very high pressure into the lungs, which may be needed in very severe cases.” Shukla heads the ICU of Symbiosis University Hospital and Research Centre at Lavale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bridge-system-between-ventilator-mask-proves-vital-during-covid/articleshow/77697496.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Hinjewadi health hub to get 72 doctors||PUNE: The Pune Zilla Parishad has decided to hire 60 MBBS and 12 MD doctors for the dedicated Covid health centre in Hinjewadi on a three-month contract. The health centre has a total capacity of 450 beds, but only 200 are functioning. It receives patients from across 13 tehsils in the district. “We could not commission the remaining 250 beds due to manpower shortage. At present, we have 20 doctors to look after our patients,” said medical superintendent Dr Rajesh More. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer of the ZP, has issued a notice, inviting applications from doctors. “We didn’t receive a positive response from doctors in the past. Things would be difficult if the situation remains the same for long. The centre has oxygen beds and portable ventilators, which are being used while shifting critical patients to other centres,” Dr More said. Rural Pune has recorded 12,066 progressive cases since the outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hinjewadi-health-hub-to-get-72-docs/articleshow/77697523.cms||Sandip Dighe
August 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Sero-survey starts in Kolhapur district, 1,000 people to be tested||KOLHAPUR: A pilot serological survey, by a Goa-based clinical research firm, started in Kolhapur district on Saturday. The survey will collect blood samples of 1,000 people from three locations in the district, including Kolhapur city. The blood samples will be tested for the presence and concentration of antibodies that are formed after Covid-19 infection take place. On Saturday, blood samples of seven persons from a village in Karveer tehsil were collected. District collector Daulat Desai put forth the idea of the sero-surveillance that will help quantify the number of individuals in whom immunity has been developed to Covid infection. He has hired a Goa-based firm, Crom Clinical Research Private Limited, for the task. The firm is also involved in assisting in clinical trials on humans for developing vaccine at Panaji. Dhanajay Lad, the director of the firm, said, “The district administration is going to assist in the sero-survey. We will take both random and logical samples to test for the presence of antibodies. The survey is ICMR-approved. We will check for the percentage of people with immunity. This will help the authorities plan and utilise the resources wisely for the fight against Covid.” From Monday, the samples will be taken from Kolhapur city. The authorities have decided to provide all necessary assistance to the firm to carry out the survey. Desai has asked the health officials to make one ambulance available to the firm to collect the samples and has assured financial assistance as the survey and tests are expensive. It takes around Rs 2,000 to collect and test each sample. Desai has allowed the firm to seek donations from the people to complete the survey. Sero-surveys have already been carried out in big cities such as Delhi and Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sero-survey-starts-in-kolhapur-dist-1000-people-to-be-tested/articleshow/77696747.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Surat||Hemali Desai is in-charge vice-chancellor of Veer Narmad South Gujarat University||Hemali Desai, dean of faculty of arts and principal of Rofel Arts and Commerce College, Vapi, has been appointed as in-charge vice-chancellor of Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) and is likely to take charge on Sunday. “Desai is senior-most dean and the government appointed her in accordance with the rules. If a VC’s term is ending and a new VC has not been finalized, then the seniormost dean is given the charge,” said a senior VNSGU official.  The three-member search committee is yet to finalize a name for the new VC and it may take a few more weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/hemali-desai-is-in-charge-vc/articleshow/77696749.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Meerut||Car owner get traffic challan from another city, for not wearing a helmet||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Ashwini Kumar Thakur, a resident of Muzaffarnagar, was left perplexed after having received a traffic challan of Rs 500 for not wearing a helmet. Interestingly, Thakur received the challan from Bulandshahr police. “I have a car and have never visited Bulandshahr on a two-wheeler. The challan has my car number with Rs 500 penalty for not wearing a helmet on a two-wheeler vehicle,” he said. Thakur received the challan on August 14. He is now considering uploading an online complaint on the UP government website. Deputy superintendent of police (traffic) of Bulandshahr Diksha Singh said, “It is an error made by the computer. Whenever someone complains about such issues, we take action and rectify the fault.” It should be noted that about a month ago, Sourabh Tyagi, resident of Muzaffarnagar, faced a similar issue. He had also received a challan of Rs 500 for driving a two-wheeler without helmet, while his car number was printed on the challan. He had filed a complaint with the Muzaffarnagar traffic police and later the matter was settled resolved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/car-owner-get-traffic-challan-from-another-city-for-not-wearing-a-helmet/articleshow/77696746.cms||Mohd Dilshad
August 23, 2020||Lucknow||‘Those who doubted Ram sing Ram dhun’||LUCKNOW: Taking a dig at the combined opposition, Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Saturday that those who were doubting the existence of Ram have now come to know about his power. Speaking on the last day of monsoon session in the state assembly, he said that the beginning of the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya after 492 years of struggle has ushered in the era of Ram Rajya. “But there are people who don’t like the concept of Ram Rajya. Therefore, they couldn’t hide their frustration and started playing divisive politics in the name of caste,” he said, in an apparent reference to the opposition parties. Speaking after the passage of 27 bills amid the protest from the opposition, Yogi was in an unsparing mood, attacking the rival parties on issues like law and order, Covid battle and caste politics. He accused the SP, BSP and Congress of weakening his decisive battle against the coronavirus by their fake claims and projecting a false picture on the law and order situation in the state. On law and order: The situation was far better than what it was during the Samajwadi Party government. The NCRB data also confirms that UP was at the bottom of the crime ladder and 20 other states were ahead of it in murder, rape, loot and dacoities. These are the people who ordered beheading of BJP worker when in power. There was a decline of 74.5% in dacoity, 26% in loot, 22% in murders, 22% in riots, 54% in kidnapping 38% in rape. The CM compared the Opposition with the criminals surrendering to the police. “Just as criminals west UP are sporting placards stating they would not commit crime in future, the opposition would would soon go to the public promising they would not oppose the good deeds of the government,” he said. On Ram Temple: Those who chant ‘Rome’ till the other day are saying ‘Ram Ram’ and those “who had ordered firing on the kar sewaks are also singing the Ram dhun ( tune)”. This is the transition the beginning of the construction of Ram temple has brought. Gradually the entire opposition will recite Ram. But it was unfortunate that the same forces did their best to stall the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. On bus row: One political party made mockery of the efforts by producing false registration numbers of scooters and bikes claiming the buses. Even the court scolded them for trivialising a serious work by the state government . The chief minister claimed that the state was on the road to economic revival and the development works including the expressways and the state and national highways were being completed. He also thanked the speaker Hridaya Narain Dikshit for convening the assembly session amidst the corona crisis and conducting it successfully.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/those-who-doubted-ram-sing-ram-dhun/articleshow/77698561.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 23, 2020||Kozhikode||Pension revision only after GO||KOZHIKODE: The state government has asked the universities not to implement pension revision for college and university teachers on their own based on the pay revision order issued by the government in 2019. The finance department in a circular said that the government has not issued corresponding pension revision order till date in the light of the unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic. “However, several instances have come to the notice of the government that universities have been implementing pension revision on their own, based on the earlier (2019) pay revision order,” the circular issued by joint secretary (finance) stated. It further stated that no pension revision order has been issued based on the pay revision order issued in 2019 and that the UGC pension should be calculated on the basis of pre-revised pay and it shall be disbursed based on pre-revised dearness relief on central rate. Finance department officials said that varsities should wait for the pension revision order from the state government before implementing pension revision of teachers. As part of austerity measures in the wake of Covid-19, the state government had issued the Kerala Disaster and Public Health Emergency (Special Provisions) ordinance to defer payment of salary and other allowance to government employees by up to 25% to fight the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/pension-revision-only-after-go/articleshow/77697527.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Business||Firm with Adani link aided Kerala govt in airport bid||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala government's intention in participating in the bid for Trivandrum International airport has come under a cloud following a revelation that it had engaged a firm which has close ties with Adani group as its legal consultant for the bid. Adani group was the major competitor for the government agency KSIDC and eventually won the bid by quoting 20% higher than that offered by KSIDC. Records obtained under RTI Act reveal that the government had engaged law firm Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas, paying it Rs 55 lakh as fee for legal services rendered for participating in the airport bid. Paridhi, daughter of Cyril Shroff, the co-owner of the law firm, is the wife of Karan Adani, son of Gautam Adani. Karan Adani is personally looking after the Vizhinjam seaport project, being built by Adani group. The Adani group had won the bid for the airport by quoting Rs 168 crore as against the state government's bid of Rs 135 crore. "The firm was engaged after inviting expression of interest, and was selected by the transport department after a due process. It is one of the leading law firms in the country. The rate quoted by the state was decided upon by a committee consisting the chief secretary, finance secretary and transport secretary and the law firm had nothing to do with it or was aware of the rate quoted by the state," said a source. Opposition member Ramesh Chennithala said if the news is true, it is nothing but an illegitimate deal between the government and Adani Group. That it was the same firm which has been giving legal advice to Adani group and the state government raises several questions and the government has to give an explanation, he said. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said the government connived with Adani group for the airport’s takeover. BJP state president K Surendran said the government’s double-dealing has come to light. The government had spent Rs 2 crore for the bidding, when the Centre had decided to privatise operations of six airports, including Thiruvananthapuram. As per an RTI reply received from the KSIDC, the main chunk of this expense was on engaging KPMG as the technical consultant for the bid. The other expenses include the fee for Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas, bid processing fee for AAI, and commission for bank guarantee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/firm-with-adani-link-aided-kerala-govt-in-airport-bid/articleshow/77698977.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Pune||Need-based shopping trips drive up footfall at malls in Pune||PUNE: City malls, which reopened on August 5, have reported an increase in footfall and sales. Mall operators said more people are walking into malls with a purpose, which has resulted in higher conversion rates (store visits resulting in sales) than in pre-Covid times. “I would say that conversion rates are as high as 90-95%, from about 30-40% earlier. People are coming in focused and picking up what they seriously need. No one is spending any extra time looking for things they don’t need,” said Shashank Pathak, centre director, West End Mall in Aundh. He said this has given rise to expectations of a better festive season in October and November. On weekdays, each mall seeks an average of 8,000 walk-ins. This doubles to 15,000 during the weekends. And mall operators said each day has been better than the previous one. “Slowly, but steadily, the footfall is rising. Currently, 98% of the stores allowed are open in the mall,” Surjit Singh Rajpurohit, COO of Amanora Mall, said. Before the pandemic hit, a majority would be drawn to the food court or the multiplex. Not considering such visitors, mall operators said they were seeing 40% of the footfall compared to pre-Covid levels, and about 35% of sales, which they said was encouraging. “Only serious shoppers are visiting the mall ... the numbers are better than expectation,” said Arun Arora, centre director of Phoenix Marketcity in Vimannagar. In Pavillion and West End, over 95% of the stores allowed to be operational are already open. Malls are allowed to allow only one person for every square foot of space, after leaving out blocked areas like food courts, multiplexes and gyms. However, mall owners feel purpose-driven shopping will take them only so far — the crowd-pulling shop-entertainment options will have to reopen to sustain them in the long run. “We are hopeful that these categories will also be allowed in a couple of months with some restrictions. There is always the hope that vaccine might help us all out faster than expected,” West End’s Pathak said. Nethra K, a visitor at a mall, said, “It is relaxing to get out of the house. Malls are being sanitized frequently and this gives me confidence to go and get what I need. And parking space is easy to find too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/need-based-shopping-trips-drive-up-footfall-at-malls/articleshow/77698162.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
August 23, 2020||Rajkot||Ganesha fest for public, 1 booked||Rajkot: A trustee of a charitable trust in Rajkot was booked for organizing a public Ganesha festival and printing the invitation card for the devotees. According to a complaint registered with Bhaktinagar police station, the police staff found Ganesh Pandal erected near Pragat Hanuman temple on Milpara main road during patrolling on Friday night. They found that the pandal was set up by Pragat Charitable Trust. The police officials seized the invitation cards for this festival and booked it’s trustee Jagdish Bhatt (58) under IPC section 188 for the violation of notification issued by Rajkot police commissioner. The Rajkot police commissioner had recently issued notification banning people from organising functions or celebrating festival in public.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ganesha-fest-for-public-1-booked/articleshow/77696767.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Covid tightens grip in KGMU; top brass hit, admin in limbo||LUCKNOW: The Covid-19 outbreak in King George’s Medical University (KGMU) spiralled on Saturday as chief medical superintendent (CMS) Prof. S N Shankhwar and three senior faculty members were among the 18 personnel testing positive for novel coronavirus. Since the registrar is also in isolation as he had come in contact with employees who tested positive, top brass, including vice-chancellor Lt Dr Gen Bipin Puri, CMS and MS, is now in quarantine. The offices of VC, registrar, CMS and MS were closed for sanitisation. The new cases took KGMU’s tally to 206 since March, with 60% of total cases being detected in last eight days. So far, 110 doctors, including 22 faculty members and 88 resident doctors, 18 nurses and 77 paramedics and non-medical staff have tested positive, while one employee died this week. Prof. Shankhwar, who is also head of urology department, felt uncomfortable on Saturday and was admitted to ICU for a brief period to examine his vitals before being shifted to a private ward. The three faculty members from neurology, emergency medicine and dental were tested after developing symptoms. The VC had tested Covid-19 positive on Friday but is asymptomatic. He was tested after employees of his office were found infected. Medical superintendent Prof. B K Ojha, who had tested positive on Thursday, is also asymptomatic. Head microbiology Prof Amita Jain who tested positive five days ago is admitted in a private isolation ward. KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh said, “All officers and faculty members are stable. Most of them are asymptomatic, and in home isolation. Only three are admitted in private isolation wards.” As many as 14 employees deployed in KGMU guest house were also found infected on Saturday and put in home isolation. Registrar Ashutosh Dubey has quarantined himself in the guest house but said he is not infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-tightens-grip-in-kgmu-top-brass-hit-admin-in-limbo/articleshow/77698590.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 23, 2020||Pune||PMR records over 3,000 Covid-19 cases on third straight day, 69 patients die||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added more than 3,000 cases for the third consecutive day on Saturday, taking its overall tally to 1.42 lakh. As many as 3,280 cases were recorded in PMR in the last 24 hours. Of these, the PMC limits accounted for 1,577, while the PCMC areas recorded 1,039 (see box). A report released by district health officer (DHO) Bhagwan Pawar stated 69 more patients succumbed to the contagion in PMR on Saturday, taking its death toll to 3,495 so far. The PMC and PCMC reported 33 and 20 deaths, respectively. The rural areas reported 16 deaths. The count of active patients in PMR increased to 31,215 on Saturday night, including 19,221 patients undergoing treatment at various hospitals as well as Covid care centres and 11,994 patients in home isolation. Over 2,676 patients were discharged on Saturday after they were declared cured. These included 1,427 patients from the PMC areas, 962 from the PCMC limits. The tally of discharge patients has increased to 1.07 lakh. A PMC report stated that 804 patients were at critical stage in the municipal limits, of whom 488 were on ventilator support. Over 2,600 patients who were admitted to the hospitals and Covid centres were on the oxygen support. PMC officials said 6,891 tests were conducted on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-records-over-3000-cases-on-third-straight-day-60-patients-die/articleshow/77697530.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: KCB officials claim decline in positivity rate in civil areas||PUNE: The Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB) authorities have claimed that the Covid-19 positivity rate in their civil areas has come down to around 10-12% from 30-40% over the past two weeks. On the other hand, a surge in cases has been noticed in the military areas which are monitored by the army authorities, the officials said. “Of the total 220 active cases as on Saturday, 136 are from the army areas and the remaining 84 are from the civil areas,” a senior KCB health official said on the condition of anonymity. The KCB so far has recorded a total of 1,018 cases, of which, 770 have been discharged, 28 succumbed to the virus and 220 are active cases. Pramod Kumar Singh, chief executive officer of KCB, said, “This trend in civil areas is very encouraging. Despite opening the market for six days a week, we have not recorded a surge in cases. We have been focusing on contact tracing and we have roped in ten more teams for the task.” Singh said that there were 37 patients being treated at the Babasaheb Ambedkar Khadki Cantonment Board Hospital, which has a capacity of 70 beds. “Our Covid care centre is currently empty. About 250 patients are still in home quarantine, while 2,202 patients have completed their quarantine period,” he said. The KCB authorities have been creating containment zones very consistently. “This too has helped us immensely to contain the spread of the virus,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kcb-officials-claim-decline-in-positivity-rate-in-civil-areas/articleshow/77697533.cms||Sandip Dighe
August 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur administration launches website for Covid patients||KOLHAPUR: Solapur district administration has launched a website to provide information to Covid patients and their families about the nearest hospitals and the status of its bed occupanc . The website will also provide information on the Mahatma Fule Janarogya Scheme and the fees charged by the hospitals, district collector Milind Shambharkar said. The administration will soon launch a mobile application for people to have access to all these information. A separate control room has been set up in Pandharpur to coordinate all the Covid-related activities. Meanwhile, Solapur rural reported 265 fresh Covid cases on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 9,211, of which 2,473 are active. Eight patients succumbed to Covid-19. The death toll rose to 258. A total of 6,480 have recovered so far. Solapur city has reported 58 fresh Covid cases and one death. The city has 6,283 cases so far, of which 1,188 are active. 4,698 patients have recovered and the total number of casualties stands at 397.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-admin-launches-website-for-covid-patients/articleshow/77696753.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kolhapur||10 police personnel test positive for Covid-19 in Satara||KOLHAPUR: As many as 361 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from Satara district in the last 24 hours ending on late Saturday evening, taking the tally of positive cases to 9,369. Around ten police personnel tested positive for the contagion when rapid antigen tests were being carried out. The district police is carrying out a special drive for the police personnel and their families. With 131 Covid-19 patients, Karad tehsil reported maximum cases in the last 24 hours. Of the 131 patients, 61 were from Karad town alone. Malkapur town reported 14 cases. Of the 60 cases registered in Satara tehsil, 40 patients were from Satara town. Phaltan recorded 21 cases. Koregaon and Khatav tehsils added 21 and six cases respectively. Wai tehsil recorded 42 cases. Jawli and Patan tehsil added 14 and five cases respectively. Mahabaleshwar added 12 cases since late Friday night. Meanwhile, eight people succumbed to the viral infection on Saturday taking the death toll in the district to 296. Of the eight patients, three were from Wai tehsil, two from Karad, and one each from Koregaon, Maan and Khatav tehsils.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/10-police-personnel-test-ve-for-covid-19-in-satara/articleshow/77696760.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana announces Rs 5 lakh advance for Olympic qualifiers||Chandigarh: Haryana government has approved a scheme to give Rs 5 lakh incentive amount in advance to players who have qualified in Olympic and Paralympic games to help them prepare for these competitions. The scheme approved by the state government will benefit players preparing for the Olympic games to be held in 2021. Expressing gratitude towards Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar, minister of state for sports and youth affairs, Haryana, Sandeep Singh said earlier, players were given an incentive amount of Rs 15 lakh after they played Olympics and Paralympics. He said players direly needed this incentive during preparations, when a healthy diet and other facilities were of the utmost importance. On a request made by the sports department, the state government approved the scheme of giving Rs 5 lakh as advance incentive to players who have qualified in the Olympics and Paralympics. The outstanding amount will be made available to them after they play in the Olympics. The sports minister assured that the state government would bring many new schemes for players before the games next year to help them shape their future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-announces-rs-5-lakh-advance-for-olympic-qualifiers/articleshow/77698188.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Ganapati makes a quiet entry, devotees yearn for the buzz||PUNE: Anand Saraf (63) has closely followed the city’s vibrant and spirited Ganesh festival for five decades now. To Saraf, the change in festivities this year enforced by the Covid-19 pandemic was much too perceptible on Saturday. “As far as I can recall, this is the first time there are no people on the roads. The enthusiasm and colour, the noise and fervour is surely missing,” he said, adding, “People are scared. But they have faith in the Vighnaharta, who will ensure that things will be back to normal.” Purva Sankhala, a festival enthusiast, rued, “The chants of ‘Ganapati Bappa Morya’ and the sound of dhol tasha and lezim pathaks, mandal volunteers carrying saffron flags and dancing feverishly on the way to their pandals, the rangolis drawn by cultural organizations, men and women dressed in traditional Maharashtrian attire, foreigners making it a point to reach Laxmi road for the Day 1 processions and several such features are totally missing this year.” The change in festivities on Saturday was so obvious that it turned into a part of nearly every conversation through the day. The administration has placed restrictions on processions for installation of public Ganesh idols as well as on pandals. The drastically reduced number of pandals has also affected the crowd on roads, which is a good sign considering the pandemic. “I have been attending Ganesh Chaturthi processions for a decade but it’s totally different this time. Normally, there would hardly be any space to walk as people would crowd every nook and corner of the Peth areas during the processions for installation of idols. That buzz is entirely missing this year,” said Sachin Patil, a working professional. For Abhay Jadhav, attending the installation processions of the five ‘Manache Ganapati’ and Dagdusheth Halwai Ganapati would be a major attraction. “I would run across Bajirao road, Shivaji road and Laxmi road despite the crowd to be able to offer prayers at all the mandaps,” he recalled. “It’s different this year as I am moving on my two-wheeler to pay my respects.” Mandals, including the five ‘Manache Ganapatis’, have taken various precautionary measures to prevent the spread of the Covid-19. Kasba Ganapati Mandal has restricted senior citizens from visiting the pandal. “Roads leading to the pandal have been barricaded. Fewer than 50 persons were present for the installation rituals. Only four persons carried the Bappa from the temple to the pandal in a palkhi. Later, about four to five people were allowed inside the pandal for the rituals,” explained a mandal office bearer. People could be seen moving from one temple to another to offer prayers. “We cannot stop people from coming to worship. They take a look at the idol, pray and leave. We are not allowing them to stop for long. No one is allowed inside the temple. Only the priest and people performing the rituals were allowed inside the temple,” said Paresh Khandke of Bhau Rangari Ganpati Trust. The situation was slightly different at Shrimant Dagdusheth Halwadi Ganapati Temple as a crowd had gathered around the complex but the police ensured that people kept moving. The mandal has erected a screen at a nearby spot for devotees to see the idol and offer prayers. Many mandals have built small pandals as a decoration around the permanent temple structures. The Jilbya Maruti Mandal Trust had only four people outside the temple after installation while passers-by offered prayers while walking around Tulshibaug. The Akhil Mandai Mandal has been spraying disinfectant at the temple premises after every two hours. A bottle of sanitizer has been kept close to the idol alongside other offerings. “We are allowing only limited people into the temple and they are being checked with oximeter and thermometer. Wearing masks is mandatory,” said Anna Thorat, president of the mandal. A crowd gathered at several other locations in the city as devotees reached makeshift sheds selling Ganapati idols. “There was a lot of crowd at Wanowrie, where four stalls have been erected. While many were wearing masks, I noticed many without masks too. There was hardly any social distancing. However, there are fewer pandals on the roads. I hope people stay home and offer prayers using online facilities provided by most prominent mandals,” said Seema Parekh, a resident of Wanowrie. At Wadgaonsheri, the six pandals that line the 2km-stretch between Anand Park and Wadgaonsheri wholesale market were missing. To cash in on sale during the festival, every shop along the stretch was seen selling Ganapati idols and decorations. “We are happy that we are bringing Ganapati home as we do every year. But this year, we are unable to place any offerings at our local Ganapati mandal, which cancelled Ganeshotsav celebrations due to the pandemic. We can only pray that this is not the situation next year too,” said Shivaji Londhe, a businessman from the area. (With inputs from Shiladitya Pandit)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ganapati-makes-a-quiet-entry-devotees-yearn-for-the-buzz/articleshow/77698178.cms||Rujuta Parekh
August 23, 2020||Lucknow||3 UP teachers to get national award for drive & innovation||Lucknow: Three meritorious teachers from UP have been selected by the Centre for this year’s national awards. The teachers are being honoured for their efforts in improving enrolment, motivating students to attend school regularly and taking teaching-learning to higher levels by bringing in innovation to classrooms. In all, 47 teachers from across the country will be honoured on the eve of Teacher’s Day celebrated on September 5. The three from UP are — Mohammed Ishrat Ali, head teacher in a primary school, Rajwana in Mainpuri; Snehil Pandey, head teacher in a primary school Soharamau, Nawabganj in Unnao; and Vikas Kumar, principal, SD Inter College Meerapur, in Muzaffarnagar. Snehil Pandey | Disturbed with lower rate of girls enrolling in schools, Snehil launched a unique scheme after taking over as school head in 2015 — of gifting a bicycle to one girl, who travelled to school from the farthest place on foot, from her own salary. As a result, there are 136 girls as against 130 boys currently enrolled in her school. “The initiative helped us in mobilising people. In many cases, we saw siblings too joining our school,” said Snehil, who dropped her studies in homeopathy to take up the cause of children. Promoting joyful learning in her school, she helped increase enrolment, from 60 in 2014 to 266 this year, by community participation. The school boasts of its own website, a students’ newspaper and a music band. Each student at her school has adopted a plant. These measures have generated positive vibes among children. In addition, there is a library for parents. During the Covid-induced lockdown, Snehil took help from alumni to connect with students for online classes. Ishrat Ali | Six years ago when Ali took over as the school head, there were 78 students enrolled in the school. And of this, only 45% attended school on an average. Through innovative experimentation and social participation, the number today stands at 216, and the attendance on any given day is above 85%. “Using my own money, I started a stationery corner where students got stationery for free,” said Ali. In 2015, Ali’s school bagged the best school title in the state. Using the prize money, the school bought furniture for the students. Projectors were purchased to set up smart classes. “When I was promoted as head teacher to another school in 2014, my students staged a stir-in before the DM. I was honoured by the love and affection of little children. Subsequently, I was promoted to the same school,” Ali said. Vikas Kumar | To make teaching-learning attractive, Vikas used videos on various topics and included characters like ‘Motu-Patlu’ which made topics interesting for students. In 2010, when Kumar took over as a school head, there were 767 students (from class IX to XII). Today, the student strength in his school is 2,350. “We engaged students in making innovative models in Atal innovation lab. Our focus is to develop, in students, a scientific temper,” said Kumar. In his school, he has initiated a unique bank where students deposit 10 unused pens and in return, they are given one new pen, free of cost. He motivates students to take up social work and to build community assets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/3-up-teachers-to-get-national-award-for-drive-innovation/articleshow/77698607.cms||Isha Jain
August 23, 2020||Pune||Dehradun jail inmate booked in cheating case||PUNE: The Swargate police booked a Dehradun prison inmate after a man accused him of cheated him out of Rs 18.70 lakh. The 54-year-old complainant and the victim studied in the same college, police said. They got in touch in 2018. on social media. The complainant was looking for an overseas opportunity. The suspect claimed to live in Australia and told him to buy a house there to boost his immigration prospects. The complainant sold his Wanowrie flat and transferred Rs 22.20 lakh to the suspect. A few months later, the suspect transferred Rs 3.5 lakh ‘rent’ to the complainant. “Recently, the complainant found out that the suspect was lodged in the Dehradun central prison in a cheating case. He then approached the police,” Rasal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dehradun-jail-inmate-booked-in-cheating-case/articleshow/77698184.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Pune||Restaurants cook up creative ideas to stay ahead of game||PUNE: Restaurants allowed take away and delivery services are going beyond the mundane to offer customers a unique experience. From serving meals in earthen pots to laying out authentic South Indian-style preparations on banana leaves, they are trying out different ways to make food not just fun to have, but also appetising too. “I recently ordered food from The Royal Champaran House, which delivers food in earthen pots in which it is cooked. The pots are sealed when delivered and when you open them, you get a rich smokey flavour. We also received a personalised thank you note from the restaurant,” said Rashmi Dongre-Patil, a resident of Undri. The restaurant is popular for its non-vegetarian delicacy, matka gosht, which is cooked in dum style in earthen pots on low heat. It also offers East Indian delicacies, such as sattu paratha and luchi. Shibin TN, a caterer, said, “We offer a range of authentic preparations from Kerala, which is different from the regular dosa and idli served at South Indian restaurants. We offer sadhya, which includes 20-25 items, depending on the category of your choice. The food is served in a particular way on banana leaves. We also give banana leaves along with the orders.” Jayesh Paranjpe, who recently started a delivery kitchen for authentic Maharashtrian food, said, “People know that South Indian food is served on banana leaves, but very few know that this is a tradition for Maharashtrian food as well. We specialise in authentic Maharashtrian home food, and we also provide thalis, which include preparations for special occasions such as weddings. With each mejwani thali, we also give one banana leaf. Since people might not know how to serve the meal on the leaf, we also provide a card with instructions on how to lay out the food.” Food consultant Karen Anand, said, “These types of meals make for a great experience because of the portions served in thalis and the significance of each preparation.” Stressing the need for presentation props, she said, “We all have to be creative and use this time to strategise effectively. It’s not easy to ask restaurants to think out of the ‘food box’. But those who do come up with novel ideas and tie-ups will be ahead of the game.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/restaurants-cook-up-creative-ideas-to-stay-ahead-of-game/articleshow/77698183.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Pune||SPPU resumes admission process online, last date August 31||PUNE: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has reopened its online admission process for diploma, certificate and postgraduate courses, and extended the last date to apply to August 31. The circular issued by the university earlier this week said the candidate needs to submit the online form and pay the requisite fee by August 31. The online entrance examination for the courses would be conducted in September if the situation is conducive. However, this would not be applicable to undergraduate and diploma/certificate courses in Foreign languages. The Foreign languages department will conduct the online proctored entrance examination for diploma, advanced diploma and special diploma courses on August 23. “Login to the system using a mobile phone, laptop, PC, tablet with working front camera any time between 8am and 8pm on August 23. Once logged in, you need to complete the test in 1 hour. There will be 50 questions of two marks each. There will be no negative marking,” said the notification on the SPPU website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppu-resumes-admission-process-online-last-date-aug-31/articleshow/77698181.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Gurgaon||Ambala: Six booked for sedition after IAF station receives threat letter||AMBALA: Ambala Police on Saturday booked six persons on charges of sedition and attempt to wage war against India over a suspicious threat letter received at the Indian Air Force (IAF) station, said Ambala superintendent of police (SP) Abhishek Jorwal. “A suspicious hand-written letter was received in the post at IAF station in Ambala Cantonment on Friday. The letter mentioned some blasts at different places of the country,” SP Jorwal said. When asked if the letter mentioned any plan to blow up the IAF station in Ambala, the SP said, “It is completely incorrect and there is no threatening mention of blowing up the IAF station. The fact is that it has been received at the IAF station, otherwise, it doesn’t seems suspicious.” About the content of the letter, SP Jorwal said, “A lady claiming to be a detective wrote that she possesses information about some blasts about to happen in Delhi, Ayodhya, Ambala and parts of Punjab between August 15 and August 29. She has given five to six mobile numbers of the persons allegedly involved to commit the blasts. Of the details mentioned, we have verified a man of Jalandhar, who is a cook and a man of Bilaspur, Yamunanagar, who has a furniture business in the town. The wife of the man from Jalandhar belongs to Ambala. The Bilaspur man had an affair with a woman in Ambala and a compromise was reached between them following a dispute. In such a suspicious manner, it appears that somebody has posted this letter with a motive to harass somebody whose numbers are given. Two persons have been verified. They are normal citizens and the rest are being verified.” A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/6-booked-for-sedition-after-iaf-station-receives-threat-letter/articleshow/77698189.cms||Jaskaran Singh
August 23, 2020||Nagpur||Last 20,000 cases in 15 days, Vidarbha Covid count crosses 40,000-mark||NAGPUR: Covid-19 positive cases in Vidarbha surpassed the 40,000-mark on Saturday with 1,653 fresh cases reported in a day. More than 20,000 of these cases have been reported in last 15 days. The region has seen the worst of pandemic in August with 26,679 cases and 732 deaths reported in the first 22 days. The region reported 36 deaths o Saturday, including 30 from Nagpur district, three from Amravati and one each from Chandrapur, Wardha and Bhandara. For the fifth day in a row, the region reported more than 1,600 cases. These include Nagpur (1,156), Amravati (88), Buldhana (86), Yavatmal (55), Akola (53), Wardha (49), Chandrapur (48), Gondia (46), Washim (29), Bhandara (26), and Gadchiroli (17). In some relief, the number of recoveries is also on the rise. On Saturday, total 1,258 patients recovered and were discharged. These include Nagpur (875), Amravati (129), Buldhana (45), Yavatmal (42), Washim (36), Gadchiroli (34), Chandrapur (27), Akola (27), Wardha (23), Gondia (14), and Bhandara (6). Total 23,998 patients have recovered in the region which means recovery rate of 57.6%. Even if there have been higher number of recoveries in the last three days, the region’s recovery rate is way less than national average of over 74% and state’s 71%. AMRAVATI: Three Covid deaths and a spike of 88 new cases took the district’s death toll to 110 and count to 4,422. The day also saw 127 patients getting discharge, taking the number of recovered patients to 3,247. According to a CS office report, a 57-year-old male from. Arun Colony in Vidyut Nagar on VMV Road here, a 65-year-old male from Gulista Nagar and a 55-year-old female from Badnera died during treatment on Saturday. After 3,347 recoveries and 110 deaths, there are 1,065 patients under treatment, including 27 taking treatment in Nagpur and 327 in home isolation. The rural belt reported 43 cases that took its count to 1,200. Daryapur reported 17 cases, taking its count to 102 while Chandur Bazar reported five for a total of 89 cases. With two new cases, Chandur Railway’s tally increased to 25. Wslgaon Lahore too reported two cases to take its count to three while two cases from Bhatkuli took its count to 46. Achalpur’s tally reached 88. Two cases from Dhamangaon Railway increased its caseload to 58. Single cases came from 12 different villages. In city, Shegaon Naka reported four cases to take its tally to 28 while three cases came from Saraswati Nagar that took its count to nine. Two cases each came from Shrikrishnapeth, Rukmini Nagar and Gaglani Nagar that took their count to 15, 14 and four. Single cases came from 27 other localities. CHANDRAPUR: A 79-year-old person from Ballarpur town died of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the district’s death toll to 14. The deceased was suffering from pneumonia. He was admitted to the Covid hospital on August 20. The Covid count of the district climbed up to 1,354 with detection of 48 new cases during the day. The day also saw 27 patients getting discharge, taking the count of recovered patients of 893. There are 447 patients under treatment at Covid care centres and Covid hospital. The new patients include 19 from Chandrapur city, eight from Korpana, five each from Ballarpur and Gondpipri, two each from Rajura, Bhadrawati and Warora and one each from Chimur, Sindewahi, Jiwti, Bramhapuri and Mul tehsils, and one each from Chichpalli and Ghugus. WARDHA: A 91-year-old woman, resident of Wardha city, died due to Covid-19 while district saw jump of 49 cases on Saturday. Meanwhile, 23 persons were discharged after recovering from the infection. The district’s caseload reached 608. After 395 recoveries, there are 200 patients under treatment. Highest cases came from Wardha (16), Deoli (9), Hinganghat (7), Arvi (6), Ashti (4) Pulgaon (4), Selu (2), and Karanja (1). BJP MLA Pankaj Bhoyar also tested positive on Thursday. He is undergoing treatment at AVBRH, Sawangi while medical staff of Kasturba hospital, Sewagram and two local politicians also tested positive on Saturday. BHANDARA: The district reported Covid death for third consecutive day, taking it Covid toll to 12. The day also saw 26 new cases and six recoveries. Now, Bhandara has 756 cases, including 446 recovered and 298 under treatment. GONDIA: As many 46 new cases of Covid-19 surfaced in the district on Saturday. Of these, 25 patients are from Gondia, Tirora (10), Amgaon (5), and 2 each from Goregaon and Salekasa, one each from Sadak-Arjuni and Deori tehsils. Total 14 patients were given discharge. The district’s caseload is 993. After 710 recoveries and 12 deaths, there are 271 patients under treatment. GADCHIROLI: With addition of 17 new cases, Gadchiroli’s Covid count increased to 889, including 539 security personnel (SRPF, CRPF and police jawans). The day also saw 34 patients becoming Covid-free, taking the total recoveries to 789. The new cases included 10 from Chamorshi tehsil alone. Total 99 patients are under treatment in Gadchiroli. AKOLA: Out of 693 reports received on Saturday, 53 tested positive, taking the Covid count of district to 3,441. After 27 fresh recoveries, Akola has 357 patients under treatment. YAVATMAL: The district recorded 55 fresh Covid-19 cases while 42 patients recovered and got discharge from GMC isolation ward on Saturday. The new patients include 34 men and 21 women. There are 613 patients under treatment while 195 persons are under home quarantine. The district has registered 66 deaths. Currently, 155 persons are in the isolation wards while 150 swab samples have been sent for testing. Four more Covid-19 positive cases were detected at the RCCPL factory at Mukutban, taking its count to at least a dozen. Request from the villagers to the district administration and the factory management to keep the unit closed for a month has allegedly got no response so far. The district collector had earlier issued a circular to the factory management to deploy only local labourers from Gadchiroli, Chandrapur and Kolhapur. But the management allegedly appointed workers from Bihar, Chhattisgarh and UP who have now been found infected. Against the manpower capacity of over 2,000, the factory is being run by only 300 employees. The factory can’t be closed totally as demanded by the locals, said a source in the factory. BULDHANA: The district recorded 86 new cases, taking the caseload to 2,557. Total 45 patients recovered in a day, taking their number to 1,634. The district has registered 41 deaths so far while 882 patients are under treatment. WASHIM: For second day in a row, number of recovered patients was more than the number of new patients in Washim. On Saturday, the districts reported 29 new cases while 36 recovered. Now, Washim has 1,381 cases, 998 of them recovered, 25 deaths including a suicide and 358 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/last-20k-cases-in-15-days-vid-covid-count-crosses-40k-mark/articleshow/77698221.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 23, 2020||Lucknow||Rs 22k cr spent so far in battling Covid: Khanna||Lucknow: Responding to Opposition’s demand of sharing details of expenditure on tackling the Covid-19 pandemic, finance minister Suresh Khanna said the government has spent approximately Rs 22,000 crore under various heads from the Rs 24,000 crore collected towards Covid-19 management till now. Khanna shared the data in the Vidhan Parishad on Saturday after Opposition demanded where Covid fund had been spent. Samajwadi Party members accused the government of corruption, saying it claims to have created an enviable health infrastructure, but patients are struggling to get admission in hospital. “The government has been deducting 30% from the salaries of MLCs and MLAs for the last five months. We want the government to tell us where this money has been spent,” said Samajwadi Party MLC Anand Bhadauria. MLC Sunil Sajan asked where were 1.25 lakh Covid beds Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath claims to have readied. Sajan had on Friday shared details of his stay in Sanjay Gandhi PostGraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) when he was down with Covid-19. “Currently there are about 48,000 active cases in Uttar Pradesh. Some of them are in home quarantine. So, the number of patients in hospitals is much below 1.25 lakh. Why are people still dying in ambulances, waiting to get admission to hospitals? The government has looted funds it collected in the name of Covid-19,” he alleged. Rebutting the allegations, Khanna referred to Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav, who he said had welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for giving up part of his salary for Covid-19 fight. “Mulayam Singh ji will be so disappointed to know his party members are fighting for their salary when the world is battling this virus. The government has been providing ration and cash to over 20 lakh people regularly since lockdown. We have spent around Rs 22,000 crore under various heads till now,” Khanna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rs-22k-cr-spent-so-far-in-battling-covid-khanna/articleshow/77698620.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Gurgaon||Gang rape complainant held for extortion||KARNAL: Nearly one-and-a-half months after a woman employee of a noted private school in Karnal accused the owner, principal and a government official of gang rape, the district police have arrested her and her husband for allegedly taking Rs 7.25 lakh from the accused to settle the case, said the police. Rajiv Kumar, deputy superintendent of police (DSP), said the owner of the private school gave a complaint to the police that the woman was demanding Rs 15 lakh from them to settle an alleged gang rape case. He said Karnal superintendent of police (SP) Surender Singh Bhoria formed a team led by tehsildar Indri as a duty magistrate and Sanjeev Kumar, in-charge, civil line police station, and arrested the alleged rape survivor and her husband from Sector 12 near Nirmal Kutiya Chowk while they were accepting Rs 7.25 lakh on August 21. The DSP said, the complainant had also alleged that Rs 6 lakh had already been given to the woman. DSP Rajiv said two FIRs have already been registered in this case, as the police had received counter complaints from both sides. This is the third FIR linked with that case. A special investigation team (SIT) is probing the matter. He further said a case had been registered against her under sections 384, 389, and 506 of the IPC and her husband under section 120B. On Saturday, they were produced before the court and sent to 14 days judicial custody. It is pertinent to mention that the woman filed a complaint at the women’s police station on July 6, following which a case was registered against the accused under sections of gang rape of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). In her complaint, the woman had alleged that she was raped in 2018 by the owner of the private school and a government official. She also accused the school principal of being party to the crime. She said they had been harassing her mentally and physically since then. However, police claimed that the owner of the school had also filed a complaint of extortion against the teacher. Vinay Bansal, the advocate of the woman, refuted the allegation and said the police were trying to implicate her in a false case. “The allegations are baseless and we will prove it in the court,” Bansal added. He claimed that the police had sought two-day police remand, but the court did not agree and sent her to judicial custody. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gang-rape-complainant-held-on-extortion-charge/articleshow/77698190.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana minister Anil Vij’s Vikas Parishad to be deregistered||AMBALA: Haryana cabinet minister Anil Vij has asked the Ambala deputy commissioner-cum-district election officer to review the registration of his now defunct political outfit Vikas Parishad, after which the Election Commission of India (EC) will deregister his party. According to information, Vikas Parishad, floated by Vij as an independent politician, with his Shastri Colony, Ambala Cantonment residence as the address, is registered as an unrecognised political party with the EC for nearly 13 years now. Ambala City-based advocate Hemant Kumar of the Punjab and Haryana high court, who had sought the status of Vikas Parishad through an RTI application about one-and-half years ago, said, “On Friday, I received some documents from the office of Haryana chief electoral officer (CEO) in reply to my RTI application. The documents also contain a copy of a letter sent by Vij to Ambala DC on August 5, 2020. Vij has written that in the year 2009, he dissolved Vikas Parishad and joined Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and currently, Vikas Parishad does not exist.” He said the Ambala DC intimated the Haryana CEO about this on August 6, and now this information would be forwarded to the EC for the deregistration of Vij’s party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/vijs-vikas-parishad-to-be-deregistered/articleshow/77698192.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Nagpur||Row over ineligible vs eligible ACFs for DFO promotion||Nagpur: A tug-of-war for promotion from assistant conservator of forests (ACFs) to divisional forest officers (DFOs) has ensued in the Maharashtra forest department between eligible and ineligible candidates. While the PCCF’s office is considering the ‘ineligible’ lot, over 28 eligible ACFs clamouring for promotions took the battle to the principal secretary (forest) Milind Mhaiskar’s court demanding justice. “For direct ACFs, the criteria for promotion is 3 years of probation and 3 years of regular service. But ACFs who are in service for a long time become eligible the day they are promoted. The department promotion committee (DPC) meeting is slated for Monday and the seniority list prepared is as per the rules,” said APCCF (personnel) Maheep Gupta. However, direct ACFs said, “We comply with all norms for promotion but candidates who got ad hoc promotion from the post of RFO to ACF and whose promotion is not even regularized by MPSC till date and moreover are junior to us are being considered.” Promotion rules are being questioned by the aggrieved lot. “Promotion rules are misinterpreted. As per the ACF Recruitment Rules, 1965 — on successful completion of 2 years’ training — direct recruited ACFs were posted on probation and their training period was not considered as service period.” they said. They added that ACF Recruitment Rules, 1965, were superseded in 1998 after which 2 years’ probation period of directly recruited ACFs and one-year field training is considered as service period. On a petition filed by some aggrieved ACFs, on September 16, 2016, the MAT upheld this view and later the state also agreed to consider training period as service period and allowed all the related benefits by issuing a GR on August 14, 2018. Based on this GR, the final seniority list was released on March 7, 2019. This seniority list was challenged in the high court, Aurangabad bench, in which state’s general administrative department (GAD) advised to rectify DFO Promotion Rules-1984. “However, the opinion of GAD was deliberately not put before the HC and a civil application was filed by the department requesting the court to elevate promotee ACFs and exclude us as our batch had not completed 3 years of regular service after passing departmental exam. On this department stand, the court lifted the stay on the promotion process on August 23, 2019,” the ACFs said. Accordingly, the department elevated promotee ACFs as DFOs though they were junior as per the seniority list. Those promoted as DFOs were not regularized by the government on the post of ACFs. Department also promoted 18 newly recruited ACFs as DFOs without rectifying rules. “One woman officer from Chandrapur was termed as ineligible by the departmental promotion committee (DPC) but was still given promotion. However, the department has taken a different stand against the batch of 28 ACFs,” they said. The seniority list of ACF cadre has not been regularized since 2000. However, the department went on including these promotee ACFs in the seniority list and has given promotions to the post of DFO and even awarded IFS to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/row-over-ineligible-vs-eligible-acfs-for-dfo-promotion/articleshow/77707718.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 23, 2020||Pune||2 under lens after fencing body alleges fraud||PUNE: An offence of cheating and forgery has been registered against a former secretary of the Indian Fencing Association and a job aspirant from Solapur, following a complaint by the state deputy director of sports and youth services. The complaint relates to the Solapur man’s bid to secure a government job in 2018 based on his “achievements” in a national fencing event in which he claimed to have stood third. Deputy director Vijay Santan told TOI, “We came to know that the candidate had not stood third in the competition. We also found discrepancies in the affidavit filed by the association’s former secretary.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-under-lens-after-fencing-body-alleges-fraud/articleshow/77698185.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Chandigarh||15 more deaths take toll past 300-mark in district||Ludhiana: Ludhiana witnessed the highest single-day deaths on Saturday as 15 patients lost their battle to Covid-19 in various state hospitals, taking the toll past 300-mark. The caseload also went up to 8,508 with the addition of 386 new cases of coronavirus. On August 16, the district had witnessed 15 deaths too. On Saturday, two more patients belonging to Nawanshahr and Fatehgarh Sahib also succumbed to the virus in Ludhiana hospitals. Among the victims in Ludhiana, 10 were elderly citizens. They were two 75-year-old men from Ranjeet Avenue and Muradpura; 73-year-old man from Jamalpur, 70-year-old man from Upkar Nagar; three 69-year-old men from Udham Singh Nagar, Urban Estate Dugri and Ludhiana; 65-year-old man from New Kundanpuri; two 60-year-old men from Lalehri road in Khanna and BRS Nagar; Other victims were 31-year-old man from Dolo Kalan, 51-year-old woman from New Shivaji Nagar, 45-year-old man from Payal, 58-year-old woman of Bhumadi village at Khanna and a 52-year-old woman from Amloh road Khanna. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said with 15 deaths from Ludhiana district, the total number of deaths from the district rose to 303. He said till date 1,00,809 suspects have been tested for Covid-19 in Ludhiana district. He said of the 360 patients from Ludhiana district who tested positive, 95 were from flu corner (influenza like illness (ILI) patients), 111 contacts of positive cases, 18 were healthcare workers, seven undertrials, 3 were police persons, 2 were pregnant women. The civil surgeon said on Friday, 2534 samples were sent for testing. He said till now, 5,944 Covid positive patients have recovered in Ludhiana which is 69.86% of the total cases. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said that there are 2,258 active patients in the district at present. He said till date, 30,612 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons is 5,332. “On Saturday, 361 persons were sent for home quarantine,” DC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/15-more-deaths-take-toll-past-300-mark-in-district/articleshow/77697561.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Lucknow||UP: SP fails to stall passing of bills, cries foul||LUCKNOW: Despite enjoying a majority in the Upper House, Samajwadi Party and other Opposition parties were unable to prevent the passing of some bills in Vidhan Parishad on Saturday. In fact, the proceedings started late by 3.5 hours as SP members sat on a protest in the chairperson’s office over the passing of a bill on Friday without the party’s amendment being considered. Incidentally, the last bill to be passed on Saturday also sailed through in similar fashion with SP trying to move an amendment in vain. “On Friday, a bill on reservation for EWS was passed. SP has no objection to the bill, but wanted to know how the government had identified EWS for it. Before the proceedings commenced on Saturday, the chairperson accepted that there had been an error on Friday because our amendment was not taken up, and that something like this would not be repeated. He asked us to let the proceedings commence on the condition that he would allow voting if we wanted. However, the promise was entirely forgotten once we went inside,” said MLC Sunil Sajan. As MLC Shashank Yadav asked chairperson Ramesh Yadav to explain why the amendment proposal had been termed ‘inadmissible’ without giving any reason, his colleague Udayveer Singh said it was the basic right of members to propose amendments and running the house in this way is dangerous for democracy. However, a similar story unfolded later when SP tried to move an amendment proposal for the ‘Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damage to Public and Private Property Bill, 2020’, but a voice vote was taken and the bill passed amid massive protests by SP members. “This bill is against the high court order and is legally incorrect. However, our objections have not even been registered,” said Yadav. BJP attacked the Opposition for questioning the chairperson’s decision, which it said was final and above politics. Responding to SP charges, labour minister Swami Prasad Maurya said BJP had in fact fulfilled a demand made by both SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav and BSP chief Mayawati by giving 10% reservation to people of economically weaker sections, he said once the chairperson gives an order, it should not be challenged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sp-fails-to-stall-passing-of-bills-cries-foul/articleshow/77698629.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Agri diversity key to improving farmers’ economic conditions: Dalal||Hisar: Diversification in agriculture is the crucial for improvement in the economic condition of farmers, said agriculture and farmers’ welfare minister J P Dalal. He was addressing agriculture scientists and farmers during an online webinar organised by the department of forestry, College of Agriculture, CCSHAU, Hisar, on the theme, “Diversity in Agriculture: Innovative Programme for Improving Livelihoods of Farmers.” Appreciating farmers for the sustained efforts they made despite the Covid-19 pandemic, he emphasised the role of crop diversification, use of seeds of improved varieties and advanced technology developed by the university. Today, farmers need to increase fertility of the land with the adoption of organic farming, crop residue management, integrated pest and fertiliser management, water conservation and reducing expenditure incurred on farming by using natural resources. Through these means, farmers can become employers instead of seeking employment, he said. He also spoke about the urgent need for involvement of maximum number of agricultural entrepreneurs and progressive farmers in such programmes. A total of 1,517 farmers and agricultural scientists registered themselves in the webinar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/agri-diversity-key-to-improving-farmers-economic-conditions-dalal/articleshow/77698217.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Blackbuck killed in Hisar village||HISAR: A blackbuck has been killed by some unidentified persons in Rawatkhera village of Hisar district. On getting information from the villagers, a forest department team visited the village and sent the animal’s body for post-mortem examination. An inspector of the forest department, Rameshwar Das, said a case has been registered against unknown persons under Section 9 (prohibition of hunting) of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. He said on Friday evening, the residents Rawatkhera informed him about the hunting of the blackbuck near the village. Later, he and his team brought the deer’s body to Deer Park. “Veterinarians conducted the post-mortem of blackbuck here. The autopsy report says the bullets had broken some bones of the blackbuck and pellets had pierced through the neck and other parts of its body,” Das said. An investigation has been launched to track the hunters, but so far the accused have not been identified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/blackbuck-killed-in-hisar-village/articleshow/77698213.cms||Kumar Mukesh
August 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 25% of radio-collared Asiatic lions have died in one year||AHMEDABAD: In the last one year, one out of four radio-collared Asiatic lions have died in their last abode in Gujarat. This has raised concerns among wildlife experts and lion lovers as radio collaring is done on young lions whose mortality rate in the overall population is usually very low. Some of them even claim that the unscientific use of collars could have led to the deaths of the majestic beasts. Dushyant Vasavada, chief conservator of forests, Junagadh Wildlife Circle, recently sent a letter to the deputy forest officials, urging them to take necessary action wherever they received any complaints regarding radio collaring of lions in their area. The state forest department has got 75 tracking collars. So far, 89 lions have been tagged to keep a track on their movement. This suggests that at least 14 lions who were radio collared may have died prompting the authorities to use their collars in other animals. Messages and pictures raising concern over radio collaring of lions have been circulated in social media. “A total of 19 radio-collared lions have died. There are many reasons behind their deaths but some people are claiming that the deaths are due to radio collaring which is baseless. We have tagged 89 lions so far,” said Vasavada. When asked about the mail sent to DFOs recently, he said it was only a precautionary measure. Wildlife experts working in Gir forest say that the number of deaths of radio collared lions could be higher. H S Singh, a member of India’s National Board for Wildlife and an expert on Gir lions said tagging of such large number of lions was unnecessary. “The mortality rate in young and sub-adult lions is very low so it is very unfortunate that so many lions who were radio collared have died,” said Singh. A K Sharma, a retired IFS officer who was awarded with government of India’s Kirti Chakra for rescuing lions from poachers in 1989, said lions should not be treated like guinea pigs for the purpose of experimentation. “I don’t see any justification for collaring so many lions. These collars should be immediately removed. They can cause pressure on their neck and impedes their hunting capabilities. It appears that the radio collaring is done to make the lives of forest officials easy in tracking the majestic beast rather than for any research purpose,” said Sharma. Radio collaring is usually done for research purpose and should be limited to a dozen Asiatic lions for it can lead to serious behavioural changes in the animal, according to Singh. The radio collars were purchased by the state forest department at Rs 6.5 lakh per piece after the Canine Distemper Virus took toll on about 29 lions in October 2018. The purpose of tagging as cited by the department then was for tracking and disease surveillance. Apart from the discomfort that can be caused by the 1.5 kg of collar, two wildlife experts said collaring young lions, especially males, seems to be proving fatal. “The reason being that their manes grow quite quickly and the head size increases for a few years. Many forest officials in Gir have realized this and have begun removing the collars if they find the big cats facing any discomfort,” they said. The state forest department did not consult experts before radio collaring such a large population, said sources. A researcher with the Wildlife Institute of India said that radio collaring should be done only on one lioness from each pride and that the total number of radio collared lions should not be more than 10. This was, however, not the case here as many lions and lionesses from the same pride have been chosen in many instances. As per the recent lion census, the population in Gir and surrounding areas is 674 of which 417 is the adult population. “Out of 417 adult lions, 300 must be young adults. This means we have radio collared about 25% of young adult animals from this last surviving Asiatic lion population. Such unusual high number of animals have not been radio collared anywhere else in the world,” said an expert. The average number of lion deaths per year is roughly 100 per year in last five years, he said. “So overall mortality is 16% per year. Out of these 16%, majority are cubs or old age animals. This means that mortality rate of collared young healthy lions is four times higher than that of non-collared young adult lions,” the official said. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wildlife-lovers-worried-as-25-of-radio-collared-asiatic-lions-die/articleshow/77697585.cms||Maulik Pathak
August 23, 2020||Pune||Repeat surveys key to decode herd immunity: Scientists||PUNE: The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research scientists have stressed that a repeat longitudinal sero survey would help in understanding the herd immunity developed by the same population. The first survey conducted by the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) with the collaborating institutes revealed that Covid-19 had infected around 51% of a sampled population in parts of Pune. Scientists claimed that it was a fresh evidence of extensive and silent spread of the coronavirus infection. Professor LS Shashidhara of the Ashoka University, who led the survey, said their study revealed that a much larger proportion of people did not know that they had any infection, meaning they were asymptomatic. “We are consulting more experts on what appropriate measures one could recommend in such a situation,” he told TOI, stressing on continuing with tests and isolation because cases were still being reported from some of the sampled prabhags (areas). He said, “The fact that so many people were infected without any major crisis for hospital beds, ICUs or ventilators gives the health care authorities the confidence that they can deal with the situation systematically.” Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said they were awaiting recommendations from the IISER and the team that conducted the first sero survey in the city. “Based on it, we shall continue with aggressive testing in Pune and focus on super spreaders,” he said. Shashidhara said, “We definitely need to do more sero surveys and cover more prabhags (areas). Longitudinal study of the same prabhags surveyed one or more times will help understand better the (Covid-19) spread across the city and if these antibodies stay longer in the system. The protective role of these antibodies and the question of herd immunity are being investigated systematically by our people. This is a lengthy experiment and may take 5-6 weeks for us to report the results.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/repeat-surveys-key-to-decode-herd-immunity-scientists/articleshow/77697579.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 23, 2020||Ludhiana||MC Covid teams in dilemma over responsibilities||Ludhiana: Employees of the Ludhiana municipal corporation are in a dilemma about their role in the implementation of recent orders regarding checking of Covid guidelines in shops, factories and offices. The MC authorities have formed Covid monitoring teams to carry out the task in 95 wards of the city. However, the employees said in the orders, there is no clarity on whether they will be involved in checking only or they can issue challans too. They also said when they will busy with the new task, who will handle their routine duties. A total of nine teams — eight teams with 10 employees each and 9th team with 15 employees — have been formed for the purpose. The employees from the health branch, operations and maintenance cell, building branch and bridges and road department have been deputed for the purpose. One employee will handle one ward and report to nine team heads who will further report to two nodal officers. Requesting anonymity, an employee put on the task claimed that the orders don’t mention whether they have any authority to stop anybody from any activity or not. He said it is also not clear that whether they will have to request the public to follow guidelines or there can issue challans against violators. He said sanitary inspectors involved in waste management have also been deputed for this job, then who will take care of their work at the dump yard. Kulpreet Singh, a nodal officer, said, “The orders were issued on Friday evening. As there is lockdown on Saturday and Sunday, there might be some meeting on Monday to get clarity about these orders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-covid-teams-in-dilemma-over-responsibilities/articleshow/77697575.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Under RERA laws, Vadodara builder’s home to go under hammer to pay customer||AHMEDABAD: Kalpesh Raiyani, a Vadodara-based builder who failed to give possession of a flat to customer in his new scheme, will witness his own flat being auctioned off by government authorities on September 8 so money can be recovered from him to repay his customer. The auction of Raiyani’s residence in the Akota area of Vadodara is the first such auction of property to be conducted under the Gujarat Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) Act, the price the builder is paying for not fulfilling his promise to give possession of a flat to Amey Joglekar in his ‘Dove Deck’ project on Ajwa Road. Joglekar dragged the builder to RERA after Raiyani failed to hand over possession of the flat to him in December 2017 as promised. It took more than two years of legal battle for Joglekar to get the builder’s property, a 1,350-sq foot flat, under the hammer. The flat was attached by Vadodara revenue authorities in October 2019, after Raiyani failed to refund Joglekar’s money on RERA’s order. Raiyani made an agreement with Joglekar in 2016 that by December 2017, he would give possession of a flat in his Dove Deck project on Ajwa Road for payment of Rs 28 lakh. Joglekar obtained a bank loan for the purpose and paid Rs 20 lakh to the builder. When he did not get the flat, he complained to RERA in Gandhinagar. In October 2018, RERA ordered Raiyani to return the money to the customer for his failure to give possession of the flat. When the builder did not refund the money, RERA issued a recovery warrant against Raiyani. The district collector accordingly passed an order. The flat was attached in October 2019. “The process was very slow. We had to approach the Gujarat high court, which sought to know the status of proceedings. This seemed to have pushed the officials to speed up the process of recovery. The Vadodara mamlatdar issued a public notice for the auction next month,” said Joglekar’s advocate Hetu Sudarshan. The public notice says Raiyani has been indebted to pay Rs 28 lakh with interest of Rs 1.4 lakh, which is to be recovered through the sale of his property in Pruthvi Apartment, BPC Road, Akota. The property’s base price is Rs 37.5 lakh and the highest bidder will be sold the property. The lawyer said that there are more than 200 persons waiting for their refunds because they have not been given possession of property in the Dove Deck project. “With this first order for auction in Gujarat, a path is cleared now for them as well as for thousands others across the state who are duped by builders,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/under-rera-laws-vadodara-builders-home-to-go-under-hammer-to-pay-customer/articleshow/77697603.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Nagpur||Some home isolation +ve patients facesocial stigma, get help from NGO, cops||NAGPUR: With over 5,800 Covid-19 positive patients in home isolation in the district, some have lodged complaints with the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) alleging they are facing social stigma. With the help of NMC and the police, NGO ‘Together We Can’ is resolving issues and also providing essentials. “One member of a family residing in a flat scheme in Itwari is in home isolation. A few flat owners locked the door of that flat from outside. The family contacted the NMC control room. The family had to say that their relative resides in the same flat scheme and since they were helping by supplying milk, groceries and vegetables, a few of the other flat owners are raising objections. Police reached the flat scheme and resolved the issue,” a volunteer from the NGO told TOI. Talking about a somewhat similar issue, president of NGO Joseph George, said, “Some flat owners of a scheme in Giripeth were not allowing home delivery of essentials to a family in home isolation and quarantine. Even their garbage was not being lifted. We informed Sitabuldi police who reached the place and warned of action and the problem got resolved.” Not only co-residents, even a cop, too, victimized a family in home isolation. “A policeman kept a family with a three-year-old child without milk and vegetables for two days in Chitnavis Nagar off Umred Road. The policeman and a few others told the milkman and vegetable vendor to discontinue supply to the family. The policeman also abused their relative who was supplying medicines and other essentials. The family contacted the NMC control room. I also took the corporator from the ward to the policeman. We provided a grocery kit to the family which is sufficient for around 20 days. Still, the family was in trouble. Then we requested additional CP Nilesh Bharne who resolved the issue,” said Nilesh Dhamdhwani, another volunteer from the NGO. In another case, some locals resorted to pelting stones at the NMC’s barricade. “The control room received a call from a family in home isolation saying their neighbours were pelting stones at the barricade installed by the NMC for the containment zone. The family was told to say that some people from the area threatened them not to be in home isolation. We informed the police who swiftly visited the area and sorted out the issue,” said Anusuya Kale-Chhabrani. API Amol Dond, posted in the NMC control room, said, “Some flat owners of a scheme contacted the NMC control room and demanded that their security guard be taken to any other place. The call was transferred to me. I guided them and told them not to harass the security guard and instead, help him,” he said. Cracking the whip, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe reiterated NMC’s stand regarding such issues. “Stringent action, including FIR, will be registered against people who engage in social stigma against positive persons in home isolation. No one has the right to ostracize anyone. The need of the hour is to maintain a safe distance from positive patients and not social distance. We have to socially and emotionally support positive patients,” said Mundhe. Doing such challenging work has not been easy for the NGO. “We contact positive patients daily and enquire about their health. A couple of patients in home isolation said they went out to purchase vegetables and groceries as they are alone and have no support from anyone to get home delivery. Milkmen, vegetable vendors and home delivery of groceries etc get interrupted once neighbours learn that the family is infected. Some measures need to be chalked out for such people,” the NGO said. When the district administration and NMC started quarantine centres to accommodate high-risk contacts of positive persons, people lodged complaints demanding shifting of the centres. Even the administration had closed down a couple of quarantine centres following a demand from a legislator and one of the top officials. With the rise in number of active patients, the NMC had allowed home isolation of positive patients and home quarantine of high-risk contacts from July 27. As on Saturday, 1,993 patients in home isolation were declared recovered. Around 5,861 positive patients are in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/some-home-isolation-ve-patients-facesocial-stigma-get-help-from-ngo-cops/articleshow/77698227.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 23, 2020||Lucknow||UP BJP has upper caste-heavy team||Lucknow: BJP will enter the 2022 assembly polls arena in Uttar Pradesh with an upper caste-dominated state executive that was announced on Saturday. Delayed by over a year, the 41-member team has 16 vice-presidents, seven general secretaries, 16 secretaries, one treasurer and one deputy treasurer. Out of the 16 vice-presidents, eight are from upper castes and the rest from OBCs, scheduled castes and scheduled tribes. Among state general secretaries, five are from upper castes, one is OBC and one SC. After the announcement, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath said he hopes that the new team will be able to prove its worth. Uttar Pradesh BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh said the new team will lend further momentum to the party’s initiatives. The party has given a fair chance to new leadership with 11 out of 16 vice-presidents being new entrants. These include MLC and party general secretary Vijay Bahadur Pathak, who has been made vice-president. Earlier, Pathak was a spokesperson of the party. Similarly, general secretaries and former Kanpur MLA Salil Vishnoi and Pankaj Singh — Noida MLA and son of Union defence minister Rajnath Singh — have also been made the vice-presidents of the party. The other new vice-presidents are SP turncoat and Rajya Sabha member Surendra Nagar, Satpal Saini, Neelam Sonkar, former Mahila Morcha chief Kamlawati Singh, Prakash Pal, Devendra Chaudhary, Braj Bahadur and Sunita Dayal. Only two vice-presidents — Rajya Sabha member Kanta Kardam and prominent ST leader Laxman Acharya — have been retained. For the posts of general secretary, the party has banked on tried and tested faces. While vice-president JPS Rathore has been moved to the post of general secretary, Ashwini Tyagi, who was taking care of west UP as secretary, will also take over as general secretary. The party has also rewarded Kannauj MP Subrata Pathak — who defeated Dimple Yadav, wife of SP president Akhilesh Yadav, in the Lok Sabha elections — with the post of general secretary. Earlier, he was a secretary in the organisation. The party has tried to pacify former MP Priyanka Rawat, who was denied a ticket from Barabanki in 2019 Lok Sabha elections, by making her party general secretary. Anup Gupta and Amarpal Maurya, who were secretaries and part of the BJP’s election team, have been appointed as general secretaries. Prominent leaders who have been shunted out as state general secretaries include Ashok Kataria, who was made transport minister last year, and former MLC Vidya Sagar Sonkar. Govid Narayan Shukla is the only face who has been retained as state general secretary. Of the 16 party secretaries, only three — Devesh Kori, Anjula Mahaur and Sanjay Rai — have been retained. Of the remaining, three have been promoted while others have been shunted out. New entrants on the post of secretary are president of UP unit of Bharatiya Janta Yuva Morcha, Subhash Yaduvansh, and party spokesperson Chandra Mohan Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-bjp-has-upper-caste-heavy-team/articleshow/77698635.cms||Pankaj Shah
August 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Closure of shops: Power bill, GST number to help odd-even take off||Ludhiana: As the authorities are all set to implement the odd-even rule for shops dealing in non-essential items in Ludhiana from Monday onwards, they have made it clear that in case shops have no serial numbers, then the selection can be made on the basis of electricity bills, GST number or they can even assign a temporary number to shops to execute the order. The order issued by the district magistrate-cum-deputy commissioner on Friday said, “Not more than 50% of shops dealing in non-essential commodities shall remain open on a given day within the jurisdiction of Ludhiana municipal corporation. Non-essential shops having even serial number will open on even dates and shops with odd serial number will open on odd dates.” “The Ludhiana police commissioner and MC commissioner will implement this odd-even formula. But all shops dealing in essential commodities shall remain open on all days as per the timings given in the order. And there will be no odd-even outside MC’s jurisdiction,” the order read. Asked about whether it will be difficult to implement the order as every shop doesn’t have serial numbers, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said some things are in letter and spirit, but spirit is more important than the letter. He said he has left it to the local SDMs and SHOs to decide on how to implement the order. “If there is some problem anywhere, they can take help of the electricity bill numbers of shopkeepers or GST numbers. Even temporary numbers can also be allotted to these shops,” the DC said. He said the SDMs, SHOs can sit with associations to come up with a system to implement the formula or even associations could do it on their own. The shopkeepers are meanwhile skeptical about the implementation of the order. “The order is better than complete shutdown as the business community has to earn its livelihood as well. Already we have faced the brunt of long lockdown. If they are coming up with such an order wherein shops dealing with non-essential articles will open on alternate days, they should at least exempt the power bills of these shops as they have to pay full month rent for the shops,” said Gurpreet Singh, a stationary store owner near Jawahar camp market area. “However, we doubt whether they will be able to implement the order as not every market has shops with numbers. Even if they devise a system to implement it, customers will be confused on whether a particular shop will be open on a particular day or not,” he added. In a message, Ludhiana police commissioner on Saturday evening said, "Only 50% Non Essential shops will open in any particular area. Even number shops can open on even dates and odd number shops can open on odd dates on weekdays. The places where shops do not have number, they can paint temporary numbers with the help of market associations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/closure-of-shops-power-bill-gst-number-to-help-odd-even-take-off/articleshow/77697588.cms||Shariq Majeed
August 23, 2020||Pune||Health minister Rajesh Tope bats for extensive sero tests in Maharashtra||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope called for more sero surveys in all parts of the state to help the administration plan better for Covid-19 treatment. Iterating that “lockdown” would no longer be implemented and “unlock” with restrictions was the way forward, he said, “Data collected through sero surveys will help estimate the spread in the community.” The antibody tests under the sero surveys detect antibodies, or immunoglobulins, which the immune system generates whenever it fights pathogens — in this case, SARS-CoV2. Over 51.5% of the people undergoing the sero-surveillance tests in Pune showed that they had developed antibodies. Tope said sero surveys should be carried out in all the hotspots. He stressed on conducting the surveys in both urban and rural pockets. “These surveys are an indicator that there is spread in the community and we need to do it more,” said the minister, stressing on antibody test of all frontline workers to get a clear idea about the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tope-bats-for-extensive-sero-tests-in-maha/articleshow/77697586.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 23, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Group empowers marginalized children||KOCHI: When Attappadi plunged into darkness for a week due to a power outage early this month, Sanoop C was busy visiting houses in his tribal colony and neighbouring colonies to collect details of students who have completed Class X and XII. Sanoop is one of the tribal youth volunteers linked to the Adishakti Summer School, which is looking to creating awareness among students from marginalized communities about the scope of higher education, and helping them apply for courses. With higher secondary and degree admission procedures going fully online due to the pandemic, Adishakti has stepped in to help students without access to the internet to apply for desired courses. It has created WhatsApp groups to collect details of students from various districts. Group members also submit applications for the students. An initiative of Adivasi Gotra Mahasabha founder M Geetanandan, Adishakti Summer School was established in 2014 to stem the dropout rate among dalit and adivasi students in the state. “Most of the students in my area do not have internet connectivity to apply for degree courses. I collected their details and sent them to WhatsApp groups formed by Adishakti Summer School,” said Sanoop, who belongs to the Kurumba community and hails from Gotyarkandi ooru in Attappadi. A third-year degree student, he aspires to join the police and is preparing for his SI test. Vanitha V, a volunteer from Marayur in Idukki, struggles to convince members of her community about the scope of education. A member of Hill Pulaya tribe, Vanitha helped four students from her community apply for Plus One. “Most of the children in our community drop out of school early. Though some of the families reside in town, there are around eight ‘kudis’ in the interior forest. They are reluctant to come out,” said Vanitha, who herself braved the odds to emerge from a kudi to pursue higher education. Vanitha is currently preparing for the civil service examination in Thiruvananthapuram. The group has so far helped around 100 students apply for higher studies. Adishakti conducts camps for students every year. These camps help identify skilled students and give them assistance in pursuing their areas of interest. Most youth who are part of this year’s admission initiative were participants of camps conducted in previous years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/group-empowers-marginalized-children/articleshow/77697597.cms||Sukanya Satyan
August 23, 2020||Faridabad||Months on, no FASTag system at Gurugram-Faridabad toll||GURUGRAM: Even though the state government had signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) in October last year paving the way for use of FASTags to pay toll charges even on state roads, the toll plaza on Gurugram-Faridabad road is still not accepting this mode of payment. A notice at the plaza reads “FASTag not acceptable at the GF toll road”. Toll officials have claimed that it is not a national highway and unless the PWD issues a notification, they will continue with the present system of toll payment system as agreed upon in the contract. “The NHAI’s notice for FASTag was only for toll plazas on the national highways like the Kherki Daula one. The Gurugram-Faridabad road falls under the jurisdiction of the Public Works Department (PWD). We have not received any notifications from the PWD to suspend our current toll collection mechanism and switch to FASTag,” said an official of GF Toll Road Pvt Limited, the Reliance Infra subsidiary, which maintains the Gurugram-Faridabad road. At present, the plaza is continuing with their existing hybrid collection system, which is payment either by cash or through the monthly passes distributed from the plaza itself. These pass tags are available for Rs 100 as security deposit and Rs 500 one-time monthly recharge for private vehicles and Rs 750 for commercial vehicles. In October last year, Haryana was one of the eight states where an MoU was inked paving way for the use of FASTags on state-owned roads. PWD said that the process of rolling out FASTag at the toll plaza is under review. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the department could not expedite meetings and consultations and a fresh round of discussions to assess the cost quoted by the concessionaire and the NHAI are being undertaken. Meanwhile, the lack of communication from the government is resulting into daily confusion which sometimes lead to heckles between commuters and the toll plaza staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/months-on-no-fastag-system-at-ggn-fbd-toll/articleshow/77701388.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
August 23, 2020||Gurgaon||Months on, no FASTag system at Gurugram-Faridabad toll||GURUGRAM: Even though the state government had signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) in October last year paving the way for use of FASTags to pay toll charges even on state roads, the toll plaza on Gurugram-Faridabad road is still not accepting this mode of payment. A notice at the plaza reads “FASTag not acceptable at the GF toll road”. Toll officials have claimed that it is not a national highway and unless the PWD issues a notification, they will continue with the present system of toll payment system as agreed upon in the contract. “The NHAI’s notice for FASTag was only for toll plazas on the national highways like the Kherki Daula one. The Gurugram-Faridabad road falls under the jurisdiction of the Public Works Department (PWD). We have not received any notifications from the PWD to suspend our current toll collection mechanism and switch to FASTag,” said an official of GF Toll Road Pvt Limited, the Reliance Infra subsidiary, which maintains the Gurugram-Faridabad road. At present, the plaza is continuing with their existing hybrid collection system, which is payment either by cash or through the monthly passes distributed from the plaza itself. These pass tags are available for Rs 100 as security deposit and Rs 500 one-time monthly recharge for private vehicles and Rs 750 for commercial vehicles. In October last year, Haryana was one of the eight states where an MoU was inked paving way for the use of FASTags on state-owned roads. PWD said that the process of rolling out FASTag at the toll plaza is under review. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the department could not expedite meetings and consultations and a fresh round of discussions to assess the cost quoted by the concessionaire and the NHAI are being undertaken. Meanwhile, the lack of communication from the government is resulting into daily confusion which sometimes lead to heckles between commuters and the toll plaza staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/months-on-no-fastag-system-at-ggn-fbd-toll/articleshow/77698637.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
August 23, 2020||Dehradun||Alternate Haridwar route remains 'unused' despite heavy spending||HARIDWAR: Hill bypass road, falling in the Haridwar range of Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR) and developed as an alternate route to clear traffic during bathing festivals and mega fairs like Kumbh and Ardh Kumbh, has remained largely unused. According to sources, the government has spent around Rs 34 crore since 2010 for maintaining this route. But, the road is hardly used during peak season as getting permission is not easy. The route is in the RTR area. Despite this, the government has prepared a fresh Rs 29 crore proposal for long-term treatment of the route citing Kumbh Mela 2021. The route is often damaged due to landslides in the monsoon season. At present, around 6-km hill bypass road has remained blocked due to landslides at several points. According to the public works department of Haridwar, Rs 3.46 crore was spent in 2010 while around Rs 30 crore had been spent in 2016 in which a bridge was built on the route. The department spent over Rs 20 lakh in 2018 for its maintenance. Deepak Kumar, executive engineer of PWD, Haridwar, told TOI, “Major construction works were done in 2010 and 2016 from Kumbh and Ardh Kumbh budget respectively. Similarly, other maintenance works have been done from time to time. Currently, the route is blocked due to landslide." Kumar added, "In the wake of Kumbh mela 2021, we have submitted a fresh Rs 29 crore proposal for long term treatment plan of the route and Rs 3.50 crore short term treatment plan. Works will be done as per the budget availability.” Locals, however, raised questions on spending money on this unused route. Social activist Dr Vishal Garg told TOI, “Hill bypass route has been hardly used in the past 10 years while authorities have spent a lot of money which is a waste of public funds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/alternate-haridwar-route-remains-unused-despite-heavy-spending/articleshow/77696814.cms||MS Nawaz
August 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Law firm linked to Adani Jr advised govt on airport bid||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State government’s intentions in participating in the bid for Thiruvananthapuram airport has come under a cloud after it has been revealed that it had engaged a firm which has close ties with Adani group as its legal consultant for the bid. Adani group was the major competitor for the government agency KSIDC and eventually it won the bid by quoting 20% higher amount than offered by KSIDC. As per records obtained under RTI Act, the government had engaged the law firm Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas paying Rs 55.4 lakh as fee for legal services rendered for participating in the airport bid. Paridhi, daughter of Cyril Shroff, the co-owner of the law firm, is the wife of Karan Adani, the son of Gautam Adani. Karan Adani is personally looking after the Vizhinjam seaport project, being built by Adani group. The Adani group had won the bid for the airport by quoting Rs 168 as against the state government’s bid of Rs 135. The government engaging a firm that has close professional and personal ties with Adani group raises questions of conflict of interest. But government sources rubbished the matter, and said the law firm was selected purely on professional merit. "The firm was engaged after inviting expression of interest, and was selected by transport department after a due process. It is one of the leading law firms of the country... The rate was quoted by a committee consisting of the chief secretary, finance secretary and transport secretary and the law firm had nothing to do with quoting the rate or was not aware of the rate quoted by the state," said a government source. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said if the news is true, it is nothing but an illegitimate deal between the government and Adani Group. That it was the same firm which has been giving legal advice to Adani group and the state government raises several questions and the government has to give an explanation to the public, he said. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said the government connived with Adani group for the airport’s takeover. BJP state president K Surendran said the government’s double-dealing has come to light with the new revelations. The government had spent Rs 2.36 crore for bidding for Thiruvananthapuram airport, when the Centre had decided to privatize operations of six airports across the country, including Thiruvananthapuram. As per an RTI reply received from the KSIDC, the main chunk of this expense was on engaging KPMG as the technical consultant for the bid. The government paid Rs 1.57 crore as consultant fee. The other expenses include the fee for Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas, bid processing fee for Airport Authority of India, and commission for bank guarantee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/law-firm-linked-to-adani-jr-advised-govt-on-airport-bid/articleshow/77697609.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Ludhiana||District to get 35 more beds for level-3 coronavirus patients||Ludhiana: The healthcare set-up for level-3 Covid-19 patients is set to get a boost as the Ludhiana civil hospital will soon have 30 ventilator-fitted beds for such patients. A reputed private hospital is also expected to add 20 more level-3 beds soon. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said they already have 16 level-3 beds in the civil hospital and will add 15 more such beds for such patients. He said they will get this system operationalized in a week’s time. The DC said they have staff for these facilities at the civil hospital and the government has asked them to recruit staff for such facilities locally. He said they have a waiting list of such candidates and will recruit more as per the requirement. “Beds are not a big issue and not many people are dying because of lack of beds,” Sharma said. He said they have been assured by Satguru Udhay Singh that they will add 20 more level-3 beds in the coming time. Besides, CMCH has also added more such beds. Meanwhile, residents who have suffered because of alleged shortage of beds said the authorities should get more level-3 beds operationalised at the civil hospital without further delay. “Normally the patients who cannot afford costly treatment at private hospitals go to the civil hospital for such facilities and due to absence of level-3 facilities they have to be shifted to Rajindra Hospital Patiala. As the golden period to save them is lost in shifting such patients so chances of their survival get bleak. If they operationalize 30 level-3 beds at the civil hospital, I am hopeful that serious patients can be saved,” said Keemti Rawal, who lost his brother-in-law because of alleged shortage of beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/district-to-get-35-more-beds-for-level-3-coronavirus-patients/articleshow/77697593.cms||Shariq Majeed
August 23, 2020||Dehradun||Two iconic Raj-era post offices in Mussoorie could soon be history||MUSSOORIE: Two Raj-era iconic post offices in Mussoorie, one of them almost as old as the hill town itself, face closure following a proposal by the department of posts. Local residents have said that the post offices, which are relics of the past and part of the town’s identity, must be preserved. The sub-post office situated in Landour, one that gave Mussoorie its first address, is believed to have been set up in 1837. According to writer and local historian Ganesh Saili, the establishment of this post office was facilitated by Captain Frederick Young, regarded as the founder of Mussoorie. Famous writer Ruskin Bond, who lives in Landour, said he was sad at the development. “It is sad that the authorities are mulling closure of the post office in Landour. I have been using this post office since 1964, when I permanently moved to Mussoorie,” Bond reminisces. Recalling his pleasant association with the postmen here, who were quite regular in bringing his mails, Bond said, “I have even written about one or two postmen in my stories.” Talking about the origin of the iconic post office, Saili who has written many books on the history of the hill town, said, “This post office was set up to serve the invalids of the convalescent depot for the British soldiers in Landour.” In fact, Landour post office served as the head post office for more than 50 years before the head post office was set up on the Mall Road in 1909. There is another interesting bit of history related to Landour post office. According to Saili, the father of renowned hunter and conservationist Jim Corbett, Christopher William Corbett, worked as a postmaster here from 1850 to 1863. The other sub-post office facing closure is situated in the premises of Hotel Savoy near Gandhi Chowk in Mussoorie and was established in 1902. The plush hotel with its Edwardian interiors – built by Cecil D Lincoln, an Irish barrister from Lucknow – was completed in that year itself. The rent for the sub-post office is just Rs 99 since it was fixed before Independence and has not been hiked since. Apart from its picturesque location, the post office has a unique seal. “Usually, the seals at post offices bear the name of the place and name of the head post office, but the century-old seal here just says ‘Savoy Hotel’ and it is still being used,” said Gaurav Joshi, postmaster at the Mussoorie’s head post office. Joshi, however, said that there has not been any decision yet on the proposal. “We hope the department junks this proposal and saves the town’s landmarks,” said Saili.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-post-offices-one-of-them-set-up-by-mussoorie-founder-and-where-corbetts-dad-worked-face-closure/articleshow/77696117.cms||Anmol Jain
August 23, 2020||Meerut||Tip-off by Military Intelligence busts Rs 50-crore NCERT printing scam||LUCKNOW: It was a tip-off by Military Intelligence (MI) sleuths, who were on a recce of an obscure godown in Meerut as part of anti-terror vigil before Independence Day, that busted the Rs 50-crore racket of printing of NCERT books. MI personnel got a whiff of the scam during a discreet surveillance of the facility after receiving inputs of suspicious activity at Kashigaon, Achronda Road under Partapur police station of Meerut. They shared intelligence inputs with Special Task Force (STF) of UP , who too joined the investigation. Late on Friday, STF along with local police raided the facility, but the kingpin Sachin Gupta wriggled out of the dragnet and even burned down a similar stock of books at his main factory in Mohkampur Enclave, Sabzimandi. “During the raid, at least 1.5 lakh books were seized from a godown in Kashigaon, but the owner managed to flee,” said an STF officer. Four persons in the factory premises — Shivam, Rahul, Akash, Sunil Kumar — were arrested for failing to provide proof of printing NCERT books with government approval and later questioned for leads. “They disclosed that owners, Sanjeev and Sachin Gupta, ran the racket and had employed two youths, Vikas Tyagi and Nafees to route the stock to Meerut after printing at Delhi’s TNHK printers and publication,” said deputy superintendent of police, STF, Brijesh Singh. The seized books are being systematically counted, the officer said. “It also came up during investigation that these books were being supplied to buyers in multiple states, including UP, Uttarakhand and Delhi and transported in vehicles with BJP flags stuck in the bonnet to avert suspicion,” said Singh. The owner of the facility, Sachin Gupta, 30, reached the main factory in Mohkampur Enclave and burnt down a huge stock. Six printing machines were seized from the factory, the STF said. An FIR was registered against the kingpin’s aides, Shivam, Rahul, Akash, Sunil Kumar, Sanjeev Gupta, Sachin Gupta, Vikas Tyagi and Nafees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/mi-tip-off-busts-rs-50cr-ncert-printing-scam/articleshow/77698645.cms||---
August 23, 2020||India||Rajasthan CM Gehlot’s brother moves HC in ED case||NEW DELHI: The Enforcement Directorate's money laundering case against Agrasain Gehlot, elder brother of Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, seems to have hit a roadblock with senior Gehlot moving the Rajasthan HC against ED's summonses. The anti-money laundering agency has so far issued three summonses to Agrasain, asking him to appear before its investigating officers at its Delhi headquarters. The ED has also been looking for another prime accused in the fertiliser scam case, Pravin Saraf of Saraf Impex who, like Gehlot, has not honoured any of the agency's summonses issued to him. According to agency officers, Saraf is absconding though he has written to the agency seeking postponement of his questioning. The ED, which was contemplating other actions that may include arrest of the accused, is finding it difficult to proceed in the case in view of the court cases. Gehlot's case has been listed for Monday before the Jodhpur bench of the Rajasthan HC where the ED has been served a notice to defend its case, according to sources. According to a preliminary probe, Anupam Krishi, the firm owned by Gehlot, was engaged in alleged illegal export of potash in league with Saraf Impex Pvt Ltd. Anupam Krishi was the origin of the exports made by Saraf Impex. The total illegal exports of MOP (Muriate of Potash) is around 30,000 tons worth Rs 130 crore. Agrasain is accused of receiving huge commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajasthan-cm-gehlots-brother-moves-hc-in-ed-case/articleshow/77698984.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Ranchi||Panchayat polls unlikely this year||Ranchi: Elections to the 4,398 panchayats, scheduled to begin in November, seem unlikely this year in view of the pandemic. Although the government is yet to take a call in this regard, the state election commission is yet to begin any ground work, a task which needs to be completed at least six months prior to the polls. Talking to TOI on Saturday, Jharkhand Mukhiya Sangh’s president Vikas Mahto said a host of ground works are required to be completed at least six to eight months before the polls are conducted. “The process of preparing fresh voter lists, delimitation of panchayats and other works haven’t even started yet. Under such circumstances, the panchayat polls are going to be postponed by at least six months because of Covid-19 although we are awaiting a formal response from the government and the Election Commission in this connection,” he added. Meanwhile, several mukhiyas are demanding an extension of their terms, along with the continuation of financial powers, to be able to maintain the ongoing development works initiated by them at the ground-level. Speaking on the issue, Mahto said, “We will submit our charter of demands such as extension of our terms, financial powers, etc., to the state government. The Madhya Pradesh government has recently extended the tenures of its mukhiyas and panchayat bodies and Jharkhand too should adopt the same.” However, state panchayati raj director Vinay Kumar Rai said there isn’t any provision for the extension of tenures of panchayat bodies if the polls fail to take place as per schedule. “In Jharkhand, panchayati raj rules don’t allow the extension of tenure of mukhiyas or the panchayat bodies. After their terms expire, their powers will automatically cease to exist till fresh elections are held,” he added. He further said that the state election commission will have to take a call on the fate of polls this year but he believed that it is highly unlikely to happen in the current situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/panchayat-polls-unlikely-this-year/articleshow/77697406.cms||ASRP Mukesh
August 23, 2020||Ranchi||13 deaths take Covid body count past 300-mark, caseload nears 30k||Ranchi: Jharkhand’s Covid toll crossed the grim milestone of 300 with 13 casualties across the state on Saturday taking the body count to 310. East Singhbhum, which now has 128 casualties, again reported the highest number of deaths in the state with seven patients succumbing to the virus. Ranchi and Hazaribag reported two deaths each, while Bokaro and Koderma reported one. With 907 fresh infections in last 24 hours, including 35 reported from East Singhbhum on Friday night, Jharkhand now has 29,103 Covid cases, of which 9,607 are active, 19,186 have recovered (including 814 on Saturday) and 310 have succumbed to the virus. East Singhbhum alone accounts for 41.2% of the total deaths of while state capital Ranchi, with a toll of 50, has a 16% share. “Most casualties on Saturday were patients suffering with different comorbidities and were above 45 years of age,” a health department official said. Of the 872 cases detected on Saturday, the two cities had the highest numbers -- Ranchi recorded 188 and East Singhbhum 150. West Singhbhum (81) recorded its biggest one-day spike and Bokaro got 73 new infections followed by Palamu with 54. Of the 11,434 samples tested, results of 7.62% returned positive. Of the 24 districts in Jharkhand, seven – Ranchi, East Singbhum, Dhanbad, Hazaribag, Giridih, Deoghar and Palamu -- have recorded more than 1,000 Covid cases till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/13-deaths-take-covid-body-count-past-300-mark-caseload-nears-30k/articleshow/77697564.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 23, 2020||Ranchi||Warning against use of masks with valves||RANCHI: Weeks after the Union health ministry issued a warning against the use of N-95 masks with valved respirators, saying it does more harm than good to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus, the state health department said people should use only prescribed masks that are effective to stop the pandemic. In a letter to all states and Union Territories earlier this month, Dr Rajiv Garg, Director General of Health Services (DGHS) in the health ministry, had said N-95 masks with valved respirators do not prevent the virus from spreading and are “detrimental” to the measures adopted for its containment. “It is to bring to your knowledge that the use of valved respirator N-95 masks is detrimental to the measures adopted for preventing the spread of coronavirus as it does not prevent the virus from escaping out of the mask,” Garg wrote in the letter. N-95 masks are suitable only for healthcare workers when they are working among those with similar masks. The valve or the raised plastic gasket found in some N95 mask models basically filters the air inhaled by the person and blocks the entry of pathogens suspended in the air. The valves allow easier exhalation than traditional masks, prevent humidity, reduce heat and carbon dioxide build-up inside the mask. Some cities, including Delhi, Indore and Bhopal, have already banned the use of such masks in public. Talking to TOI, state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “We have already circulated the directives of the Union health ministry against the use of any kind of masks with valves as they increase the risk of infection to others.” Dr Devesh, a public health expert and professor of preventive and social medicine at Rims, said, “The primary purpose of wearing a mask is to prevent the spread of the virus from an infected person, but the N-95 has a ‘one-way valve’ that only protects the person wearing it and doesn’t filter the aerosols coming out. Hence, an asymptomatic carrier of the novel coronavirus can easily spread the infection to others when the valve releases the unfiltered exhaled air in the immediate surroundings.” The health ministry has encouraged the public to use home-made face masks or coverings made of cloth, preferably cotton, which can be tied or fastened over the nose and mouth. The government has also issued a detailed manual on how to make home-made masks and recommended it to everyone. Dr Manoj Kumar, head of Rims microbiology department said, “Why do we need to use such costly N-95 masks when the triple-layer cloth made masks can do the job. Moreover, I appeal to all to wear masks in a proper manner not just for the sake of covering their faces. Wearing masks wrongly can do more harm. People should also shun the use of gamchas in place of a masks as one cannot be sure which side they are putting on the face and which side is exposed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/warning-against-use-of-masks-with-valves/articleshow/77697429.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 23, 2020||Ranchi||Cannot repay loans or pay rents if malls remain shut: Owners||Ranchi/Bokaro: Owners of several shopping malls in the city and across the state have urged the government to allow them to resume their operations. The mall owners decided to approach the government after a meeting convened under the banner of the Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) on Friday. Briefing the media after the meeting, FJCCI president Kunal Ajmani said, “The state has given permission to smaller business establishments and industries to resume operations after asking them to follow the Covid-19 protocols strictly. However, the malls are closed for nearly five months and the owners are running into heavy financial losses. The government should reconsider their situation and allow them to open.” An FJCCI statement said there are seven prominent shopping malls in the state of which three are in Ranchi, two in Jamshedpur and one each in Dhanbad and Bokaro. “While other states have permitted malls to operate, the prolonged closure in Jharkhand is making it difficult for the shop owners in the malls to repay their loans. Many of them are also staring at huge losses as their commodities are nearing expiry dates,” the statement said. Asserting that the floor area of a mall is anywhere between 40,000-50,000 square feet, social distancing of customers will not be difficult to maintain after reopening. “The shops inside these malls are small and usually have one or two salespersons. At any given point of time, there are four to five customers in a shop. Under these circumstances, social distancing can be easily maintained,” the statement added. Vishnu Agarwal, the owner of Ranchi’s prominent Nucleus Mall, said, “As many as 42 shops in Nucleus Mall have served closure notices while 27 more are contemplating to do the same. Closure of the mall is also hurting the government as it generates Rs 5 crore monthly revenue.” Bokaro Mall is also facing similar problems with its 104 shop owners expressing their inability to pay their rents. The mall’s owner Dharmendra Jain said, “The government is losing Rs 3 crore monthly in terms of GST from my mall only due to the closure. Products locked in the showrooms for months are getting spoiled. If we are allowed to open, we assure single entry and better screening. It will become difficult for us to repay bank loans without reopening.” The government had shut the malls early in April after the pandemic reached the state and no decision to allow their reopening has been taken so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cannot-repay-loans-or-pay-rents-if-malls-remain-shut-owners/articleshow/77697607.cms||Dhritiman Ray
August 23, 2020||Ranchi||Bokaro plans to test 20k over 15 days in rapid antigen drive||Bokaro/Sindri: The Bokaro administration on Friday said it is gearing up to test 20,000 samples between August 22 and September 5. Chas SDO Shashi Prakash Singh said the sampling will cover urban areas and panchayats to identify and break the chain of transmission. “There will be up to 2,000 tests a day,” Singh added. Bokaro is one of the 16 districts in the state that is having low test per million (TPM) of Covid-19 compared to the state average. The district health department has also been asked to engage ANM’s and multi-purpose workers for sample-collection purposes. Meanwhile, civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak said efforts are underway to increase beds for positive patients. Apart from 90 isolation beds at Bokaro General Hospital, two 100-bed-isolation centres are currently functional. The Dhanbad district administration has also started working on adding 300 additional beds by creating new Covid-care wards on the PMCH campus. Dhanbad DC Uma Shankar Singh said: “The district administration has decided to develop the gynaecology, anaesthesia, ENT, eye and paediatrics department building into a 300-bedded Covid care centre and get it functional within a week.” The designated Covid hospital at BCCL central hospital, Dhanbad sadar hospital and PMCH cath lab have 100 beds for Covid patients at present. Besides this, there are 200 beds at Nirsa polytechnic, 100 beds at zonal training centre of railways at Bhuli, 50 beds at BCCL regional hospital at Bhuli and 25 beds at Tata Jamadoba hospital that are working as Covid care centres in the district. After adding additional 300 beds at PMCH, the total number of beds available for corona patients would go up to 1,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bokaro-plans-to-test-20k-over-15-days-in-rapid-antigen-drive/articleshow/77697637.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Jamshedpur||Waterlogged Steel City stares at surge in cases of vector diseases||Jamshedpur: Incessant rain in the Kolhan region for the past two days has put East Singhbhum district authorities on their toes as they battle to contain Covid-19 infection spread and prevent waterlogging and vector-borne diseases. Officials of both the two urban municipal bodies in Steel City — Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) and Mango Notified Area Committee (MNAC) — are coordinating with the district health department to ensure that localities are not inundated and issues of vector-borne diseases and the coronavirus pandemic are addressed. JNAC city manager Ambuj Singh said, “Supervisors have been deployed across all identified low-lying areas and work to clean clogged drains and removal of garbage piles is on.” Slum areas located close to the Kharkhai river embankment in Bagbera, Kadma and Sonari those located near the Subernarekha river like Bhuyandih, Babudih and Bagunnagar are on JNAC radar, Singh said. Similarly, MNAC said teams have been deployed in low-lying areas close to Subernarekha river and at other places which are prone to waterlogging during the rainy season. “Since Friday evening, teams are working in the identified areas,” MNAC city manager Jeetender Singh said. In the city areas, several places like Olidih, Sankosai, Mango, Jawarharnagar, Transportnagar, Zakirnagar, and Old Purulia Road among others witnessed waterlogging. To contain any outbreak of diseases, the officials said they have sprayed anti-larval chemicals and sprinkled bleaching powders in several areas. While the civil surgeon is not available to comment on the preventions taken, a district health official said, “Health check-up camps will be organized in localities on a need basis to ensure that there is no disease outbreak.” Meanwhile, both Kharkhai and Surbernarekha rivers are swelling because of the rain in the past 24 hours coupled with the opening of seven floodgates by Chandil Dam, five gates by Galudih barrage and one by Bankbil Dam at Mayurnhanj in Odisha. While Subernarekha has a water level of 119 m, Kharkhai recorded 128 m. Both levels are one metre below the danger mark. Subodh Jha, a Bagbera resident said, “Kharkhai river water entered into over a dozen houses in Baroda Ghat (Bagbera) and more houses will be inundated if the water level increases further.” Currently, there are no signs of any let-up in the downpour. The IMD, Ranchi centre, said more rain will follow in the Kolhan region for the next few days. S D Koltal, director of the centre, said, “A new low-pressure system is developing over the Bay of Bengal and it will bring more rain in Jharkhand from August 24.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/waterlogged-steel-city-stares-at-surge-in-cases-of-vector-diseases/articleshow/77697485.cms||B Sridhar
August 23, 2020||Ranchi||Covid patient hangs himself at Rims, no one notices until dawn||Ranchi: A coronavirus patient committed suicide at the integrated Covid-19 ward of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims ) in the early hours of Saturday morning, raising fresh concerns about management and security lapses at the state's largest hospital. Bariatu inspector Birendra Mehta said:a case of unnatural death has been registered. The 32-year-old resident of Tandwa village in Garhwa district hanged himself from the staircase leading to the first floor of the building between 2am to 4am, but no one notice his body until the break of dawn. Earlier, Covid patients admitted in ICU have died after falling in the bathroom without anyone noticing for hours. The hospital management said the patient was admitted to Rims on August 4 after he was diagnosed with coronavirus. “He had a history of kidney failure and was admitted to and was undergoing dialysis every three or four days. He was asymptomatic for two weeks, but he was depressed after his third test also returned a positive result,” Dr P K Bhattacharya, head of critical care, said. Rims medical superintendent Dr Vivek Kashyap said, “Security personnel informed us about the incident around 4:30am by and we called the police immediately. The autopsy of the body has been done and investigation will be carried out by police." However, the family members of the deceased have alleged negligence on the part of hospital. “A patient escapes from his ward and commits suicide and his body remains hanging with no one noticing. This can only happen if the on-duty staff have gone to sleep leaving the patients on their own or they do not look after the patients,” said Manoj Kumar Ram, a family member of the deceased. Hospital sources who have access to the CCTV footage said the patient escaped his ground floor ward around 2.30am and walked upto first floor stairs and prepared a noose and checked it several times before hanging himself. “If the security or the nursing staff was aware and the back gate of the ward was closed, this would have been avoided,” said a hospital insider. TOI found that the back gate used by the deceased to escape was opened by nursing staff for easy access to main building and storeroom. “The gates used to be locked earlier, but it was opened on the request of the nursing staff as they had complained that they have to take a detour to visit the store at night,” a hospital source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/covid-patient-hangs-himself-at-rims-no-one-notices-until-dawn/articleshow/77697544.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 23, 2020||Ranchi||Shibu, wife in home isolation with Covid, third test for CM||Ranchi: Three-time chief minister and JMM founder and president JMM Shibu Soren tested positive for Covid-19 along with his wife Roopi and with seven others at his residence late on Friday night. The 76-year-old leader, who was recently elected to the Rajya Sabha, lives in his government bungalow at Morhabadi with wife, while son CM Hemant stays at a separate accomodation at Kanke Road. In a post on social media on Saturnday morning, Hemant said his parents are being treated in home isolation and prayed for their quick recovery. “The test reports of covid-19 samples of my parents have returned positive. They have been put up in home isolation and are undergoing treatment. With best wishes and prayers of his well-wishers across the country and Jharkhand, they will be back among us soon,”tweeted Hemant. Shibu developed mild symptoms of Covid 19 two days ago and decided to get tested along with his wife. “Guruji has mild fever but is stable and doing well. Roopi continues to be asymptomatic and they are responding well to treatment,” said an insider. As the veteran politician also suffers from a few age-related comorbidities, doctors are taking extra precautions and he is being administered anti-viral drugs. “Guruji has chronic kidney diseases, has had a bypass surgery and has been getting treatment for prostrate,” said a source from Guruji’s residence. Guruji had also got himself tested on August 10 after 11 staff members from his residence had tested positive but his report was negative then. Meanwhile, Hemant, who has tested negative for Covid-19 in since July 11, continues to be in home quarantine ever since state health minister Banna Gupta tested positive for the on August 11. He is expected to submit his samples again on August 24. Hemant was tested on July 11 after his cabinet colleague and water and sanitation minister Mithilesh Thakur JMM legislator Mathura Prasad Mahato had tested positive. The need for a second test arose for Chief Minister and his family members after driver of his wife Kalpana Soren, and another staff at the CM’s residence were found to be infected with Covid-19 on July 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/shibu-wife-in-home-isolation-with-covid-third-test-for-cm/articleshow/77697531.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 23, 2020||Business||China on mind, PM Modi seeks Indian toy story||NEW DELHI: Barely days before the BIS standard kicks in for all toys including imported ones, PM Modi on Saturday held a meeting with senior ministers and officials to discuss ways to boost manufacturing and global imprint of Indian toys. This is being seen as yet another bid to discourage imports from China as India is one of the largest importers of Chinese toys. Nearly 70% of imported toys are from China. The total value of imported toys was around Rs 4,000 crore in 2019-20, which is four fold more than what India exports. "India is home to several toy clusters and thousands of artisans who produce indigenous toys which not only have cultural connect but also help in building life-skills and psychomotor skills among children at an early age," Modi said and added, "such clusters should be promoted through innovative and creative methods." Laying emphasis on the fast growing digital gaming arena, PM said India should tap the huge potential in this area and lead the international digital gaming sector by developing games that are inspired from Indian culture and folk tales. The PM has also suggested that youth should be engaged to come up with innovative designs and toys that can instill a sense of pride towards national goals and achievements. Sources said the government is looking at options such as holding national toy festivals and a network of toy labs in its bids to promote domestic toys. Watch PM Modi seeks Indian toys, discourages imports from China||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/china-on-mind-pm-modi-seeks-indian-toy-story/articleshow/77699003.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Delhi||'IS operative' held with IEDs in central Delhi||NEW DELHI/LUCKNOW: The special cell of Delhi Police has arrested an alleged IS operative, Abdul Yusuf Khan alias Mustaqeem Khan (36), and claimed to have seized two improvised explosive devices packed in a pressure cooker from him. According to the police, Khan was in touch with a few online entities who are allegedly linked to IS-Khorasan Province (ISKP) through chat platforms. He was arrested near Buddha Jayanti Park while he was going towards Karol Bagh on a bike after a brief exchange of fire in the early hours of Saturday. The IEDs were later defused at Buddha Jayanti Park in a controlled environment by the bomb disposal squad of NSG. Khan is a resident of Beshahi village in UP's Balrampur district and runs a store selling cosmetics there. ‘Khan wanted to be suicide bomber’The police claimed that he had intended to launch a lone-wolf attack on Independence Day but had failed to do so and was looking for another opportunity. On the basis of an alert sent by the special cell, the Balrampur police has cordoned off the house of Yusuf and sealed his shop and the entire village. A team from the special cell has reached Balrampur. Khan is alleged to have told cops that he wanted to be an “ishtishhadi warrior” or a suicide bomber, but his foreign handlers had instructed him to first execute a lone-wolf attack at a crowded place in Delhi after which he would be given permission to be a fidayee. IS wants to conduct a series of lone-wolf attacks in India in the same way that they had done in Europe. Khan is alleged to have been in touch with ISIS entities on the web for the past five years. Initially, he had come in contact with the IS in-charge of India, Yusuf Al Hindi, through a social media handle and was radicalised and indoctrinated. However, after Al Hindi was killed in a 2017 drone strike in Syria, Khan’s ID was passed on to Al Hindi’s successor, Abu Huzaifa al Bakistani, a Pakistani national who had taught him to make IEDs. During his training, he had learnt to make suicide vests and belts too. Police sources said Khan wanted to go to Khorasan to join the IS. He had made passports for his wife and four children but his plans had to be shelved when Bakistani was killed in a drone strike in Afghanistan last year. His ID was then passed on the present ISKP chief who instructed him to conduct an IED strike in Delhi. Khan had even tested two low-intensity IEDs at a burial ground near his house in Balrampur, police claimed. The Balrampur police has come across a neighbour of Khan by the name of Mustaqeem Khan. Investigations are under way to establish if Khan had used his neighbour’s identity as a cover or if the latter too was involved in the crime. A local resident told reporters that the parents of Khan had gone to lodge a missing report at the Utraula police station on Saturday morning. They claimed that Khan had gone to Lucknow on Friday morning and informed the family on phone. However, since then his number had been switched off and he had gone missing. On Saturday evening, Yusuf was escorted by police to Beshahi village, where teams are scouring his residence for clues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/is-operative-held-with-ieds-in-central-delhi/articleshow/77699010.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
August 23, 2020||World||Trump says without proof that FDA 'deep state' slowing Covid vaccine trials||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump on Saturday accused members of the "deep state" at the Food and Drug Administration, without providing evidence, of working to slow testing of COVID-19 vaccines until after the November presidential election. In a Twitter post, Trump said the deep state "or whoever" at the FDA was making it very difficult for drug companies to enroll people in clinical trials to test vaccines and therapies for the novel coronavirus. The comment came after Reuters exclusively reported on Thursday that a top FDA official said he would resign if the Trump administration approved a vaccine before it was shown to be safe and effective. "Obviously, they are hoping to delay the answer until after November 3rd. Must focus on speed, and saving lives!" Trump wrote, tagging FDA Commissioner Stephen Hahn in the tweet. The deep state, or whoever, over at the FDA is making it very difficult for drug companies to get people in order t… https://t.co/3RLBgVjFjG— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 1598096979000Trump often uses Twitter to criticize federal agencies, sometimes accusing them of being controlled by the "deep state" in an apparent reference to long-serving staff who, in Trump's eyes, are determined to undermine his agenda. His tweet increases the pressure on the FDA after Peter Marks, director of its Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, last week said on a conference call with government officials, pharmaceutical executives and academics that he would resign if the agency rubber-stamped an unproven vaccine. Scientists, public health officials and lawmakers are worried that the Trump administration will push the FDA to approve a vaccine in advance of the vote, even if data from clinical trials do not support its widespread use. Marks, whose division regulates cutting-edge biotech treatments, vaccines and gene therapies, told Reuters he has not faced any political pressure and that the FDA would be guided by science alone. Should that change, he said on Thursday, "I would feel obligated (to resign) because in doing so, I would indicate to the American public that there's something wrong."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-says-without-proof-that-fda-deep-state-slowing-covid-vaccine-trials/articleshow/77699011.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 12 weekly markets to open daily, final call after August 30||NEW DELHI: After Delhi Disaster Management Authority allowed weekly markets on trial basis from August 24 to 30, 12 weekly markets in the capital will open from Monday. The district authorities and the municipal corporations have drawn up plans to ensure social distancing and other Covid-19 precautionary measures so that the weekly markets do not turn into super spreaders. The market functioning will be reviewed after August 30 and a final decision will be taken then on whether to let them open or not. The municipal corporations held a series of meetings on Saturday to plan the trial opening of select weekly markets. A municipal official said that the commissioner of each civic body has asked the deputy commissioner of the zone to select a weekly market for reopening each day. "Each zone is expected to come out with a list of 5-7 markets for functioning between August 24 and 30," the official disclosed. "A nodal officer of superintending officer rank and a licensing officer have been assigned to ensure compliance of regulations in each market." An official added that penal action would be taken against anyone violating the regulations. By Saturday evening, some weekly markets in south Delhi had been identified. SDMC's west zone will allow markets at Shiv Nagar, Tilak Nagar, A-1 Block Janakpuri, Hari Nagar, B-1 Janakpuri, Khyala and Ashok Nagar, respectively, from Monday to Sunday. In the south zone, markets will open in Pushp Vihar, Saket (Monday), Sheikh Sarai Phase-2 (Tuesday), Gautam Nagar(Thursday), Mohammadpur, Sec-1 RK Puram (Friday) and Sector-7 RK Puram (Sunday). In Najafgarh zone, the main Najafgarh market will open on Monday while the Dwarka Mor-Kakrola market will function on Tuesday. In north Delhi, the lists were being finalised. "Nodal officers have been directed to be present in the weekly markets and ensure strict compliance of DDMA directions," a north corporation official said. The standard operating procedure will include a 6-ft distance between vendors and spaces marked for people, buyers wearing masks and total ban on spitting in the open. "Demarcation for social distancing will be done on Sunday. A place to isolate anyone showing flu-like symptoms will also be set up," the official told TOI. The weekly markets will also have markings to indicate where the physical area of the market begins and ends. A civic official said preference will be given to markets organised in relatively open spaces to allow for proper social distancing. Arun Kumar Mishra, district magistrate (East), disclosed that police and civil defence volunteers would be deployed in the weekly markets. "Since the weekly markets are vulnerable places in regard to Covid infection, there will be precautions and the areas where the stalls are usually set up will be sanitised before business begins," Mishra said. Watch Delhi: 12 weekly markets to open daily in national capital, final call after August 30||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-12-weekly-markets-to-open-daily-final-call-after-august-30/articleshow/77699014.cms||Paras Singh
August 23, 2020||India||Ex-CJI Ranjan Gogoi may be BJP’s Assam CM candidate: Tarun Gogoi||GUWAHATI: Former Assam chief minister and veteran Congress leader Tarun Gogoi on Saturday said former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi might well be the chief ministerial candidate for the BJP in Assam in next year’s assembly polls. “I have heard from my sources that Ranjan Gogoi’s name is there in the list of the BJP’s candidates for the chief minister’s post. I suspect he might be projected for the next possible chief ministerial candidate for Assam,” Gogoi told the media here. He said if the former CJI could go to Rajya Sabha, he might agree to be the next ‘prospective’ CM candidate of the BJP as well. “It is all about politics. BJP was happy with Ranjan Gogoi over Ayodhya Ram Mandir case judgment. Then he gradually entered politics, step by step, by accepting the Rajya Sabha nomination. Why did he not refuse the Rajya Sabha membership? He could have easily been chairman of the human rights commission or other rights organisations. He has political ambition and that’s why he accepted the nomination,” Gogoi said. The former chief minister also announced that he is not going to be the next ‘prospective’ CM candidate of the Congress in Assam. He has been advocating to form a ‘grand alliance’ including Badruddin Ajmal-led All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), Left and regional parties to uproot BJP from power. “I am not going to be the chief minister of the state. I would like to be a guiding force or act as an advisor. There are several qualified candidates in Congress who can take charge,” Gogoi added. He said that only a common candidate from the possible alliance should be projected as the chief ministerial candidate. However, several leaders of Congress, mostly from the Upper Assam belt, are opposing the party’s move to go into an alliance with AIUDF and have expressed their resentment before senior party leaders. They felt that joining hands with AIUDF would have an adverse impact on the Congress’s vote share in the Upper Assam areas, where the tea garden community and indigenous tribes share the maximum votes. Rana Goswami, former MLA of Jorhat, said, “I have spoken with Tarun Gogoi and said that only joining hands with AIUDF may not be suitable. However, if there is a grand alliance then the situation may change.” Watch Ex-CJI Ranjan Gogoi may be BJP’s Assam CM candidate: Tarun Gogoi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ex-cji-ranjan-gogoi-may-be-bjps-assam-cm-candidate-tarun-gogoi/articleshow/77699019.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Delhi||After social media rage, book on 2020 Delhi riots withdrawn||NEW DELHI: Bloomsbury announced on Saturday that it was withdrawing the publication of a book on the 2020 Delhi riots. The move polarised the internet. Some commended the announcement, while others criticised it. The now-withdrawn book, ‘Delhi Riots 2020: The Untold Story’, has been co-authored by Monika Arora, Sonali Chitalkar and Prerna Malhotra. Arora had earlier taken to Twitter to announce a virtual book launch on Saturday, where the guest of honour was BJP’s Kapil Mishra, who had allegedly made controversial remarks before northeast Delhi communal riots earlier this year. “Bloomsbury India had planned to release ‘Delhi Riots 2020: The Untold Story’ in September, a book purportedly giving a factual report on the riots in Delhi in February 2020, based on investigations and interviews conducted by the authors,” it said in a statement. ‘Support free speech but have sense of responsibility’In view of very recent events, including a virtual pre-publication launch organised without our knowledge by the authors, with participation by parties of whom the publishers would not have approved, we have decided to withdraw publication of the book. Bloomsbury India strongly supports freedom of speech but also has a deep sense of responsibility towards society,” the publishing house said. Reacting to the withdrawing of the book, film director Anurag Kashyap tweeted, “Democracy gives space to opinion and contrary opinion... and the way to fight it is dissent and education and it always is and will be a struggle for the truth… but banning and withdrawing is not a solution in a healthy democracy…” Kashyap’s film, Paanch, was banned. Some authors said they would cancel their contracts with the publishing house. “I have not read the book in question & have no idea if it is good or bad. However, this is obviously not a quality control problem but about censorship. I commit to never publish a book with @BloomsburyIndia,” tweeted Sanjeev Sanyal, author and principal economic adviser in the finance ministry. Earlier, Leftword Book publisher Sudhanva Deshpande had written a blog, stating that the “book has blood on its hand”. “Am I calling for the book to be banned? No. I’m asking Bloomsbury, as a leading publisher, to ask itself what editorial protocols permit such a book to be published in such a short time? Are you as publisher not responsible for at least elementary fact checking?” he wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bloomsbury-withdraws-book-on-delhi-riots/articleshow/77699040.cms||Anam Ajmal
August 23, 2020||Nagpur||Govt issues testing algo, not to test walk-ins, asymptomatic persons||NAGPUR: For the first time, the state government has come up with an algorithm for Covid-19 testing for laboratories and testing centres run by government agencies. Walk-ins and asymptomatic traders and travellers will not be eligible for testing which will done just once in other cases. The decision probably means that private laboratories can continue with their services. The state’s public health department on Friday issued letters to all collectors, municipal corporations and GMCHs for immediate implementation of the algorithm prepared in conformity with ICMR guidelines. The government agencies are conducting tests through three methods — Real Time (RT) PCR, Rapid Antigen and True Nat. Earlier, government agencies used to follow ICMR guidelines which had no specifications regarding who should be tested through these three methods. Now, the Rapid Antigen test should be done for those who require immediate treatment. “If the Rapid Antigen test is negative, testing of only symptomatic patients should be done through RT-PCR. Testing of high-risk contacts of positive persons and foreign returnees should be done through RT-PCR,” the government said. According to the algorithm, “Testing of brought dead, delivery cases and emergency operations should be done through True Nat. Such cases can be tested through Rapid Antigen only if True Nat is not available.” The government order further states that, “Patients admitted in mental hospitals and prisoners in jails should be first kept in quarantine for one week. Then, they should be tested using Rapid Antigen.” Regarding the number of tests, the government cleared its stand by stating that “Many districts, a patient is being tested two-three times. This is resulting in extra load on tests and the government’s finances as well. Therefore, no extra testing of patients should be done and ICMR’s protocol is to be complied with. Traders, travellers and those returning to their respective districts from other places should not be tested if they have no symptoms.” The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), zilla parishad etc used to test high-risk contacts of positive patients with Rapid Antigen. The ZP used to test travellers and people returning from other places. The NMC had started 34 testing centres of which 15 are situated at Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs) for testing of symptomatic patients and the remaining for walk-ins and high risk contacts of positive patients. The NMC had also directed shopkeepers and their staff to get tested to contain the spread. “NMC has been following all the guidelines issued by the government. Therefore, there is not much to change at our testing centres,” said municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. Two private laboratories based in the city confirmed that they will continue to test walk-ins, asymptomatic and whoever comes as they did not receive any guidelines by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-issues-testing-algo-not-to-test-walk-ins-asymptomatic-persons/articleshow/77697535.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 23, 2020||Nagpur||‘Demand of parents to reduce 50% school fees is justified’||The ongoing tussle between parents and school managements over fee reduction in Covid times continues to simmer. Leading the charge is a graphic designer Yogesh Pathare, who formed Rashtriya Shikshak Palak Sanghatan (RSPS), an umbrella for parents of a majority of private schools. The father of two school-going children has written numerous letters to the authorities, right from the President of India Ram Nath Kovind to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Chief Justice of India Sharad Bobde to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and officials in the State Education Department. Pathare highlighted the plight of parents, a majority of whom had either lost jobs or faced salary deduction due to the Covid crisis, but didn’t get any response. Now, he plans to take the peaceful protest to the next level in the form of an agitation at Samvidhan Square. He explains to The Times of Indiahow private schools have indulged in profiteering and why they should pass on the benefit to parents during pandemic times. Excerpts ...How did Rashtriya Shikshak Palak Sanghatan start?I am a parent and this concept clicked last year after coming into contact with many aggrieved parents on the same issue of schools hiking fees by 15% every year, which becomes unaffordable at one point of time. Since the government officials failed to give them justice as they’re hand-in-glove with the private schools, I thought of becoming their voice against exploitation by school managements. The RSPS was formed to offer a common platform to all parents in distress. I started working on it by reading laws like the Right to Education (RTE) Act. I’m in touch with parents from about top 100 schools through various What’s App groups and other social media. I have worked overseas in countries like Russia and Dubai, where the education system is totally different. This year, parents are coming out in large numbers to protests.They’re distraught and in grief after either facing job loss or pay cuts. Those in business haven’t earned anything since the last four months due to the lockdown. School managements should at least give this issue a thought on humanitarian grounds. Have they protested all these years, even when the management was illegally increasing the fees by 15%. The crisis made them aware of the fact that schools are literally looting them in some way or the other. Still, not a single parent is saying that they will not pay the fees. They only want 50% reduction. According to the schools, parents are not even paying the first instalment.That’s because they won’t be in a position to oppose the fees once they pay it. It means you’re agreeing with whatever fees the schools are charging. My advice to parents is that they shouldn’t pay the first instalment. However, I’m with the schools regarding parents clearing last year’s fees. Many schools have stopped online classes after parents failed to pay the fees. This is perpetually wrong and unethical. The education department needs to look into this aspect, but no one cares for hapless parents. Schools say they need to pay staff salaries and also need funds for maintenance.They’re lying in the sense that almost all have deducted teachers’ salaries by more than 50%. In some schools, teachers weren’t getting salaries while many have lost their jobs. Importantly, teachers aren’t appointed by parents, so why burden them at the time of this crisis. It’s an internal issue between teachers and management. All these schools earned profits over the years, but never passed the benefits to aggrieved parents. They’re also saving a lot on electricity, water and maintenance charges in the absence of students. As per the rules, schools should hike fees once in three years, but no one follows them. Ideally, they should pass on the benefits to parents. Why don’t parents approach the high court?We need a proper parent-teacher association (PTA) which none of these schools have at present. They have set it up just for namesake and without following norms. As per the Fee Regulation Act, if 25% parents decide not to increase the fees then the schools need to abide by that. I’m trying to make parents aware about this aspect. The problem is that parents are apprehensive regarding their wards being targeted by the schools and therefore, they want to stay away from the judiciary or PTA. A case is already pending in the Bombay High Court related to fees and we’re waiting for the verdict. Parents are also opposing online teaching.A. We’re against it for students till the seventh standard as schools are using this as a ploy to exploit parents. Parents are unnecessarily being burdened as they need to purchase gadgets like laptops or mobile handsets along with Internet service providers. We’ve also demanded that schools reduce 50% syllabus this year for students till the 7th standard. We’re ready if they reopen the schools in October. It will hardly make any difference. Schools say parents shouldn’t have admitted their children if they lack funds.They should not pass such remarks because they take government land at dirt cheap rates under the pretext of a charitable organization to start schools. They’ve commercialized the noble business of education. Ask them to surrender government land and purchase a new one in market rates. When these schools began operations, the fees were very low, but multiplied over the years as neither parents nor the government opposed the move. Now, the fees are out of bounds for them. What’s the way out of this impasse?Only the government or schools or the judiciary have the solution. Parents are in dire straits and can’t pay the fees. Many have already cancelled their admissions from top CBSE schools and admitted their children in government schools, which is an alarming trend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/demand-of-parents-to-reduce-50-school-fees-is-justified/articleshow/77699601.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 23, 2020||Mumbai||‘Demand of parents to reduce 50% school fees is justified’||The ongoing tussle between parents and school managements over fee reduction in Covid times continues to simmer. Leading the charge is a graphic designer Yogesh Pathare, who formed Rashtriya Shikshak Palak Sanghatan (RSPS), an umbrella for parents of a majority of private schools. The father of two school-going children has written numerous letters to the authorities, right from the President of India Ram Nath Kovind to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Chief Justice of India Sharad Bobde to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and officials in the State Education Department. Pathare highlighted the plight of parents, a majority of whom had either lost jobs or faced salary deduction due to the Covid crisis, but didn’t get any response. Now, he plans to take the peaceful protest to the next level in the form of an agitation at Samvidhan Square. He explains to The Times of Indiahow private schools have indulged in profiteering and why they should pass on the benefit to parents during pandemic times. Excerpts ...How did Rashtriya Shikshak Palak Sanghatan start?I am a parent and this concept clicked last year after coming into contact with many aggrieved parents on the same issue of schools hiking fees by 15% every year, which becomes unaffordable at one point of time. Since the government officials failed to give them justice as they’re hand-in-glove with the private schools, I thought of becoming their voice against exploitation by school managements. The RSPS was formed to offer a common platform to all parents in distress. I started working on it by reading laws like the Right to Education (RTE) Act. I’m in touch with parents from about top 100 schools through various What’s App groups and other social media. I have worked overseas in countries like Russia and Dubai, where the education system is totally different. This year, parents are coming out in large numbers to protests.They’re distraught and in grief after either facing job loss or pay cuts. Those in business haven’t earned anything since the last four months due to the lockdown. School managements should at least give this issue a thought on humanitarian grounds. Have they protested all these years, even when the management was illegally increasing the fees by 15%. The crisis made them aware of the fact that schools are literally looting them in some way or the other. Still, not a single parent is saying that they will not pay the fees. They only want 50% reduction. According to the schools, parents are not even paying the first instalment.That’s because they won’t be in a position to oppose the fees once they pay it. It means you’re agreeing with whatever fees the schools are charging. My advice to parents is that they shouldn’t pay the first instalment. However, I’m with the schools regarding parents clearing last year’s fees. Many schools have stopped online classes after parents failed to pay the fees. This is perpetually wrong and unethical. The education department needs to look into this aspect, but no one cares for hapless parents. Schools say they need to pay staff salaries and also need funds for maintenance.They’re lying in the sense that almost all have deducted teachers’ salaries by more than 50%. In some schools, teachers weren’t getting salaries while many have lost their jobs. Importantly, teachers aren’t appointed by parents, so why burden them at the time of this crisis. It’s an internal issue between teachers and management. All these schools earned profits over the years, but never passed the benefits to aggrieved parents. They’re also saving a lot on electricity, water and maintenance charges in the absence of students. As per the rules, schools should hike fees once in three years, but no one follows them. Ideally, they should pass on the benefits to parents. Why don’t parents approach the high court?We need a proper parent-teacher association (PTA) which none of these schools have at present. They have set it up just for namesake and without following norms. As per the Fee Regulation Act, if 25% parents decide not to increase the fees then the schools need to abide by that. I’m trying to make parents aware about this aspect. The problem is that parents are apprehensive regarding their wards being targeted by the schools and therefore, they want to stay away from the judiciary or PTA. A case is already pending in the Bombay High Court related to fees and we’re waiting for the verdict. Parents are also opposing online teaching.A. We’re against it for students till the seventh standard as schools are using this as a ploy to exploit parents. Parents are unnecessarily being burdened as they need to purchase gadgets like laptops or mobile handsets along with Internet service providers. We’ve also demanded that schools reduce 50% syllabus this year for students till the 7th standard. We’re ready if they reopen the schools in October. It will hardly make any difference. Schools say parents shouldn’t have admitted their children if they lack funds.They should not pass such remarks because they take government land at dirt cheap rates under the pretext of a charitable organization to start schools. They’ve commercialized the noble business of education. Ask them to surrender government land and purchase a new one in market rates. When these schools began operations, the fees were very low, but multiplied over the years as neither parents nor the government opposed the move. Now, the fees are out of bounds for them. What’s the way out of this impasse?Only the government or schools or the judiciary have the solution. Parents are in dire straits and can’t pay the fees. Many have already cancelled their admissions from top CBSE schools and admitted their children in government schools, which is an alarming trend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/demand-of-parents-to-reduce-50-school-fees-is-justified/articleshow/77699600.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 23, 2020||Nagpur||Couples postponing planned pregnancies due to Covid fear||Nagpur: While unplanned pregnancies during the Covid-19 times are on rise and baby boom is expected in the months of October/November this year, the planned pregnancies have gone down during the pandemic period.The national trend of couples postponing plans to conceive a baby due to Covid-19 fear has caught up in Nagpur too. Many couples who were planning to have baby in 2020 have decided to wait for another six months or so. Specialist doctors in the city have observed that there has been a significant decline in preconception consultations. “The baby boom is expected because unintended pregnancies are on the rise, but at the same time those who are planning pregnancies have deferred it,” said Dr Vaidehi Marathe, president of Nagpur Obstetrics and Gynaecology Society (NOGS). “Doctors too are advising the same thing, especially to people taking treatment for infertility. We have told them it’s better to postpone the pregnancy for some months, until the whole picture of pandemic becomes clear,” she said. The test tube baby centres and the infertility centres in Nagpur, which cater to patients from entire Central India, had stopped their services for at least three months during the lockdown period. Now too they are taking up very selective cases. “While most couples have decided to go ahead with the planned pregnancies, some 10% of them who read a lot about Covid-19 asked us to put their IVF plans on hold,” said Dr Natchandra Chimote, veteran infertility specialist in country.In what he termed a unique trend, Dr Chimote said many couples who were due for IVF or IUI processes got natural pregnancies during Covid-19 lockdown. “This could be due to lack of stress during initial phases of lockdown,” he said. The picture is completely different in rural areas. “Couples coming from the periphery have hardly put on hold their pregnancies for Covid reason. Government hospitals have got same number of pregnancy cases during lockdown as well as unlock period,” said Dr Sajit Chavan from GMCH Yavatmal. Doctors also agreed that deliveries are going to become a bit costlier in the coming days. “Cost of disposables has increased the total expenses due to use of PPE and other protective gears. But it is not that significant,” said Dr Marathe. Why pregnancy plans put off Covid fear | Pregnancy may lead to compromised immunityHigh risk | Though pregnant women not considered as high risk, people still want to be sure Hospitals | Emergency visits to hospitals difficult during Covid-19 times, prior appointment mustExpenses | Many processes have become costlier due to PPE and other gears||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/couples-postponing-planned-pregnancies-due-to-covid-fear/articleshow/77697550.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 23, 2020||Delhi||Drivecation: When hotel comes to you||NEW DELHI: Yes, there’s a pandemic, but the travel itch has returned. Because we are headed into that part of the year when cerulean skies and snow-capped peaks, sparkling lakes, forest trails and lavish sunsets begin to call. Because five months of home confinement is getting to us. Because Insta stories are wallowing in #throwback pity. And because, “hey, do we stop living?” The yearning to break free from work-from-home sums up the travel theme this season – a “drivecation” to break the monotony (“flycation”, for those who can afford it). READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+: Hotels are now coming to your doorstep||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/drivecation-when-hotel-comes-to-you/articleshow/77699062.cms||Amin Ali
August 23, 2020||Delhi||Why rain only hope for Delhi’s water table||NEW DELHI: With rapid urbanisation and concretisation across the city, Delhi is increasingly restricting the recharge of its groundwater reserves. Master Plan of Delhi 2021 estimates that by 2021, around 921 of the capital’s 1,483 square kilometres will be urbanised. With the increasing rate of groundwater extraction to meet the demand-availability gap, the water table has gone down 0.2-2 metres every year. The only solution to arrest this slide is to tap what the capital can of the average 611 mm of annual rainfall. But Delhiites have a lot of ground to cover in this direction. Delhi Jal Board claims that as many as 7,373 rainwater harvesting (RWH) recharge points have been created in the city, with 544 DJB buildings, 1,305 government buildings, 3,675 schools and colleges and 1,869 private buildings installing RWH infrastructure. Private complexes are still lagging and the full potential remains untapped, despite incentives, revealed a DJB official. While DJB claims it has achieved a near completion of installation of RWH systems in all its own buildings, experts feel focusing on often illmaintained and expensive RWH structures cannot lead to a substantial amount of water percolating underground. A recent report prepared by Intach states that not only is there a need to reduce the cost of RWH units for households, but they also need to be made simpler and requirement fewer inspections and less demanding maintenance. “In the absence of monitoring and motivation, the recharge structures are ill-maintained and are mostly found to be non-operational,” the Intach report says. “The design of recharge structures can be simplified, made economical, accompanied by lower maintenance cost. At plot level, there is no need of filter material as fine material is filtered out by the bed soil of recharge pits and there is no need for bore pipe as once the water has gone 2 metres below the soil, it will percolate on its own.” Manu Bhatnagar, principal director (natural heritage), Intach, explained, “The more complex RWH units require gravel and silt to be removed periodically. The simple need is simply to channel the run-off water to a pit and allow it to percolate naturally into the ground.” A report prepared by South Delhi Municipal Corporation showed that between 2012 and 2019, as many as 11,342 building plans with RWH provisions were sanctioned in south Delhi alone. DJB too has more than 15,706 such plots of 100-500 sq m registered in its revenue management system for whom it is mandatory to install RWH systems. Under regulation 50 of Delhi Water and Sewer (Tariff and Metering) Regulations, such plots can be given a rebate of 10% in the water bill if they installed RWH, while those that didn’t faced a penalty 1.5 times the bill amount. In August last year, DJB amended the rules to make it mandatory for all properties 100 sq m and above to have functional RWH systems. Compliance, however, has been much lower than the expectations. The Jal Shakti Abhiyan action taken report and Delhi’s economic survey of 2019 revealed a very low level of compliance, with just 1,559 consumers availing the 10% water bill rebate by installing RWH systems, and 11,958 consumers being penalised for non-compliance. Experts attribute the repeated deadline extensions given to enforce the penalty for the poor show. A DJB official said that the board in its meeting on 12 June has decided again to extend the deadline for levying of the RWH noncompliance penalty till December 31. “Nine rain centres have been opened in each district to encourage owners of property of 100 sq m or more to comply,” the official said. It is estimated that Delhi’s annual RWH potential is 900 billion litres of water, while that for rooftop harvesting is 27 million litres per day. If Delhi wishes to be hydrologically sustainable, rainwater harvesting has to become a part of the agenda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-rain-only-hope-for-delhis-water-table/articleshow/77699060.cms||Paras Singh
August 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Development of vending zones: Chandigarh MC chief seeks report||CHANDIGARH: Municipal commissioner K K Yadav has asked the chief engineer for a detailed status report of the development works at vending zones. The tender was called earlier this year but the work has failed to start because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Permanent and temporary toilets, drinking water, parking lots for both vendors and visitors, iron railing as fence, signs, marked bays, and high-mast lights are some of the facilities being provided by the engineering wing. The financial cost is about Rs 5 crore. Since the money will come from the monthly fee that the vendors pay, the MC doesn't need a separate budget for these development works. Rather, there is no financial hitch. A source in the MC said: “The town vending committee (TVC) looked at the vending-zone plan, after which the municipal commissioner asked the chief engineer for a detailed status report of the works. Since the engineering department is over with the tender process, they must explain the delay.” Chandigarh has 44 vending zones and more than 4,000 vending sites in different sectors. The developmental plan for each site is based on zones classified by size, number of resettled vendors, and their necessity. The plan came up after doing a ground survey, considering objections from the vendors and the general public, and studying the basic requirements. Since the matter was also discussed many times in the monthly house meetings of the MC, the councillors also added their inputs to the plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/development-of-vending-zones-chandigarh-mc-chief-seeks-report/articleshow/77698631.cms||Deepak Yadav
August 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Monsoon look: Pothole pandemic hits Chandigarh bicycle tracks||By Piyush Sarna CHANDIGARH: Monsoon-beaten tracks impede cycling just when it is becoming a big hobby for building immunity against Covid-19.The last few spells of rain have scooped a big section of the bicycle track that leads into sectors 44 A and B. Municipal corporation chief engineer Shailender Singh said: “I am unaware of it but it might be due to the old issue of storm water's logging.” Harkirat of Sector 8, who had an accident on a bicycle track recently in Sector 9, recalls that: "Hitting a huge pothole that appeared in front knocked me off the seat, injured my right leg, and broke my bicycle. My friends tell me this pothole hasn't been filled in years. I'll be either scared of picking up a bicycle again or wearing a helmet every single time." Sector-34 morning cyclist Ajaydeep Singh Baidwan, who picked up the hobby during the unlock, said: “In monsoon, water gathers on the bicycle tracks. Also, despite bicycle tracks on both sides of the road, people continue to ride on the wrong side. It is dangerous.” Even though gymnasiums have reopened, people are still afraid to get back to indoor training, so cycling keeps them in shape for the while. This city has a bicycle track length of 110 kilometres, a lot of which is battered and dangerous for the riders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/monsoon-look-pothole-pandemic-hits-chandigarh-bicycle-tracks/articleshow/77698591.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kolkata||Rain, river fury hit Howrah, Bankura||Howrah/Bankura/Behrampore: Heavy rainfall for 72 hours has caused inundation and severe damage to river embankments in Howrah, Bankura and Murshidabad. In Bankura alone, around 15 villages — including Jambani and Aralbanshi — are now marooned, as a temporary bridge over river Darakeshwar at Minapur went underwater following torrential rain on Saturday morning. Hundreds of villagers have been forced to move 5km away from the area. “The bridge was constructed in 2011. The morning downpour snapped our lifeline,” said local resident Haradhan Garai. The Bankura district administration has warned people against the rising water level of Gandheswari as well. District magistrate S Arun Prasad said: “The situation is being closely monitored.” Erosion of embankments at Kulidiar Char in Farakka and Dhanghora at Samserganj in Murshidabad has set off alarm bells too. The state irrigation department has begun repairs at Dhanghora, from where 300 families were shifted because their homes were flooded. In Howrah, the rising waters of the Rupnarayan and Mundeswari rivers have submerged 700 acres of land in Bhatora and Ghoraberia-Chi-ntan gram panchayat. These areas are on an island, which is home to 60,000-odd people. Embankments lie eroded. Local panchayat functionaries Ashok Gayen and Palash Majhi said vast swathes of agricultural land in these areas are underwater.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rain-river-fury-hit-howrah-bankura/articleshow/77698731.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal rebuts guv charge on Covid-19 procurement||Kolkata: The Bengal government on Saturday rebutted governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s charges on alleged irregularities over Covid procurement. In a statement on Twitter, the state home department said: “Saving lives in unprecedented times has been a top priority and urgency of decisions in such war-like moments automatically precedes the elaborateness of peacetime niceties.” “Even when the entire state is reeling under the twin blows of Covid-19 and Amphan, and struggling its best to survive the crisis, procedures and protocols that ensure transparency and probity are not compromised by the state government machinery,” it said, adding “raising some procedural issues without validity demoralizes public officials”. Dhankhar, among other things, had questioned formation of a three-member probe committee and alleged that post-facto approvals were being given for procured items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-rebuts-guv-charge-on-covid-19-procurement/articleshow/77698719.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kolkata||2 Bengal teachers picked for coveted national award||Durgapur/Alipurduar: Two teachers from Bengal — one a champion of innovatio-ns who taught his students to upcycle waste and another who shone the light of education on a primitive tribe — will receive the national aw-ard from President Ram Nath Kovind on September 5. Kalimul Haque is the headmaster of Nepalipara Hindi School in Durgapur, West Burdwan, while Misha Ghosal is the headmistress of Dhanapati Toto Memorial High School in Alipurduar’s Totopara. Had it not been for Haque, the nondescript Durgapur school wouldn’t boast the enviable infrastructure it has today. The school has a centralised audio system, a rooftop kitchen garden, hydroponics, a rainwater harvesting system, a vermicompost set-up, solid and liquid waste management, a well-maintained dining hall, a computer lab with 30 machines, a 500-seat auditorium and an art gallery. At Haque’s initiative, key resource persons train teachers too. Around 40% funds for these projects were raised through crowdfunding, with contributions from businessmen and businesswomen, guardians, teachers and the school managing committee. The school, with 3,625 students, has won several district-level awards. “I feel really proud that my name figures on the list of winners for this year’s National Awards for Teachers. But, the key to the school’s success is team work. I will dedicate this award to those who helped the school, teachers, students and management committee members,” a modest Haque told TOI. In Alipurduar, Ghosal joined the Toto school in 2009. Back then, only one student from the primitive tribe was able to cross the Madhyamik hurdle. This year, the success rate of students from the community is over 80%. She almost single-handedly turned around things for the school, which remains marooned every monsoon along with the entire Totopara settlement. “My responsibilities as a teacher has increased after being named for this award,” she said. Totopara is a small hamlet in Madarihat block along the India-Bhutan border. One needs to cross seven rivers to reach the village, the most prominent being the Howrikhola. During monsoons, flash floods are common in these rivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-bengal-teachers-picked-for-coveted-national-award/articleshow/77698718.cms||Mohammad Asif
August 23, 2020||Kolkata||Dilip on TMC’s Khanakul turf with aid for slain BJP worker’s kin||Hooghly/Howrah: The BJP witnessed support in Hooghly’s Khanakul — the Muslim-dominated turf of Trinamool Congress MLA Iqbal Ahmed — when state party president Dilip Ghosh reached out to the bereaved kin of BJP worker Sudarshan Pramanik who was killed on August 15. People thronged the streets of Khanakul as Ghosh, along with BJP MP Jyotirmoy Singh Mahato and the party’s Yuva Morcha president Soumitra Khan, paid a visit to Pramanik’s home. Ghosh handed over a cheque of Rs 5 lakh to the party worker’s widow and promised to support her children’s education. “Sudarshan was getting threats from the ruling Trinamool for quite some time. As you are all aware, the police did not take any action. Also, there are no chargesheets as a follow-up to a murder investigation. Our party workers are being framed while ruling party goons are going scot-free,” Ghosh said. Trinamool’s Hooghly president Dilip Yadav, on the other hand, dubbed the murder “an outcome of fierce factionalism” within the district BJP. “Dilipbabu came here to absolve himself of the sin,” he said. In Howrah, meanwhile, state BJP leaders Raju Banerjee and Sayantan Basu held a demonstration to protest false cases against local BJP workers. Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dilip-on-tmcs-khanakul-turf-with-aid-for-slain-bjp-workers-kin/articleshow/77698669.cms||Falguni Banerjee
August 23, 2020||Kolkata||Activist writes to CM for shifting venue of Pous Mela||Santiniketan: Green activist Subhas Datta has written to chief minister Mamata Banerjee to shift the Pous Mela to an alternative venue in Santiniketan like had happened for the Kolkata Book Fair. Datta floated the proposal taking note of Visva-Bharati’s decision to not hold the annual Pous Mela this year. “The Visva-Bharati is well within its rights to not hold such fairs on the university campus. In fact, the trust deed of Tagore’s father Maharshi Debendranath Tagore talks about Pous Utsav. The Utsav took a commercial turn with the passage of time and became popularly known as Pous Mela in 1971,” he said. At the same time, the NGT nominee didn’t lose sight of the importance of Pous Mela and Basanta Utsav that draw crowds from across the country. “The university has decided against holding the fair because of its inability to organize them in compliance with environmental norms. I would request you to hold the traditional utsavs under the state government’s supervision at an alternative site in Bolpur-Santiniketan,” Datta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/activist-writes-to-cm-for-shifting-venue-of-pous-mela/articleshow/77698770.cms||Someswar Boral
August 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Schools seek legal aid to make admission undertakings tougher||KOLKATA: Several reputable private schools in the city are in the process of seeking legal advice on including in their existing “admission affidavits” clauses that would pre-empt parents’ involvement in agitations and spell out permissible school-related online activities. There is growing resentment among these schools about parents taking part in protests and bringing disrepute to their institution by “badmouthing” them on social media. The situation has particularly aggravated following the recent row over school fees. The principal of a school, which has several branches in Bengal, admitted that the authorities had started consultation with the legal team to introduce stipulations to make parents abide by rules that the school sets and amends from time to time. “Agitating against the school, tarnishing the brand name of the institution that has been serving in the state for decades will not be tolerated. We are planning to introduce the clause for the 2021-22 session,” he said. Some schools that already take undertakings from parents at the time of admission, are now planning to make changes in the clauses considering the new-age disruptions. “We have to discuss in the managing committee meeting if we can introduce new guidelines considering the need of the hour so that we can protect the value of the school and the reputation that we have built over the past 60 years,” said Don Bosco, Park Circus principal Fr Bikash Mondal. Another popular CISCE school near Moulali, which does not seek an undertaking, is planning to introduce one now. “Looking at the current trend, where imparting education is becoming increasingly difficult due to the continuous pressure from parents, unjustified protests and demands and political interference, we are planning to introduce an undertaking to be signed by parents at the time of new admissions from the next academic year. It will have clauses like no-demonstration or protests in groups. Parents can’t instigate others by forming groups on Whatsapp and other social media platforms. They should give us in writing that they will not seek political interference during any interaction or issues with the school that can be resolved in a civilised manner. Consultations are on with legal experts,” the principal said. St. Augustine’s Day School, Kolkata, has been asking parents to give such an undertaking for a few years now. Principal Richard Gasper said, “We have asked parents to declare that their children will not abuse parents of other students; students can’t bring outsiders; in case of attempted suicide outside the campus, the school can’t be held; consumption of alcohol and nicotine on the campus is strictly prohibited; damaging school property, tarnishing the name of the school on social media and spreading rumours are also banned.” The La Martiniere Schools provide an affidavit at the time of admission that parents need to execute in the presence of a first-class judicial magistrate. The fifth clause in the affidavit says parents will have to abide by all fees, charges and payments required to be paid both prevailing and/or to be enforced or implemented or issued from time to time. “We have this format for the past few years that parents have to sign during admissions,” said Supriyo Dhar, secretary of the La Martiniere Schools. Nabarun De, the principal of Central Modern School in Baranagar, however, pointed out that there is no legal tenability of such an undertaking. “We are seeking the advice of cyber cell experts and lawyers to understand what can be the possible format of an affidavit regarding maligning the school on social media platforms and refusal to abide by the school rules,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-seek-legal-aid-to-make-admission-undertakings-tougher/articleshow/77698793.cms||Somdatta Basu
August 23, 2020||Kolkata||Trinamool, I-Pac join hands to induct 3L youths today||Kolkata: In a first, Trinamool Congress and Prasant Kishor-led I-Pac will collaborate to induct over 3 lakh Bengal youths — all in the age group of 18-35 — in the party fold. I-Pac has been spearheading an online campaign — Youth in Politics (YIP) — in which 40% of the 10-lakh odd applicants were from Bengal. Of them, 80% expressed interest in joining the ruling Trinamool. According to sources, YIP aims to bridge the gap between the average electorate age of 28 in the country and the average age of public representatives, which is 53. “West Bengal alone recorded around 4 lakh registrations, out of which many expressed an interest in starting their journey in electoral politics with Trinamool Congress,” a source said. “The age group that has expressed maximum interest is 26-29 years. About 30% of the applicants were in this group,” a source said. On Sunday, Trinamool leaders across 14 districts, including Kolkata, will interact with these applicants to guide them into active politics. MP Mahua Moitra in Nadia, minister Laxmi Ratan Shukla in Howrah, KMC Board of Administrators member Debashish Kumar in Kolkata, MP Mausam Noor in Malda and state food minister Jyotipriyo Mullick in North 24 Parganas will be part of this ‘Interaction and Joining’ event. Senior party MP Sisir Adhikari will be attending the programme in East Midnapore. “The aim of this initiative is to motivate, handhold and provide mentorship to those who aspire to join politics and work for West Bengal. I-Pac will act as a facilitator in this endeavour, helping these individuals kick-start their journey in politics,” an I-Pac statement said. A senior leader said the party had already started recruiting apolitical persons. In August, Trinamool inducted Chandrasekhar Kundu, who has been at the forefront of the ‘Save Food’ movement that stopped the wastage of over 3 lakh plates of food. Folk singers Kartik Das Baul and Lakhan Das Baul, laparoscopy surgeon and gynaecologist Badal Asru Ghata and Raniganj Chambers of Commerce president Sandeep Bh-alotia have also joined TMC. A Trinamool leader said the trend to return to the party, even among senior political leaders and ground-level workers, had been palpable. It began with brothers Biplab and Prasanta Mitra, who returned a year after going to BJP. Biplab is a former TMC MLA from Harirampur and former South Dinajpur district president; Prasanta is the former chairman of Gangarampur municipality. Former state minister Humayun Kabir and former BJP spokesperson Krishanu Mitra, too, joined Trinamool. Even at the grassroots, more than 450 families in Purulia’s Baghmundi, 350 families in Hooghly, 500 workers in Coochbehar, 270 workers in Howrah South and 1,500 in South 24 Parganas joined Trinamool in the past week alone, the leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trinamool-i-pac-join-hands-to-induct-3l-youths-today/articleshow/77698641.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Caught on tape: Animal murder on Mohali street||By Piyush Sarna MOHALI: In a horrifying incident captured on CCTV, a car crushed a stray dog in Phase 3B1 around 4pm on Thursday. The runaway driver was booked. Mowgli Aid volunteers Aman Sethi and Sahib Kunwar Singh mention in their complaint that this beastly driver ran the male canine over repeatedly, with the clear intent of causing maximum injury. The driver did not even stop to look at the poor animal, which died in 20 minutes. Sethi and Kunwar gave a written complaint to the Mataur station house officer (SHO). They sourced the CCTV footage from a nearby house and it has gone viral on social media. Sethi told TOI: “It was a narrow lane and the driver should have been extra careful. The act was inhuman.” Sub-inspector Amandeep Singh, investigating officer of the case, said: “The car's Haryana registration number will help us trace the culprit, whom we have booked under sections 279 (rash driving), 290 (punishment for public nuisance), and 429 (killing of animal) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 11 (cruel treatment of an animal) of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act of 1960. Karanveer, another volunteer from Mowgli Aid, said: “There is no local SPCA (Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals) or animal rescue service in Mohali. Volunteers do everything to save the animals. In Thursday's matter, we were lucky to get the footage as evidence but most of the time, that's not the case. I hope the local authorities make an example of that car driver.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/caught-on-tape-animal-murder-on-mohali-street/articleshow/77698655.cms||---
August 23, 2020||India||‘IS operative’ held with IEDs in central Delhi||NEW DELHI/LUCKNOW: The special cell of Delhi Police has arrested an alleged IS operative, Abdul Yusuf Khan alias Mustaqeem Khan (36), and claimed to have seized two improvised explosive devices packed in a pressure cooker from him. According to the police, Khan was in touch with a few online entities who are allegedly linked to IS-Khorasan Province (ISKP) through chat platforms. He was arrested near Buddha Jayanti Park while he was going towards Karol Bagh on a bike after a brief exchange of fire in the early hours of Saturday. The IEDs were later defused at Buddha Jayanti Park in a controlled environment by the bomb disposal squad of NSG. Khan is a resident of Beshahi village in UP’s Balrampur district and runs a store selling cosmetics there. The police claimed that he had intended to launch a lone-wolf attack on Independence Day but had failed to do so and was looking for another opportunity. On the basis of an alert sent by the special cell, the Balrampur police has cordoned off the house of Yusuf and sealed his shop and the entire village. A team from the special cell has reached Balrampur. Khan is alleged to have told cops that he wanted to be an “ishtishhadi warrior” or a suicide bomber, but his foreign handlers had instructed him to first execute a lone-wolf attack at a crowded place in Delhi after which he would be given permission to be a fidayee. IS wants to conduct a series of lone-wolf attacks in India in the same way that they had done in Europe. Khan is alleged to have been in touch with ISIS entities on the web for the past five years. Initially, he had come in contact with the IS in-charge of India, Yusuf Al Hindi, through a social media handle and was radicalised and indoctrinated. However, after Al Hindi was killed in a 2017 drone strike in Syria, Khan’s ID was passed on to Al Hindi’s successor, Abu Huzaifa al Bakistani, a Pakistani national who had taught him to make IEDs. During his training, he had learnt to make suicide vests and belts too. Police sources said Khan wanted to go to Khorasan to join the IS. He had made passports for his wife and four children but his plans had to be shelved when Bakistani was killed in a drone strike in Afghanistan last year. His ID was then passed on the present ISKP chief who instructed him to conduct an IED strike in Delhi. Khan had even tested two low-intensity IEDs at a burial ground near his house in Balrampur, police claimed. The Balrampur police has come across a neighbour of Khan by the name of Mustaqeem Khan. Investigations are under way to establish if Khan had used his neighbour’s identity as a cover or if the latter too was involved in the crime. A local resident told reporters that the parents of Khan had gone to lodge a missing report at the Utraula police station on Saturday morning. They claimed that Khan had gone to Lucknow on Friday morning and informed the family on phone. However, since then his number had been switched off and he had gone missing. On Saturday evening, Yusuf was escorted by police to Beshahi village, where teams are scouring his residence for clues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/is-operative-held-with-ieds-in-central-delhi/articleshow/77699102.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
August 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Covid kinder to pregnant women, says study||AHMEDABAD: Compared to swine flu (H1N1) that claimed high mortality among pregnant women, the Covid-19 pandemic has proved to be kinder to moms-to-be. A study carried out by a team of gynaecologists at AMC-run SVP Hospital attached with NHL Municipal Medical College found that none of the 125 Covid-19 positive expectant mothers who were admitted died of the virus illness. The 125 pregnant women were studied to understand the impact of Covid-19 infection. The period of study witnessed 94 live births, two deaths after delivery and three abortions. In 23 women, the pregnancy was continued. The live births included two twins. All were tested for Covid-19 infection and only 16 were found to be positive. No maternal death was recorded, according to the paper published in International Journal Of Reproduction, Contraception, Obstetrics and Gynecology. The team of researchers included Dr Parul Shah, Dr Sapana Shah, Dr Sushma Shah, Dr Pushpa Yadav, Dr Babulal Patel and Dr Tanmay Chudasama from Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, NHLMC. The study reported that three-fourth pregnant women were in the age group of 21 to 30 years. In 31% of the cases, women had contact history with a positive person. Cough and fever were the most reported symptoms. 'Out of total, 38% women were asymptomatic,’ mentioned the paper. About 60% of the women were in their third trimester. In 16 cases, pregnancy-related complications were reported but were not related to Covid-19 infection and were managed well with conventional treatment plans, said researchers. Thirty were given corticosteroids and 19 were administered hydroxychloroquine. Only three women needed ICU admission. ‘Lung patches found in 19 of the patients studied’Talking about the impact of Covid-19, researchers mentioned that elevated levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) was recorded in 64% of patients. In 19 of the patients, lung patches were found in CT scan and SGPT levels were found shooting up in 36% of patients. ‘Currently, there is no evidence that pregnant women are at greater risk to succumb to COVID-19 infection and experience severe pneumonia. This preliminary study however does not rule out the possibility of vertical transmission of SARSCoV-2 when it manifests towards the end of pregnancy,’ mentioned the findings of the study, adding that no increased risk of spontaneous abortion or preterm delivery was found among the positive patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-covid-kinder-to-pregnant-women-says-study/articleshow/77699114.cms||Parth Shastri
August 23, 2020||India||Tablighi Jamaat members ‘chosen to be made scapegoats’: HC||AURANGABAD: Stating that Tablighi Jamaat members were “chosen to be made scapegoats”, the Aurangabad bench of Bombay High Court on Friday quashed three FIRs registered in March against 35 Jamaatis — 29 foreign nationals and six Indians — in the backdrop of allegations that Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz attendees were responsible for the spread of coronavirus. Police had booked them for entering Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra without informing the local administration after taking part in a religious congregation at the Markaz in mid-March. A division bench of Justices T V Nalawade and M G Sewlikar said in a 58-page judgment authored by the former: “There was virtual persecution against these foreigners. A political government tries to find the scapegoat when there is pandemic or calamity and the circumstances show there is probability that these foreigners were chosen to make them scapegoats.” Police as well as the government came in for severe reprimand from the bench. “The record shows there was non-application of mind by police and that is why even when no record was available to make out prima facie case, chargesheets are filed by police,” it said. “The government cannot give different treatment to citizens of different religions of different countries,” it said, adding: “For the limited purpose, this court is holding that the police action is based on such instructions probably of the executive and apparently there is discrimination as mentioned above.” Justice Sewlikar, who read out the order, however, said he will pass a separate judgment. “I had the privilege to read the judgment of brother Justice Nalawade. I agree with the operative part, but not with some reasoning. My judgment with reasons will follow.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tablighi-jamaat-members-chosen-to-be-made-scapegoats-hc/articleshow/77699119.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
August 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Truth on hold as anaesthetists busy in Covid duty||AHMEDABAD: Truth be told. For the the past five months, the Directorate of Forensic Sciences (DFS) at Gandhinagar, the only centre in India to carry out narco analysis where suspects are questioned to spill out the truth by forensic experts in a medicine-induced torpor, has not carried out a single narco-test. The big reason is the lack of availability of anaesthetists, whose presence is mandatory for the tests, as they are busy saving lives in ICUs following the Covid outbreak. Annually, the premier forensic sciences unit carries out about 60 to 65 such tests on behalf of courts and central or state police investigation agencies. Narco analysis at DFS has helped investigators get crucial details in highprofile cases like Aarushi Talwar murder case, Nithari killings and 2008 serial bomb blasts. In 2020, DFS has carried out only 10 tests, all before the first case of Covid was recorded in the state on March 19. Top sources at the DFS told TOI while travel restrictions due to Covid-19 pandemic prevented the investigating agencies from coming to Gujarat capital, non- availability of anaesthetists is a major issue. “Doctors who consulted with us for the narco analysis test are now involved in Covid-19 care and cannot be spared by hospitals,” said a senior official. Officials said the presence of an independent doctor is crucial in narco-test to constantly check vitals of the person under investigation and ensure the person is not under duress. “A letter seeking help was written to the state health department. We recently got a response that we can approach two anaesthetists from a semi-government hospital in the future," said the official. He added that he is hopeful that narco-testing will resume shortly. Sources close to the development said that accused in at least three high profile cases from north India are scheduled for the narco analysis once the procedure gets resumed at DFS. A couple of requests have also been received from Gujarat, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-truth-on-hold-as-anaesthetists-busy-in-covid-duty/articleshow/77699116.cms||Parth Shastri
August 23, 2020||Business||Arindam Chaudhuri of IIPM held in pre-GST case||NEW DELHI: Arindam Chaudhuri, director of Indian Institute of Planning and Management (IIPM) and another director of his company have been arrested by the CGST South Delhi Commissionerate for wrongfully claiming cenvat of service tax credit in the pre-GST regime, reports Surojit Gupta. Sources said the once high-profile Chaudhuri and his colleague were arrested at 4 pm on Friday. A local court sent them to 14 days custody. The duo has been detained in the case, which involves an amount of more than Rs 22.5 crore. They were produced before duty magistrate Jyoti Maheshwari in Patiala House Court. Probe is on about properties held by Chaudhuri and his company in Delhi and other cities in the country as well as overseas. Until a few years ago Chaudhuri was a regular on television channels. Sources said Chaudhuri owns 90% of the closely held company while the rest is held by his wife. In 2018, an indirect tax tribunal upheld the entire service tax demand against IIPM saying there was no scope to exclude “academic courses” conducted by the institute from the levy of the tax demand. Sources said the probes would also include the alleged service tax evasion angle. Referring to the order of the tribunal, officials had said the total tax demand including penalty and interest could be over Rs 200 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/arindam-chaudhuri-of-iipm-held-in-pre-gst-case/articleshow/77699162.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Indore||Rain breaks 39-year record, Indore goes neck deep under||INDORE: Less than 48 hours after the high of a fourth Swachh win, Indore was wallowing in waist-deep water as monsoon poured over 10.3 inches of rainfall in just 24 hours, breaking a 39-year record. At least three persons died in rain-related accidents in Indore. A girl and a man were electrocuted in separate incidents caused by wet power lines and another fell to his death from a vehicle after hitting a submerged pothole. Indore received 263.4mm rain on Saturday, breaking the August 1981 record of 212.6mm, the met department said. Boats plied on Indore’s streets, rescuing people from flooded homes. Water rose to 7-10 feet in Kushwaha Nagar in Banganga, Sikandarab Colony, Gauri Nagar near Pardeshipura and Tarana of Sanwer tehsil – unheard of in years. State disaster relief force (SDRF) rescued over 300 people as floodwater forced them to perch on rooftops. “I never imagined we would be flooded out of our house,” said Sushil Kumawat, a tailor of Banganga area. Nearly 10,000 people have been affected by heavy rain in the district, 2,500 of whom had to be rescued and evacuated to safer places, Indore collector Manish Singh told reporters. Officials, SDRF teams in rescue opsWater level in Upper lake, the primary source of drinking water rose appreciably by about three feet forcing the opening of the 10 sluice gates of Bhadbhada to discharge surplus water. Spillway of Kaliasot dam too was opened after a sudden rise in water level in the dam. Senior district officials, municipal staff and SDRF teams helped in the relief operations. Water gushed into the water stream leading to sudden increase in water levels at Kaliasot dam. District administration in coordination with irrigation department took a call to open all 13-gates of the reservoir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/rain-breaks-39-year-record-indore-goes-neck-deep-under/articleshow/77699176.cms||---
August 23, 2020||India||Toll hike likely to fund medical care of crash victims||NEW DELHI: The toll charges on national highways may increase marginally as the government is looking at an option to get adequate funds from this user charge to be used for providing free medical care to road accident victims hit by uninsured vehicles and victims of hit and run cases. The government would require about Rs 2,000 crore annually for this purpose, sources said. TOI has learnt that the National Health Authority, which is being roped in for implementation of this free medical treatment for accident victims, is working on the total fund that would be required for this purpose. Sources said the finance ministry has told the road transport ministry that raising the fund for this purpose through toll charges is the most viable option. General Insurance Corporation will pay for expenses incurred on victims due to accidents involving insured vehicles and in ‘hit and run’ cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/toll-hike-likely-to-fund-medical-care-of-crash-victims/articleshow/77699182.cms||Dipak K Dash
August 23, 2020||Bhopal||Rain halts flight operations at Bhopal airport||BHOPAL: Heavy rain that lashed the state capital on Friday night, continued on Saturday inundating low-lying areas and flooding the main roads and residential colonies. Met officials said about 210 mm rain was recorded in the last 24 hours till 8.30 am on Saturday making it one of the heaviest spell in August since 2006. This was the second heaviest rain spell in August month, the heaviest being 291mm on August 14, 2006. Met officials said in their forecast the heavy spell of rain is likely to continue in the city for the next two days. Meanwhile, domestic flight operations at the Raja Bhoj airport were suspended and no flights could land or take off as the runway was waterlogged. Passengers were stranded at the airport and three flights were cancelled while two were diverted to other cities. Similarly, access to platform No. 6 of Bhopal railway station turned out to be a nightmarish experience for the train passengers as the road was waterlogged with knee deep water making it difficult to commute. Rivers swell, bridges inundatedIndore and Ujjain have an orange alert for very heavy rainfall, thunderstorm and 40-50 kmph gusts of wind. There is a red alert for extremely heavy rainfall in Khargone, Alirajpur, Jhabua, Dhar and Ratlam districts. Rainfall caused rivers to swell and inundated bridges, cutting off roads to several villages. A 70-year-old woman died in a wall collapse and a two-year-boy was swept away in an overflowing nullah in Dhar. Efforts are on to trace the boy. Three bikers were swept away in fast waters of a river in Dhar. In Jhabua, rainwater inundated residential and commercial properties, forcing people to leave their homes and flee to higher ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rain-halts-flight-operations-at-bhopal-airport/articleshow/77699180.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Bhopal||CBI raids oil firm over Rs 938 crore ‘loan scam’ in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: The CBI on Saturday registered an FIR against the directors of Madhya Pradesh-based K S Oils Ltd in an alleged Rs 938 crore bank loan scam. “It was alleged that the forensic audit findings indicated that the financials of the company, while applying for loan, were inflated, and that the loan amount was misappropriated through fraudulent diversion,” said an official release. Searches were conducted on Saturday in Morena and Delhi at the premises of the firm. K S Oils Ltd has manufacturing plants in Morena, Ratlam and Guna in Madhya Pradesh, Kota in Rajasthan and a port-based refinery in Haldia, West Bengal. ‘Financials of the oil firm were inflated’In 2015, banks tried to recover their loss by auctioning their assets under the SARFAESI Act but failed due to “unsatisfactory response to the bid process”, says the statement. However, sale of wind turbine generators, or their parts, associated facilities, and related land parcels of the company in Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh under SARFAESI Act was successful that year, said the press statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cbi-raids-oil-firm-over-rs-938-crore-loan-scam-in-madhya-pradesh/articleshow/77699204.cms||---
August 23, 2020||World||Police shoot, kill Black man outside store in Louisiana||LAFAYETTE (US): The mother of a man fatally shot by Louisiana police said her son was intelligent, shy and had sought therapy for social anxiety. Her lawyers said they plan to sue over the death of Trayford Pellerin, who police said had a knife and was trying to enter a convenience store. The shooting Friday night was captured on video, and the state ACLU condemned what it described as a ``horrific and deadly incident of police violence against a Black person.'' Both the ACLU and the Southern Poverty Law Center on Saturday called for an investigation. Louisiana State Police said Lafayette officers followed Pellerin, 31, on foot as he left a convenience store where he had created a disturbance with a knife about 8 pm Friday. Stun guns failed to stop him, and the officers shot Pellerin as he tried to enter another convenience store, still with the knife, according to a news release. Pellerin became anxious in groups and may have been frightened by the officers, Michelle Pellerin told The Advocate. He had sought professional help earlier this year, she said. ``Instead of giving him a helping hand they gave him bullets,'' national civil rights attorney Ben Crump told the newspaper. He and Baton Rouge attorney Ronald Haley said they have begun their own investigation by interviewing witnesses. Some said Pellerin was not armed, Haley said. The family believes Pellerin may have been having a mental health crisis, Crump said. Lafayette police asked state police to investigate- standard procedure in the state for shootings by local officers. ``Lafayette police shot Mr. Pellerin several times as he walked away from them,'' Margaret Huang, president and CEO of the Southern Poverty Law Center, said in an emailed statement. ``His killing demands an analysis of the excessive use of force by law enforcement. We fully support movement leaders' calls for a swift and transparent investigation into Mr. Pellerin's killing.'' State ACLU executive director Alanah Odoms Hebert said, ``Once again, video footage has captured a horrific and deadly incident of police violence against a Black person who was brutally killed in front of our eyes.'' Captured on video, the May 25 death of George Floyd under the knee of a white Minneapolis police officer sparked a global reckoning over police tactics and racial injustice. On Saturday night, dozens of protesters gathered in Lafayette to demonstrate against the latest fatal police shooting. ``Trayford Pellerin should be alive today. Instead, a family is mourning and a community is grieving,`` her statement said. ``None of our communities are safe when the police can murder people with impunity or when routine encounters escalate into deadly shooting sprees.'' Rikasha Montgomery, who took a video of the shooting, told The Advertiser that a man holding what looked like a knife kept walking down the highway while some officers fired stun guns at him. Officers holding guns shouted at him to get onto the ground, said Montgomery, 18. She said they fired when the man reached the door of a Shell gas station. ``When I heard the gunshots, I couldn't hold my phone like I was first filming,'' she said. ``I feel kind of scared about it. I'm traumatized. You're so used to hearing about this, but I never thought I would experience it.'' Crump, representing Pellerin's family, called the shooting reckless and his death tragic. ``The officers involved should be fired immediately for their abhorrent and fatal actions,'' Crump said in a statement Saturday. The incident was the third shooting by Lafayette police since mid-July. State police said a man was critically wounded last month after being shot during an altercation with police. Another man was in stable condition after being shot during a burglary investigation earlier this month. Haley told The Advocate that he and Crump will be seeking reform and policy changes in the police department as well as damages. ``We want policy changes as well, so that Ben and I are not in the living room with another family in Lafayette dealing with this,'' Haley said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/police-shoot-kill-black-man-outside-store-in-louisiana/articleshow/77699215.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Business||Govt eyes Rs 65,000 crore investment in over 200 economic zones||NEW DELHI: The government has prepared a plan to attract investment of nearly Rs 65,000 crore in more than 200 economic zones in the next five years, according to a proposal made under the National Master Plan for providing multi-modal connectivity to various economic zones. The road, railways, shipping and civil aviation ministries have prepared a detailed connectivity roadmap for these economic zones such as food and agro zones, fishing and defence clusters, electronic, textile and pharmaceutical parks. Prime Minister Narendra Modi took a review meeting on the preparation of the Master Plan on Monday and tweeted that the move will boost productivity, infrastructure, economic progress and opportunities for youngsters. Sources said seven infrastructure ministries and seven others joined hands to prepare the National Master Plan with the view to align efforts of each ministry or department with a national perspective. The plan also aims to ensure that all missing gaps are removed for seamless movement of people, goods and services within a given time frame so far as connectivity is concerned. TOI has learnt that three big industrial areas at Krishnapatnam in Andhra Pradesh, Tumkur in Karnataka and Dadri in Uttar Pradesh have been identified under this plan as well. The government has identified the industries that would come up at these three big industrial areas and these include food products, textiles, electronics, automobiles, pharmaceuticals, chemicals and cold storage. “The main objective of preparing the Master Plan is to guide departments and ministries while they are planning individual projects. This will also ensure aligning the funding of projects by ministries as per the Master Plan. The logistics department will coordinate with the respective ministries to make the plan better,” said a source. Sources said to improve connectivity, the road transport ministry has said construction of more highways including economic corridors would cater to the needs for economic zones while Indian Railways has planned to increase cargo handling by at least 33% by 2024, which will ensure faster movement of raw and finished material and would also reduce logistics cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-eyes-rs-65000-crore-investment-in-over-200-economic-zones/articleshow/77699234.cms||Dipak K Dash
August 23, 2020||Lucknow||UP’s show on Covid-19 front better than US, Brazil: Yogi||LUCKNOW: Armed with statistics about UP’s performance on Covid-19 front, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday claimed that the state government was doing its best on the front and its performance was much better than not only other states, but also countries like US and Brazil. Samajwadi Party, Congress and Bahujan Samaj Party have alleged that there were serious gaps in patient care being extended at premier medical centres of UP. “UP has gone out of the way to control the Covid-19 epidemic situation despite its huge population size and geographical expanse. Even as statistics speak for UP’s performance, the opposition is misleading the public by making false claims that we lacked in our efforts,” the CM said. Sharing comparative data to prove his point, Yogi said that the USA's case positivity rate was 7.8% against UP’s 4.1% while the death rate was 3.1% against UP’s 1.6%. UP only state to have conducted over 42 lakh Covid-19 tests: YogiThe document also drew a parallel between UP and Brazil that has an equivalent population. “More than 34.6 lakh persons have been affected by Covid-19 in Brazil whereas in UP the number still remains 1.72 lakh,” it said. He also said that UP was way better than many Indian states. “UP is the only state to have conducted more than 42 lakh covid-19 tests. As on date, UP is conducting an average of one lakh tests per day. In comparison, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu where case positivity rate is 18.8% and 9.1% respectively have been able to undertake 33.4 lakh and 39.1lakh tests,” the data sheet shaed by him said. The CM also attacked the Aam Aadmi Party-led government in Delhi thereafter. “With a population of less than 2 crore, Delhi haw 1.15 lakh cases and 4235 deaths. The number of deaths there are twice the number in UP,” he said. The CM concluded by saying that the opposition had no right to criticise the state government and its corona warriors in the hospitals and on streets who have put their life in danger to control the transmission of the disease impressively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ups-show-on-covid-19-front-better-than-us-brazil-cm-yogi-adityanath/articleshow/77699238.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 23, 2020||Lucknow||UP sets record of 1.24 lakh Covid tests in 24 hours||LUCKNOW: UP achieved another milestone with 1.24 lakh Covid tests in the past 24 hours. The total number of tests has now crossed 44 lakh. Both are the highest in the country. After the state achieved 1 lakh tests in a day, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had set 1.25 lakh as the next target. "The number of tests in the past 24 hours was 1,24,274, taking the total number of tests so far to 44, 20,101," said a government spokesperson. Meanwhile, the CM held a meeting with officials, directing them to have a special focus on Lucknow and Kanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-sets-record-of-1-24-lakh-covid-tests-in-24-hours/articleshow/77699250.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kanpur||UP sets record of 1.24 lakh Covid tests in 24 hours||LUCKNOW: UP achieved another milestone with 1.24 lakh Covid tests in the past 24 hours. The total number of tests has now crossed 44 lakh. Both are the highest in the country. After the state achieved 1 lakh tests in a day, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had set 1.25 lakh as the next target. "The number of tests in the past 24 hours was 1,24,274, taking the total number of tests so far to 44, 20,101," said a government spokesperson. Meanwhile, the CM held a meeting with officials, directing them to have a special focus on Lucknow and Kanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/up-sets-record-of-1-24-lakh-covid-tests-in-24-hours/articleshow/77699251.cms||---
August 23, 2020||World||US snubbed again; 13 of UNSC’s 15 nations oppose push for Iran sanctions||NEW YORK: The US was further isolated on Friday over its bid to reimpose international sanctions on Iran with 13 countries on the 15-member UN Security Council expressing their opposition, arguing that Washington’s move is void given it is using a process agreed under a nuclear deal that it quit two years ago. In the 24 hours since US secretary of state Mike Pompeo said he triggered a 30-day countdown to a return of UN sanctions on Iran, including an arms embargo, long-time allies Britain, France, Germany and Belgium as well as China, Russia, Vietnam, Niger, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, South Africa, Indonesia, Estonia and Tunisia have already written letters in opposition. The US has accused Iran of breaching a 2015 deal with world powers that aimed to stop Tehran developing nuclear weapons in return for sanctions relief. Diplomats said Russia, China and many other countries are unlikely to reimpose the sanctions on Iran. Pompeo again warned Russia and China against that on Friday, threatening US action if they refuse to reimpose the UN measures on Iran. The US acted on Thursday after the Security Council rejected its bid last week to extend an arms embargo on Iran beyond its expiration in October. Only the Dominican Republic joined Washington in voting 'yes.' It has not yet written to the council to state its position. Under the process Washington says it has triggered, it appears all UN sanctions should be reimposed at midnight on September 19 — just days before President Trump is due to address world leaders at the UN General Assembly, the annual meeting that will be largely virtual Watch US snubbed again; 13 of UNSC’s 15 nations oppose push for Iran sacntions||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-snubbed-again-13-of-unscs-15-nations-oppose-push-for-iran-sanctions/articleshow/77699259.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Lucknow||UP: After 5-hour dharna, cleric says got assurance over taziyas||LUCKNOW: After five hours of sitting on a dharna with over 400 people at Imambara Ghufranmaab, Maulana Kalbe Jawad late on Saturday night said the state government had assured them that no one would stop people from keeping taziyas at home. Besides, there would be no problem in performing other Muharram rituals at home across the state, he added. “Home secretary SK Bhagat has been appointed to oversee that there is no issue created over majlis at home. All district magistrates and SSPs were also informed by the bureaucrat about the same. Names and contacts of clerics across UP have also been asked for which we will provide by Sunday morning. By noon, all taziyas which were taken away by police anywhere will also be returned to homes,” the cleric said while addressing those present in the dharna. The clerics had alleged that people were not being allowed to keep paper-made taziyas at home. Over the matter of attendees in majlis, the cleric said that the main issue had been resolved on Saturday and a case had already been filed in court. “We have appealed that the number of attendees should be relative to the space where the majlis is to be held. Until then online majlis will continue,” he said. “A report from Allahabad claimed that police were stopping women from holding majlis inside their home among family members. If any such activity is witnessed anywhere, we will approach the government,” said Jawad. Earlier, addressing the media, the cleric had said he had received thousands of calls from across UP about the government’s restrictions on majlis. A number of Shia clerics had approached both the central and state governments for permission to hold majlis while adhering to Covid-19 protocol. “We sought permission for physical attendance of 1,000 people in majlis with proper social distancing as imambaras have huge space. However, the government brought the number down to just 20 attendees. We even agreed to that but an order sent out late Thursday night allowed just five attendees in person at each majlis, that too at only seven imambaras of the city,” the cleric said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-after-5-hour-dharna-cleric-says-got-assurance-over-taziyas/articleshow/77699265.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab records 1,320 new Covid-19 cases, 45 deaths||CHANDIGARH: Punjab registered 1,320 new Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday and 45 deaths because of the deadly virus. The total Covid-19 tally across the state reached 40,643 on Saturday and the state has till now lost 1,036 lives to coronavirus. With 15 cases, Ludhiana district recorded the highest number deaths, followed by eight in Jalandhar, five in Sangrur, three in Mohali, two in Amritsar, Fatehgarh Sahib and Ferozepur. Bathinda, Mansa, Faridkot, Moga, Nawanshahr, Grudaspur, Ropar and Tarn Taran districts recorded one death each. Also on Saturday, 409 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state after their recovery. Highest number of positive cases — 360 — were recorded in Ludhiana district, followed by 177 in Patiala, 164 in Mohali, 92 in Amritsar, 74 in Kapurthala, 68 in Muktsar, 47 in Sangrur, 46 in Jalandhar, 42 in Pathankot, 34 in Hoshiarpur, 30 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 29 in Ropar, 27 in Tarn Taran, 26 in Gurdaspur, 25 each in Moga and Faridkot, 19 in Mansa, 13 in Nawanshahr, 10 in Fazilka, six in Barnala, three each in Ferozepur and Bathinda district. Out of the 1,320 positive cases, 29 cases had a source of infection from outside Punjab, 20 health care workers, 14 police personnel and five were jail inmates. Total active cases stood at 15,305 in Punjab on Saturday, Ludhiana district had the highest — 3,867 active cases — followed by 1,829 in Jalandhar, 1,629 in Patiala, 1,405 in Mohali and 878 in Ferozepur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-records-1320-new-covid-19-cases-45-deaths/articleshow/77699298.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab records 1,320 new Covid-19 cases, 45 deaths||CHANDIGARH: Punjab registered 1,320 new Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday and 45 deaths because of the deadly virus. The total Covid-19 tally across the state reached 40,643 on Saturday and the state has till now lost 1,036 lives to coronavirus. With 15 cases, Ludhiana district recorded the highest number deaths, followed by eight in Jalandhar, five in Sangrur, three in Mohali, two in Amritsar, Fatehgarh Sahib and Ferozepur. Bathinda, Mansa, Faridkot, Moga, Nawanshahr, Grudaspur, Ropar and Tarn Taran districts recorded one death each. Also on Saturday, 409 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state after their recovery. Highest number of positive cases — 360 — were recorded in Ludhiana district, followed by 177 in Patiala, 164 in Mohali, 92 in Amritsar, 74 in Kapurthala, 68 in Muktsar, 47 in Sangrur, 46 in Jalandhar, 42 in Pathankot, 34 in Hoshiarpur, 30 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 29 in Ropar, 27 in Tarn Taran, 26 in Gurdaspur, 25 each in Moga and Faridkot, 19 in Mansa, 13 in Nawanshahr, 10 in Fazilka, six in Barnala, three each in Ferozepur and Bathinda district. Out of the 1,320 positive cases, 29 cases had a source of infection from outside Punjab, 20 health care workers, 14 police personnel and five were jail inmates. Total active cases stood at 15,305 in Punjab on Saturday, Ludhiana district had the highest — 3,867 active cases — followed by 1,829 in Jalandhar, 1,629 in Patiala, 1,405 in Mohali and 878 in Ferozepur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-records-1320-new-covid-19-cases-45-deaths/articleshow/77699299.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab records 1,320 new Covid-19 cases, 45 deaths||CHANDIGARH: Punjab registered 1,320 new Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday and 45 deaths because of the deadly virus. The total Covid-19 tally across the state reached 40,643 on Saturday and the state has till now lost 1,036 lives to coronavirus. With 15 cases, Ludhiana district recorded the highest number deaths, followed by eight in Jalandhar, five in Sangrur, three in Mohali, two in Amritsar, Fatehgarh Sahib and Ferozepur. Bathinda, Mansa, Faridkot, Moga, Nawanshahr, Grudaspur, Ropar and Tarn Taran districts recorded one death each. Also on Saturday, 409 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state after their recovery. Highest number of positive cases — 360 — were recorded in Ludhiana district, followed by 177 in Patiala, 164 in Mohali, 92 in Amritsar, 74 in Kapurthala, 68 in Muktsar, 47 in Sangrur, 46 in Jalandhar, 42 in Pathankot, 34 in Hoshiarpur, 30 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 29 in Ropar, 27 in Tarn Taran, 26 in Gurdaspur, 25 each in Moga and Faridkot, 19 in Mansa, 13 in Nawanshahr, 10 in Fazilka, six in Barnala, three each in Ferozepur and Bathinda district. Out of the 1,320 positive cases, 29 cases had a source of infection from outside Punjab, 20 health care workers, 14 police personnel and five were jail inmates. Total active cases stood at 15,305 in Punjab on Saturday, Ludhiana district had the highest — 3,867 active cases — followed by 1,829 in Jalandhar, 1,629 in Patiala, 1,405 in Mohali and 878 in Ferozepur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-records-1320-new-covid-19-cases-45-deaths/articleshow/77699300.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Amritsar||Five armed intruders from Pakistan shot dead at border||AMRITSAR: Five armed intruders attempting to infiltrate into Punjab from Pakistan were shot dead by personnel of Border Security Force in Tarn Taran district in an operation that started from late on Friday night and lasted for almost 10 hours. A patrolling party of the BSF’s 103 Battalion observed suspicious movement near the border ahead of the security fence in Amarkot area of Tarn Taran district late on Friday night. The troops cordoned off the area and challenged the intruders to stop and surrender. However, the intruders continued to move towards the border fence and also opened fire at the BSF team intermittently, BSF IG, Punjab Frontier, Mahipal Yadav said on Saturday. In retaliatory fire, the BSF personnel killed the five intruders. “The last bullet was shot at 5.30 am following which a search operation was launched,” said Yadav. During the search operation, five bodies were recovered along with around 10 kg heroin, one AK-47 rifle, two magazines and 27 live rounds, four Beretta 9mm pistols with seven magazines and 109 live rounds, two mobile phones and 610 Pakistani rupees in cash, he added. The Punjab border with Pakistan is the most vulnerable to drug smuggling as the BSF has seized almost 360kg of heroin this year till August 22. In Punjab, the BSF has the mandate to guard the 553-km Indo-Pakistan border — the land border is 518 km. BSF to hand over protest note to Pakistan RangersSources revealed that BSF would hold a flag meeting with Pakistan Rangers to hand over a protest note over the infiltration bid. The BSF has shot dead a total of 15 Pakistani nationals at the border in Punjab this year. No contact persons of the Pakistani intruders on the Indian side were noticed at the border either to receive them, in case of infiltration bid, or to receive the consignment of narcotics. “Probably they got a wink of our operation and fled,” the sources said. From their clothes, the intruders didn’t appear to be just couriers of narcotics, the sources added. Yadav said the BSF had handed over the bodies to Punjab police, which would investigate their identities, check the data in their phones and look into details of their activities.There is no clarity whether the intruders were smuggling heroin or the drugs were a cover for other covert activity. Former BSF officials, who have served in Punjab Frontier, said on Saturday that in no smuggling bid till now have all cross-border smugglers been armed. “I think 10 kg heroin recovered from the encounter site is just a cover to divert the course of investigations in case the intruders were arrested. The actual motive seems to be something else and needs to be investigated,” former BSF deputy inspector-general J S Saran told TOI. “In smuggling attempts normally, one of every three smugglers is armed and in case anyone is shot by BSF, the rest flee back, which did not happen in this case. Here all five of them were heavily armed and chose to die over fleeing, which also indicates their motivational level and a hidden motive.” Former BSF inspector-general, Punjab Frontier, M S Malhi also said this was “not a normal smuggling bid where five heavily armed persons are killed. Even if we check the past records, there will hardly by any similar example.” He did not rule out the possibility of support of Pakistani Rangers in pushing these intruders into India. “In many cases, they (Pakistani smugglers/ intruders) often get their support.” There could be a possibility that these intruders were on a mission such as targeted killing in India, said Malhi, adding that they could have been carrying heroin for financial support till they accomplished their mission in India. “Their motive is a question of investigations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/five-armed-intruders-from-pakistan-shot-dead-at-border/articleshow/77699317.cms||Yudhvir Rana
August 23, 2020||Noida||This gang cheated investors with supermarket franchise offer, 4 held||NOIDA: The setting was perfect. A stall at the trade fair in Delhi’s Pragati Maidan and an office with around 200 people in Noida. Everything — from online ads to the staff — was real. Except for the startup with which they were luring investors. A racket that cheated many people across several states after luring them to invest in a fake retail chain has been busted with the arrest of four persons in Noida. Assets worth Rs 8 crore, including several luxury cars and three flats, were recovered from the accused, who were operating out of a building in Sector 63. Police said they had floated a startup — Hyper Supermarket — and invited online applications for investments in franchises. The fraud is likely to run into several crores and the police believe the gang had floated many such companies to cheat investors. So far, eight FIRs have been lodged against the accused at Phase 3 police station following complaints from investors in UP, Haryana, Bihar, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra. Krishna Yadav, the first complainant in the case, said that he had come to know about the supermarket startup at the India International Trade Fair in Pragati Maidan. “They were offering franchise partnerships for their retail stores. I approached them through phone numbers provided in online ads and verified the company through two mediators. I even visited their office in Sector 63 in December last year and saw 150-200 people working there. I signed a 10-year deal for a franchise fee of 3.5 lakh, which was non-refundable,” he said. Yadav said he had spent Rs 20 lakh for a 400sqft store on Darbari Road, where he planned to set up the hypermarket. The agreement said the company would pay for the interiors of the store, its staff and products. The investor was supposed to get a 10% share of the total sales along with 2% of the amount he had invested every month. “They sought 60 days’ time to prepare the interiors. The store was set to open in March, but they kept delaying it. Then, came the lockdown and they said they would send the products after it is lifted,” he added. When the lockdown was lifted, Yadav reached out to the marketing head, but he said he was no longer associated with the company. He switched off his phone later. A search for other franchisees revealed the name of one Pratap Singh in Rajasthan, who, too, claimed he had been cheated. Yadav said there were around 50 such investors who had been cheated and 38 approached Noida police. DCP (central Noida) Harish Chander said they had received several verbal complaints in addition to the eight FIRs. However, the mastermind of the fraud, identified as one Rajesh Kumar, is untraceable. He goes by several other names — Arvind Gandhi, Rajesh Advani and Rohit Verma. “He had been arrested in Delhi in April 2018 for a fraud case lodged at Kalkaji police station. But he is currently absconding. He has experience of working in the retail sector and had trained his younger brother, Ankur, in marketing. One of those we arrested is his brother-in-law,” ACP Nitin Singh told TOI. The search at the Sector 63 building led to gold biscuits and other jewellery worth Rs 2 crore and several luxury cars, among other things. The accused had bought three flats, worth Rs 4 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/this-gang-cheated-investors-with-supermarket-franchise-offer-4-held/articleshow/77697938.cms||Shikha Salaria
August 23, 2020||Noida||Noida: Salons to cafes, fake firms floated to park money||NOIDA: The gang that cheated investors with franchise offers for a supermarket had floated a few other such startups to park their money. The companies included Midway Café, Westland Trade Private Limited, Dachfenster Media Private Limited, Southland Retail Private Limited and a franchise for Louis Salon. According to the website of the ministry of corporate affairs, the Hyper Supermarket, with which they cheated the investors, was incorporated in June 2019 and Westland Trade in April 2019. Several promotional videos of the supermarket chain, however, claim that the company was formed in 2011. Krishna Yadav, one of the first complainants in the case, said he had visited a Hyper store in east Delhi before signing the agreement.  “The marketing head and other employees who met me at the company’s office in Noida Sector 63 had asked me to visit the store. It became non-functional after that,” he added. Information about directors on the ministry website shows that Arman Patel, Sanjay and Anuj Singh headed Hyper Supermarket. The directors of Westland Trade Private Limited are Kunal Keshav and Manish Dahiya, according to the website. Similarly, Midway Café Limited was incorporated in April 2019 but on its website, it claims to be the fastest growing franchise in India since 1999. The ministry website mentions its directors as Vijay Singh and Devender Khatri. Another company that was formed by the name of Dachfenster Private Limited in February 2015 in Kolkata had Anbir and Bhumesh as the directors. The gang also formed Southland Retail Private Limited, which was used to promote Louis Salon. They described the company as the “US-based branch with around 4,000 luxury salons”. Noida police said the names of the directors were fake. “These are fake companies created to offer franchise models to investors and park their money,” additional DCP (central Noida) Ankur Aggarwal said. The police also said that fake documents were used to float these companies. “The accused have used different photographs and fake ID proofs to forge PAN cards, aadhaar cards, etc and open bank accounts,” DCP (central Noida) Harish Chander said. The employees of the company, who were involved in calling up investors and luring them, have not been arrested yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/salons-to-cafes-fake-firms-floated-to-park-money/articleshow/77697956.cms||Shikha Salaria
August 23, 2020||Noida||Noida district magistrate: RWAs can’t impose specific internet provider on residents||GREATER NOIDA: Private developers, residents’ welfare associations, apartment owners’ associations as well as private cooperative housing societies in Noida and Greater Noida cannot force residents to opt for a certain broadband or internet provider, ordered the district magistrate on Saturday. Issuing a binding order for all stakeholders, DM Suhas LY directed private bodies, associations and developers to take note of the Competition Act. Many residents staying in apartments in Noida Extension had raised the issue of internet connectivity. It was found during inquiries that private developers have tied up with a particular broadband or internet provider and were thrusting their services upon all the residents. Other providers were not allowed to install cables leading to a monopoly by a single provider. The issue was also raised by the residents during the townhall meeting that was held on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-district-magistrate-rwas-cant-impose-specific-internet-provider-on-residents/articleshow/77697991.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Woman takes body from morgue: Punjab and Haryana HC rejects her pre-arrest bail plea||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has dismissed bail plea of a woman from Punjab’s Barnala district who is facing charges of forcibly taking the body of her cousin, who was suspected to have died of Covid-19, from the mortuary of a hospital. “Under the prevalent Covid-19 pandemic for any person to behave in such an irresponsible manner needs to be deprecated in strong terms. The medical and para-medical staff in the state of Punjab as also across the country is working round the clock to fight the pandemic. There is a certain protocol to be observed regarding conduct of ‘Covid test’ and in the eventuality of there being a ‘Covid’ death, certain precautionary measures have to be followed,” observed Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa who passed the order while hearing a petition filed by Sandeep Kaur, a resident of Barnala, seeking anticipatory bail.  She was booked by cops on June 25 under Sections 297/454/353/186/342/270/120-B/ 188 of IPC, Section 4 of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984 and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, registered at Barnala city police station. The police claimed that the petitioner was part of a group which forcibly removed a body from the mortuary and the body was that of her cousin. As per the investigating agency, presence of the petitioner while removing the body stands recorded in CCTV footage. The FIR includes allegations that a group of persons locked certain staff of medical and para-medical team inside a room and removed the body of one Balwinder Singh from the mortuary. ‘Petitioner booked on basis of video’On the first date of hearing in the HC, the counsel for the petitioner made a submission that the petitioner was not related to the person whose body was taken away from the mortuary and that the FIR has been lodged against unknown and unrelated persons. Hearing her contention, the HC asked Punjab to file a reply as regards the evidence on the basis of which the petitioner was made an accused. During the hearing of the case on August 19, the Punjab government informed the court that a video clip of the incident was recorded and in that video the petitioner was duly identified. On this, the counsel for the petitioner conceded that Balwinder Singh whose body was removed from the mortuary was first cousin of the petitioner. After hearing all the parties, the HC observed that as per allegations, the petitioner was part of a group which removed her cousin’s body from the mortuary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/woman-takes-body-from-morgue-punjab-and-haryana-hc-rejects-her-pre-arrest-bail-plea/articleshow/77699349.cms||Ajay Sura
August 23, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Armed robbery at financier’s house ends in suicide by robber||FATEHABAD: In reel-like action in Tohana town of Fatehabad district, three criminals made an abortive bid to loot cash and jewellery from the house of a financier, who chased them along with his friend. It ended with one of the criminals turning the gun on himself and the arrest of the other two. According to the police, the miscreants entered the financier’s house on Friday morning and looted gold and silver jewellery and Rs 3 lakh cash from his wife and son at gunpoint. But, in the meantime, the house owner happened to returnand gave a hot chase to the trio fleeing on a scooty. The scooty rider lost control of the two-wheeler after some distance and the three miscreants fell down. Then they opened fire on a motorcyclist and snatched his bike. But, since the road was not motorable, they finally dumped the bike and started running. By now, local persons and police were also following their trail. Suddenly, one of the trio whipped out a weapon, fearing being caught, shot himself in the head, while the police nabbed the other two. The dead man was identified as Robin, a resident of Jind, and his two accomplices as Ajay from Jind, and Pawan, a Tohana resident.The loot and two pistols were recovered from them. Ajay is wanted in a murder case in Kaithal district and Pawan has cases of theft and arms smuggling against him. Robin was wanted in cases of robbery and smuggling of arms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-armed-robbery-at-financiers-house-ends-in-suicide-by-robber/articleshow/77699362.cms||Kumar Mukesh
August 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Confining junior engineer gets cops fined Rs 2 lakh for ‘kundi’ power||BARNALA: Keeping a junior engineer (JE) of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) in “custody” for hours for a minor accident involving a policeman near the Barnala City police station proved costly for the cops. When PSPCL authorities went to get the JE released, they noticed that the police station was drawing power through a "kundi" connection. A PSPCL raid the following day found four air-conditioners running on the "kundi" connection. The police station was imposed Rs 2.25 lakh fine. Let off after kin came to police stn, says JEJE Kulbir Singh said, "I was going to the market in my car on Thursday when the driver of the car ahead of me stopped suddenly. I braked to avoid ramming into it and a policeman who was on a bike behind me hit my car and fell down. Two policemen took me to the police station, abused me and kept me in illegal confinement for hours till late night. They let me go only after more employees and my family members reached the police station," said Jagdeep Singh. PSPCL SDO Vikas Singla said when officials checked the connection on Friday, it was found to be illegal. "We calculated the loss to PSPCL and imposed a fine of Rs 2.25 lakh," he said. When contacted, Barnala DSP Rashpal Singh Dhindsa said there is an electricity meter in the police station, but it was possible there were bill arrears. He said they had not received any notice or fine for the "kundi" connection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-confining-junior-engineer-gets-cops-fined-rs-2-lakh-for-kundi-power/articleshow/77699374.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Lockdown deals a blow when business just picked up||GURUGRAM: A shopping list in hand, Ana Lalrindiki and her friend walked into Ambience Mall on Saturday morning and were relieved to find it unusually empty. When they reached the main entrance, the guard stopped them and said the mall was closed. As they started discussing which other mall they could visit, the guard interrupted: “Ma’am, all malls in the city are closed.” Like Ana, many shoppers in the city were in for a rude shock on Saturday morning after learning about the Haryana government’s order to impose a weekend lockdown. Since the order came late on Friday evening, most residents were caught unawares. While malls and offices remained shut, grocery stores, pharmacies, bakeries and meat shops were exempted from the restrictions as they fall under the category of essential goods. Most of the shoppers expressed disappointment with the order. They said since the entire week was spent working from home, weekend was the only time they could step out to shop. “We had no idea that shopping malls would be closed on weekends from now. Since we are working professionals, we get time only on weekends to go out. We were planning to go to South Point Mall when the guard at Ambience said all shopping centres were closed,” said Lalrindiki, a private firm employee. At Galleria, restaurants were closed but outlets involved with the sale of essential goods weren’t. “Before we came to Galleria, we had gone to Qutub Enclave market. Only the small cafes and bakeries were open there. Groceries and meat shops were open but outlets selling cosmetics and garments were shut. If this goes on, I think we will have to resort to ordering online again,” said Anupreksha, a resident of DLF Phase 1. The decision to enforce a lockdown in the weekend dealt a huge blow to businessmen too. Even in times of the pandemic, footfall sees a significant rise in malls and shopping centres of the city during the weekends. Shop owners in Sadar Bazar said the decision appeared to be taken in haste. Many of the traders there had started opening their stores when a police patrolling team announced the government order. “The government hardly thinks about small traders like us. We had anyway been suffering losses for the past three months of the lockdown. Now, when businesses had just started picking up, we were told we would be fined Rs 11,000 if we defied the government order. My total earnings do not exceed Rs 11,000 these days, how can I pay a fine?” asked Rajesh Kumar, a shop owner. “I don’t understand this logic. The government has allowed the vegetable market to stay open. Many of the city’s Covid patients had contracted the infection at the mandi itself,” he added. Traders at the Sector 14 market organised a protest against the government’s decision. “How is this weekend lockdown justified? Has the government conducted any survey that says Covid spreads only on Saturdays and Sundays? Most people in the city are working professionals. They get time to shop only during the weekend,” said Sukhbir Kataria, a former minister in the Congress government. The Gurugram administration had on Friday referred to an order of the State Disaster Management Authority to announce the weekend lockdown. Covid cases in the city have again seen a rise. As many as 648 people have tested positive in the past one week compared to 573 in the previous week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/lockdown-deals-a-blow-when-biz-just-picked-up/articleshow/77698483.cms||Vishakha Chaman
August 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19 positive woman delivers healthy baby in Punjab||FEROZEPUR: Even as the health department fighting the Covid-19 crisis on a war footing, the civil hospital Ferozepur performed its first caesarean operation on a Covid-19 positive pregnant woman last night. The mother has given birth to a healthy female baby, who is being taken care of by the paediatric team in the isolation facility of the hospital. Senior medical officer Gurmej Ram said the woman from Darvesheke village was rushed to the civil hospital last night. After preliminary examinations, the team of doctors — gynaecologist Dr Pooja, anaesthetist Dr Vishal Bajaj and paediatrician Dr David — along with nursing staff decided to perform a caesarean operation to ensure the safe delivery, he added. Keeping in view the Covid-19 contraction threat, the doctors and entire staff wore PPE kits, said the SMO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-positive-woman-delivers-healthy-baby-in-punjab/articleshow/77699394.cms||Dinesh K Sharma
August 23, 2020||Faridabad||Unaware of the order, many businessmen had opened stores||GURUGRAM: It’s on Saturdays and Sundays that markets and shopping complexes come alive, when owners and restaurateurs look forward to obliging a clientele seeking to unwind from their work week. All this is still possible in our physically-distanced times. But, the announcement late on Friday instructing shops and other establishments providing non-essential goods and services to remain shut on weekends – the most productive part of the week for the majority of those engaged in business – left many in the city bewildered and exasperated. “Just when we figured that life was returning to some kind of normal, however slowly, this has come as a big setback. It leaves a question mark over our future,” rued one Gurugram entrepreneur. Indeed, as economic activity picks up across India, and every Indian learns to live with the coronavirus, such a move flies in the face of logic, and is bound to act as a tourniquet on the process of recovery. As Saturday dawned, a fair few proprietors and managers had little idea that the Haryana government had opted for this course of action, ostensibly to contain the spread of the disease (cases of which have been decreasing in Gurugram). They rose, then, to begin work in the expectation of a fruitful weekend, only for hopes to be dashed when cops informed them of the order. Still, TOI found small eateries and sweet shops doing business. Across town, some owners were sat outside stores hoping for customers to turn up but ready to down shutters at the sight of cops approaching. Even wine shops were obliging patrons. And with restaurants barred from serving alcohol, a large part of their revenue stream has been blocked. If they now can’t open on Saturday and Sunday, days on which footfalls are likely to be higher – even with social-distancing norms in place – they might figure whether it makes any sense at all spending so much out of pocket when the returns are so small. However, Friday’s directive was at a piece with the government’s lack of clarity in moves to unlock the economy. Back in May, as the caseload in Delhi swelled, the authorities insisted that the border must be sealed to prevent infections from entering Gurugram and Faridabad. But, not only did this step inconvenience nurses, doctors and other health professionals, it came in the way of initial measures being taken to revive the economy across the NCR. In Haryana’s latest misstep lies the danger of a financial crisis, not just for Gurugram, which contributes most to the state exchequer, but for every district looking to Chandigarh for a way out of the uncertainty. ‘Business as usual’ is achievable even when we’re following strict health advisories. But when the economy is on its knees, such an ill-advised action threatens to undo all the hard work, and suck the festive out of the coming season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/unaware-of-the-order-many-bizmen-had-opened-stores/articleshow/77701366.cms||Sharad Kohli
August 23, 2020||Gurgaon||Unaware of the order, many businessmen had opened stores||GURUGRAM: It’s on Saturdays and Sundays that markets and shopping complexes come alive, when owners and restaurateurs look forward to obliging a clientele seeking to unwind from their work week. All this is still possible in our physically-distanced times. But, the announcement late on Friday instructing shops and other establishments providing non-essential goods and services to remain shut on weekends – the most productive part of the week for the majority of those engaged in business – left many in the city bewildered and exasperated. “Just when we figured that life was returning to some kind of normal, however slowly, this has come as a big setback. It leaves a question mark over our future,” rued one Gurugram entrepreneur. Indeed, as economic activity picks up across India, and every Indian learns to live with the coronavirus, such a move flies in the face of logic, and is bound to act as a tourniquet on the process of recovery. As Saturday dawned, a fair few proprietors and managers had little idea that the Haryana government had opted for this course of action, ostensibly to contain the spread of the disease (cases of which have been decreasing in Gurugram). They rose, then, to begin work in the expectation of a fruitful weekend, only for hopes to be dashed when cops informed them of the order. Still, TOI found small eateries and sweet shops doing business. Across town, some owners were sat outside stores hoping for customers to turn up but ready to down shutters at the sight of cops approaching. Even wine shops were obliging patrons. And with restaurants barred from serving alcohol, a large part of their revenue stream has been blocked. If they now can’t open on Saturday and Sunday, days on which footfalls are likely to be higher – even with social-distancing norms in place – they might figure whether it makes any sense at all spending so much out of pocket when the returns are so small. However, Friday’s directive was at a piece with the government’s lack of clarity in moves to unlock the economy. Back in May, as the caseload in Delhi swelled, the authorities insisted that the border must be sealed to prevent infections from entering Gurugram and Faridabad. But, not only did this step inconvenience nurses, doctors and other health professionals, it came in the way of initial measures being taken to revive the economy across the NCR. In Haryana’s latest misstep lies the danger of a financial crisis, not just for Gurugram, which contributes most to the state exchequer, but for every district looking to Chandigarh for a way out of the uncertainty. ‘Business as usual’ is achievable even when we’re following strict health advisories. But when the economy is on its knees, such an ill-advised action threatens to undo all the hard work, and suck the festive out of the coming season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/unaware-of-the-order-many-bizmen-had-opened-stores/articleshow/77698493.cms||Sharad Kohli
August 23, 2020||Gurgaon||Two arrested for Basai triple murder||GURUGRAM: Two days after a triple murder owing to a decade-old rivalry between two gangs in Sector 9, Gurugram police on Saturday arrested two, including a woman, in connection with the case. However, the prime accused of the murders are still at large. The dispute over a 1,200-square-yard plot in Basai has assumed the face of a full-blown bloodied confrontation between two gangs -- Johny gang and Hariom gang -- which has led to six murders in the past two years. According to police, Amit alias Kala, a close aide of Hariom had illegally sold a plot that belonged to Jonny and Monny and it had led to the conflict. A few months ago, Amit had allegedly killed Monny in Rewari. To avenge the death of his brother, Johny killed Amit’s associate Sanju. Amit and Jonhy were then arrested and sent to jail. Police said that Amit’s mother Bala Devi, 57, and uncle Narender, 53, managed to release Amit on parole on August 13. Amit wanted to avenge the murder of his associate and he planned to kill Johny’s associates. "Amit engaged his cousin Pawan Nehra and a few others and killed Johny’s associates Sashikant alias Sunny, Anmol and Sameer," said ACP (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan. A case was lodged with the Sector 9 police station on August 21 under section 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 148 and, 149 of IPC and sections of Arms Act. Now police have arrested Bala Devi and Narender for conspiracy. Both of them were sent to judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/2-arrested-for-basai-triple-murder/articleshow/77698501.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Business||Among top tourism markets, India at bottom of recovery charts||NEW DELHI: Still in the grip of the coronavirus, the hospitality industry in India, a key contributor to the tourism sector, is among the slowest to recover in the world. Data mined by RateGain, a travel and hospitality technology provider that offers provides technological support to hotels, online travel agencies, airlines and car rental firms, among others, has shown that among the top 16 tourism markets in the world, India is at the third last place in hotel bookings recovery for the week that ended August 9, 2020 in comparison to the same period in 2019. The RateGain data refers to booking and pricing patterns obtained from nearly 3,000 hotels in India and 2.5 lakh hotels across the globe. Among the hotels in India to which RateGain offers technological support and whose booking patterns the company had tracked include the Hyatt group and the Taj group of hotels, Marriott, Lemon Tree and Royal Orchid. Speaking to TOI, RateGain’s chief revenue officer, Apurva Chamaria, said, “We anticipate that a complete recovery in the hospitality industry will only be possible in the next three years. This is mainly because the novel coronavirus is still spreading, and in the absence of a vaccine, the traveller sentiment remains weak. In addition, lack of conformity in travel and quarantine protocols make it difficult for people to venture out.” The company said that the challenging trend is expected to continue with the pandemic affecting key tourist hubs like Goa, Rajasthan, the north-east and Karnataka. This is in contrast to global recoveries in the hospitality sector, the data suggests. While the US has seen a resumption of 67% in business, China has witnessed 66% recovery, and Germany 41% rebound in the same period as restrictions eased, India registered only a 3% recovery in week 22 of 2020 (May 25-31), rising marginally to 12% between June 29-July 5 to finally settle at 20% by August 3-9. Trends, as have been observed in various post-Covid surveys, have also pointed to domestic tourism, and the relatively smaller cities gaining traction among prospective travellers. While India’s traditional Top 10 markets — Ahmedabad, Chandigarh, Bengaluru, Chennai, Delhi-NCR, Hyderabad, Jaipur, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune — saw a drop in hotel bookings, the RateGain data suggested that the share of tier 2 and 3 towns has increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/among-top-tourism-markets-india-at-bottom-of-recovery-charts/articleshow/77699407.cms||Swati Mathur
August 23, 2020||World||Covid-19: World virus deaths top 800,000 as nations ramp up measures||PARIS: The global death toll from the new coronavirus has surpassed 800,000, according to an AFP count on Saturday, with numerous countries ramping up restrictions in an effort to battle an eruption of new cases. Western Europe, particularly Spain, Italy Germany and France, has been hit with infection levels not seen in many months, sparking fears of a fully-fledged second wave. And in Asia, South Korea became the latest country to announce it would boost restrictions to try to stem a new outbreak, after largely bringing the virus under control. Across the world, the number of deaths has doubled to just over 800,000 since June 6, with 100,000 fatalities in the last 17 days alone, while more than 23 million cases have been reported. Latin America is the region the most affected, while more than half the global fatalities have been reported in the hardest-hit United States, Brazil, Mexico and India. The surging numbers come after the UN health agency said Friday that the world should be able to rein in the pandemic in less than two years. World Health Organization chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus sought to draw favourable comparisons with the flu pandemic of 1918 which cost the lives of as many as 50 million people. "We have a disadvantage of globalisation, closeness, connectedness, but an advantage of better technology, so we hope to finish this pandemic before less than two years," he said. "(By) utilising the available tools to the maximum and hoping that we can have additional tools like vaccines, I think we can finish it in a shorter time than the 1918 flu." The WHO also recommended children over 12 years old now wear masks in the same situations as adults as the use of face coverings helps stop the virus spread. With no usable vaccine yet available, the most prominent tool governments have at their disposal is to confine their populations or enforce social distancing. South Korea announced ramped up restrictions on Saturday, after 332 new cases were reported in the past 24 hours -- the highest daily figure since early March. "We are at a very precarious stage where we could see the beginning of a nationwide second wave," Health Minister Park Neung-hoo said at a press briefing. The expanded measures include restrictions on gatherings and activities including professional sports, which will be played behind closed doors again, while beaches nationwide will close. Italy -- once the European epicentre of the virus -- said Saturday it had registered more than 1,000 new infections in the past 24 hours, the highest level since the end of a punishing lockdown in May. The story is similar across Spain, Germany and France. The Rome region also said it had recorded a record number of cases in the past 24 hours, a rise health officials blamed on people returning from holiday. Most of those infected are young people who are not showing symptoms, the Italian capital's health official Alessio D'Amato said, warning them to stay at home. "Don't feel invincible," he urged them. In Germany, a university launched a series of pop concerts under coronavirus conditions, hoping the mass experiment with 2,000 people can determine whether large events can safely resume. Elsewhere, Lebanon launched two weeks of measures on Friday including nighttime curfews, as the country is still dealing with the fallout from a huge explosion in Beirut that killed scores of people. "What now? On top of this disaster, a coronavirus catastrophe?" said 55-year-old Roxane Moukarzel. Officials fear Lebanon's fragile health system would struggle to cope with a further spike in COVID-19 cases, especially after some hospitals near the port were damaged in the explosion. The Americas have borne the brunt of the virus in health terms, accounting for more than half of the world's fatalities. "We lead the world in deaths," Joe Biden said Thursday while accepting the nomination to be the Democratic party's candidate in the US presidential election. The country has seen 176,332 deaths out of 5.7 million infections. He said he would implement a national plan to fight the pandemic on his first day in office if elected in November. New daily US cases have been trending down for weeks -- but experts are unsure if Americans will have the discipline to bring the epidemic under control. Latin American countries are counting the wider costs of the pandemic -- the region is not only suffering the most deaths, but also an expansion of criminal activity and rising poverty. Without an effective political reaction, "at a regional level we can talk about a regression of up to 10 years in the levels of multidimensional poverty", Luis Felipe Lopez-Calva of the UN Development Programme told AFP. But the WHO said the pandemic appeared to be stabilising in Brazil, and any reversal of its rampant spread in the vast country would be "a success for the world".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/covid-19-world-virus-deaths-top-800000-as-nations-ramp-up-measures/articleshow/77699419.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Gurgaon||Are we no longer afraid of Covid? Answer lies in our cultural habits||By: Jitender Dabas By any measurement, we are now right in the middle of the pandemic. The number of Indians who have been tested and confirmed with the virus is approximately 25 lakhs but the actual number, as per many experts, is higher. This month, members of the country’s cabinet have tested positive. But, what’s baffling is the response of people all around, in our neighbourhoods and on the streets. Remember the last week of March, when the nation came to a standstill and everybody locked themselves inside their homes? Now, with the number of cases up a thousand times, why are we letting our guard down, leaving medical professionals worried? Is it that most people are no longer afraid of Covid-19, or have they given up as the caseload has increased? Or both? Is there something unique to India in its response to this health emergency? What do the authorities need to understand to get people to be more compliant of measures that can prevent the further spread of the virus? We need to recognise how fear works as a force that directs behaviour, and why it isn’t working in the face of the biggest pandemic threat humanity has faced. Remember the dialogue from Sholay, ‘So ja beta, varna Gabbar aa jayega’? So, how and when did caution turn into bravado? Firstly, it’s the fear of the unknown or the exotic. Research has shown that different threats push different psychological buttons. Exotic threats like Ebola or Avian Flu raise anxiety levels higher than more familiar threats. At the same time, people often under-react to familiar threats. For example, influenza sickens as much as 20 percent of the population every year, and kills thousands. On March 24, Covid-19 was a novel and unknown enemy. So, we imagined a monster in our heads and reacted accordingly. The passage of four-and-a-half months has made it familiar, affecting its risk perception. When you imagine the worst in the beginning, anything less than that is underwhelming. Secondly, the extremes have been normalised. The economic cost of the lockdown put the government on the back foot, so it started to dial down the fear among citizens to encourage resumption of economic activities. The narrative has consciously moved away from, ‘We’re in a health crisis’, to, ‘Everything is back to normal’. The figure of 50,000 fatalities has been replaced by data pointing to a 70% recovery rate. Such signaling has acted towards over-normalising the situation, leading many to believe that, ‘All izz well’. There’s also, according to behavioural research, the effectiveness of appeals based on fear, especially one-time advice over repeated warnings. So, standing to clap on balconies or lighting diyas were easy once-only interventions compared to wearing a mask every single time for more than four months. Then there are the uniquely Indian ways of mitigating risk and fear. Fatalism and a belief in destiny among the poor, and sometimes among elders, helps negotiate fear and offer protection from their higher vulnerability. But it also creates grounds for non-compliance. ‘Jo hona hai, woh to hoga hi’ acts as a defence mechanism which then leads to poor behaviours. And when privileged people like the Big B and ministers get infected, they use that to support their own inaction (‘When they couldn’t protect themselves, how would we?’). One of the factors that has weakened the appeals of health authorities for better observance has been the uncertainty surrounding the science. The constantly changing positions of the World Health Organisation on various issues has created this ambiguity. According to Maxwell Boykoff at the University of Colorado-Boulder, USA, “Uncertainty can be reframed as scientific incompetence.” And this uncertainty is then used by sceptics or rule-breakers to justify their behaviour. Another element is tokenism. India is a culture that places a high premium on token rituals over results and evidence. Our religious practices are full of such examples which bring us fulfillment. As a result, even when it comes to hygiene conduct ranging from hand-washing to mask-wearing, we see people doing token adherence and feeling a false sense of protection. No wonder you see masks hanging around necks, whether of ministers or of common people. So, it is not surprising that we perceive a sense of calm carelessness around us as cases of Covid-19 keep mounting every day. The authorities will have to realise that the response to this negligence needs to be not only scientific and rational but also culture-sensitive, to be more effective in driving behavioural change. (The author is COO & Chief Strategy Officer, McCann World Group)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/are-we-no-longer-afraid-of-covid-answer-lies-in-our-cultural-habits/articleshow/77698585.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Gurgaon||Peddler, jail inmate held for smuggling drugs, cellphones||GURUGRAM: Two more people, including a drug peddler and a prisoner of Bhondsi jail, were arrested in connection with smuggling of drugs and mobile phone inside the jail in Gurugram. Both the accused were part of the deputy jailor’s network. Till now five people, including the deputy jailor and his son, have been arrested in the case. Deputy jailer Dharambir Chautala was caught red handed on July 23 with drug, mobile phone and SIM cards at his official residence inside the Bhondsi jail premises by the crime branch of Gurugram police. Chautala was involved in the smuggling of mobile phones and drugs inside the jail and he used to supply it to the prisoners with the help of his associates. The accused have been identified as Vijay, a drug peddler, and Praveen, a murder convict serving life imprisonment. Vijay was sourcing drugs, mobile phone and SIM cards and supplying those to Ravi alias Goldy who in turn supplied it to deputy jailer. The deputy jailer and Goldy were arrested on July 23. Deputy jailer, who was in-charge of the manufacturing unit inside the jail, was exempted from regular checking and taking advantage of it he smuggled drug, mobiles and SIM cards for the past several months. Praveen used to collect the smuggled items from the manufacturing unit and supply it to the inmates. During the lockdown, many prisoners were either shifted to other jails or were released on parole. Praveen came close to the deputy jailer and started working for him during this time. ACP (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan said that Praveen was a very important link in the deputy jailer’s network. “Praveen used to collect orders, take payments from jail inmates and update the deputy jailer. He then would take the smuggled items from the manufacturing unit of the jail and supply it to prisoners,” Sangwan said. The prisoners through their relatives would transfer money to relatives of Praveen and the latter would then pay the amount to Chautala. “The transactions were done through mobile wallets,” the ACP said, adding that the deputy jailer used to take 50% of the money and rest was distributed between Praveen, Goldy and Vijay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/peddler-jail-inmate-held-for-smuggling-drugs-cellphones/articleshow/77698630.cms||Bagish Jha
August 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: Poojappura jail turns corner as 81 inmates test Covid negative||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Prison department authorities are heaving a sigh of relief as many of the inmates of Poojappura central prison who had tested positive for Covid-19 last week returned negative results in the second round of tests. These are being conducted by officials of the district medical office. As many as 470 of the 970 inmates had tested positive for the infection in tests conducted over six days from last Wednesday to Monday. The second round of tests commenced on Friday, and in two days 81 out of a batch of 100 prisoners came in negative. Meanwhile, eight new positive cases were also reported. On Friday, 59 persons who had tested positive last Wednesday took a second test and 42 were found to be negative. The eight new cases were also reported on Friday in tests conducted on 34 inmates who had earlier tested negative. These 34 fall under the vulnerable age group of above 60 years. On Saturday, samples were taken from 41 inmates who had tested positive last Thursday. In this group, 39 were found to be negative. With this, the number of positive cases in the central prison has come down to 397. While the fresh results are good news for Poojappura prison, they are a matter of concern for Neyyatinkara sub jail, where 12 inmates tested positive – three on Friday and nine on Saturday. All 12 are actually inmates of Poojappura district jail who were shifted to the sub jail last Sunday to disinfect the district jail. In the first round of tests conducted on 144 inmates of the district jail, 36 tested positive. While the positive cases were shifted to the central jail, the remaining 88 who tested negative were shifted to the sub jail. Out of these 12 new cases, 11 were moved to central jail so that they can be monitored by the chief medical officer of the prison. One has been admitted to the Medical College Hospital as he is suffers from age-related illnesses. As many as 10 assistant prison officers and a former chief medical officer tested positive in the central jail last week. They have been admitted to Covid first-line treatment centres and are yet to take their second round of tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/poojapura-jail-turns-corner-as-81-inmates-test-covid-negative/articleshow/77699438.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Ghaziabad||102 buildings in Ghaziabad marked unsafe, 500 residents at risk||GHAZIABAD: The city has seen nearly a four-fold rise in ‘unsafe’ buildings in the past two years — from 26 in 2018 to 102 this year, as per the latest survey conducted by the Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation s(GMC). However, residents are yet to vacate many of these buildings. An estimated 500 people are currently staying at these unsafe places, officials said. The Ghaziabad municipality is, in fact, divided into five zones — City, Kavi Nagar, Vijay Nagar, Mohan Nagar and Vasundhara. The city zone has the maximum number of unsafe buildings at 38, followed by Mohan Nagar at 31, the survey has revealed. One such unsafe building is Alaknanda Tower in Vaishali, which was constructed in 1989 by the Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA). “We are living in a state of constant fear. The basement is flooded with water due to monsoon showers and plasters are peeling off almost daily,” said Amit Kumar, a resident. Close to Alaknanda Tower is Kaveri Tower, the condition of which is also dangerous. “The plasters of this multi-storied building are peeling off, its basement remains waterlogged throughout the year and the foundation has become weak. Immediate intervention is needed as several lives are at stake,” said Kamlesh Sharma, a resident. Tulsi Niketan in Sahibabad has also figured in the GMC’s unsafe list, where in October 2018, five members of a family had a narrow escape when the ceiling of their third-floor flat collapsed. The society was developed by GDA three decades ago but lack of maintenance led to the dilapidated condition of the buildings there. “The buildings in Tulsi Niketan are unsafe for living, but we have no option but to stay on. Authorities concerned have so far not made any serious attempts to restore them,” said Amod Singh, a resident. Authorities, on the other hand, blame residents. “In the case of Alaknanda Tower, it is the responsibility of the RWA to look after its maintenance. Last year, we got the safety audit of the building done by Jamia Millia Islamia, which suggested retro-fitting of the building. But that needs to be done by the RWA only,” said an official from GDA. “In the case of Tulsi Niketan, we had offered to build new flats, but the proposal was rejected by residents and the RWA, and in both the cases, it would be wrong to say that we did not attempt to sort out the issues,” he added. GMC chief engineer Moinuddin said, “Despite serving notices, many have refused to vacate the buildings. This is a Catch-22 situation for us because we do not want to use force to get the buildings vacated, but then who would be responsible in case of any accident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/102-buildings-in-gzb-marked-unsafe-500-residents-at-risk/articleshow/77698234.cms||Abhijay Jha
August 23, 2020||Gurgaon||Park dug up for guard room, green rules violated: Residents||GURUGRAM: Residents of Sector 9A in the city have alleged that their park is being dug up for construction of a guard room, which was sanctioned for the nearby Surya Nagar area. The residents also said the decision is a gross violation of green norms. The newly developed park in Sector 9A was handed over to the RWA by the MCG and no such request for the guard room was made by the residents. “Mindless waste of public money in the name of development is the real cause of all that troubles Gurugram. There is a lot of racketeering in tenders below Rs 10 lakh. A thorough, transparent and time-bound investigation should be conducted immediately,” said Lalit Suraj Bhola, general secretary, RWA (Sector 9A). The residents also said that at a time when the city is losing its green cover it is crucial to ensure that the existing green cover areas remain protected. They said that no damage should be allowed to parks and other green belts in accordance with the green norms established by the NGT. “Therefore, we have approached the MCG to restore the damage to the park immediately,” said Bhola. The residents said that the tender was passed for Surya Nagar and the work is being executed in the park of a different sector. “No guard has ever been sanctioned for any park in Sector 9A. So the guard room is out of question. Besides, structures already exist in the park for such a purpose. So, new construction is a waste of money,” said Col. Ram Singh, another resident. Meanwhile, residents approached MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh who ordered an inquiry and asked the official concerned to stop the work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/park-dug-up-for-guard-room-green-rules-violated-residents/articleshow/77698632.cms||Ipsita Pati
August 23, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad reports 77 fresh Covid cases, Noida has 98||GHAZIABAD/NOIDA: The total count of Covid-19 patients in Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar districts reached 7,126 and 7,000, respectively, on Saturday. While Ghaziabad reported 77 fresh Covid cases, Noida saw 98 cases by Saturday evening. According to reports, 67 people have succumbed to the infection in Ghaziabad, in Noida, 43 deaths have been confirmed so far. Currently, Noida has a total of 281 containment zones. According to officials, 141 Covid patients are under home isolation in Noida and Greater Noida at present, while others are in paid or government-run Covid facilities. A total of 1,66,894 samples have been collected from across the district out of which maximum tests — 10,3175 — have been conducted through antigen kits. On Friday, Ghaziabad had reported 94 fresh cases, while Noida had added 127 cases to its Covid-19 tally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/gzb-reports-77-fresh-covid-cases-noida-has-98/articleshow/77699988.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Itanagar||60 fresh cases in Arunachal, Covid count rises to 3,126||ITANAGAR: A total of 60 more people, including 14 security personnel, have tested positive for Covid-19 in Arunachal Pradesh, taking the state’s tally to 3,126, a health department official said on Saturday. Of the new cases, 14 were reported from the Capital Complex region, 11 from Changlang, 10 from West Kameng, five from East Siang and four each from East Kameng and Namsai. Three fresh cases each were detected in West Siang and Tawang, two each in Papum Pare, Lower Siang and Pakke Kessang districts, state surveillance officer Dr L Jampa said. “Fourteen paramilitary personnel five from East Siang, three e ach from West Kameng, East Kameng and Tawang districts are among the new patients,” he said. Barring three, all of them are asymptomatic and have been shifted to Covid Care Centres, he said. A total of 32 people were discharged from hospitals on Friday, taking the total number of recoveries to 2,125 in the state. Arunachal Pradesh has 996 active cases at present, while five patients have died due to Covid-19 so far, he said. West Kameng district has the highest number of active cases at 165, followed by the Capital Complex region at 128, Lohit at 98, East Siang and Changlang at 94 each, Upper Subansiri at 90, Jampa said. A total of 1,655 people, including 647 security personnel, have tested positive for the infection in the state since August 1, the official said. The recovery rate in the state currently stands at 67.97 per cent, and 1,343 people have been cured of Covid-19 since the beginning of this month, Jampa said. The state has so far tested 1,38,913 samples for the infection, including 2,815 on Friday, he added. Meanwhile, health Secretary P Parthiban said that of the total Covid-19 cases in Arunachal Pradesh, 40% of the infected are the Armed forces personnel. “Whenever they enter the state, the tests are done free of cost by the state government. The Covid care centre and the dedicated Covid hospitals are all open to the paramilitary forces,” the official said. He said submitting to antigen test at the entry gate, along with five days of home quarantine or institutional quarantine, are compulsory for the people entering the state from other states of the country. “The health department will not compromise with the standard operating procedure,” the secretary said. He added that the state government has ordered one lakh more antigen test kits and they are expected to arrive within the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/itanagar/60-fresh-cases-in-arunachal-covid-count-rises-to-3126/articleshow/77703507.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Noida||Ghaziabad reports 77 fresh Covid cases, Noida has 98||GHAZIABAD/NOIDA: The total count of Covid-19 patients in Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar districts reached 7,126 and 7,000, respectively, on Saturday. While Ghaziabad reported 77 fresh Covid cases, Noida saw 98 cases by Saturday evening. According to reports, 67 people have succumbed to the infection in Ghaziabad, in Noida, 43 deaths have been confirmed so far. Currently, Noida has a total of 281 containment zones. According to officials, 141 Covid patients are under home isolation in Noida and Greater Noida at present, while others are in paid or government-run Covid facilities. A total of 1,66,894 samples have been collected from across the district out of which maximum tests — 10,3175 — have been conducted through antigen kits. On Friday, Ghaziabad had reported 94 fresh cases, while Noida had added 127 cases to its Covid-19 tally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/gzb-reports-77-fresh-covid-cases-noida-has-98/articleshow/77698237.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kolkata||Digital corrections leave teachers stressed out, lead to eye problems||Kolkata: Behind the smiling face of almost every schoolteacher in an online class lies a person who is completely stressed out trying to balance teaching and correcting volumes of assignments and answer scripts that digitally pile up in his/her mailbox every day. Volumes of corrections are not new to teachers, but doing it digitally by continuously staring at the screen has had its effect on them, many of whom are suffering from redness and watering of eyes, frequent headaches and migraine attacks, posture related aches, aggravation of spondylosis and lack of sleep related problems. Principals across city schools say that they are leading a battery of stressed-out souls who are just as gallant as the Covid warrior healthworkers. Madhumita Sarkar, who has been teaching for decades, says that eye burn is a new normal for her and most of her colleagues now as corrections stretch deep into the night. “It is not enough to tick or cross answers but one has to write down why an answer is wrong, which is difficult to do digitally. So this adds to the stress,” said the teacher of English at La Martiniere for Boys. Some of her colleagues are now graduating to touch-screen laptops that allow one to use digital pens for corrections. “But not everybody has the right kind of gadget and many are struggling with corrections on small screens of their mobiles and are having to write comments against each child’s work using their fingertips. So, many have developed eye problems already,” said Souvic Jati, academic co-ordinator of Heritage School. Take the cases of Dhritiman Mitra or Sharmishtha Palit, both teachers of Asian International School, who have developed serious eye problems, said principal of the school, Vijaylakshmi Kumar. “Most are choosing late night slot for corrections because they are occupied with school work most of the day,” she added. Similar stories poured in from the six Loreto schools and Don Bosco Park Circus. “I am asking teachers to go slow, do periodic eye exercises, stretching etc,” said Father Bikash Mondal, principal of Don Bosco Park Circus. Kaveri Dutt, co-ordinator of Loreto schools in the city, said: “Every teacher tries her best to hide their strain behind that smiling face during the online classes,” Dutt said. “I am advising patients to use anti-glare films on their computer screens and spectacles whether they have power or not. Use of artificial tears also help,” said Kajol Ghosh, a senior eye surgeon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/digital-corrections-leave-teachers-stressed-out-lead-to-eye-problems/articleshow/77697627.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 23, 2020||Ghaziabad||2031 Infra plan to help tackle pandemics||GHAZIABAD: To built the city’s infrastructure to tackle any emergency in future, the NCR planning cell is thinking of including Covid-like pandemic to its existing disaster list while preparing the city’s Master Plan 2031. Till now, disasters like earthquakes, and floods were on the list and city’s infrastructure planning was chalked out keeping in mind exigencies arising out of them. “We recently concluded a virtual meeting with experts from the Institute of Town Planners, in which emphasis was laid on planning the city in a manner that its infrastructure proves sufficient to handle crisis arising out of any pandemic like the one which is unfolding now, ” said SC Gaud, the chief coordinator of the NCR planning cell. “Although the plan is still at a nascent stage and the idea will soon be shared with the state government. If we get the government’s approval, the change will be incorporated in Ghaziabad Master Plan, 2031. The process has started for the plan, ” he said adding that so far only floods, earthquake and other natural disasters were taken into account while laying out plans for the city. Gaud said, “Before Covid-19 hit the world, there was no reference to terms like quarantine centre and isolation ward. But today, we see how important they are. Due to the lack of any such facility, we are being forced to convert hotels and other public places into make-shift quarantine centres and isolation wards. But we now plan to allocate space for such facilities.” The officials said that not only the pandemic but even the lockdown had caught the city unaware. As thousands of migrant labourers lost their jobs, there was hardly any place that could give them shelter. “This aspect was also discussed and there were suggestions that we could augment infrastructure to accommodate such a large influx of migrant labourers when needed,” Gaud added. Open spaces near populated areas should also be planned, along with hospitals that should be at every 1.5km distance, officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/31-infra-plan-to-help-tackle-pandemics/articleshow/77698294.cms||Abhijay Jha
August 23, 2020||Delhi||Rapid urban growth in Delhi hits recharge zones||NEW DELHI: Around a third of urban land developed in Delhi between 2000 and 2015 fell in high recharge potential zones, thereby rendering the soil there impermeable to water and considerably reducing the groundwater recharge potential. The change in built-up covered area calculated in an on-going research project by World Resources Institute (WRI) India is an increase of 745 square kilometres within a 50-kilometre radius from the centre of the city, of which 33% are sited in high recharge zones. The study defined high recharge zones as catchment areas of stormwater drains or parts of drainage channels, as well as low-lying vegetation areas. If 'medium' recharge zones are considered, around 90% of the development took place in the two crucial zones within 20km of the city centre, and 92% within 20-50km from the city centre. "The development in high recharge zones, which is nearly one-third of the total, has reduced the amount of water seeping underground and that is why you are seeing more instances of flooding after rain, especially during the monsoon," said Samrat Basak, director (Urban Water), WRI India, and one of the researchers involved in the study. Of the 10 most populous cities assessed in the study - Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Jaipur, Kolkata, Mumbai, Pune and Surat - the Karnataka capital fared the worst, recording nearly 75% of its development in high and very high recharge potential zones. "Spaces like lakes, wetlands and forests function as natural infrastructure to absorb storm water, and reduce runoff volume and speed, thus reducing flood risk. Destruction and encroachment of these spaces deteriorate the natural flood defence of cities," said the study, which includes WRI researchers Sahana Goswami, Aakash Malik and Raj Bhagat. Overall, Delhi added 745 sq km of built-up area in the 15 years being reviewed. Of this, 590 sq km were in a 20-50 km radius from the city centre, representing an increase of 116% since 2000. In comparison, there was only a 22% increase within a 0-20km radius from the city centre. Bhagat, who also carried out a geospatial analysis of the capital using satellite data, said concretisation robbed several stretches in Delhi of any presence of even a single tree because of the rise of unauthorised colonies and rapid development. A journey between New Seelampur and Shiv Vihar in east Delhi detected two trees along the 11km distance, the geospatial analysis found. "As more areas gets concretised, the groundwater recharge potential gets reduced. So even with development, it is important to ensure there are trees and green cover," said Bhagat. "There needs to be a way for rainwater to run off to and for natural vegetation and trees not to be impeded by concretisation."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rapid-urban-growth-in-delhi-hits-recharge-zones/articleshow/77699468.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 23, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Sohna Road flyover span splits and crashes, residents say felt tremors||GURUGRAM: A nearly 130-foot span of a flyover under construction in the heart of the city split from the middle and collapsed late on Saturday, injuring two workers, who were on the adjacent pier and fell on top of the collapsed portion. The broken span is part of the 6km elevated road being built along Sohna Road as part of the Gurugram-Sohna-Alwar highway project, originating from Rajiv Chowk. The construction of the flyover is near the halfway mark. The collapse triggered a scare along the densely populated Sohna Road with several housing societies located on either side of the flyover, which is being built along the central verge. Some took the crashing noise to be an earthquake. Those in societies near the collapse site said they felt tremors as well. Many rushed out to balconies to find a thick cloud of dust enveloping the road. “I live on the sixth floor and I felt very heavy tremors. I thought it might be an earthquake. I went out and saw that it was actually a portion of the flyover that had collapsed,” said Sunil Pachar, a resident of Vipul Greens. The span that came down had recently been attached to main viaduct of the flyover just opposite the compound of Sispal Vihar. DCP (HQ) Nitika Gahlaut, who was among the first to reach the spot after the span collapsed at 10.15pm, said police had immediately cordoned off the area while work to clear the debris began. “The flyover is being constructed in the middle of the road, so it did not affect traffic movement on either side,” said Gahlaut. State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and civil defence teams were deployed at the spot. The collapse comes after severe waterlogging was reported across the city earlier this week after a heavy downpour on Wednesday, leading to roads caving in at some spots and three buildings in various parts of the city tilting. An assessment of the cause of the flyover span’s collapse was not available at the time of writing the report. An eyewitness said the two workers injured were engaged in welding work on the adjacent pier and fell into the broken portion. No details were available on the nature of their injuries. Fortunately, there was no one under the viaduct in the affected area. Sachin Srivas was returning home after completing his shift at a medical store when the span came down right before his eyes. “I was near the Sispal Vihar gates when the flyover collapsed. It made a huge bang and kicked up a dense cloud of dust. It took several minutes for the dust cloud to settle and visibility to return,” said Srivas. Birish Mishra, a guard on duty at a nearby society, also saw the span crashing. “I was standing across the road when it happened. It collapsed in a fraction of a second. No one had any time to react,” said Mishra, adding there was little traffic on the road at the time. An official of Oriental Structural Engineers Pvt Ltd, the company in charge of construction, said the span had been attached to pillar numbers 11 and 12 and was cast around 15 days ago. The midsection, where the span fell, was barricaded from both the sides for construction work, the official added. “We received a message around 10.20 pm about the collapse. Thankfully, no lives were lost. Our engineers have been called to the spot to assess the structural damage,” said the official. Sources said since the span was recently cast, it needed some time to gain strength and the heavy downpour might have been one of the causes of the damage. The project official said a thorough scientific investigation would ascertain the cause of the collapse. “It is only after the investigation that we can come to a conclusion,” the official added. Being built at an overall cost of around Rs 1,300 crore, the elevated road is one of the biggest infrastructure projects currently under way in the city. Once built, it will reduce the Gurugram-Alwar drive to under two hours. The elevated portion of the project connects Rajiv Chowk with Badshapur area and is meant to decongest Sohna Road while providing better connectivity to the new sectors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/sohna-road-flyover-span-splits-and-crashes-people-in-nearby-societies-feel-tremors/articleshow/77698715.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Noida||More compensation for Jewar villagers||GREATER NOIDA: Residents of Jewar Bangar village are eligible for an additional Rs 158 over and above what was declared as the compensation amount for a sqm of land acquired for rehabilitating families directly affected by the Jewar international airport project, according to a fresh notification. Landowners will now get compensation at Rs 2,838 per sqm, instead of Rs 2,680 per sqm fixed earlier, officials said. The additional Rs 158 per sqm will have to be paid since it has been 360 days from the time the state government had notified the acquisition of 48.1 hectares for rehabilitating the families displaced by the Jewar airport project. Under the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 12% annual interest needs to be paid to the families on the compensation amount from the time notification is issued. Among all the places where land has been acquired for the construction of Jewar airport, Jewar Bangar has secured the highest rate of compensation so far. Families from the six villages, which came directly under the project, were awarded compensation at the rate of Rs 2,300 for a sqm last year. Additional district magistrate (land acquisition), Balram Singh said that so far, 58 people in Jewar Bangar have applied for compensation in lieu of their land. “The rate awarded in Jewar Bangar is higher since its circle rate was also higher than the other villages. Jewar Bangar is close to the urbanised part of Jewar tehsil. It is also closer to the state highways and major roads.” “The prevailing circle rate in Jewar Bangar was Rs 1,340 per sqm. Two times the circle rate is offered under the act. The circle rate of the other villages was close to Rs 900 for a sqmt,” he added. Meanwhile, Jewar tehsildar Durgesh Singh said that Rs 1,800 per sqm was initially awarded to people from the six villages. “The state government announced an additional Rs 500 for them and hence, they got Rs 2,300,” he said. Jewar Bangar would be developed into a town to rehabilitate 3,627 families that will be displaced by the Jewar airport project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/more-compensation-for-jewar-villagers/articleshow/77698355.cms||---
August 23, 2020||World||Protests against Israeli PM continue with momentum||JERUSALEM: Thousands of Israelis protested outside the prime minister's official residence Saturday as summer-long demonstrations against Benjamin Netanyahu maintained their momentum. The protesters want the embattled Netanyahu to give up his post while he is on trial for corruption charges. The government's mishaps in handling the coronavirus crisis after relative success in its early stages has also fueled the demonstrations. Saturday's protest comes ahead of Tuesday's deadline in which the coalition government must agree on a budget plan or trigger new elections that would be the fourth in just over a year. Ignoring police suggestions for alternative routes, the protesters marched from several parts of Jerusalem through key roads trying to reach Netanyahu's residence on Balfour Street. Outside the residence, they hoisted giant balloons depicting smeared heads of Netanyahu and his rival-turned-coalition partner Benny Gantz of the centrist Blue and White party, waved Israeli flags and the black flag of one of the grassroot protest movements. A sign read “Balfour is in our hands,” referring to the residence address. Other signs called on Netanyahu to quit and a placard described him as “Crime Minister.” Last week, Netanyahu announced a US-brokered deal to normalize ties with the United Arab Emirates, making it the third Arab country to establish full relations with Israel. The historic breakthrough has not helped calm the demonstrations against him. Netanyahu has rejected calls to step down while he is on trial and claimed the protests are the work of leftists and the media. Israel appeared to contain the pandemic in its first phase last spring, but the quick reopening of the economy led to a spike in cases. Over 100,000 Israelis have tested positive for the virus. The pandemic has caused unemployment numbers to hover over 20%. Netanyahu was charged last year with bribery, fraud and breach of trust in three long-running corruption investigations. In January, the trial will move to a witness phase with three sessions a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/protests-against-israeli-pm-continue-with-momentum/articleshow/77699466.cms||---
August 23, 2020||World||Tunisia to launch Covid-19 vaccine in early 2021||TUNIS: Hechmi Louzir, director general of the Pasteur Institute of Tunis (IPT), said that the vaccine against the coronavirus is expected to be fully ready in Tunisia in early 2021. "This DNA-based vaccine would strengthen the immune system," Louzir told Shems FM Radio. He added that the effectiveness of the vaccine "will also depend on compliance with preventive measures against the virus", Xinhua news agency reported on Saturday. "Once the vaccine is proven to be effective, articles will be published in scientific journals during November and December," the health official explained. On Tuesday, Louzir announced that a team from the IPT has started working on a vaccine against COVID-19 based on DNA technology. The IPT is a public health and scientific research center in Tunisia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/tunisia-to-launch-covid-19-vaccine-in-early-2021/articleshow/77699481.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Noida||Fresh fish business scheme finds 60 takers||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: The fisheries department in both districts have got about 60 applications from people who are interested in conducting fresh fish business. In a few months, four fish vending vehicles are likely to get launched in Ghaziabad and two have been planned for Noida. The department had floated multiple schemes last month in an attempt to boost the production of carp fish under the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana. Since then, 33 people in Noida and 27 in Ghaziabad have applied for the schemes. The applicants have shown interest in developing ponds on the outskirts of the cities for fish farming and supplying the catch through vehicles with ice boxes. “For the first time, we have introduced the concept of live fish vending. Subsidy ranging between Rs 8 lakh and Rs 12 lakh will be offered to entrepreneurs who want to sell fish through modified commercial vehicles. Six people are interested in selling fresh fish in the two districts,” said assistant director of the department, Ajay Kumar Bana. The vehicles would be designed to hold at least 100kg of fish each in a tank. A refrigerating unit to control the temperature of the tank would be fitted to the vehicle and there will be provision for oxygen circulation. After compiling the responses from across the 75 districts in the state, the Lucknow-based headquarters of the fisheries department will hold talks with commercial vehicle manufacturers for the specially-designed vehicles. The officials would also get in touch with manufacturers for developing storage tanks with refrigerating unit. The total cost per vehicle would be kept under Rs 20 lakh, out of which the department will provide 40%-60% of subsidy (it will vary in case of SC/ST and female applicants), officials said. While seven of the 60 applicants want to develop private ponds for fish farming in the two districts, four and 14 individuals want to strengthen the supply chain by adding three-wheelers and motorcycles, respectively and the rest are interested in establishing kiosks, an aqua-culture system and producing fish feed. Bana added that at least 18 applicants have no background in the business. While Ghaziabad has two registered fish markets, Gautam Budh Nagar does not have any. The two districts have to rely on private suppliers and Ghazipur mandi in Delhi is the primary source. The fisheries department promotes breeding and farming of six varieties of fish - three Indian carps (rohu, catla, mrigal) and three exotic carps – common carp, silver carp and grass carp. “It is difficult to get fresh fish in Noida. Most vendors bring in fish caught a day in advance. Although it is supplied in cold chain, it does not feel the same as buying fresh fish from the market. I think the live fish vans would be extremely popular,” said Moumita Biswas, a resident of Hyde Park in Sector 78.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/fresh-fish-biz-scheme-finds-60-takers/articleshow/77698376.cms||Shalabh
August 23, 2020||Ghaziabad||Fresh fish business scheme finds 60 takers||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: The fisheries department in both districts have got about 60 applications from people who are interested in conducting fresh fish business. In a few months, four fish vending vehicles are likely to get launched in Ghaziabad and two have been planned for Noida. The department had floated multiple schemes last month in an attempt to boost the production of carp fish under the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana. Since then, 33 people in Noida and 27 in Ghaziabad have applied for the schemes. The applicants have shown interest in developing ponds on the outskirts of the cities for fish farming and supplying the catch through vehicles with ice boxes. “For the first time, we have introduced the concept of live fish vending. Subsidy ranging between Rs 8 lakh and Rs 12 lakh will be offered to entrepreneurs who want to sell fish through modified commercial vehicles. Six people are interested in selling fresh fish in the two districts,” said assistant director of the department, Ajay Kumar Bana. The vehicles would be designed to hold at least 100kg of fish each in a tank. A refrigerating unit to control the temperature of the tank would be fitted to the vehicle and there will be provision for oxygen circulation. After compiling the responses from across the 75 districts in the state, the Lucknow-based headquarters of the fisheries department will hold talks with commercial vehicle manufacturers for the specially-designed vehicles. The officials would also get in touch with manufacturers for developing storage tanks with refrigerating unit. The total cost per vehicle would be kept under Rs 20 lakh, out of which the department will provide 40%-60% of subsidy (it will vary in case of SC/ST and female applicants), officials said. While seven of the 60 applicants want to develop private ponds for fish farming in the two districts, four and 14 individuals want to strengthen the supply chain by adding three-wheelers and motorcycles, respectively and the rest are interested in establishing kiosks, an aqua-culture system and producing fish feed. Bana added that at least 18 applicants have no background in the business. While Ghaziabad has two registered fish markets, Gautam Budh Nagar does not have any. The two districts have to rely on private suppliers and Ghazipur mandi in Delhi is the primary source. The fisheries department promotes breeding and farming of six varieties of fish - three Indian carps (rohu, catla, mrigal) and three exotic carps – common carp, silver carp and grass carp. “It is difficult to get fresh fish in Noida. Most vendors bring in fish caught a day in advance. Although it is supplied in cold chain, it does not feel the same as buying fresh fish from the market. I think the live fish vans would be extremely popular,” said Moumita Biswas, a resident of Hyde Park in Sector 78.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/fresh-fish-biz-scheme-finds-60-takers/articleshow/77699943.cms||Shalabh
August 23, 2020||World||TikTok says to sue over Trump crackdown||NEW YORK: Video app TikTok said Saturday it will challenge in court a Trump administration crackdown on the popular Chinese-owned service, which Washington accuses of being a national security threat. As tensions soar between the world's two biggest economies, US President Donald Trump signed an executive order on August 6 giving Americans 45 days to stop doing business with TikTok's Chinese parent company ByteDance -- effectively setting a deadline for a potential pressured sale of the viral video sensation to a US company. "Even though we strongly disagree with the Administration's concerns, for nearly a year we have sought to engage in good faith to provide a constructive solution. What we encountered instead was a lack of due process as the Administration paid no attention to facts and tried to insert itself into negotiations between private businesses," TikTok said in a statement. "To ensure that the rule of law is not discarded and that our company and users are treated fairly, we have no choice but to challenge the Executive Order through the judicial system," it said, adding it expects to file its suit next week. TikTok's kaleidoscopic feeds of short video clips feature everything from hair-dye tutorials to dance routines and jokes about daily life. It has been downloaded 175 million times in the US and more than a billion times around the world. Trump claims TikTok could be used by China to track the locations of federal employees, build dossiers on people for blackmail, and conduct corporate espionage. The company has said it has never provided any US user data to the Chinese government, and Beijing has blasted Trump's crackdown as political. The US measures come ahead of November 3 elections in which Trump, who is behind his rival Joe Biden in the polls, is campaigning hard on an increasingly strident anti-Beijing message. Trump has increasingly taken a confrontational stance on China, challenging it on trade, military and economic fronts. Shortly after Trump announced his moves against TikTok in early August, the United States slapped sanctions on Hong Kong's leader over the Chinese security clampdown after last year's pro-democracy demonstrations. Microsoft and Oracle are possible suitors for TikTok's US operations. Reports have said Oracle -- whose chairman Larry Ellison has raised millions in campaign funds for Trump -- was weighing a bid for TikTok's operations in the US, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. The Trump administration has also given ByteDance a 90-day deadline to divest in TikTok before the app is banned in the United States. The measures move away from the long-promoted American ideal of a global, open internet and could invite other countries to follow suit, analysts told AFP previously. "It's really an attempt to fragment the internet and the global information society along US and Chinese lines, and shut China out of the information economy," Milton Mueller, a Georgia Tech professor and founder of the Internet Governance Project said previously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/tiktok-says-to-sue-over-trump-crackdown/articleshow/77699497.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Faridabad||Yamunanagar in lead, Haryana reports 1,161 Covid-19 cases||CHANDIGARH: With highest tally of the day of 157 new patients and three deaths, Yamunanagar the district bordering Uttar Pardesh, on Saturday emerged as the hotspot in the state. Overall, 1,161 new patients and 12 deaths took Haryana’s nCov count to 53,290 patients and 597 deaths. The doubling rate remained stable at 33 days. The recoveries appeared to be low as total 600 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state. With this the overall recoveries have gone upto 44,013, with a recovery rate of 82.59%. At present, there are 8,680 active patients, including 217 critical patients. 189 are on oxygen support and rest 28 are on ventilators in various Covid centres across the state. After Yamuanangar, Gurugram reported maximum 102 new patients on Saturday, which took the district total tally to 10,872, and 131 deaths. There are 818 active patients there, while the rest have been discharged from the hospitals. Faridabad reported 97 new patients, with the district total going up to 11,627, with 169 deaths so far. 10,777 recovies so far have contained active cases to 690. Karnal district reported 91 patients, this wss followed by 90 new patients in Ambala where the tally reached 3,051. Panipat reported 78 new patients and one death. Panchkula reported 66 new patients and one death. Kaithal saw a surge of 65 new patients, while Rewari reported 62 new patients. Kurukshetra reported 51 new patients and two deaths. Sirsa reported 33 new patients and one death, followed by 32 in Fatehabad, and 31 in Bhiwani district. Mahindergarh reported 22 new patients, followed by 19 new patients and one death in Jind. 18 new patients were detected in Palwal and 13 new patients and one death in Jhajjar. Nuh reported the lowest of four patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/yamunanagar-in-lead-haryana-reports-1161-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77699529.cms||Manvir Saini
August 23, 2020||Gurgaon||Yamunanagar in lead, Haryana reports 1,161 Covid-19 cases||CHANDIGARH: With highest tally of the day of 157 new patients and three deaths, Yamunanagar the district bordering Uttar Pardesh, on Saturday emerged as the hotspot in the state. Overall, 1,161 new patients and 12 deaths took Haryana’s nCov count to 53,290 patients and 597 deaths. The doubling rate remained stable at 33 days. The recoveries appeared to be low as total 600 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state. With this the overall recoveries have gone upto 44,013, with a recovery rate of 82.59%. At present, there are 8,680 active patients, including 217 critical patients. 189 are on oxygen support and rest 28 are on ventilators in various Covid centres across the state. After Yamuanangar, Gurugram reported maximum 102 new patients on Saturday, which took the district total tally to 10,872, and 131 deaths. There are 818 active patients there, while the rest have been discharged from the hospitals. Faridabad reported 97 new patients, with the district total going up to 11,627, with 169 deaths so far. 10,777 recovies so far have contained active cases to 690. Karnal district reported 91 patients, this wss followed by 90 new patients in Ambala where the tally reached 3,051. Panipat reported 78 new patients and one death. Panchkula reported 66 new patients and one death. Kaithal saw a surge of 65 new patients, while Rewari reported 62 new patients. Kurukshetra reported 51 new patients and two deaths. Sirsa reported 33 new patients and one death, followed by 32 in Fatehabad, and 31 in Bhiwani district. Mahindergarh reported 22 new patients, followed by 19 new patients and one death in Jind. 18 new patients were detected in Palwal and 13 new patients and one death in Jhajjar. Nuh reported the lowest of four patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/yamunanagar-in-lead-haryana-reports-1161-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77699528.cms||Manvir Saini
August 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Yamunanagar in lead, Haryana reports 1,161 Covid-19 cases||CHANDIGARH: With highest tally of the day of 157 new patients and three deaths, Yamunanagar the district bordering Uttar Pardesh, on Saturday emerged as the hotspot in the state. Overall, 1,161 new patients and 12 deaths took Haryana’s nCov count to 53,290 patients and 597 deaths. The doubling rate remained stable at 33 days. The recoveries appeared to be low as total 600 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state. With this the overall recoveries have gone upto 44,013, with a recovery rate of 82.59%. At present, there are 8,680 active patients, including 217 critical patients. 189 are on oxygen support and rest 28 are on ventilators in various Covid centres across the state. After Yamuanangar, Gurugram reported maximum 102 new patients on Saturday, which took the district total tally to 10,872, and 131 deaths. There are 818 active patients there, while the rest have been discharged from the hospitals. Faridabad reported 97 new patients, with the district total going up to 11,627, with 169 deaths so far. 10,777 recovies so far have contained active cases to 690. Karnal district reported 91 patients, this wss followed by 90 new patients in Ambala where the tally reached 3,051. Panipat reported 78 new patients and one death. Panchkula reported 66 new patients and one death. Kaithal saw a surge of 65 new patients, while Rewari reported 62 new patients. Kurukshetra reported 51 new patients and two deaths. Sirsa reported 33 new patients and one death, followed by 32 in Fatehabad, and 31 in Bhiwani district. Mahindergarh reported 22 new patients, followed by 19 new patients and one death in Jind. 18 new patients were detected in Palwal and 13 new patients and one death in Jhajjar. Nuh reported the lowest of four patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/yamunanagar-in-lead-haryana-reports-1161-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77699524.cms||Manvir Saini
August 23, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh reports 4 Covid-19 deaths, toll rises to 27||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh on Saturday recorded four Covid deaths — three in Solan district and one in Mandi — taking the count of persons dying from infection to 27 in the state, with 10 fatalities reported in the last four days. The state also reported 167 fresh cases during the day, pushing the tally of positive cases so far to 4,895, of which 1,478 are active cases, 3,341 have recovered, 47 moved out to other states and the remaining succumbed. A total of 107 patients also recovered on Saturday. The latest fatalities include a 75-year-old female patient from Baddi in Solan, who died in a Shimla hospital; a 55-year-old male heart patient, who was tested positive after his death at Community Health Centre, Nalagarh; and an 80-year-old Covid patient from Sardwara in Balh region of Mandi. Solan and Kangra districts have reported five coronavirus deaths each, Chamba three, Hamirpur four, Mandi seven, Shimla two and Sirmaur has seen one death. Of the new positive cases, maximum 53 were reported in Solan district, 43 in Bilaspur, 26 in Hamirpur district, 17 in Kangra, eight in Kullu, six surfaced in Shimla, five in Mandi district, four in Kinnaur, two in Chamba and one each in Lahaul-Spiti, Sirmaur and Una districts. Recovery of maximum 29 patients was reported from Solan district, followed by 17 in Sirmaur, 14 in Hamirpur, 12 in Kullu, 11in Mandi, seven in Una, six in Kinnaur, five each in Kangra and Shimla districts, and one in Chamba district. Until Saturday, a total of 192,580 persons had been tested, of whom 187,102 were tested negative, while the results of 583 samples were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-pradesh-reports-4-covid-19-deaths-toll-rises-to-27/articleshow/77699553.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: NCL’s big leap in fight against MDR-malaria||PUNE: As the world races to find a suitable drug to combat Covid-19, Pune-based CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory (CSIRNCL) researchers have claimed a potential breakthrough in anti-malarial medicine research by inventing a robust drug candidate to combat multidrug-resistant (MDR) ‘Plasmodium falciparum’ strains, the parasites that cause malaria. The new drug candidate was recently granted a world patent, CSIR-NCL researchers . The researchers involved in the study said the new compounds had shown better efficacy than the presently used anti-malarial drugs, such as chloroquine and artemisinin, against the malaria-causing parasite. The NCL researchers, in collaboration with the International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnolog, New Delhi, developed the new drug candidate by combining artemisinin with other molecules. NCL’s big leap in fight against MDR-malariaLead researcher Asish Bhattacharya from the Organic Chemistry Division of CSIR-NCL, Pune, told TOI, “The new compound effectively inhibits the survival of the ring-stage parasite and shows its complete clearance by cutting its food source and killing it by inhibiting falcipain-2, which is an enzyme that helps the parasite to degrade the infected human’s haemoglobin to make its own food. The discovery will contribute significantly towards the global effort to eradicate malaria. These lead compounds can be developed as effective antimalarials to prevent the spread of resistance to currently available anti-malarials.” Bhattacharya said, “After artemisinin, no new anti-malarial drug has come into the market or is undergoing clinical trials at present worldwide. The fear is that since the parasite is very clever and can mutate in the course of years, it can develop resistance against this drug as well. We designed and synthesized a hybrid molecule of artemisinin with another molecule, which kills the parasite by cutting its food source. In this scenario, since the new drug candidate cuts off the parasite’s food source by stopping haemoglobin degradation, it also effectively undertakes complete parasite clearance. Due to its novel mode of action, it can prevent the spread of resistance,” he said. Bhattacharya said the new candidate can be used as an effective drug to prevent resistance to current anti-malarials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-ncls-big-leap-in-fight-against-mdr-malaria/articleshow/77699554.cms||Neha Madaan
August 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Acupressure practitioner duped of Rs 12 lakh||PUNE: An acupressure practitioner lodged a complaint with the Kothrud police on Friday against three men for cheating him of Rs 12.06 lakh in May 2019 at his clinic One suspect posed as a senior Indian Revenue Services officer, while the other two were his driver and bodyguard . During the suspect’s treatment in May 2019, he said he was an IRS officer with Telangana. He said Telangana state was auctioning high-end SUVs that were seized and said there was a flat for sale in Kharadi. He promised to help the practitioner procure an SUV and allot him the flat. He told him to transfer Rs 12.06 lakh as initial amount. After getting the money, the trio stopped answering his calls. The practitioner then realized he had been cheated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-acupressure-practitioner-duped-of-rs-12-lakh/articleshow/77699590.cms||---
August 23, 2020||World||California seeks help as wildfires threaten communities||SACRAMENTO, Calif.: Nearly two dozen massive wildfires continued to ravage parts of California on Saturday, fueled by high temperatures and ongoing lightning strikes, including 100 that hit on Friday, the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (CalFire) said. The fires have killed six people and incinerated nearly 700 buildings since beginning after an earlier lightning storm last week. Together, the blazes have burned nearly a million acres, the agency said Saturday. Wildfire is threatening parts of the San Francisco Bay Area, the forested region near the University of California at Santa Cruz and a wide swath of the area between San Francisco and the state capital of Sacramento. Nearly 14,000 firefighters have been deployed to the blazes, but containment of the largest ones remains low and the state has requested additional support from other states and local jurisdictions in California, CalFire said Saturday. "They're scrambling for bodies" to help fight the fires, said Jay Tracy, a fire marshal with the city of Fresno who was deployed as a spokesman for the LNU fire complex, which had burned 314,000 acres in five counties, including some of the state's storied wine country and communities between San Francisco and Sacramento. Firefighters have improved containment of the southern edge of that fire, but winds are expected to push it northwest toward the wine country towns of Healdsburg and Guernville, he said. Local agencies like his are limited in how many reinforcements they can send to help state firefighters because many are still needed at home, while the sheer volume of fires burning in the state have stretched resources, Tracy said. Additional lightning storms are expected later this weekend, and the danger of new or growing wildfire is extreme, CalFire spokesman Daniel Berlant said. The fires increased modestly in size on Saturday after more than doubling on Friday, becoming some of the largest in state history and threatening small towns in the path of the flames. In addition to the fatalities, 43 firefighters and civilians have been hurt. Including smaller blazes, crews are fighting a total of 560 wildfires across the state, California Governor Gavin Newsom said Friday. Evacuations have been ordered in numerous regions. About 175,000 people were told to leave their homes, although many in the community around Vacaville between Sacramento and San Francisco have been allowed to return. In Santa Cruz, a city of around 65,000 people on California's central coast, residents were told to prepare "go bags" as bulldozers cut fire lines and flames came within a mile of the University of California Santa Cruz campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/california-seeks-help-as-wildfires-threaten-communities/articleshow/77699587.cms||---
August 23, 2020||World||South Korea reports biggest rise in coronavirus cases since March||SEOUL: South Korea reported its highest daily rise in novel coronavirus cases since early March on Sunday, as outbreaks continued to spread from a Seoul church and from political demonstrations its members had attended. The Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (KCDC) reported 397 new infections as of midnight Saturday, up from the previous day's 332 and marking more than a week of daily three-digit rises. That brings South Korea's total to 17,399 infections of the new coronavirus with 309 COVID-19 deaths, it said. From Sunday the government imposed second-tier social-distancing rules in areas outside Seoul, banning in-person church meetings and closing nightclubs, buffets and cyber cafes. Health authorities say they may eventually deploy the toughest stage 3 social-distancing rules, where schools and business are urged to close, if the rate of increase in new infections does not slow soon. On social media, mothers posted notes saying they have cancelled vacation plans to nearby hotels and the southern resort island of Jeju to comply with government guidelines. On Friday, health authorities said South Korea's coronavirus infections are back "in full swing" as hundreds of infections have started to come out from the Sarang Jeil Presbyterian Church run by a far-right preacher. Members of the church attending an anti-government protest in Seoul on Aug. 15 have also led to new cases across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/south-korea-reports-biggest-rise-in-coronavirus-cases-since-march/articleshow/77699673.cms||---
August 23, 2020||World||Trump's sister calls him 'cruel', 'liar' on secret recordings: Report||WASHINGTON: Donald Trump's sister described the US president as cruel and a liar whose lack of principles meant he could not be trusted, according to a secretly-made recordings published Saturday. It was the latest unflattering insider account to target the president, only instead of a jilted aide or business associate, it was from one of his closest relatives. Maryanne Trump Barry slammed her brother over his immigration policy that saw children separated from their parents at the border and sent to detention centers. "All he wants to do is appeal to his base," she said in recordings obtained by the Washington Post. "He has no principles. None." "His goddamned tweet and lying, oh my God." The recordings were secretly made by the president's niece Mary Trump, who published last month a bombshell memoir of the "toxic family" that produced him. The president's younger brother Robert, who died last week, went to court to try to block its publication, arguing that Mary was violating a non-disclosure agreement signed in 2001 after the settlement of her grandfather's estate, but to no avail. Some 950,000 copies were sold the day of the memoir's release, with the White House branding the memoir as a "book of falsehoods". At one point in the recordings, Barry said to her niece: "It's the phoniness of it all. It's the phoniness and this cruelty. Donald is cruel." The recordings also shed light on the source of an embarrassing claim in the memoir that the president paid someone to take a college entrance exam for him. "He got into University of Pennsylvania because he had somebody take the exams," Barry said, adding she even remembered the man's name. The president or the White House did not immediately comment on the recordings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trumps-sister-calls-him-cruel-liar-on-secret-recordings-report/articleshow/77699701.cms||---
August 23, 2020||World||2 tropical storms heading for double blow to US Gulf Coast||SAN JUAN: Two tropical storms advanced across the Caribbean on Saturday night as potentially historic threats to the U.S. Gulf Coast, one dumping rain on Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands while the other was pushing through the gap between Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula and Cuba. Tropical Storms Laura and Marco were both projected to approach Louisiana at or close to hurricane force just two days apart next week. A hurricane watch was issued for the New Orleans metro area, which was pummeled by Hurricane Katrina in August 2005. Two hurricanes have never appeared in the Gulf of Mexico at the same time, according to records going back to at least 1900, said Colorado State University hurricane researcher Phil Klotzbach. The last time two tropical storms were in the Gulf together was in 1959, he said. The last time two storms made landfall in the United States within 24 hours of each other was in 1933, Klotzbach said. The projected tracks from the U.S. National Hurricane Center on Saturday afternoon pointed to both storms being together in the Gulf on Monday, with Marco hitting Louisiana and Laura making landfall in the same general area Wednesday. But large uncertainties remain for that time span, and forecasts have varied greatly so far for the two storms. “We are in unprecedented times,” Mississippi Gov. Tate Reeves said at a news conference Saturday as he declared a state of emergency. “We are dealing with not only two potential storms in the next few hours, we are also dealing with COVID-19.” He urged residents to prepare for the storms and, if possible, find places to evacuate that are not public shelters. A hurricane watch was issued for Intracoastal City, Louisiana, eastward to the Mississippi-Alabama border. People in Louisiana headed to stores to stock up on food, water and other supplies. Raymond Monday of Gretna, though, had only a generator on his cart at Sam's Club. “We've got a freezer full of food” at home, along with large containers of water, he said. Laura flung rain across Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands on Saturday and was expected to drench the Dominican Republic, Haiti and parts of Cuba through Sunday on its westward course. Puerto Rico Gov. Wanda Vázquez declared a state of emergency and warned that flooding could be worse than what Tropical Storm Isaias unleashed three weeks ago because the ground is now saturated. The storm knocked down trees in the island's southern region, and left more than 200,000 clients without power and more than 10,000 without water across the U.S. territory. “No one should be out on the streets,” she said. Officials said they were most concerned about the thousands of people in Puerto Rico who still have been living under blue tarps since 2017's Hurricane Maria and the hundreds of families living along the island's southern coast in homes damaged by a string of strong earthquakes this year. The storm was centered about 85 miles (135) kilometers east-southeast of Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, on Saturday night, with maximum sustained winds of 50 mph (85 kph). It was moving west at 18 mph (30 kph). As the storm approached Hispaniola, crews in the Dominican Republic began evacuating dozens of families in flood-prone areas. Marco, meanwhile, was strengthening while centered about 75 miles (120 kilometers) west-northwest of Cuba's western tip, headed to the north-northwest at 13 mph (20 kph). It had maximum sustained winds of 65 mph (100 kph) and was expected to become a hurricane later Saturday. Carlos Joaquín González, governor of Mexico's Quintana Roo state, celebrated that Marco's changed trajectory spared his state's beaches, including those in Cancun, the country's top tourist destination. The National Hurricane Center said it expected the storms to stay far enough apart to prevent direct interaction as the region braces for the peak of the Atlantic hurricane season, which is forecast to be unusually active. Both storms were expected to bring 3 to 6 inches (8 to 15 centimeters) of rain to areas they were passing over or near, threatening widespread flooding across a vast region. “A lot of people are going to be impacted by rainfall and storm surge in the Gulf of Mexico,” said Joel Cline, the tropical program coordinator for the National Weather Service. “Since you simply don't know, you really need to make precautions.” It seems fitting for such an unusual twin threat to arrive in 2020, said University of Miami hurricane researcher Brian McNoldy. “Of course, we have to have two simultaneously land-falling hurricanes,” McNoldy said. “It's best not to ask what's next.” ) Forecasters said that while atmospheric conditions were favorable for Laura to grow, its passage over Puerto Rico and the mountains of Haiti, the Dominican Republic and Cuba could tear it apart or weaken it before it entered warm Gulf waters conducive to growth. (AP)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/2-tropical-storms-heading-for-double-blow-to-us-gulf-coast/articleshow/77699730.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kolkata||Air turbulence: Flyers take detour to beat homecoming uncertainties||Kolkata: It’s not just those stranded in Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai who are flying back via different cities to beat the ban on flights from these cities to Kolkata. Even those stranded abroad have started returning home on flights via multiple Indian cities to bypass the embargo on Vande Bharat flights that are repatriating Indians stuck in different parts of the world. In the past month, scores of Kolkatans reached Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru or Chennai on Vande Bharat flights and then took domestic flights via other cities to reach Kolkata after spending a week in hotel quarantine. With the SOP now revised, allowing passengers who board flights with Covid-negative reports to skip quarantine, more are flying back after being held up for nearly five months. While lockdown had left them stranded for two months, those who could not avail the window when repatriation flights were operating to Kolkata before the embargo came into place from July 1 are now taking desperate measures to return home. Kalikapur resident Tathagata Roy Chowdhury, who was stranded with his wife and kid in London, returned via Delhi after waiting in vain to catch a Vande Bharat flight. “With the visa about to expire and funds running low, I had no option but to take a packed Vande Bharat flight to Delhi and stay in hotel for seven days for mandatory quarantine,” said Roy Chowdhury. With no direct flights to Kolkata from Delhi, the family took a flight to Hyderabad and then a flight to the city. Software engineer Abhijit Mitra’s UK visa expired on July 31 before he decided to take a detour via Bengaluru to avoid legal issues. He, along with his parents, wife and child boarded the flight on August 9. “I had waited long for a flight to Kolkata via Delhi. But with no clarity on when that will happen, we flew back and checked into a hotel in New Town,” said Mitra, now back at his Dum Dum residence. Engineer Rahul Dixit had initially booked a flight to Kolkata on a Gulf carrier but after it was cancelled, he flew to Delhi and then took Rajdhani Express to Howrah. “It is only now that charter flights have been allowed. But fares on are high and there is no certainty till the eleventh hour on its operation,” he said. London-based engineer and Durgapur resident Soumik Dutta will be flying back on August 31 via Amritsar. “I will try to undergo a Covid test three days prior to boarding the flight so that we don’t have to go for hotel quarantine,” Dutta told TOI from London. While charter flights to Kolkata have taken off from the Gulf, long-haul charter flights from Europe or the US are yet to materialize as getting adequate passengers is difficult since the flights cannot be publicized till various clearances are in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/air-turbulence-flyers-take-detour-to-beat-homecoming-uncertainties/articleshow/77697574.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 23, 2020||Delhi||Number of red zones goes up to 591 in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The number of Covid-19 containment zones in Delhi has risen from 539 on August 1 to 591 on August 21, with officials attributing the rise to smaller areas being contained now. According to data, the number of containment zones had decreased to 496 in the national capital on August 2 and had witnessed a marginal increase to 499 on August 4. The following days, the number declined to 481 and 466. On August 12, the number of containment zones went past 500. In July, the number of such areas was more than 700 in Delhi, but it gradually declined in August owing to the government allowing the "red" zones to be denotifified 14 days after the discharge of the last confirmed case, instead of the earlier norm of 28 days. The number of containment zones was 591 in Delhi on Friday, according to a list available on the Revenue department's website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/number-of-red-zones-goes-up-to-591-in-delhi/articleshow/77699784.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kolkata||IIT clears Chingrighata pier for Garia-Airport Metro link||Kolkata: A major impasse has been solved for New Garia-Airport Metro as IIT-Kharagpur has cleared the pier planned on EM Bypass at Chingrighata crossing. Last October, KMDA, custodian of Bypass, asked IIT-Kharagpur to deduce whether the elliptical pier — 318 — could be dropped since it would take up much space at the messy crossing. The institute has submitted its report. It has told KMDA that pier 318 can’t be done away with at this stage. A senior KMDA official said, “We hope the long-standing impasse will end now.” KMDA will be placing IIT’s report before Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), the implementing agency of the project. RVNL has told KMDA that without pier 318, the gap between the two pillars (before and after 318) increases from 28m to 60m. The curvaceous elevated Metro viaduct should sit safely on these three pillars while turning right towards Nicco Park. RVNL said the pillar on the median at Chingrighata is crucial since the viaduct curve is too sharp (352.1m radius). IIT is drawing up a long-term solution for the Chingrighata crossing where too many roads — from the Sector V-end, Beliaghata and Chaulpatty — meet. The intersection on the 29km-long EM Bypass takes much traffic load and road mishaps are common. In June 2019, KMDA came up with a more feasible layout for the crossing. Among them were a wider road along Jal Vayu Vihar, a bridge over the canal for buses to cross over to Nicco Park, two foot-overbridges (FOBs) at Shantinagar and Chaulpatty, a wider bridge culvert and a cyclists’ bay. While widening the culvert, KMDA realized that pier 318 would occupy 4.1sqm space and cramp the already congested EM Bypass-Salt Lake Bypass crossing. With RVNL refusing to part with the pier, KMDA sought IIT’s assessment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iit-clears-chingrighata-pier-for-garia-airport-metro-link/articleshow/77697610.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
August 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: One held in murder case, three more on the run||PUNE: The Bharati Vidyapeeth police on Saturday morning arrested a man from Lonavla in connection with the August 16 murder of a 28-year-old man. The police on Friday exhumed the body of the victim — Kiran Shivaji Dole — from the backyard of a house on Dugad Chawl in Katraj, five days after he went missing. The police booked four men — including the arrested, Omkar Sanjay Jori — on the charges of murder and destroying evidence on Friday. A manhunt is on for the other three suspects in the case. A day earlier, Dole’s pregnant wife lodged a missing person’s complaint with the police, claiming that her husband hadn’t come home since he went out with three friends on the night of August 16. Senior inspector Vasant Kuvar said they followed a promising lead and took Jori (23) into custody from Lonavla. The murder was the fallout of an ongoing rivalry. “The deceased man and the suspects — including two brothers — were good friends, but had quarrelled frequently in the past few months,” Kuvar said. Kuvar said skirmishes between Dole and the suspects were a regular sight in the area. “Dole’s brother too had witnessed one of their quarrels,” he said. Kuvar, however, said there was an immediate reason for the murder. “Dole had slapped one of the suspects a couple of days before the murder. Vowing revenge, the suspects assaulted Dole with a blunt and heavy object and strangled him. They bundled his body in a gunny sack and buried the body in the backyard of the house in which the two brothers lived,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-one-held-in-murder-case-three-more-on-the-run/articleshow/77699804.cms||---
August 23, 2020||World||In just a week, wildfires burn 1 million acres in California||SAN FRANCISCO: Weary firefighters in California raced Saturday to slow the spread of wildfires that burned nearly one million acres statewide in a week and destroyed hundreds of homes ahead an expected weather change that could bring more lightning strikes like the ones that sparked many of the blazes. Responding to the emergency, President Donald Trump issued a major disaster declaration to provide federal assistance. Gov. Gavin Newsom said in a statement that the declaration will also help people in counties affected by the fires with crisis counseling, housing and other social services. Two clusters of wildfires in the San Francisco Bay Area grew to become the second- and third-largest wildfires in recent state history by size. Light winds and cooler and more humid nighttime weather helped fire crews make progress on those fires and a third group of fires south of San Francisco ahead of the forecast of warm, dry weather, erratic wind gusts and lightning, state fire officials said. The National Weather Service issued a red flag warning of high fire danger across the Bay Area and along the Central Coast, beginning from Sunday morning to Monday afternoon. “The worst is not behind us. We are in a battle rhythm,” California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (Cal Fire) Chief Thom Porter tweeted. Since thousands of lightning strikes began on Aug. 15, the state reported 585 wildfires that have burned nearly a million acres, or 1,562 square miles (4,046 square kilometers), according to Cal Fire. Many were small and remote. The bulk of damage was from three fire “complexes” that were ravaging forest and rural areas in and around the San Francisco Bay Area. They have burned 1,045 square miles (2,700 square kilometers). The fires have killed five people, torched nearly 700 homes and other structures and forced tens of thousands from their houses. “Tuesday night when I went to bed I had a beautiful home on a beautiful ranch,” said 81-year-old Hank Hanson of Vacaville. “By Wednesday night, I have nothing but a bunch of ashes.” In Santa Cruz County, the fire was threatening Boulder Creek, an old logging community of about 5,000 in the Santa Cruz Mountains on the edge of California's oldest state park -- Big Basin Redwoods. Fire officials said they expected the blaze to reach the community, but they took advantage of recent good weather to try to “herd” flames around the town. Earlier in the week, fire officials in charge of each of the three major wildfires said they were strapped for resources. Some firefighters were working 72-hour shifts instead of the usual 24 hours. By Friday, the approximately 13,700 firefighters on the line began to get help on the ground and with aircraft from 10 states, along with the National Guard and U.S. military. Those fires were a top priority. But in a sign of how overburdened the state's firefighting agency is, fire officials said only 1,400 firefighters were assigned to battle the LNU Lightning Complex fire in wine country north of San Francisco, which was only 15% contained. In comparison, about 5,000 firefighters were assigned to the Mendocino Complex fire in 2018, the largest fire in recent state history. “All of our resources remain stretched to capacity that we have not seen in recent history,” said Shana Jones, the chief for Cal Fire's Sonoma-Lake-Napa unit. “We are making progress, but we are not out of the woods,” she said. Underscoring the danger the fires pose for firefighters, the Sonoma County sheriff's office released dramatic video of the helicopter rescue Friday night of two firefighters trapped on a ridge line at Point Reyes National Seashore. They were hoisted to safety as flames advanced. “Had it not been for that helicopter, those firefighters would certainly have perished,” Sonoma County Sheriff Mark Essick said. Containment for the fire burning in the Santa Cruz Mountains and along the coast of San Mateo County, south of San Francisco, was at just 5%, and 115 homes and other structures had been destroyed. Firefighters established a fire break aimed at protecting the evacuated University of California, Santa Cruz campus and the surrounding area. “It's not a silver bullet. But it gives us a really good stronghold to keep the fire from moving south toward those communities,” Cal Fire Battalion Chief Mark Brunton said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/in-just-a-week-wildfires-burn-1-million-acres-in-california/articleshow/77699803.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: North corporation wants STP water for Naini Lake||NEW DELHI: After several attempts to revive Naini Lake, including introduction of floating gardens, North Delhi Municipal Corporation has now started correspondence with Delhi Jal Board (DJB) for supplying water through its nearest sewage treatment plant (STP). The move has come following directions from the monitoring committee constituted by the principal bench of National Green Tribunal in February. "It was decided that Naini Lake should be filled with treated water from the nearest STP of DJB Coronation Pillar at Mukherjee Nagar. The committee also desired that the three tubewells at the lake, which is used for refilling the waterbody, should be uninstalled," said a north corporation official. He added that the civic body had written to the officials concerned for arranging a visit to the plant, assess the actual requirement of water, and the tentative cost in laying the pipeline from the STP till the lake. "But we want to clarify everything, including how long it will take to lay the pipeline and supply water to this place. We are going through a financial crisis, so for funding, we plan to pursue the Centre for help through the Urban Development Fund scheme," said the official. He added that if nothing works out, they would ask DJB to revive the lake, like it earlier did for Roshanara Lake. "We will give no objection certificate to it in this case too," he said. The official claimed that the regular supply of water was must to maintain the flora and fauna of the Naini Lake, which is spread over 6 acres and requires 7.2 million litres of water per day. DJB has, meanwhile, also laid out a revival plan through rejuvenation of dying lakes and other waterbodies. A DJB official said, "We have visited the lake along with the monitoring committee and decided that treated water will be supplied for free. However, as far as the laying of the pipeline is concerned, it will be the responsibility of the civic body. Since the Coronation STP will take 2-3 months in commissioning, it's only then a decision on laying the main pipeline will be taken. The civic agency can take the peripheral line from tapping point easily. The distance from STP plant to the lake is hardly a kilometre." Last year, the corporation had planned to restart boating at the lake after its revival. It had engaged National Environmental Engineering Research Institute to clean the pond and installed floating planters, despite which no major changes were witnessed in the quality of water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-north-corporation-wants-stp-water-for-naini-lake/articleshow/77699839.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 23, 2020||Shimla||Final length of Atal Tunnel adds up to 9.02km: BRO chief||MANALI: The length of Atal Tunnel, Rohtang, the prestigious project of the Indian Army that bypasses Rohtang Pass to cut the distance short between Manali and Ladakh, will be 9.02km, said Director General, Border Roads (DGBR) Lt Gen Harpal Singh on Saturday. The length of the tunnel was initially estimated to be 8.8km, but following the construction of tunnelshaped avalanche control structure, its final length has become 9,02m. After the civil works in the tunnel are completed by August 31, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate it in September or early October. Atal Tunnel, Rohtang, will be the longest traffic tunnel of the world at 10,000ft from the sea level. Visiting a second time this month, the DGBR reviewed the progress of work. He is personally monitoring the work due to its strategic importance. “The work in the tunnel advanced at an exceptional pace since the appointment of Lt Gen Harpal Singh as the director general of Border Roads Organisation (BRO), as he is taking personal interest in the project. He visits the site very frequently. Tunnel work persevered through the Covid-19 pandemic only due to his personal involvement. This will ensure that people of Lahaul valley get the benefit of the tunnel this winter season despite blockade of the Rohtang Pass,” said a BRO official. The BRO is looking at this project as their biggest achievement in tunnel-building and strengthening the border roads infrastructure. This tunnel being the only such tunnel in the country that has been made above an altitude of 10,000ft and is being fitted with latest technologies and safety instruments, it has taught many lessons to the BRO engineers, who had to face many geological challenges while digging it from both sides. While the Rohtang tunnel will reduce the distance between Manali and Leh by 46km, more tunnels on Manali-Leh axis have been proposed to make this highway all weather and further reduce travel time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/final-length-of-atal-tunnel-adds-up-to-9-02km-bro-chief/articleshow/77699837.cms||---
August 23, 2020||World||Australia wrestles with coronavirus second-wave, 17 more dead||SYDNEY: Australia recorded a further 17 new coronavirus deaths on Sunday but infections in the hard-hit state of Victoria, the site of all the latest deaths, are showing a downward trend, authorities said on Sunday. Other than in Victoria, which accounts for over 80% of Australia's Covid-19 deaths due to a second wave of infections, the country has largely avoided the high casualty numbers of many nations with about 24,500 infections and 502 deaths. Globally, nearly 5,900 people are dying every 24 hours from Covid-19 on average, according to a Reuters tally, with the United States, Brazil and India leading the rise in fatalities. Victorian Premier Daniel Andrews said the state, which is almost halfway through a six-week lockdown, had confirmed 208 new infections in the preceding 24 hours. That was higher than the 182 new cases reported on Saturday, but was still lower than the weekly average, he said. "We're going to defeat this second wave," Andrews told reporters. "And then we'll be able to begin the process of opening up. Exactly when that is, we can't give people a definitive date. But ... my aim is to round out the year with something - a Covid normal." Andrews said 11 of the 17 deaths confirmed in the 24 hours to Sunday were linked to virus outbreaks at aged care facilities. The neighbouring state of New South Wales, the most populous, and the north-eastern state of Queensland reported five new cases combined on Sunday. Western Australia reported one new infection, the first confirmed case since Wednesday. As the spread of the disease slows, state and federal governments have been discussing easing the cap on returning Australians of 4,000 per week to help repatriate those stranded overseas, the Sydney Morning Herald reported on Sunday. A spokeswoman for the prime minister's office did not immediately returned requests for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/australia-wrestles-with-coronavirus-second-wave-17-more-dead/articleshow/77699829.cms||---
August 23, 2020||World||Trump ordered to pay $44,100 in Stormy Daniels legal fees||LOS ANGELES: A California court ordered President Donald Trump this week to pay $44,100 in attorney fees to porn actress Stormy Daniels to pay for her legal battle over her effort to cancel a hush money deal brokered to keep her quiet about their sexual relationship a decade ago. The order in Superior Court in Los Angeles determined Daniels won her lawsuit against Trump over the agreement that was signed 11 days before the 2016 presidential election. As a part of that deal, the losing party would pay the lawyers fees. The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment about the decision. The president's personal lawyer at the time, Michael Cohen, paid $130,000 to Daniels, who filed the suit under her legal name Stephanie Clifford. After Trump's election, Daniels sued to void the agreement. Trump and his supporters denied the president knew about the payment for several years before Trump acknowledged it on Twitter in May 2018 and said he reimbursed Cohen for the money paid to Daniels. Daniels' suit over the non-disclosure agreement was dismissed before going to trial or a settlement because the parties were no longer quiet. Trump's lawyers said Daniels didn't win the case and therefore wasn't entitled to lawyer fees, but Judge Robert Broadbelt III disagreed in his ruling Monday, posted online by Daniels' lawyers. Trump's lawyers also argued Daniels didn't prove the president was a part of the non-disclosure agreement which was made under the name “ David Dennison," but Broadbelt wrote there was a large amount of evidence showing Cohen chose Dennison as a pseudonym for Trump. After her lawyer announced the decision, Daniels wrote on Twitter: “Yup. Another win.” But they haven't all been wins for Daniels. She also sued Trump for defamation after the president's comments on Twitter that a man she said threatened her to stay quiet about their alleged affair in 2011 was “nonexistent." Trump also posted side-by-side photos of the composite sketch of the man making the threats and Daniels' husband. The defamation lawsuit was thrown out and Daniels is appealing the decision and an order to pay Trump almost $300,000 in attorney fees. A judge in that case ruled Trump's statements on Twitter were protected speech under the First Amendment. Since Trump's election, Daniels has remained in the adult entertainment industry, using her new fame to promote strip club appearances and shows, including her latest venture called “Spooky Babes Paranormal Show” where she said she is leading a team of investigators to hunt ghosts and get answers for people here on Earth. She also still takes shots at the president on Twitter. Meanwhile, Cohen pleaded guilty to campaign finance charges and lying to Congress, among other crimes, and was sentenced to three years in prison in 2018. Watch Trump ordered to pay $44,100 in adult actress Stormy Daniels legal fees||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-ordered-to-pay-44100-in-stormy-daniels-legal-fees/articleshow/77699835.cms||---
August 23, 2020||World||London's famous Tower Bridge gets stuck in an open position||LONDON: London's famous Tower Bridge, which crosses the River Thames in the heart of the British capital, was stuck open on Saturday, leaving traffic in chaos and onlookers amazed at the sight. The historic bascule-and-suspension bridge failed to close after opening to allow ships to pass underneath on the Thames. City of London police tweeted shortly after 5 p.m. that the bridge was closed to pedestrians and traffic and mechanics were working to fix the problem. An hour later, police tweeted that the bridge had reopened. Tower Bridge is 244 meters (800 feet) long and its towers are 65 meters (213 feet) high. It was built between 1886 and 1894.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/londons-famous-tower-bridge-gets-stuck-in-an-open-position/articleshow/77699843.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Melody of Muslim singer’s bhajan got sweeter in this ‘Indo-Pak jugalbandi’||By Kiritsinh ZalaRAJKOT: His religion did not create an impediment when Rajkot-based Sohil Baloch decided to compose and sing a bhajan dedicated to Lord Shiva. Nor, did the acrimonious Indo-Pak relationship matter when his Pakistani friend, Wajid Ali Khan, accompanied the singer on the tabla. The melodious rendition of the duo left listeners’ hearts melting in devotion. “Though born into a Muslim family, I have been brought up on bhajans as I lived in a Hindu area. During my childhood, I used to go to Swadhyay Parivar and sing bhajans,” says Sohil (30), who lives in Bajarangvadi area of Rajkot. Sohil has also written and composed a bhajan, “Mai To Jogi Banke Aya” (I have become a hermit), in which Khan has played tabla. “I came into contact with Wajidbhai, a resident of Lahore in Pakistan, on Facebook three months ago. I sent him the composition of the song, which he loved very much. He was so kind to me that he filled in the composition with his music and tabla and sent it back to me,” says Sohil. “Wajidbhai is the son of Tafu Ali Khan, a legendary a tabla player who used to play tabla for famous Pakistani ghazal singer Ghulam Ali,” Sohil added. Sohil’s father Yusuf Baloch, also a music composer known as Kamalbhai, would send Sohil to Swadhyay Parivar where Pandurang Shastri Athavale would ask Sohil to sing bhajans. Sohil’s elder sister Tasleem Baloch is the principal of Sanskar Deep High School in Jamnagar, and a ghazal singer. “I was inspired by my father and elder sister to take up music as a career. I serve as a music teacher with SNK High School on University Road in Rajkot,” says Sohil. Sohil has done masters in music from Arjunlal Hirani Performing Arts College in Rajkot. So far, he has composed and released 20-odd albums consisting of bhajans and songs. Ten years ago, Sohil had composed and sung a bhajan dedicated to Lord Ganapati along with famous folk singer Nidhi Dholakia. Five years ago, Sohil had recomposed Saint Narsinh Mehta’s bhajan ‘Vaishnav Janato Tene Re Kahiye’, in which he made 21 folk singers including Kirtidan Gadhvi, Hemant Chauhan, Lalita Godadara and Osman Meer lend their voices. Two years ago during the holy month of Ramzan, Sohil had sung bhajans dedicated to Lord Swaminarayan at Bochasanwasi Akshar Purushottam Swaminarayan temple in the presence of Mahant Swami.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/melody-of-muslim-singers-bhajan-got-sweeter-in-this-indo-pak-jugalbandi/articleshow/77699847.cms||---
August 23, 2020||World||Trump slams FDA for slowing down human trials of Covid-19 vaccine||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump on Saturday (local time) slammed the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for trying to slow down the human trials of coronavirus vaccines. "The deep state, or whoever, over at the FDA is making it very difficult for drug companies to get people in order to test the vaccines and therapeutics. Obviously, they are hoping to delay the answer until after November 3rd. Must focus on speed, and saving lives!" Trump tweeted. There currently are three vaccine candidates on phase 3 trials in the United States. According to the Johns Hopkins University, a total number of 5,665,483 people in the US have tested positive of COVID-19 and as many as 176,332 people have succumbed to the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-slams-fda-for-slowing-down-human-trials-of-covid-19-vaccine/articleshow/77699870.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Four posing as cops rob Chinchwad man of Rs 1 lakh||PUNE: Posing as policemen, four men robbed valuables worth Rs 1.02 lakh from a house at Dattanagar in Chinchwad early on Friday. The suspects also damaged a glass showcase and television set before decamping with the booty. The houseowner, Sundar Vilas Ovhal (48), later visited the police station only to discover that police had not ‘raided’ his house. According to the complainant, the incident took place around 3 am when the members of the house were fast asleep. The suspects knocked on the door frantically, claiming that they were policemen. Senior police inspector Milind Waghare of Pimpri police station said, “The complainant said that the suspects barged into the house and checked the cupboards and took out cash and jewellery worth Rs 1.20 lakh. One of the suspects damaged the television set with a sharp weapon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-four-posing-as-cops-rob-chinchwad-man-of-rs-1-lakh/articleshow/77699868.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Heavy rains lash Ahmedabad, other parts of Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Heavy rains continued to lash several parts of the city and the state since Saturday night. The Ahmedabad city received 26mm of rains last night and about 6mm of downpour between 6am-8am today. Ahmedabad has already received 730mm of rains this season so far against the annual average of 798mm. The areas like Bopal, Ghuma, Jodhpur, Sarkhej, Gota, Bodakdev witnessed moderate to heavy rains. Read AlsoFive swept away by currents in Gujarat's Dahod riverFive persons were swept away Anas river in spate near the Thuthi Kankasiya village in Jhalod taluka of Dahod district on SaturdayAccording to the weather office, from 6am to 8am, 162 talukas witnessed rainfall activity ranging from 1mm to 90mm. The highest rainfall during these two hours was reported from Siddhpur taluka in Patan (90mm), followed by Bechraji Taluka (71mm) in Mehsana, Jotana too reported 53mm of rains. Shankeshwar in Patan (52mm), Mansa in Gandhiagar (50mm) were among the others areas to have witnessed rain activity. At least 22 talukas in the state received more than 25 mm of rains during these two hours. Read AlsoAhmedabad receives 88% of season’s rainfallThe area under Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), which has received 88% of its total rain so far, received nearly 4mm of rain after a heavy spell on Saturday morning. The city has so far received 702 mm of rains while in the last 36 hours it has received more than 35 mm of rains. Some parts ofTill 6am on Sunday, the state had already received 786mm of rain this season which was 95% of its annual seasonal rainfall of 831mm. In the last 24 hours ending at 6am on Sunday, Gujarat received an average of 35mm rain. So far, of the 225 talukas, only 3 talukas have reported rains between 125mm and 250mm, while 62 talukas have witnessed rains between 251mm and 500mm, 129 talukas have recorded rains between 501mm and 1, 000mm and only 57 talukas have seen more than 1, 000mm of rains during the season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/heavy-rains-lash-ahmedabad-other-parts-of-gujarat/articleshow/77699871.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
August 23, 2020||World||Taiwan showcases its military power amid China's growing threat||BEIJING: Amid the threat of China endangering Taiwan's security, the country's defence ministry has released a video showing troops firing anti-aircraft, anti-tank and anti-ship missiles in defence of the island against a mock invasion from across the Taiwan Strait, South China Morning Post reported. While releasing the video, the ministry reportedly issued a warning to China saying that the latter should not underestimate the island nation's capability to defend itself. South China Morning Post quoted the ministry as saying, "The most egotistical country can thoughtlessly provoke a war and the most ignorant government can be caught in the flames of war." The ministry further said that repeated provocation by China's People's Liberation Army will no longer work. "It would have only the effect of triggering the wrath and antipathy of Taiwan's people, and hurt peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait," the ministry said. On Wednesday, Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen was quoted as saying, "We have a full grasp of and are closely monitoring the overall military situation and the public can rest assured our military is able to safeguard our national security." Taiwan military's latest move comes days after China media revealed details of PLA's new Tianlei 500, a 500kg (1,100lb) precision-guided munitions dispenser and air-to-surface missile. South China Morning Post further reported that on Tuesday, CCTV broadcasted a report about the PLA staging live-fire exercises at both the northern and southern ends of Taiwan, and a day later released footage of a live-fire drill staged by the PLA in the East China Sea. Further, on August 13, the PLA Eastern Theatre Command said that it had recently carried out combat exercises at the north and south ends of the Taiwan Strait.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/taiwan-showcases-its-military-power-amid-chinas-growing-threat/articleshow/77699887.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Health department revises norms on high-risk, low-risk contacts||KOCHI: As the surge in Covid cases continues in the state, the health department on Saturday has come out with revised guidelines clearly distinguishing between high-risk contacts and low-risk contacts, depending on the kind of exposure they had with a Covid positive person. This has been done to help in better contact tracing and quarantining. A high-risk contact is any person who shared space within 1 metre of a Covid case for more than 15 minutes. They should have direct physical contact or live in the same household, share a room, meal or bathroom or travel with a Covid patient with shared space within 1 metre. Even those who have been directly caring for a Covid patient without using proper PPE, mask and hand hygiene, including health workers, are considered high-risk contact. Low-risk contacts told to avoid travel, functionsOn the other hand, lowrisk contacts are those who have shared the same time and space with a Covid patient but maintained social distancing along with face mask and frequent hand hygiene. The exposure to a Covid positive person should be from 2 days before to 14 days after the onset of the illness. While high-risk contacts need to be in 14-day room quarantine at home or institution, the low-risk contacts have been advised to avoid all non-essential travel or social functions and adhere to mask use and personal hygiene. “In situations where it is difficult to classify the exposure, a detailed exposure history should be taken and classification done on a case to case basis,” said principal health secretary Dr Rajan Khobragade. 14-day quarantine for health workersA healthcare worker who comes into contact with a confirmed case with breach of PPE must undergo 14-day quarantine either at home or institution. However, the duration of their quarantine can be individualised by the institutional medical boards based on the risk of exposure, test results and patient-care location.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-health-department-revises-norms-on-high-risk-low-risk-contacts/articleshow/77699947.cms||Preetu Nair
August 23, 2020||Pune||Friends connect online as weekend parties go virtual||PUNE: Weekends with a games night, a concert or a party are all online now. Staying home for the weekend is a precaution people are taking, and they seem to have found an eclectic balance between activities they would indulge in pre-pandemic and staying indoors. Before the pandemic, Kharadi resident Aparajita Ghosh and her friends would have a games night every Friday. “Now, we get into a video conference, divide ourselves into groups and play charades or Pictionary. We decide on a cocktail and everyone makes one at home. We don’t take the risk of coming together,” she said. Katraj resident Kamlesh Mulchandani said he and his friends went bowling online. “We all downloaded the game on our Playstation and participated from our homes. There was ribbing, a competitive spirit and the losing team bought dinner for everyone. They ordered food online and sent it to the winning team members,” he said. Staying indoors for the weekends, not gathering in groups at friends’ homes or malls now that they are open, is not difficult and it can be really fun, he added. A Potterhead from Vimannagar, Shiv Kohli, organised a Harry Potter marathon with his friends online. “You can watch the movies or series together on Discord. You can watch your friends gameplay or get together for a movie marathon. Last weekend, we watched all the Harry Potter movies and chatted about it while watching. We also had a caterer deliver Harry Potter-themed snacks and beverages to individual houses. To make things more interesting, we dressed up like the characters,” he said. Caterers are adjusting to orders and deliver to a specific address, sometimes set up the buffet or the table and come back to pick up the utensils the next day. “We got inquiries for a themed menu and delivering portions to different addresses. We need to change as per the needs of our customers and figured out a way. We are catering to finger-foods, cocktails and themed meals based on movies or video games,” a caterer from Kondhwa said. For those who miss the nightclubs, DJs old and new are playing sets on their social media channels every weekend. “Since we can’t go to the nightclubs, on weekends we end up watching our favourite artistes go live from their Instagram or Facebook accounts. We can also have a sidebar conversation with each other. Many bars are posting DIY videos of popular and new cocktails that you can try at home,” Koregaon Park Saili Wagh said. People are also getting out their festive decorations. “I took out the fairy lights and put them up in my room. The dim yet colourful lights give me the feeling of being in a club and sets the mood for a party,” Sheena Satkar, also a Koregaon Park resident, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/friends-connect-online-as-weekend-parties-go-virtual/articleshow/77699963.cms||---
August 23, 2020||India||PM Modi wishes people on Nuakhai, lauds farmers||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday greeted people on the occasion of Nuakhai, a harvest festival celebrated in parts of the country, especially Odisha. He lauded farmers, saying it is due to their efforts that our nation is fed. "The special occasion of Nuakhai is about celebrating the hardwork of our farmers. It is due to their efforts that our nation is fed. The special occasion of Nuakhai is about celebrating the hardwork of our farmers. It is due to their efforts that o… https://t.co/fuisaUbiJB— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1598153351000"May this auspicious day bring prosperity and good health for everyone. Nuakhai Juhar!" the prime minister tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-wishes-people-on-nuakhai-lauds-farmers/articleshow/77700009.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal's Jalpaiguri gang-rape case: Three accused sent to 8-day police custody||JALPAIGURI: Three persons who were arrested in connection with the alleged gang-rape and murder of a minor girl in Jalpaiguri were sent to 8-day police custody.  Pradeep Kumar Yadav, superintendent of police, Jalpaiguri said that action will be taken as per the law if the accused found guilty.  According to locals, the girl went missing from her house on the evening of August 10.  Her father lodged a complaint with Rajganj police station the next day. On the basis of the complaint, police arrested Rahman Ali, Jamirul Haque, and Tamirul Haque.  During the police interrogation, the accused have confessed that they had raped the minor and killed her on August 15, and later dumped her body in a septic tank.  Ajuyara Begam, a family member of the deceased said, "On August 10 evening, the girl was missing from their house. Later on August 15, we went to the police and filed a missing report. The next day the girl's body was recovered from a septic tank."  Meanwhile, Rajganj MLA Khageshwar Roy visited the house of the deceased and expressed condolences. "It is a brutal incident. The accused should be hanged till death. If needed, we will go to chief minister regarding this case," he said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/west-bengals-jalpaiguri-gang-rape-case-three-accused-sent-to-8-day-police-custody/articleshow/77700027.cms||---
August 23, 2020||World||Brazil records over 50,000 Covid-19 cases in past 24 hours||BRASILIA: More than 50,000 new coronavirus cases were confirmed in Brazil in the past 24 hours, while the death toll increased by almost 900 in that period, according to the latest data from the Health Ministry. Brazil now has a total of 3,582,362 confirmed Covid-19 cases, with 50,032 new cases having been registered in the past 24 hours, the health ministry said on Saturday. Over the same period, 892 new deaths were confirmed, bringing the country's total death toll up to 114,250. On Friday, Brazil reported 30,355 new coronavirus cases and 1,054 new deaths from COVID-19. Over 2.7 million people have recovered from Covid-19 in Brazil. The US and Brazil are the top two countries in terms of the total number of coronavirus cases and fatalities. The US has registered over 5.6 million coronavirus cases and more than 176,000 deaths from Covid-19. The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) and the Brazilian state of Parana have agreed to cooperate in the production and marketing of the world's first registered coronavirus vaccine Sputnik V. RDIF CEO Kirill Dmitriev and Parana Governor Carlos Massa Ratino Junior took part in the online ceremony of signing a corresponding agreement earlier this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/brazil-records-over-50000-covid-19-cases-in-past-24-hours/articleshow/77700044.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand agriculture minister Badal Patralekh tests Covid-19 positive||RANCHI: Jharkhand agriculture minister Badal Patralekh has tested positive for Covid-19. The minister himself confirmed the news from his official account on Twitter on Sunday and urged all his close contacts to get themselves tested for the virus. "I got tested for coronavirus yesterday and my report came last night. I request all those who came into close contact with me in the past few days to get themselves tested for the virus. You are requested to stay safe at home," Patralekh tweeted. सभी राज्यवासियों को जोहार,मैंने कल अपना कोरोना जांच कराया, जिसकी रिपोर्ट देर रात्रि पॉजिटिव आई हैं।विगत कुछ दि… https://t.co/HtBafeQOmF— Badal (बादल) (@Badal_Patralekh) 1598147570000On Saturday, he wished a speedy recovery to the former chief minister and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) founder Shibu Soren and his wife as they have also tested positive for coronavirus. The information regarding the senior leader and his wife's testing positive was shared by their son and Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren through Twitter. Shibu Soren is credited with the founding of JMM and for spearheading the movement for the separation of Jharkhand from Bihar. He has also served as a cabinet minister in the Centre during the UPA-I rule. Earlier in July, Hemant and wife Kalpana Soren had got themselves tested for the infection after one of the ministers in his cabinet and another JMM lawmaker, whom he had been in contact with tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-agriculture-minister-badal-patralekh-tests-covid-19-positive/articleshow/77700043.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Mumbai||Ganesh Chaturthi Day 2: Priest performs morning 'aarti' at Mumbai's Shri Siddhivinayak temple||MUMBAI: As the 10-day long Ganesh Chaturthi festivities kicked off on Saturday, morning 'aarti' of Lord Ganesha idol was performed here this morning at the Shri Siddhivinayak temple for the second consecutive day.  The priest was seen offering prayers and performing 'arti' to Lord Ganesha.  This year due to the Covid-19 outbreak, temple authorities have urged the devotees to take an online glimpse of Lord Ganesha from their homes. However, several temples in the state have made proper arrangements of sanitisers and temperature measurements for visitors.  On this Ganesh Chaturthi, people can take the virtual darshan of Siddhivinayak and watch the 'aarti' live on the temple's website.  On Saturday, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray along with his family members offered prayers to Lord Ganesha at his residence in Mumbai.  The Maharashtra government has issued guidelines regarding the festival, stating that the processions should not be taken out before installing and immersing idols.Also, state home minister Anil Deshmukh has urged devotees to celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi in a low-key manner and avoid crowding in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.  The Hindu festival of Ganesh Chaturthi is dedicated to the Lord of new beginnings, Ganesha. The festivities will end with the immersion of the Ganesha idols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ganesh-chaturthi-priest-performs-morning-aarti-at-mumbais-shri-siddhivinayak-temple/articleshow/77700070.cms||---
August 23, 2020||World||China reports 12 new Covid-19 cases, 15 asymptomatic cases in last 24 hours||BEIJING: China registered 12 new coronavirus cases in the past 24 hours while 44 Covid-19 patients recovered over that period, the country's National Health Commission said on Sunday. All of the 12 new cases are imported, according to the commission. The country's total number of confirmed coronavirus cases now stands at 84,951 and the death toll is 4,634. The total number of recovered individuals in China stands at 79,895. The total number of imported cases is 2,402. More than 400 Covid-19 patients remain hospitalised in China. In the past 24 hours, 15 new asymptomatic coronavirus cases were registered in China, all of them imported. More than 350 asymptomatic carriers of Covid-19 are still being monitored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/china-reports-12-new-covid-19-cases-15-asymptomatic-cases-in-last-24-hours/articleshow/77699916.cms||---
August 23, 2020||World||With China tensions rising, US joins Taiwan to mark battle anniversary||KINMEN, Taiwan: The de facto US ambassador in Taipei joined for the first time on Sunday a Taiwanese leader, amid rising tensions with Beijing, to commemorate a key military clash and the last time Taiwanese forces joined battle with China on a large scale. China, which claims Taiwan as its own, has stepped up military activity around the democratic island, moves denounced by Taiwan's government as an attempt at intimidation to force them to accept Chinese rule. Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen laid a wreath and bowed her head in respect at a memorial park on Kinmen island, which sits a few kilometres (miles) off the Chinese metropolis of Xiamen, to mark the 62nd anniversary of the start of the second Taiwan Straits crisis. In August 1958, Chinese forces began more than a month of bombarding Kinmen, along with the Taiwan-controlled Matsu archipelago further up the coast, including naval and air battles, seeking to force them into submission. Brent Christensen, head of the American Institute in Taiwan and Washington's de facto representative, offered his respects too, standing behind Tsai, in a symbolic show of U.S. support for the island. Washington has no formal ties with Taipei but is its largest arms supplier. The administration of President Donald Trump has made bolstering relations a priority, to Beijing's anger. Like Tsai, Christensen did not make public comments. Taiwan fought back at the time with support from the United States, which sent military equipment like advanced Sidewinder anti-aircraft missiles, giving Taiwan a technological edge. The crisis end in a stalemate. Major General Liu Qiang-hua, spokesman for the Kinmen garrison, said it was important to remember an event that was so crucial to ensuring Taiwan's security. "Of course we hope there is no war, but it is dangerous to forget about war. This is the spirit we need to safeguard," he told Reuters. Formerly called Quemoy in English, Kinmen today is a popular tourist destination, though remnants of past fighting like underground bunkers are scattered across the island, and Taiwan maintains a significant military presence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/with-china-tensions-rising-us-joins-taiwan-to-mark-battle-anniversary/articleshow/77700078.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Kolkata||Transport dept to rent out tram depots to fund revamp of fleet||Kolkata: The Calcutta Tramways Company (CTC) of the transport department is letting out portions of its seven tram depots across the city for commercial purposes, the rental proceeds of which will be utilised to further modernise the tram and bus fleets run by the Calcutta Tramways Company. The department is expecting to generate “substantial” rental income by letting out these properties most of which are either located in upscale neighbourhoods or commercially lucrative pockets. The department has already invited expression of interest from malls, retail stores, banks, restaurants and showrooms to take these properties on rent. Soon after coming to power, the Trinamool government had auctioned land parcels in several of its depots for a period of 99 years, the proceeds of which went to fund the VRS of “non-productive” staff and procuring modern buses. “The rentals will be according to the market rates in the respective areas where the depots are situated,” said an official of the transport department. “These units are located in prime areas which will benefit eateries, retail stores, banks and showrooms. Some of them are even spread over multiple floors,” said an official of the transport department. The units that are being let out are situated inside Tollygunge depot, Ballygunge terminus, Gariahat depot, Behala, Garia and Nonapukur. “These are not land parcels but built spaces anywhere between 600 sq feet to around 4,000 sq feet.” Another official said the rental proceeds will be used to further modernise tram and bus network as the city’s suburbs are expanding and the need for road connectivity is high. “We have procured several e-buses and plan to buy more while we phase out the older ones that cause a lot of pollution. There are plans to procure more buses and modernise the trams,” said the officials. The agreement will be for nine years with a rent escalation according to prevailing rates after every three years. In October 2013, the CTC had decided to lease out for 99 years 373 cottahs lying idle with six tram depots, taking the first major step towards restructuring the ailing transport department firm. Some of the biggest names in city’s real estate and retail space had bid for the land. In 2015, too, the government decided to facilitate construction of residential and commercial properties in some depots to generate funds, but the plane did not materialise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/transport-dept-to-rent-out-tram-depots-to-fund-revamp-of-fleet/articleshow/77697582.cms||Zeeshan Javed
August 23, 2020||India||PM Modi extends birthday wishes to Bhupesh Baghel||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday greeted Congress leader and Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on his birthday. Baghel, who took over as the state chief minister in 2018, turned 59 on Sunday. "Best wishes to Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on his birthday. May God grant him a long life and keep him always healthy," the prime minister said in a tweet in Hindi. छत्तीसगढ़ के मुख्यमंत्री श्री भूपेश बघेल जी को जन्मदिन पर ढेरों शुभकामनाएं। ईश्वर उन्हें दीर्घायु प्रदान करे और सदा… https://t.co/BUyee72Ojk— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1598152419000||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-extends-birthday-wishes-to-bhupesh-baghel/articleshow/77700122.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Gym owners detained during protest for reopening of fitness centres||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police on Saturday detained nearly a dozen gym owners protesting near the lieutenant governor's office for permission to reopen fitness centres in the capital. The LG Anil Baijal-chaired Delhi Disaster Management Authority had on Wednesday allowed hotels to reopen and granted permission to weekly markets to operate on a trial basis, but had denied operation permit to gyms and yoga centres. Delhi Gym Association has been demanding reopening of gyms since the Unlock process began. "We have been urging the LG to reopen gyms because they are closed for nearly five months now, and it has affected the livelihood of over one lakh people employed in various positions," Chirag Sehti of DGA said. The gym owners, who had gathered near the LG office with placards in support of their demands, were detained and taken to Civil Lines police station. "The establishment and maintenance costs are mounting, rents have to be paid, fixed charges of electricity have to be paid, but we are without any income. The LG's decision to not reopen gyms will destroy the industry dearly and leave thousands of people without any source of livelihood," said one of the protesters. Delhi government had earlier this month sent a proposal to the LG to allow gyms and yoga institutes, besides hotels and weekly markets, to reopen. However, during a review meeting, DDMA permitted only hotels and weekly markets to resume activity. It was concluded in the meeting that people sweat while exercising, which might be a problem as others could come in contact with body fluids, thereby increasing the risk of spread of novel coronavirus. Delhi Yoga Association, too, has planned to launch an appeal campaign on social media for getting yoga institutes reopened. Deepak Dadwal of Delhi Yoga Association said yoga lovers are eagerly waiting for the centres to resume activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-gym-owners-detained-during-protest-for-reopening-of-fitness-centres/articleshow/77700135.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Govt grants interest relief to factories||NEW DELHI: The Aam Aadmi Party government has announced an amnesty scheme for factory owners, looking for financial relief from the government after being hit by the novel coronavirus pandemic. Factory owners who are unable to pay lease rent, ground rent, delay in construction charges and various other charges, will now have to pay less interest on the pending dues. The state government has reduced the interest percent on pending dues from 18% to 10%, and under the amnesty scheme announced on Saturday, factory owners will get 50% off on interests if they deposit all outstanding dues within 60 days from August 14. They will also get an additional 30% discount on interest towards ground rent during the 45 days thereafter (of the first 60 days). The order of the amnesty scheme was issued by Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation, with the move being welcomed by city-based factory owners. "Many factory owners have outstanding payments due. The scheme will bring direct financial relief to nearly 20,000 traders in the capital," said Chamber of Trade and Industry convener Brijesh Goyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-grants-interest-relief-to-factories/articleshow/77700137.cms||---
August 23, 2020||World||Indonesia's Sinabung volcano spews new burst of hot ash||MEDAN: A rumbling volcano in western Indonesia on Sunday unleashed an avalanche of scorching clouds down its slopes. Authorities are closely monitoring Mount Sinabung on Sumatra, one of Indonesia's main islands, after sensors picked up increasing activity in past weeks. The volcano in North Sumatra province was shooting smoke and ash more than 1,000 meters (3,280 feet) into the air on Sunday morning, and hot ash clouds traveled 1 kilometer (0.6 mile) southeast, Indonesia's Volcanology and Geological Hazard Mitigation Center said. Villagers were advised to stay 5 kilometers (3.1 miles) from the crater's mouth and should be aware of the peril of lava, the agency said. Air travel was not impacted by the ash so far, the Transport Ministry said. There were no casualties from the eruption, said Armen Putra, an official at the Sinabung monitoring post. He said villages outside the red zone were not in immediate danger. Some 30,000 people have been forced to leave homes around Sinabung in the past few years. The 2,600-metre (8,530-feet) Sinabung was dormant for four centuries before exploding in 2010, killing two people. Another eruption in 2014 killed 17 people, while seven died in a 2016 eruption. The volcano, one of two currently erupting in Indonesia, has sporadically come to life since then. Sinabung is among more than 120 active volcanoes in Indonesia, which is prone to seismic upheaval due to its location on the Pacific ``Ring of Fire,'' an arc of volcanoes and fault lines encircling the Pacific Basin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/indonesias-sinabung-volcano-spews-new-burst-of-hot-ash/articleshow/77700192.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Man held for multiple thefts in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh police on Saturday arrested a man named Nadimpally Vinod Raju for allegedly committing multiple thefts in Gajuwaka area of Visakhapatnam. The police claimed to have recovered stolen items worth nearly Rs 3 lakh from Raju. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Suresh Babu said, "Stolen items worth Rs 2,91,000 have been recovered from the possession of Nadimpally Vinod Raju." The list of stolen items which were recovered includes silverware and electronics such as personal computers and digital cameras. Further investigation is under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/man-held-for-multiple-thefts-in-visakhapatnam/articleshow/77700213.cms||---
August 23, 2020||World||Trump campaign releases first commercial for Indian-Americans featuring PM Modi||WASHINGTON: Aiming to woo the influential Indian-American voters numbering over 2 million, the Trump campaign has released its first video commercial that has short clips from Prime Minister Narendra Modi's speeches and US President Donald Trump's historic address in Ahmedabad. Modi and Trump addressed a huge crowd in Ahmedabad during the US president's visit to India in February this year. Trump was also accompanied by his wife Melania, daughter Ivanka, son-in-law Jared Kushner and top brass of his administration on his trip to India. Read AlsoTrump struggles to use power of presidency to counter BidenTraditionally, an incumbent would devote the week of his rival's convention to bolstering his own credentials as a leader. But rather than focusing on his command of the job or using its power, Trump hit the campaign trail, where he flouted his own administration's pandemic safety guidance and"America enjoys a great relationship with India and our campaign enjoys great support from Indian-Americans!" Kimberly Guilfoyle, national chair of Trump Victory Finance Committee said in a tweet releasing the video commercial. America enjoys a great relationship with India and our campaign enjoys great support from Indian Americans! 👍🏻🇺🇸 https://t.co/bkjh6HODev— Kimberly Guilfoyle (@kimguilfoyle) 1598127562000The president's son Donald Trump Jr, who is leading the campaign and is well connected with the Indian-American community, also retweeted it as the commercial soon became viral on social media with over 66,000 views on Twitter in the first few hours. Titled "Four More Years" the 107-second video starts with the iconic footage of Modi and Trump walking hand in hand at the NRG Stadium in Houston during the prime minister's visit to the US last year wherein the leaders of the world's two largest democracies made a joint address before a strong crowd of Indian-Americans numbering more than 50,000. Read AlsoTrump says without proof that FDA 'deep state' slowing Covid vaccine trialsIn a Twitter post, Trump said the deep state "or whoever" at the FDA was making it very difficult for drug companies to enroll people in clinical trials to test vaccines and therapies for the novel coronavirus. "Obviously, they are hoping to delay the answer until after November 3rd. Must focus onAmidst cheering of thousands of his supporters in the US, Modi is seen as saying that Trump "needs no introduction" and that "his name comes up in almost every conversation." He is the president of the United States of America "Mr Donald Trump", the prime minister says at the start of the video, that has been conceptualised by Al Mason, co-chair of the Trump Victory Indian American Finance Committee. Modi is highly popular among Indian-Americans. His star appeal has attracted record crowds. His address at the Madison Square Garden in 2015 and then in the Silicon Valley two years later, both attracting more than 20,000 people, making the prime minister perhaps the only foreign leader in recent memory to have addressed such huge rallies in the US. His "Howdy Modi" address in Houston last September was attended by a record 50,000 people. Trump made a solo trip to Houston to join Modi in addressing the historic rally. After Modi introduces Trump to "my family", the second part of the commercial has clips form Trump's address in Ahmedabad this February. "America loves India. America respects India. And America will always be a faithful and loyal friend to the Indian people," Trump says in the commercial in which he praises the contribution of four million Indian-Americans. "They are truly spectacular people," the president said. The commercial comes following a research by Mason in battleground States according to which the Indian-Americans, who traditionally vote for the Democrats, are switching over to the Republican party in significant numbers because the friendship that Trump has with Modi and the latter's high popularity among a large section of the community, of which 2.5 million are eligible to vote. In the battleground States the Indian-Americans number 1.3 million as per a recent statement made by the Indian-Americans in the Democratic Party. Mason's survey was conducted before former vice president Joe Biden, the Democratic Party's presidential candidate, selected Indian-origin Senator Kamala Harris as his running mate, a move the Democratic Party leader believes would stem the flow of Indian-Americans towards the Republicans. However, both President Trump and his campaign, in recent remarks, asserted that more Indian-Americans support them than the Democrats. In various writings and statement, the Democratic leaders in recent weeks have apprehended that Trump's friendship with Modi might sway their traditional vote bank this November election. The Republican National Convention – now almost in a virtual mode – is being held next week. President Trump is expected to deliver his nomination acceptance speech from the White House lawns on August 27. The Trump campaign believes that the Indian-Americans can play an important role in this election, especially in the battleground states like Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Ohio, where the two rival campaigns would be battling for every vote. It has also created separate coalitions for the Indian-Americans and Sikhs. For the first time, a presidential campaign has created a coalition group for the Hindus. The rival Democratic campaign too is coming out with ideas and commercials to woo Indian-Americans. Democratic National Committee chair Tom Perez has addressed the community virtually, wherein he has acknowledged the key role that the Indian-Americans can play in the battleground States. On August 15, both Biden and Harris made a video address at an Indian-American event. The campaign has released a policy paper for Indian--Americans. A day earlier, a Silicon Valley-based Indian-American political couple released a musical campaign video targeting Indian-Americans in the battleground states and urging them to vote for Biden and Harris. Democratic supporters are planning to release at least two more Bollywood-style video commercials to attract the Indian-Americans, as the campaign heats up in the next 70-plus days. Watch US elections 2020: Trump campaign releases first commercial for featuring PM Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-campaign-releases-first-commercial-for-indian-americans-featuring-pm-modi/articleshow/77700125.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab jails minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa tests positive for Covid-19||CHANDIGARH: Punjab jails minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. He is the second cabinet minister to catch the infection after rural development minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa. My Cabinet colleague and Cooperation & Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has tested positive for #Covid19. I… https://t.co/pEEDYrtZGW— Capt.Amarinder Singh (@capt_amarinder) 1598111109000Punjab chief minister tweeted, “My cabinet colleague and cooperation and jails minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has tested positive for #Covid19. I wish him a speedy recovery and look forward to him joining us at work soon.” This comes ahead of the August 28 one-day Punjab assembly session convened to fulfil the constitutional requirement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-jails-minister-sukhjinder-singh-randhawa-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/77700235.cms||---
August 23, 2020||India||Covid-19 caseload in India crosses 30-lakh mark||NEW DELHI: India's Covid-19 tally sprinted past the 30-lakh mark, just 16 days after it crossed 20 lakh, while 22,80,566 people have recuperated in the country so far pushing the recovery rate to 74.90 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data. With a single-day spike of 69,239 infections, the country's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 30,44,940, while the death toll climbed to 56,706 with 912 fatalities being reported in a span of 24-hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has declined to 1.86 per cent. There are 7,07,668 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 23.24 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 3,52,92,220 samples have been tested up to August 22, with 8,01,147 samples being tested on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-caseload-in-india-crosses-30-lakh-mark/articleshow/77700256.cms||---
August 23, 2020||World||China successfully launches new optical remote-sensing satellite||BEIJING: China successfully launched a new optical remote-sensing satellite from its Jiuquan Satellite Launch Centre in northwest China on Sunday. The satellite, Gaofen-9 05, was sent into orbit by a Long March-2D carrier rocket. A multifunctional test satellite and another satellite named Tiantuo-5 were also launched via the rocket. Sunday's launch was the 343rd mission of the Long March rocket series, state-run Xinhua news agency reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/china-successfully-launches-new-optical-remote-sensing-satellite/articleshow/77700309.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Delhi||Hold third-party review of learning outcomes in schools: Manish Sisodia||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister and education minister Manish Sisodia has suggested third party assessment to check the attainment of learning outcomes in schools. In the second review meeting for the formation of Delhi Education Board and the new curriculum, Sisodia made the recommendation as the board laid down its focus on holistic development and continuous assessment. The education minister also wants the committee to stick to the guidelines so that the new curriculum for children up to 14 years can be started by the new academic session. Shailendra Sharma, adviser to the director, education, said that the education has suggested third-party assessment at the end of each stages by the board. "The continuous assessment, will, however, carry on," he said. As per the National Education Policy 2020, the stages will be for students in classes III, V, VIII, X and XII. Similarly, Sisodia also suggested using online technology for continuous assessment. "We have provided tablets to our teachers and going ahead, we will digitally enable our schools, so the implementation should not be an issue," he said. Once the plan is in place, State Council for Educational Research and Training (SCERT) will be a focus on preparing the content and extensive training of teachers. Delhi government has formed two committees to establish a new education board and to overhaul the curriculum. This was the second joint review being held by Sisodia with Secretary, Director of Education and Director SCERT and education adviser. The committees consist of eminent education experts from government agencies and education-based organisations from different parts of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hold-third-party-review-of-learning-outcomes-in-schools-manish-sisodia/articleshow/77700382.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Delhi||Cool, cloudy morning in Delhi-NCR, light rain likely||NEW DELHI: Delhi and its adjoining areas are expected to receive light intensity rain in the next two hours, informed India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday morning. In a tweet earlier today, IMD said, "23-08-2020; 0930 IST; Light intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of Delhi, Greater Noida, Noida, Dadri during next 2 hours." 23-08-2020; 0930 IST; Light intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of Delhi, Greate… https://t.co/w8uPDfJxyJ— India Met. Dept. (@Indiametdept) 1598155259000With pleasant weather doing the rounds in the national capital, scores of joggers, cyclists, and morning walkers were seen at Rajpath this morning. Earlier, due to incessant rains in the previous week, waterlogging was reported in various parts of the Union Territory, affecting traffic in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cool-cloudy-morning-in-delhi-ncr-light-rain-likely/articleshow/77700367.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Noida||Cool, cloudy morning in Delhi-NCR, light rain likely||NEW DELHI: Delhi and its adjoining areas are expected to receive light intensity rain in the next two hours, informed India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday morning. In a tweet earlier today, IMD said, "23-08-2020; 0930 IST; Light intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of Delhi, Greater Noida, Noida, Dadri during next 2 hours." 23-08-2020; 0930 IST; Light intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of Delhi, Greate… https://t.co/w8uPDfJxyJ— India Met. Dept. (@Indiametdept) 1598155259000With pleasant weather doing the rounds in the national capital, scores of joggers, cyclists, and morning walkers were seen at Rajpath this morning. Earlier, due to incessant rains in the previous week, waterlogging was reported in various parts of the Union Territory, affecting traffic in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/cool-cloudy-morning-in-delhi-ncr-light-rain-likely/articleshow/77700383.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Delhi||After 5 months, Delhi's Daryaganj book bazaar to be back in business in a sanitised avatar||NEW DELHI: After lying shut for more than five months, the iconic Sunday book bazaar will be back in business next weekend. The entire market will be sanitised before it reopens on Sunday and vendors have been asked to maintain social distancing. The market, which was relocated to Mahila Haat in September last year, is one of the seven weekly markets that have been allowed to open on a trial basis in City-Sadar Paharganj zone, said Ira Singhal, head of information department of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation. Another senior civic official added that 130-150 vendors would be allowed to set up their stalls. Asharfilal Verma (61), vicepresident of Daryaganj Sunday Book Bazaar Patri Welfare Association, said that the 50-year-old market had never been shut for such a long period of time. “I have been selling books for over 22 years. This has been one of the toughest times for all of us book sellers, but we will work hard to make up for it. Bibliophiles will definitely return,” Verma added. The iconic Daryaganj Sunday book bazaar has been shut since March 8. Mahila Haat is located next to the Shehani banquet hall. Book traders say that the period of change in the academic year used to be their main selling period and they have been wrecked financially. “Competitive exam books and academic books constitute bulk of sale. April to June is the key period for booksellers,” Verma claimed. Kamar Saeed, president of the book bazaar welfare association, said that while there are 276 book sellers in the association, only 150-odd vendors come to set up stalls since the relocation last year. The shifting of the book bazaar from cramped Daryaganj to an open and clean Mahila Haat now may turn out to be in its favour in the Covid era. “Only educated people and students come to buy books and it will be easier to maintain social distancing at Mahila Haat. Entry can be regulated and we can ensure that only masked consumers enter,” he added. Saeed said that many booksellers need loans to restart their business. “Municipal officials have assured us that they will enrol the registered vendors in the central government’s scheme,” he added. Till July last year, the muchloved Sunday book market was being held between Delite Cinema and Golcha Cinema. The decision for shifting the weekly book market came after the Delhi traffic police submitted a report saying that the book sellers occupied the footpath, leaving no space for pedestrians on the busy road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-5-months-delhis-daryaganj-book-bazaar-to-be-back-in-business-in-a-sanitised-avatar/articleshow/77700320.cms||Paras Singh
August 23, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai NGO urges Maharashtra CM to allow mangrove plantations close to new Vashi bridge||NAVI MUMBAI: Navi Mumbai's NGO NatConnect that takes up causes of environment and nature has mailed CM and cabinet minister for tourism and environment, Aditya Thackeray, taking strong objection to planting mangroves uprooted near Vashi creek bridge to another location. The green body has asked the state government to plant the mangroves close to the project site. BN Kumar, director of NatConnect foundation in the mail said, "This is like doing surgery on the leg for a hand injury! The impact of the destruction of mangroves is felt in the same geography. We see no point on doing compensatory planting in some other, totally unrelated area". Mangrove and wetlands are supposed to be natural barriers against floods. The tropical tree acts as the frontline soldiers against tidal water attacks on the coast by absorbing the force of the water flow. It also serves as the breeding ground for hundreds of species of fish and contributes to biodiversity," Kumar said. "In view of this, we request you to instruct the revenue and forest department to plant mangroves in the project area itself," he further added. "We have already seen the impact of planting trees away from project areas of Uran. JNPT has done compensatory plantation of terrestrial trees, with the help of forest department, miles away at Koproli Kalambusare, Uran, on hillock, in lieu of mangrove loss at Uran. Here too, the terrestrial plants did not survive,” said Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/navi-mumbai-ngo-urges-maharashtra-cm-to-allow-mangrove-plantations-close-to-new-vashi-bridge/articleshow/77700375.cms||SANJAY BANERJEE
August 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi deputy CM urges central govt to cancel NEET, JEE||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday appealed to the central government to cancel the medical and engineering entrance exams - JEE and NEET - in view of the novel coronavirus pandemic. Sisodia also suggested using an alternative admission methodology this year and said the exams should not be conducted. On Friday, the Union ministry of human resource development had said the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) and the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET-UG) would be conducted in September as scheduled. "The government is playing with lives of lakhs of students in name of JEE and NEET. I appeal to the Centre govt to immediately cancel both exams and adopt an alternative admission process (sic)," the Delhi education minister tweeted. "To think that only exam is a way out for admission, is an impractical and conservative thought. When other countries can have admission though different methods other than exams, why can't it be done in India? You are putting the life of the students at undue risk in the name of holding exams (sic)," Sisodia added. There have been demands from several students and parents to postpone the entrance exams in view of increasing cases of Covid-19. The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a plea seeking postponement of JEE (Main) and NEET-UG examinations, which are scheduled to be conducted in September, amid spurt in number of Covid-19 cases, saying precious year of students "cannot be wasted" and life has to go on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-deputy-cm-urges-central-govt-to-cancel-neet-jee/articleshow/77700398.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Cash-strapped Punjab again defaults on power subsidies payment||PATIALA: With the economy hit hard by the Covid-19 crisis, the state government has failed to clear payment for power subsidies being given to various categories of consumers during the first four months of the current fiscal. According to official documents, the state government is yet to pay Rs 3,489.74 crore to Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) for free power. From April 1 to August 15, the state government was supposed to pay Rs 6,696.07 crore to PSPCL. However, the government has only released Rs 2,384.76 crore to the power corporation. Records show that in April, the government released three installments of Rs 135.43 crore, Rs 165.87 crore and Rs 200 crore to PSPCL. In May, the government released three installments of Rs 100 crore, one installment of Rs 200 crore and one installment of Rs 535.3 2 crore. In June, five installments of Rs 150 crore, Rs 16.25 crore, Rs 31 5.15 crore, Rs 117.95 crore and Rs 14.68 crore were released. In July, a single installment of Rs 150 crore and in August Rs 379.22 crore was released to PSPCL. The state government also asked the power corporation to adjust electricity duty worth Rs 267.37 crore and infrastructure development fund worth Rs 821.57 crore collected by the power utility from consumers against power subsidies. The total subsidy bill for the current fiscal stands at Rs 16,400.26 crore, which is more than 53% of the annual revenue requirement of the power corporation. This also includes a carry forward of Rs 5,297.55 crore from previous years. Agricultural connections take up the chunk of subsidies (this year, Rs 6,810.51crore) . The government is also considering the proposal to fuel agricultural feeders with solar power to reduce cost of power subsidies provided to farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cash-strapped-punjab-again-defaults-on-power-subsidies-payment/articleshow/77700422.cms||---
August 23, 2020||World||US: Nearly a fifth of enrollees in Pfizer, BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine study are Black or Latino||CHICAGO/NEW YORK : Nearly a fifth of 11,000 people enrolled so far in a 30,000-volunteer US trial testing a Covid-19 vaccine from Pfizer and German partner BioNTech are Black or Latino, groups among the hardest hit by the coronavirus virus pandemic, a top Pfizer executive said.  "Between Latinx and Black or African American populations, we're running at about 19 percent or so," Dr. Bill Gruber, Pfizer's senior vice president of vaccine clinical research and development, told Reuters in an interview.  "We're trying to push even higher than that."  Black and Latino Americans are infected with Covid-19 at more than twice the rate of white Americans, with Native Americans infected at even higher rates, research has shown. The groups are historically underrepresented in clinical trials.  The companies' vaccine has quickly advanced into late-stage testing, with some participants already getting their second of two doses.  Physicians and scientists have been urging companies testing coronavirus vaccines to include Black, Latino and indigenous Americans in Covid-19 vaccine trials in hopes of building trust among at-risk populations.  "We have a lot of campaigns to reach out to those communities because they are overrepresented in terms of COVID-19 illness, so we are very keen to have those individuals as part of our trial," Gruber said on Thursday. "They have higher attack rates and they are most likely to benefit."  According to a Reuters/Ipsos poll in May, only half of Black Americans said they were somewhat or very interested in taking a Covid-19 vaccine.  Gruber did not disclose the number of Native Americans enrolled in the trial, but said Pfizer plans to draw on ties from its Prevnar 7 pneumococcal vaccine tests in the southwestern United States.  "I'm hopeful we'll be able to make further inroads in that community as well," he said.  Pfizer and BioNTech expect to have data sufficient for an emergency use authorization (EUA) or to start a full submission in October, according to Gruber.  The company does not need to finish recruiting the full 30,000 patients planned for the trial in order to have enough data to support an EUA, he said.  The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has said Covid-19 vaccine trials need to have a safety database of at least 3,000 individuals for each of the younger and elderly populations in which it is tested.  Ultimately, the speed with which the vaccine can be approved depends on how quickly patients in the placebo arm become infected with the virus, starting about a week after the second dose is administered. That began this week.  "We won't really know until we get a little farther," Gruber said.  "We're following the rules that assure rigor," he added, saying the company was taking no short cuts.  "I can't tell you what will happen politically," Gruber said, when asked about concerns the Trump administration might pressure companies and regulators to announce progress before the November election.  Gruber said the companies were now in talks with the FDA about how to begin testing the vaccine in children, a group the regulatory agency itself is eager to gather data on.  Vaccines work differently in children and adults.  Gruber said vaccine tests often progress in stages, first in older adolescents, then younger adolescents, and finally in children. But younger adults have higher rates of reactions, such as fevers and sore arms, to Pfizer's vaccine than older adults do, Gruber said.  Roughly 17% of adults between the ages of 18-55 in Pfizer's most recent trial had fevers after being given the vaccine, most of them mild, compared with 8% among those aged 65-85.  There is a risk those reactions could be even more heightened in younger populations, he added.  "Younger children - maybe that's not going to be tolerated. Maybe we're going to have severe fevers," he said. "That's why we're adopting a very thoughtful, graduated approach. Children are not just small adults."  Gruber said the company is submitting safety data to the FDA and working out a testing plan for children, which he expects to start soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-nearly-a-fifth-of-enrollees-in-pfizer-biontech-covid-19-vaccine-study-are-black-or-latino/articleshow/77700447.cms||---
August 23, 2020||World||Changing weather prompts more fire fears in California||SAN FRANCISCO: An unwelcome change in the weather, with higher winds, temperatures and lightning that threatens to spark new wildfires was coming Sunday to parched Northern California, where firefighters have for nearly a week battled three huge “complexes” of fires that have destroyed hundreds of homes and forced tens of thousands to flee. Firefighters made slow but hopeful progress in battling the blazes on Saturday, aided by good weather but hampered by smoky skies that grounded water-dropping aircraft for some of the day. Reinforcements arrived to bolster overwhelmed crews, and evacuation orders were lifted in some areas. But the changing weather brought fears of new fires overnight and warnings from state and local officials for residents in threatened areas to prepare to flee at any moment. “There's not a feeling of pure optimism, but a feeling of resolve, a feeling of we have resources backing us up,” Sonoma County Supervisor James Gore said. Since Aug. 15, state fire officials said more than 12,000 lightning strikes across the state have ignited more than 500 wildfires. Of those, about two dozen major fires were attracting most of the state's resources. Most of the damage was caused by three clusters of fire “complexes” that were ravaging forest and rural areas in and around the San Francisco Bay Area. They have burned 1,120 square miles (2,900 square kilometers). Among the casualties were ancient redwood trees at California's oldest state park, Big Basin Redwoods, plus the park's headquarters and campgrounds. Smoke from the fires made the region's air quality dangerous, forcing people to stay inside. Overall, the fires have killed five people, torched nearly 700 homes and other structures and forced tens of thousands from their houses. “Tuesday night when I went to bed I had a beautiful home on a beautiful ranch,” said 81-year-old Hank Hanson of Vacaville. “By Wednesday night, I have nothing but a bunch of ashes.” The changing weather brought good news for some communities, including Boulder Creek, an old logging community of about 5,000 people in the Santa Cruz mountains. Fire officials said they expected the blaze to reach the community, but they took advantage of recent good weather to try to “herd” flames around the town. The storms predicted for Sunday were expected to aid those efforts by changing the direction of the wind. “As bad as that weather prediction is overall for certain parts of this fire, it actually is going to help us move it away from those certain communities,” said Chief Mark Brunton, a battalion chief for the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, the state's firefighting agency. Responding to the emergency, President Donald Trump issued on Saturday a major disaster declaration to provide federal assistance. Gov. Gavin Newsom said in a statement that the declaration will also help people in counties affected by the fires with crisis counseling, housing and other social services. Fire officials, meanwhile, struggled to get enough resources to fight the two largest cluster of fires around the San Francisco Bay area that had grown to become the second-largest and third-largest fires in state history by size. The fire burning in California's wine country, north of the San Francisco Bay, had only 1,400 firefighters assigned to battle the blaze. By comparison, the state had 5,000 firefighters assigned to the Mendocino Complex in 2018, which still holds the record as the largest fire in state history — for now. “All of our resources remain stretched to capacity that we have not seen in recent history,” said Shana Jones, the chief for CalFire's Sonoma-Lake-Napa unit. Underscoring the danger the fires pose for firefighters, the Sonoma County sheriff's office released dramatic video of the helicopter rescue Friday night of two firefighters trapped on a ridge line at Point Reyes National Seashore. They were hoisted to safety as flames advanced. “Had it not been for that helicopter, those firefighters would certainly have perished,” Sonoma County Sheriff Mark Essick said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/changing-weather-prompts-more-fire-fears-in-california/articleshow/77700300.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Delhi||Northeast Delhi riots case: Court calls for forgery probe against lawyer||NEW DELHI: In a case related to the riots in northeast Delhi in February, a Delhi court ordered Delhi Police's Crime Branch or Special Cell to investigate the allegations of forgery and false deposition by a complainant apparently on the "instigation by a senior member of the bar". The court said, "Since the preliminary enquiry was conducted, on the directions of local DCP, by ACP (Gokalpuri) and SHO, PS Dayalpur, it will be appropriate if the matter is investigated by an independent agency like the Crime Branch or Special Cell." The original case related to the complaint filed by Irshad Ali on March 4, about his shop being looted and burnt during the riots. Ali subsequently filed two complaints, on May 22 and July 14, accusing the investigating officer of malafide intentions. Since this became ground for a bail application of another accused, the court had directed the police to file a report in the matter. The report of the DCP (northeast) was submitted before additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav. It alleged that Ali had changed his stance during the course of the litigation after a lawyer instigated him to "depose falsely" by way of a "forged affidavit". The report claims to quote Ali, who apparently told the cops that a lawyer who was representing another riot accused called him to his office and offered to assist him with an eyewitness in a similar case. In his original police complaint, Ali had said his shop near Dayalpur was gutted by a group of rioters, none of whom he could identify by face. During the police enquiry directed by the court, the complainant claimed that the lawyer approached him earlier this month and claimed his client had seen the rioters burning his shop and requested him to agree to a joint complaint to make a stronger case in court. Ali agreed, though he said he had never seen the said eyewitness earlier. Further enquiries established that the joint complainant was himself a suspect in a case of rioting and had been evading arrest since February. The new affidavit submitted in court by the lawyer had been signed by a notary named Sanjay Saxena. However, on checking the authenticity of the affidavit, Saxena's wife, who practises in the Karkardooma courts, told police that her husband died on November 14, 2017, and after his death she had "no knowledge of any document attested under her husband's stamp".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/northeast-delhi-riots-case-court-calls-for-forgery-probe-against-lawyer/articleshow/77700454.cms||---
August 23, 2020||World||Changing weather prompts more wildfire fears in California||SAN FRANCISCO: An unwelcome change in the weather, with higher winds, temperatures and lightning that threatens to spark new wildfires was coming Sunday to parched Northern California, where firefighters have for nearly a week battled three huge “complexes” of fires that have destroyed hundreds of homes and forced tens of thousands to flee. Firefighters made slow but hopeful progress in battling the blazes on Saturday, aided by good weather but hampered by smoky skies that grounded water-dropping aircraft for some of the day. Reinforcements arrived to bolster overwhelmed crews, and evacuation orders were lifted in some areas. But the changing weather brought fears of new fires overnight and warnings from state and local officials for residents in threatened areas to prepare to flee at any moment. “There's not a feeling of pure optimism, but a feeling of resolve, a feeling of we have resources backing us up,” Sonoma County Supervisor James Gore said. Since Aug. 15, state fire officials said more than 12,000 lightning strikes across the state have ignited more than 500 wildfires. Of those, about two dozen major fires were attracting most of the state's resources. Most of the damage was caused by three clusters of fire “complexes” that were ravaging forest and rural areas in and around the San Francisco Bay Area. They have burned 1,120 square miles (2,900 square kilometers). Among the casualties were ancient redwood trees at California's oldest state park, Big Basin Redwoods, plus the park's headquarters and campgrounds. Smoke from the fires made the region's air quality dangerous, forcing people to stay inside. Overall, the fires have killed five people, torched nearly 700 homes and other structures and forced tens of thousands from their houses. “Tuesday night when I went to bed I had a beautiful home on a beautiful ranch,” said 81-year-old Hank Hanson of Vacaville. “By Wednesday night, I have nothing but a bunch of ashes.” The changing weather brought good news for some communities, including Boulder Creek, an old logging community of about 5,000 people in the Santa Cruz mountains. Fire officials said they expected the blaze to reach the community, but they took advantage of recent good weather to try to “herd” flames around the town. The storms predicted for Sunday were expected to aid those efforts by changing the direction of the wind. “As bad as that weather prediction is overall for certain parts of this fire, it actually is going to help us move it away from those certain communities,” said Chief Mark Brunton, a battalion chief for the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, the state's firefighting agency. Responding to the emergency, President Donald Trump issued on Saturday a major disaster declaration to provide federal assistance. Gov. Gavin Newsom said in a statement that the declaration will also help people in counties affected by the fires with crisis counseling, housing and other social services. Fire officials, meanwhile, struggled to get enough resources to fight the two largest cluster of fires around the San Francisco Bay area that had grown to become the second-largest and third-largest fires in state history by size. The fire burning in California's wine country, north of the San Francisco Bay, had only 1,400 firefighters assigned to battle the blaze. By comparison, the state had 5,000 firefighters assigned to the Mendocino Complex in 2018, which still holds the record as the largest fire in state history — for now. “All of our resources remain stretched to capacity that we have not seen in recent history,” said Shana Jones, the chief for CalFire's Sonoma-Lake-Napa unit. Underscoring the danger the fires pose for firefighters, the Sonoma County sheriff's office released dramatic video of the helicopter rescue Friday night of two firefighters trapped on a ridge line at Point Reyes National Seashore. They were hoisted to safety as flames advanced. “Had it not been for that helicopter, those firefighters would certainly have perished,” Sonoma County Sheriff Mark Essick said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/changing-weather-prompts-more-wildfire-fears-in-california/articleshow/77700476.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Indore||Indore's Covid-19 tally crosses 11,000-mark, toll at 360||INDORE: Indore on Saturday reported 194 new Covid-19 cases and four more deaths, taking the tally to 11,167 and toll to 360. Chief medical and health official released the information in a daily health bulletin late on Saturday. The deaths were reported from SAIMS and Unique hospitals. Three males - aged 67,88,90 - suffering from diabetes, hypertension, pneumonia, cardiac and a female aged 65 with comorbidities like cardiac issues and pneumonia succumbed to the virus. According to the bulletin, a total of 1,92,920 samples were tested so far. Out of them, 1588 samples were tested during the day, in which results of 1,380 came negative. As many as 7,656 people were discharged from hospitals till date and only 3,145 people are in hospital undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/indores-covid-19-tally-crosses-11000-mark-toll-at-360/articleshow/77700534.cms||Antriksh Singh
August 23, 2020||India||Top seer body seeks CBI probe into Palghar lynchings||PRAYAGRAJ: The Mumbai Police is now facing flak from an unexpected quarter, with an apex body of saints now demanding a CBI inquiry into the Palghar lynchings. The Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) said that the Supreme Court's decision to entrust the probe into actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death to the CBI had proved the "incompetence" of the Mumbai Police. The ABAP demanded the CBI probed the lynching of two sadhus in Palghar, Maharashtra, on April 16. ABAP President Mahant Narendra Giri said: "The ABAP is holding an important meeting on August 26 in Haridwar in which, besides discussing preparations for the Kumbh next year, it will also pass a resolution for a CBI inquiry in the killings in Palghar." If the need arises, the Akhara Parishad would also go to the court, he added. On the night of April 16, two sadhus and their driver travelling from Kandivali in Mumbai to Surat in Gujarat for attending a funeral amid the nationwide lockdown were brutally attacked and killed by a mob in Gadchinchile village in the presence of police officials. Two seers, Kalpavriksha Giri Maharaj and Sushil Giri Maharaj, and their driver Nilesh Yalgade were brutally lynched while police allegedly stood as mute spectators. "After passing the resolution, the Akhara Parishad will write to the Maharashtra Chief Minister to demand a CBI probe into the killings," said Giri. The ABAP also demanded that huge gates should be constructed at all main entry points of the state in remembrance of former Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) chief Ashok Singhal. "Singhal gave his life for the cause of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Now that the dreams of crores of Hindus has become a reality, we want he should be given the respect he deserves. The ABAP demands that huge welcome gates named after Ashok Singhal should be constructed on the highways connecting the state in all the four directions," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/top-seer-body-seeks-cbi-probe-into-palghar-lynchings/articleshow/77700531.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Thane||Thane district reports 1,284 new Covid-19 cases, 26 deaths; tally at 1,13,884||THANE: The number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra's Thane district has gone up to 1,13,884 with 1,284 more people testing positive for the disease, a health official said on Sunday. The fatality count in the district has reached 3,240 as 26 more people succumbed to the viral infection on Saturday, he said. Kalyan town in the district has so far reported the maximum 26,405 Covid-19 cases, followed by Thane city-24,329 cases, Navi Mumbai-23,005 cases and Mira Bhayander township- 11,519 cases. The remaining cases have been reported from other parts of the district, the official said. On Saturday, Kalyan reported 421 new cases, followed by Navi Mumbai-398, Thane city-134 and Mira Bhayander-124 cases, he said. The official said Kalyan also reported the highest number of 10 deaths in one single day on Saturday. As of now, there are 12,733 active cases in the district, while 97,911 patients have recovered, he said. The Covid-19 recovery rate in the district is 85.97 per cent and the mortality rate is 2.85 per cent. The Thane district accounted for 16.94 per cent of the total cases in Maharashtra, and 14.73 per cent of total deaths in the state, the official said. In the neighbouring Palghar district, the Covid-19 tally rose to 21,918 after 347 new cases were reported on Saturday, a district official said. Two persons also died of Covid-19 in Palghar on Saturday, taking the total number of deaths there to 444, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-district-reports-1284-new-covid-19-cases-26-deaths/articleshow/77700544.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Man posing as colonel arrested||PATIALA: A man claiming to be a lieutenant colonel in the Army has been arrested by Fatehgarh Sahib police in various cases of fraud. They have seized illegal weapons, ammunition and Army and Punjab Police uniforms from the accused, who claimed to have served as lance naik in the Army from 2002 to 2013. Police officials said Shobraj was nabbed following a tip-off at a police barrier near Sirhind bridge on Thursday late evening. When he failed to produce any substantial documents to show his colonel rank, police arrested him and raided his rented accommodation in Mandi Gobindgarh. The seizure included a .32 bore weapon, five cartridges, an air pistol and a walkie-talkie. The accused has been identified as Shobraj Singh, 35, and resident of a village in Ludhiana. He is also withdrawing a pension from Army on medical grounds. Police found fake ID cards, a stamp pad, 10 fake stamps, uniforms of colonel rank Army officer and Punjab Police, GO caps, and some other documents in his possession. Fatehgarh Sahib SSP Amneet Kondal, said, “We have booked the accused for cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy, falsely impersonating as a public servant and under other relevant sections of IPC and the Arms Act. It seems he cheated a number of people on the pretext of getting them jobs in the Army. He was aware of the working of the Army and somehow managed to get the uniforms of a colonel rank officer. Besides, he also had uniforms of the police personnel. All this, besides some sensitive material, was recovered from his rented house in Mandi Gobindgarh.” Cops also found that Shobraj was booked under the Arms Act in 2012 at Ludhiana’s Ladowal police station and a case of robbery was registered against him in Bilaspur, Himachal Pradesh, in 2016. He had also managed to take two separate loans of Rs 18 lakh and Rs 10 lakh from private banks in Ludhiana in 2018. The matter is now under investigation. “We are informing the Army officials about the accused as it is a sensitive case,” Kondal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-man-posing-as-colonel-arrested/articleshow/77700533.cms||Bharat Khanna
August 23, 2020||World||Nepal govt's links with China affecting its autonomy, ability to take independent decisions: Report||KATHMANDU: As China continues to wield its influence over various countries, Beijing's nexus with the top establishment in the Nepal government has raised serious doubts over the Himalayan nation's 'autonomy' and 'ability to take independent decisions', according to a report in Global Watch Analysis. According to an article by Roland Jacquard, the author explains China's policy of corrupting the political class of a country, especially those who are not economically strong. He also details how the foreign policy of Nepal, the latest entrant to fall victim to China's strategic expansionism, has veered towards pushing the interests of Beijing. In January last year, the day when China condemned United States' move to slap economic sanctions on Venezuela, the ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP) also issued a similar statement denouncing Washington and its allies for intervening in Venezuela's internal matters. This was probably the first time Kathmandu had taken a stand pertaining to US policies in Latin America. Another worrying and trend noticed in Nepal is the deteriorating human rights condition of Tibetan refugees residing in Nepal. The Himalayan nation shares a long border with Tibet and is home to over 20,000 Tibetan exiles, many of whom coming into the country after the Dalai Lama took refuge in India in 1959. According to a recent report submitted to the United Nations (UN), two human rights groups -- Washington-based International Campaign for Tibet and the Paris-based International Federation for Human Rights -- have noted that the new arrivals of Tibetans to Nepal often face threats of being deported to China. With the growing links between the Nepal government and China, Tibetan refugees are barred from holding elections to elect members of their refugee associations or celebrate the Dalai Lama's birthday, Jacquard writes in the article. Attempts to protest against Chinese persecution are met with a heavy-handed response by Nepali authorities, says the writer. To ensure that the top establishment of Nepal carries out China's bidding, the Chinese Embassy in Kathmandu has been steadily building a network of loyalists, and doles are given out to them, many times on the pretext of legitimate jobs undertaken for the embassy. For instance, the Chinese Embassy in Kathmandu awarded a contract of 1.5 million Nepali rupees to Rajan Bhattarai, a member of the NCP and who is currently Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli's Foreign Affairs Advisor, for a research paper on Nepal-India relations. When the initiative started in October 2017, Bhattarai was a member of the Eminent Persons Group on Nepal-India Relations and the Chairman of the Nepal Institute for Policy Studies. According to the contract, Bhattarai's wife Geeta Gautam while he would oversee the project. The payment for the duty was sent to Bhattarai's account in Nabil Bank. "The contract was what the Chinese would call 'a win-win', as it not only found a way to engage a senior NCP functionary in a financial transaction, it also came with an added understanding of Nepal's policies towards India," the writer states. Bhattarai was appointed as Foreign Affairs Advisor to Oli in November 2018. While it is not clear whether China played a role in his appointment, what is interesting to note that despite his position in the Prime Minister's Office, Bhattarai continued to keep contact with Li Yingqiu, a Chinese diplomat posted in the Nepali capital. "With Nepal's Prime Minister's Office, including its senior advisors, known to have established a transactional relationship with China, it raises serious doubts about the autonomy of the government and its ability to take independent decisions," Jacquard says in the article.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/nepal-govts-links-with-china-affecting-its-autonomy-ability-to-take-independent-decisions-report/articleshow/77700551.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to offer tech support to MSMEs||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government has decided to extend a helping hand to the small scale industries by updating them with the latest technologies to produce quality products. This will also fetch the industrialists better price for their products. Stating that the state government has been supporting micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) even during the Covid-19 pandemic, Haryana deputy CM Dushyant Chautala on Saturday said the government had granted approval for setting up common facility centres (CFCs) in two rural MSME clusters, which would support the units with modern technologies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-to-offer-tech-support-to-msmes/articleshow/77700597.cms||---
August 23, 2020||Delhi||627 DDA flats booked under EWS scheme at concessional rate||NEW DELHI: Delhi Development Authority's online scheme for sale of EWS flats at concessional rates has invited 627 bookings, according to statement issued by the agency on Saturday. The scheme to offer EWS flats at Pocket-1A Sector A1-A4 Narela at concessional rates - with 40% concession on construction cost on first-come-first-serve basis was launched on August 7.  "The tentative cost of the flats is Rs 10.89-12.29 lakh after concession. A total of 916 flats have been included in the scheme. The scheme has elicited encouraging response and as of now 627 flats have been booked," the statement said. The income of the applicant for this scheme should not exceed Rs 3 lakh per annum and family income should not exceed to Rs 10 lakh per annum. Booking amount for the flats is Rs 10,000, which is not refundable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/627-dda-flats-booked-under-ews-scheme-at-concessional-rate/articleshow/77700602.cms||---
