August 24, 2020||Business||Technicality, not China link, led to scrapping of Vande Bharat tender: Railways||NEW DELHI: The tender for manufacture of 44 semi-high speed Vande Bharat train sets was scrapped because three bidders had revealed the price in their technical bids and not because a Chinese company had bid for the project as a joint venture partner of an Indian firm. Railway board chairman VK Yadav said, "During evaluation of the technical bids, the technical committee noticed some details of financial offers had been revealed in the technical bids. This is not the practice. To maintain complete transparency, the tender committee recommended to cancel this tender and invite fresh tender. Bids will be invited within a week." Responding to whether the companies that revealed prices would be barred from future bidding, Yadav said they have been asked to clarify on this issue. He added the fresh tender will be as per revised public procurement order, which specifies preference to Make in India. "We are aware that we have lost at least three months. But we are confident we will get these trains before the deadline set. The new tender will specify how many train sets will be manufactured at production units in Chennai, Kapurthala and Rae Bareli," Yadav said. He added that railways will incorporate changes due to the Covid-19 requirements in the train set design. Watch Tender for 44 Vande Bharat trains cancelled due to Chinese links||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/technicality-not-china-link-led-to-scrapping-of-vande-bharat-tender-railways/articleshow/77710465.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM inaugurates a new park in Kankerbagh area||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Sunday inaugurated four newly-constructed enclosures and free Wi-Fi service at the Sanjay Gandhi Zoological Park, which is popularly known as Patna zoo. The enclosures which were inaugurated include the Gharial enclosure, Rhinoceros enclosure, a separate enclosure for rhinoceros having two horns and hyena enclosure. The Gharial enclosure has been built at the cost of Rs 96.62 lakh, rhinoceros enclosure (Rs 538.74 lakh), enclosure for rhinoceros having two horns (Rs 100.7 lakh) and a hyena enclosure at Rs 290.92 lakh with the assistance of the Central Zoo Authority, a zoo official said. Deputy CM-cum- environment, forest and climate change minister Sushil Kumar Modi also was present on the occasion. Later, the CM inaugurated a newly-built park near Jogipur Sump house in Kankarbagh localit. The park has been built under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme. He also inaugurated an official website and a mobile App of the Patna Park division. The CM also inaugurated QR code which will help people get information about any tree in the newly opened park. After inaugurating the park, the CM visited its entire area and inquired about different facilities available in the park, from the officials. He also planted a sapling in the park. A short film based on the construction process of the new park was also shown before the CM. An amount of RS 4.72 crore has already been sanctioned for development of this park, the officials accompanying the CM told him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-cm-inaugurates-a-new-park-in-kankerbagh-area/articleshow/77710475.cms||Madan Kumar
August 24, 2020||India||PRC holders too need domicile certificate for J&K jobs: Centre||NEW DELHI: Union minister Jitendra Singh on Sunday said Permanent Resident Certificate (PRC) holders will also need Jammu & Kashmir domicile certificate in order to apply for jobs and to get other benefits in the Union Territory. Singh, Union minister for PMO, said an impression is being created in certain quarters that those holding PRC don't need to apply for the domicile certificate in Jammu & Kashmir "which is not true". Singh, who hails from Jammu & Kashmir, appealed to all concerned not to be misled by such rumours. The minister, however, said, those holding PRC of the erstwhile State of Jammu & Kashmir are eligible for receiving new domicile certificate on the basis of PRC alone and such PRC holders shall not be required to produce any other additional document. As far as the displaced Kashmiri Pandits are concerned, Singh said, they can get the domicile certificate on production of either PRC or certificate of registration as migrant. For such bonafide Kashimiri migrants and bona fide Kashmiri displaced persons who have migrated but not registered with the relief department of Jammu & Kashmir administration, a special limited provision has been provided to apply before the relief and rehabilitation commissioner (migrant) for registration for the purpose of issuance of a domicile certificate, he said. Singh said the Jammu & Kashmir Grant of Domicile Certificate (Procedure) Rules 2020 have a provision that applications for grant of domicile certificate can be submitted either physically or electronically (online). The competent authority can also issue the domicile certificate electronically, he said. Singh said the new domicile law has brought optimism not only to those presently living in the UT but also to such residents who are living in different parts of the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/prc-holders-too-need-domicile-certificate-for-jk-jobs-centre/articleshow/77710573.cms||---
August 24, 2020||India||Rahul has quit but key moves have his imprint, creating confusion||NEW DELHI: Rahul Gandhi's political style and strategy have been polarising factors for Congress factions ever since he ascended the leadership position, and has turned into a sharper point of discord post the party's second successive Lok Sabha poll defeat in 2019. The leader's handling of party issues has riled the old guard the most, who have been unable to strike a rapport with him and feel he is insular in his approach, relying on a small group which does not provide the political feedback the party needs. The Congress Working Committee meeting in which he resigned as party president immediately after the Lok Sabha debacle in May 2019 and the one this June where some members tried to persuade him to take back the reins of the organisation had a telling common thread. On both occasions, he told Congress veterans that they were reluctant and afraid of attacking Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Read AlsoKey CWC meet today as Sonia Gandhi insists on quitting as party chiefSonia Gandhi has conveyed to the party that she is not ready to continue as 'interim president' any longer. The declaration is likely to push the Congress Working Committee meeting on Monday into brainstorming over the leadership crisis. It may see a strong request for Sonia to continue or for RahulThe remark has, in effect, defined a style that has run afoul of several leaders who claim that there is no reality check on a political strategy after repeated failures against the Modi-led BJP since 2014. They point to a dogged refusal to accept that the personalised attacks on Modi have failed and alleged scams like Rafale did not take off. They have been urging "nuance" instead of an all-out, impulsive attacking style. Read AlsoFamily loyalists slam dissenters, say timing of letter ‘insensitive’As news spread of a letter written to Sonia Gandhi by a group of Congress veterans calling for a "full-time and effective leadership", a string of leaders countered the dissenters, with many terming the timing of the missive insensitive when the party chief Sonia has not been keeping well and othersHowever, Rahul been firm in his belief that his strategy is the best, captured in the manner he has persistently spoken about the Rafale deal and now the Covid-19 pandemic, economic slowdown and Chinese intrusion. His critics say there is no evidence any of this is working even as a string of influential leaders, Jyotiraditya Scindia the most prominent of them, have left. Read AlsoRefused Cong’s offer of Dy CM post: Scindia“I am a public servant. If I had been a servant of the ‘chair’, I would have accepted the proposal of deputy CM given by Kamal Nath ji and Digvijaya Singh ji. But I knew that people sitting in the government would destroy the state and I didn’t want to be part of them. I followed my sixth sense andAccording to a few senior leaders loyal to the Gandhi family, a major source of confusion has emerged since Rahul's resignation in 2019. They say while he has stopped meeting them for discussions on the ground that he was no longer the chief, he continues to shape the party agenda with tweets and statements while his fingerprints are evident in organisational appointments. Party functionaries, all known to be his loyalists, publicly pitching for his return as party president are not restrained either. These leaders argue it has resulted in confusion among members while leaving veterans clueless and snubbed. Watch Gandhi family loyalists bat for Rahul, Sonia to helm Congress||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rahul-has-quit-but-key-moves-have-his-imprint-creating-confusion/articleshow/77710888.cms||---
August 24, 2020||India||Family loyalists slam dissenters, say timing of letter ‘insensitive’||NEW DELHI: As news spread of a letter written to Sonia Gandhi by a group of Congress veterans calling for a "full-time and effective leadership", a string of leaders countered the dissenters, with many terming the timing of the missive insensitive when the party chief was not well and others saying Rahul Gandhi must end the ambiguity over being party president. Congress functionaries, including chief ministers Amarinder Singh, Ashok Gehlot, Bhupesh Baghel and V Narayanasamy, came out in support of the Gandhi family on Sunday. "Many who signed have worked with Soniaji. They are aware she is not well. Their action might weaken the party at a time when it should take on the Modi government," a veteran said. Read AlsoSonia Gandhi to continue as party interim chief, decides CWC: All you need to knowNEW DELHI: After an over seven-hour long meeting, the Congress Working Committee on Monday urged Sonia Gandhi to continue as its interim chief till an AICC session can be convened. At the meeting, which took place in the backdrop of more than 20 party leaders seekingWith arguments on both sides exposing a sharp divide between the 'loyalists' and those batting for change, leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, former Karnataka CM Siddaramaiah, former Union ministers Salman Khurshid and Ashwini Kumar, and state unit chiefs D K Sivakumar, Balasaheb Thorat, Kumari Selja, K S Alagiri, Mullapally Ramachandran, Anil Chaudhary and Govind Singh Dotasra released letters and tweets asserting the centrality of the Gandhis to Congress and the need for them to remain in control. Read AlsoKey CWC meet today as Sonia Gandhi insists on quitting as party chiefSonia Gandhi has conveyed to the party that she is not ready to continue as 'interim president' any longer. The declaration is likely to push the Congress Working Committee meeting on Monday into brainstorming over the leadership crisis. It may see a strong request for Sonia to continue or for RahulThere was also a strong view that the uncertainty over leadership was hurting the party and Rahul must take charge. "I am sure once he understands that the party wants him and this is the need of the hour for the nation as well, he will agree," Puducherry CM Narayanasamy said. Amarinder opposed the challenge to Sonia and called the move "ill-timed". He said the demand to overhaul the party at this critical juncture would be "detrimental to its interests, and the interests of the nation". "India is currently facing not just external dangers from across the border but also internal threats to its federal structure," he said, adding that a unified Congress was the only way to protect India and its people. Chhattisgarh CM Baghel and Gehlot echoed his sentiments. "Sonia Gandhiji should continue to lead the party... She has always taken challenges head on. But if she has made up her mind, I believe Rahul Gandhi should come ahead and be the Congress president," Gehlot tweeted. Baghel referred to Sonia and Rahul as Congress's only "rays of hope". Chowdhury, in a letter to Sonia, referred to the "leadership crisis" as a "bogey" raised by "those members of the party who have benefited and grown in the Congress due to your encouragement and the faith that you have placed in them". Read AlsoRahul has quit but key moves have his imprint, creating confusionRahul Gandhi's political style and strategy have been polarising factors for Congress factions ever since he ascended the leadership position, and has turned into a sharper point of discord post the party's second successive Lok Sabha poll defeat in 2019.The Delhi unit passed a resolution supporting Sonia's continued presidentship. However, the CWC meeting on Monday, sources said, is still likely to see animated discussion with all eyes on the group of 23 who called for change. Sources said family loyalists may also press for a resolution of the leadership debate at a bigger AICC plenary, which they said was the "only and the right platform" for any details regarding internal party matters to be discussed. Khurshid suggested Congress give 'consensus' a chance, instead of elections, even as he said Rahul enjoyed the "full support and endorsement" of party workers and leaders. Watch Gandhi family loyalists bat for Rahul, Sonia to helm Congress||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/family-loyalists-slam-dissenters-say-timing-of-letter-insensitive/articleshow/77711036.cms||---
August 24, 2020||India||Pirated NCERT books found from Delhi to TN||A hand-written note found somewhere between pages of one of the 10 lakh-odd pirated NCERT textbooks that was seized in a Meerut warehouse recently made the Special Task Force of the UP police sit up. The books were to be delivered to almost every major town and city of India. There were names of vendors who would complete the "last mile" and also addresses of the shops that would stock up the counterfeits - one in Asansol, another in Madurai and Munger, a third in Delhi and a fourth in Chennai. STF sleuths got a glimpse into the massive network, its spread surprising even top officers. It all started on Friday when, based on a tip, the STF raided a godown packed with pirated NCERT books. The consignment was ready for dispatch. The STF put its market value at 35 crore. The note that the STF chanced upon was part of a hand-written register that had had 926 entries containing the names, addresses and details of vendors including that of logistics firms. "Apart from the order register, hundreds of used and unused bill books, computers, most likely containing stock records and balance sheets, have also been seized from the godown,” said Brijesh Singh, DSP STF. On Saturday, in another raid in neighbouring Amroha, the STF found a similar haul of fake NCERT textbooks whose market value has been pegged at Rs 15 crore. In all, eight persons have been arrested so far. Sachin Gupta, a Meerut resident and a key player in the scam, is on the run. He is the nephew of BJP’s city vice-president Sanjeev Gupta. The party suspended him soon after the racket was unearthed. A four-member NCERT team has now found that most of the counterfeit books were published with the “original” watermark, suggesting complicity of insiders. “This seems to be the tip of the iceberg,” a senior STF officer told TOI. “Few of us had seen a consignment of pirated books this size.” In Chandigarh last year, the vigilance department had unearthed a racket of counterfeit NCERT textbooks. Probe agencies had then claimed UP was the source of these duplicate books.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pirated-ncert-books-found-from-delhi-to-tn/articleshow/77711186.cms||Piyush Rai
August 24, 2020||World||Pakistan tries to wriggle out of D-confession||ISLAMABAD: Days after including India's most wanted terrorist Dawood Ibrahim on its new sanctions list, Pakistan on Sunday tried to wriggle out of its admission of his presence in the country by claiming its notifications about the 88 banned terror groups and their leaders were based on details provided by the UN. Seeking to escape from getting blacklisted by Financial Action Task Force, Pakistan on Friday imposed tough financial sanctions on 88 terror groups and their leaders, including Ibrahim, 26/11 mastermind and Jamaat-ud-Dawa chief Hafiz Saeed and Jaish-e-Mohammed chief Masood Azhar. Ibrahim has emerged as India's most wanted terrorist after the 1993 Mumbai bombings. In 2003, the US declared Ibrahim as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist. Pakistan's Foreign Office issued a statement in response to the media reports that Islamabad had admitted in the two new notifications issued on August 18 that Ibrahim was residing in the country. It said that the SROs (Statutory Regulatory Orders) issued reflect the information contained in the list entry of UN designated individuals/entities. It said the reports in certain sections of the media about Pakistan imposing new sanctions measures, through these SROs, were not factual.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pakistan-tries-to-wriggle-out-of-d-confession/articleshow/77711215.cms||---
August 24, 2020||India||Highest count of Covid cases & toll last week||NEW DELHI: More than 4.5 lakh fresh Covid-19 cases and 6,666 deaths from the virus were recorded in India in the past seven days, the highest so far, making it the deadliest week of the pandemic in the country. However, the growth rate of infections as well as fatalities continued to decrease. On Sunday, 62,042 fresh cases were reported, taking India's total coronavirus tally past 31 lakh, as per data collated by from state governments. This was a drop from the record 70,488 cases recorded on Saturday. Covid-19 mortalities too declined, with 856 deaths recorded on Sunday. This was the first time since August 11 that the daily Covid toll had dipped below 900. While the pandemic continues to surge in the country, there is a distinct slowdown in the growth rate. In the past week, fresh cases rose by 4.7% over the previous week while deaths were up by just 1.7%. By contrast, the previous week (August 10-16) had seen cases grow by 5.9% and deaths by 4.4%. In the week before that (August 3-9), Covid-19 infections had risen by as much as 10.9% and deaths by 17.5%. Active cases rose by 31,518 during the week, as compared with 43,601 in the previous. Meanwhile, Delhi reported 1,450 fresh cases on Sunday, its highest daily count in August so far. On Sunday, many of the worst-hit states showed a drop in fresh cases, which could be linked to the number of tests decreasing sharply by more than 2.2 lakh from the previous day's record high of over 10.2 lakh. Watch India records highest tally of Covid cases and toll last week||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/highest-count-of-covid-cases-toll-last-week/articleshow/77711240.cms||---
August 24, 2020||India||Use English in events, translate Hindi, DMK writes to Centre||NEW DELHI: Days after Ayush ministry's secretary Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha's comments in an online conference, asking participants to "leave" if they had a problem with him speaking in Hindi, opposition DMK has written to the Centre asking for all official events to be conducted in English. Condemning the "incident of imposition" of Hindi, DMK MP and deputy leader of the party in Lok Sabha Kanimozhi wrote to Ayush minister Shripad Yesso Naik, "I urge you to direct the officials in your ministry to make sure that all official events are conducted in English and wherever Hindi is used, a corresponding translation in English is provided." This is the second time in two weeks that DMK has registered its protest over the use of Hindi. Last week, Kanimozhi had said she had been asked by a CISF official at an airport to talk in Hindi to prove she's "Indian". As for why she took this up, Kanimozhi told TOI she had always had a problem with the use of Hindi for official events and this seemed like a logical solution. "Most parliamentarians and officials know only English apart from their mother tongue." The Ayush secretary, meanwhile, has responded to Kanimozhi's letter, he told TOI. "It is possible (to consider the suggestion) and even a separate training programme for officers from Tamil Nadu is possible. We will implement it." Sidestepping the controversy, convenor of the subcommittee of Parliament on official language, lawmaker Rita Bahuguna Joshi, said there had been no case of language imposition. “"The intention of framers of the Constitution was to have one binding language for the nation. All central governments have promoted Hindi, but no force has or will be applied. Parliamentary committee on official language is responsible for central government activities, not for states. The country is divided in three areas - A, B & C and Hindi and English are both official languages. States work as per preferences given by them," Joshi told TOI. “ Group A is of states that agreed to work 100 percent in Hindi, Group B is with 50 percent and group C is with no Hindi. So there is no binding on States. UP is in A Group. Tamil Nadu in C”, the Allahabad MP pointed out. Earlier Kotecha said he had made no statements that could hurt sentiments. "A bunch of hooligans and government officials from Tamil Nadu had crashed the webinar. The link was shared with 350 participants but 430 joined. They started shouting. The speech was bilingual. The video had been morphed," he pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/use-english-in-events-translate-hindi-dmk-writes-to-centre/articleshow/77711285.cms||Rohan Dua
August 24, 2020||India||Paying Rs 50 fine for ‘animal cruelty’ may soon be over as govt mulls stricter law||NEW DELHI: Inflicting any form of cruelty on animals and getting away by paying a penalty of just Rs 50 for such an offence may soon be a thing of the past with the Centre mulling making the law more stringent. Union animal husbandry and dairying secretary, Atul Chaturvedi, told TOI that his ministry is “actively examining the issue related to increasing the existing penalties for cruelty to animals by amending the existing law”. The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act (PCA), 1960 currently stipulates a penalty between Rs 10 and Rs 50 for any act of cruelty against animals, including beating, kicking, torturing, starving and mutilating the animal. Under the 60-year-old law, none of these actions amounting to animal cruelty, as recognised under Section 11(1) of the PCA, are cognisable except organising fights and shooting matches that use animals. The proposed amendments to it will also make such offences cognisable. Besides animal rights activists who have been demanding such amendments for years, 12 MPs including Union minister of social justice and empowerment Thaawarchand Gehlot and seven other ruling BJP members too have recently flagged the issue of “unreasonably low penalties” in the existing law to the Union animal husbandry and dairying minister Giriraj Singh. Urging Singh to bring in stricter penalties for cruelty to animals and recognise the “cognisability of offences” under the law, the MPs in their letters underlined that such low penalties defeats the purpose of the Act. They also flagged that the quantum of penalties has not been reviewed even once in the six decades of the existence of the PCA. The MPs who wrote to the minister include Anubhav Mohanty of the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) and Mohammad Jawed and Vivek Tankha of the Congress. Chaturvedi said, “Whenever the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) receives any cruelty related complaint, they issue advisories to chief secretaries, directors general of police, district magistrate and local police.” He, however, refused to comment on circus and battery cages issues at this stage, saying “these are under examination by the Delhi high court and hence sub-judice”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/paying-rs-50-fine-for-animal-cruelty-may-soon-be-over-as-govt-mulls-stricter-law/articleshow/77711298.cms||Vishwa Mohan
August 24, 2020||Patna||1st Covid casualty for paramilitary forces as CRPF constable dies||PATNA: Paramilitary forces in the state suffered first Covid casualty on Sunday when a CRPF jawan, Dinesh Kumar Sharma, succumbed to the virus at AIIMS-Patna. Sharma, a driver constable, was posted at Patna range office on the campus of CRPF’s Bihar sector headquarters at Rajiv Nagar. Commandant M K Singh, the public relations officer of CRPF Bihar sector, said this is the first Covid death of a CRPF jawan in the state. “Though Sharma was a native of Patna, his family members reside in Hyderabad,” Singh said, adding the dead CRPF jawan will be cremated as per Covid-19 protocols after the arrival of his family members. Singh said Sharma was tested Covid-19 positive on August 2 and shifted to an isolation centre at Patliputra sport complex. “Sharma was a symptomatic patient. He was later shifted to AIIMS-Patna for better treatment. The constable also had comorbidities as he was a diabetic,” Singh added. The commandant said at least 205 CRPF personnel have so far tested positive for Covid-19 in the state, including many in Bihar sector headquarters. At least 50 personnel from a battalion stationed in Jamui have also tested positive for the virus, he added. Meanwhile, a senior SSB officer said around 100 personnel from the force under Patna frontier have so far contracted the virus. He added only one SSB jawan is currently undergoing treatment at AIIMS-Patna. “At least 40 SSB personnel have recovered from the disease. The affected personnel are being kept either at isolation or quarantine centres as per requirement,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1st-covid-casualty-for-paramilitary-forces-as-crpf-constable-dies/articleshow/77708912.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 24, 2020||Patna||CM Nitish Kumar inaugurates enclosures, Wi-Fi facility in Patna zoo||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Sunday inaugurated four newly-constructed enclosures and free Wi-Fi service at Sanjay Gandhi Zoological Park, popularly known as Patna zoo. The enclosures which were inaugurated include the Gharial enclosure, Rhinoceros enclosure, a separate enclosure for rhinoceros having two horns and hyena enclosure. The Gharial enclosure has been built at the cost of Rs 96.62 lakh while rhinoceros enclosure cost Rs538.74 lakh, enclosure for rhinoceros having two horns Rs100.7 lakh and hyena enclosure Rs 290.92 lakh. The enclosures were built with the assistance of the Central Zoo Authority, a zoo official said. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, who is also the environment, forest and climate change minister, was present on the occasion. Later, the CM inaugurated a newly-built park near Jogipur sump house in Kankarbagh locality of the state capital. The park has been built under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme. He also inaugurated an official website and a mobile app of the Patna Park division. The CM also inaugurated QR code, which will help people get information about any tree in the new park. After inaugurating the park, the CM visited its entire area and inquired , from the officials about different facilities available there. He also planted a sapling in the park. A short film based on the construction process of the new park was also screened before the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-inaugurates-enclosures-wi-fi-facility-in-city-zoo/articleshow/77708824.cms||Madan Kumar
August 24, 2020||Patna||Patna: Difficult for many to cope with lifestyle changes amid Covid-19||PATNA: Psychologists, therapists and counsellors in the city are flooded with phone calls from people facing anxiety and depression due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Not just adults, but children are also finding it difficult to cope with the drastic lifestyle changes since March this year. According to clinical psychologist Dr Binda Singh, people’s mindset during the initial phase of the lockdown was positive as they got an opportunity to spend more time with their families while working from home. However, the extension of the curbs has made them restless. “I receive a lot of calls from people, who complain that their children have become aggressive and impatient. Educational institutes have been shut, academic sessions disturbed and major competitive exams postponed. Children are spending lots of time on the internet, exposing them to a lot of negative information,” Dr Binda said. Couples are also facing the brunt. “Young working couples, who were earlier in a live-in relationship in other big cities, have come back home and are living with their respective families. They are not able to meet frequently and having trust issues. This is leading to fights and break-ups,” she added. According to another psychologist, Dr Nandini Sinha, there has also been an increase in domestic violence and family dispute cases. “Pre Covid-19 lockdown, there were many avenues for entertainment. Couples would go to movie theatres, fancy restaurants, coffee shops, shopping malls and parks. But now they are stuck at home with a constant fear of infection and mounting financial trouble. There is also a feeling of loss of privacy and intrusion from other family members. Hence, they get into unpleasant arguments, which sometimes escalates to physical violence,” said Dr Sinha. “Just yesterday, I got a call from a distressed wife who wanted to separate from her hubby because of a family dispute. She said despite working a 9-hour shift during the weekdays, her in-laws expect her to do all the household work alone. Her husband also isn’t supportive at all,” Nandini added. Children are greatly affected due to the lockdown. Online classes have caused a great deal of psychological and mental stress to them. Parents are finding it difficult to deal with the behavioural changes in their children due to the prolonged confinement at home. “My child has lost interest in online classes. He spends his entire day browsing the internet or playing video games. If I scold him, he shuts his room. I fear saying anything to him. I have made him speak to a city-based counsellor, but don’t see any changes in his behaviour,” said Manish Kumar, father of a 14-year-old from Kankarbagh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/difficult-for-many-to-cope-with-lifestyle-changes-amid-covid-19/articleshow/77708929.cms||Arunima Lal
August 24, 2020||Patna||Now, Patna University to help students launch their own startups||PATNA: At a time when there has been a considerable decline in job potential owing to Covid-19 pandemic, Patna University (PU) will soon be providing an e-platform to the students enrolled in different universities of the state for sharing their brilliant entrepreneurial ideas and helping them launch their own startups. In an initiative called e-Youthscape, PU, in collaboration with an NGO, will not only motivate entrepreneurship among the educated youths of the state through webinars and e-workshops but also connect them with incubation, network and other support ecosystems. Selected youths will be provided seed-funding support to convert their entrepreneurial ideas into successful ventures. PU placement cell coordinator Ashim Lal Chakraborty said interested students from all the universities and colleges in the state would have to be first registered with this project. Then, they would be pitching their potential startup ideas to experts and incubators. It would be a multi-layered virtual competition organised in different stages with selection and eviction at each stage. Chakraborty said candidates would be required to fill out their ideas on a BMC (business model canvas) format as the first stage of filtration. The selected students will undergo a workshop to better their skills of structuring their ideas into project proposals and pitches. In the final round, a group of 10 students will be selected, where under the guidance of a coach/mentor, they will get to present their project proposals to a panel of experts. A set of prominent panelists wyll evaluate the final proposals to declare the winners. The first three winners would get seed grants of Rs 3 lakh, Rs 2 lakh and Rs 1 lakh respectively for their startups. Besides, each winner will get a tablet and an opportunity to participate in an incubation programme. The remaining seven students will get consolation prizes, PU placement cell coordinator Ashim Lal Chakraborty said. Campus placement: The placement cell of Patna University (PU) has contacted nearly 1,000 organisations for campus placement of its students. As many as 40 PU students were called for final interview by Aziz Premji Foundation for the job of associates just before the lockdown in March and the results are expected by the second week of September. Piramal Group is also likely to hire PU students soon. Several students have also been successfully placed in Futures Group and ITC, said PU placement cell coordinator Ashim Lal Chakraborty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/now-pu-to-help-students-launch-their-own-startups/articleshow/77708840.cms||B K Mishra
August 24, 2020||Business||Lucky to have things on platter: HDFC Bank CEO-designate Sashidhar Jagdishan||MUMBAI: HDFC Bank CEO-designate Sashidhar Jagdishan has said the lender’s bad loans on account of Covid-19 would be below what was seen during the global financial crisis. He also said that the bank could grow its loan market share from 9% to 15% without diluting credit standards by tapping the top end of the rural and semi-urban market, where it has built distribution capability. In a conference call with analysts, Jagdishan said he considered himself lucky to take charge of a bank with a platform that is already geared for growth. The bank’s ‘strategic change agent’ was speaking at a conference call hosted by Macquarie, which was also attended by the bank’s CFO Srinivasan Vaidyanathan. Part of the bank’s strategy to scale up was to implement digital banking 2.0, where the company would build on the capability of its existing digital platforms and also collaborate with them for customer acquisition. He said in future the bank’s customer will be able to use the lender’s ecosystem for everything — from purchasing a car to healthcare, where the company would stitch together a network of clients and service providers. Jagdishan responded to queries on the auto loan controversy, media reports on delayed reporting to the credit bureau, and the call to investors by Rosen Law Firm, which was seeking to initiate class-action proceedings in the US. Admitting that there were auto loan lapses on the part of certain individuals, Jagdishan said, “They were offering a GPS to a fraction of car loan customers. It is just that there were people who could have done it in a transparent way. He got some gratification from the vendor and that is something that is non-negotiable. We have always said that we are kind to operational errors but there are two things we will not tolerate — integrity and lackadaisical attitude. Sadly these are instances that have hit us on the latter side,” said Jagdishan. Reacting to bank’s plans to scale business, curtail NPAs and go deeper into digital, Suresh Ganapathy, an analyst with Macquarie Capital Securities, said, “If that indeed is going to be the outcome in this pandemic, then it will be a fantastic outcome. It would be a class apart if they can restrict NPAs to such low levels. Plus the pre-provision operating profit level is 3.7% annually for them, as a percentage of average assets that’s a massive earnings power which can even digest credit costs of 5% of loans in a single year and still not make a loss,” he said. On the class-action suit, Vaidyanathan said it was an attempt to rally investors to join a lawsuit and that the management was confident that there has been no wrongdoing. On the delay in reporting to the credit bureau, he said the bank had sought clarification from the RBI on its April 17 circular on how some loans have to be recognised and also had to change its systems, which led to some delay. Watch Lucky to have things on platter, says HDFC Bank CEO-designate Sashidhar Jagdishan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lucky-to-have-things-on-platter-jagdishan/articleshow/77710524.cms||Mayur Shetty
August 24, 2020||Nashik||Nashik police to maintain strict vigil on Visarjan day||Nashik: Nashik police will maintain strict vigil and patrol city streets on Tuesday to ensure that there is no violation of social distancing rule in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Police have also led appealed to the citizens to carry out Ganesh idol immersion at the household level instead of making rush at river banks or artificial ponds. Senior officials of the city police said that this year there will be no immersion processions and all Ganesh mandals have been informed about the same. Nonetheless, police would be deployed in various parts of the city to maintain strict vigil. Three platoons of the state reserve police force (SRPF) and 350 home guards would be deployed in various parts of the city apart from the bandobast at the police station levels.Senior officials said that nearly two lakh citizens celebrate Ganeshotsav at household level every year. “It would be a matter of concern if people decide to carry out Ganesh immersion at river banks or artificial ponds,” said police officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-police-to-maintain-strict-vigil-on-visarjan-day/articleshow/77839165.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Patna||Govt to hire only Bihar residents as teachers in primary schools||PATNA: The state government has decided to recruit only Bihar residents as teachers in the primary schools of panchayats and urban local bodies under the new service conditions 2020. In the Bihar State Municipal Primary School Service and Bihar State Panchayat Primary School Service (Recruitment, Promotion, Transfer, Disciplinary Action and Service Conditions) Rules, 2020, the state education department on Saturday made a clear provision that only residents of Bihar will be able to apply under the recruitment process. Additional chief secretary (education) R K Mahajan told this newspaper that under the new rules framed for government schoolteachers, provision has been made that people applying for primary schoolteachers jobs should be the citizens of India and residents of Bihar. “This provision had already been there in the rules for recruitment in secondary and higher secondary government schools since 2006. But when the department revised the rules in 2012, it was omitted,” he said. “In the new rules framed in 2020, we have introduced the provision for job reservation for local people in primary schools at panchayat and municipal level,” Mahajan added. Besides, the department has also introduced a code of conduct for primary to higher secondary schoolteachers for the first time; that they should not be involved in private business directly or indirectly, not to take any intoxicant, complete syllabus in prescribed time period, attend school and conduct classes on time, not to harass students in any form (mental or physical) and play active role on social issues. It also mentioned that the teacher should not be a member of any political party and should not be associated with such organization, and should follow the instructions of competent authority. Under the new service conditions, the state government has given several benefits to the contract teachers like EPF (which will be implemented from September), inter-district transfer for women and specially-abled teachers and librarians and 180 days of maternity leave for women and 15 days paternity leave for male teachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-to-hire-only-state-people-as-primary-teachers/articleshow/77708405.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Patna||BJP with JD(U) and LJP will win Bihar polls: J P Nadda||PATNA: BJP, JD(U) and LJP would fight the coming state assembly election together and also emerge victorious, BJP national president J P Nadda reaffirmed on Sunday, putting to rest speculations about any rift in the NDA in Bihar. Nadda’s remarks came at a time when LJP national president Chirag Paswan has been attacking CM Nitish Kumar on one pretext or the other for quite some time. “Jab-jab BJP-JD(U)-LJP ek saath chunav ladi hai, vijaye hue hai (whenever BJP-JD(U)-LJP combine has fought elections together, they have won),” Nadda said, while addressing the concluding session of the party’s two-day executive committee virtual meeting. He also made it clear that the assembly elections would be fought under the leadership of CM Nitish Kumar. Nadda asked the party workers to add value not only to the BJP but also to the alliance partners to ensure victory in the coming elections. He claimed that the opposition in Bihar and elsewhere in the country was a spent force. “BJP is the only party which is being looked at by people with hope,” he said, adding the party has already declared Nitish as the CM face of the ruling alliance in Bihar. Lauding the BJP workers for their work during Covid and floods, Nadda said, “There are immense challenges during the pandemic. But we could reach out to the people for their welfare and it has become an example for everyone. In fact, you are the ambassadors of change and the people of Bihar have much hope from BJP and NDA.” Nadda further said, “We have to take forward the makhana industry, Madhubani painting, litchi of Muzaffarpur and Bhagalpur’s silk industry in a push for PM Narendra Modi’s local for vocal initiative.” He listed several welfare schemes and measures launched by the Modi government for the people of the country and Bihar as well during the Covid-19 pandemic. During his speech, Nadda also mentioned important schemes such as Patna Metro, besides infrastructure development and good work done by AIIMS-Patna during the pandemic. BJP’s incharge for Bihar Bhupendra Yadav coined a new slogan, ‘BJP hai taiyyar, Atmanirbhar Bihar’ and asked the party workers to go to the field with this new slogan. Without taking the names of RJD chief Lalu Prasad and his wife Rabri Devi, Yadav said the family only thought about its prosperity and not about the people’s progress during its 15 years’ rule. However, the NDA took the state to a new height of development in the last 15 years. Accusing former deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav of adopting double standards, he said The RJD leaders is opposing virtual mode of campaigning for the coming election, but himself using digital platforms such as Twitter and Facebook to communicate with people. “Inke kathani aur karni mein bahut fark hai (there is a great difference between his words and action)”, he added. Yadav also exuded confidence that the NDA would repeat its performance of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in Bihar polls. He also congratulated the state government for tactfully handling the Covid-19 pandemic and floods. He said it was a matter of satisfaction that over one lakh tests are being conducted daily and over 10 crore door-to-door screenings have been done in the state so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-with-jdu-and-ljp-will-win-bihar-polls-nadda/articleshow/77708783.cms||Ramashankar
August 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar cops in border districts on alert||PATNA: Police of bordering districts along Nepal are maintaining extra vigil after the arrest of an alleged ISIS terrorist in Delhi on Sunday. However, movement of people across Nepal border is restricted amid Covid-19 pandemic. The Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) on Indian side and Nepal’s Armed Police Force (AFP) across the border are already maintaining a heightened vigil. SSB’s Patna frontier guards the entire border areas along Bihar, except in Kishanganj where the SSB Silliguri frontier personnel are deployed. When asked, Bagaha SP Rajiv Ranjan told TOI that police stations along the border had been asked to be on alert for any suspicious movement. “The only accessible area is Valmikinagar where there’s Gandak barrage and a bridge. However, security forces are deployed on both sides at this point. Rest of the areas are inaccessible,” he said. East Champaran SP Naveen Chandra Jha said they were already keeping an eye on the border areas. “We are already alert. There is no movement across the border. At least eight to ten police station areas in the district are on India-Nepal border,” he said. Jha said several villages on both sides of the international border are almost merged, but SSB maintains a high alert. Sitamarhi SP Anil Kumar also said the district police were on high alert after the terrorist’s arrest with IEDs in Delhi. “The district police and SSB personnel are already on high alert. We have also received some instructions from the state police headquarters,” he said. Kumar said there is no transit point in Sitamarhi. “There are eight police stations in Sitamarhi which share the jurisdiction with the international border,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/police-in-border-districts-on-alert/articleshow/77708856.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 24, 2020||Patna||Veggie, fruit sales take a hit as shop timings curtailed in city||PATNA: With the administration curtailing the timings of opening of markets to contain further spread of Covid-19 in Patna district, vegetable and fruit sales registered a substantial drop on Sunday. Vegetable and fruit sellers in the district are now allowed to operate for just four hours – from 6am to 10am – till September 6. Shops selling fish, chicken and meat are also allowed to open between 6am and 10am. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said magistrates and police personnel have been deployed at the vegetable and fruit mandis for strict implementation of new timings. “The move is aimed at avoiding overcrowding at vegetable and fruit markets. It is observed that social distancing is not followed at marketplaces, especially during the evening time. The new timings are for vegetable and fruit shops and those selling non-vegetarian food. Shops selling essential commodities are allowed to operate from 6am to 6pm,” the DM added. However, defying the administration’s order, many vegetable and fruit sellers remained open till evening on Sunday. They, however, failed to find buyers as police personnel were deputed near big markets like Digha, Anta Ghat, Raja Bazaar, Kankarbagh, Bazaar Samiti, Mithapur and Rajendra Nagar. Sani Kumar Singh (35), a vegetable vendor at Anta Ghat, said he was not aware about the new restrictions. “The police made the announcement only on Sunday morning about the new timings through loudspeakers. My brother had brought fresh cauliflower, brinjal, bottle gourd and tomatoes from the farm at 8.30am. However, 65% of vegetables remained unsold,” he added. Another vegetable seller from Digha, Pancham Devi, said the administration should allow them to sell vegetables at least in two shifts. “We wear masks and maintain social distancing,” she claimed. “The fresh restrictions mean the markets will see more rush in the morning hours,” said Ram Chandra, a vegetable vendor from Bazaar Samiti. Some vendors were seen moving from one area to another to sell vegetables and fruits. Anand Ranjan, proprietor of a vegetable wholesale service at Mussallahpur Haat, said curtailment of business hours would affect the vendors. “The move will also have a cascading effect on prices of vegetables,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/veggie-fruit-sales-take-a-hit-as-shop-timings-curtailed-in-city/articleshow/77708874.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 24, 2020||Business||Printer market dips 60% despite rise in home buying||Chennai: The printer market has registered its sharpest ever decline of 60% year-on-year in April-June due to supply chain challenges and pan-India lockdown even as online learning for kids and remote work emerged as bright spots.Hitherto dominated by enterprise buying of laser printers, demand for the economical inkjet printers from individuals for home office set-ups and e-learning pulled up industry prospects in the quarter.Amid a country-wide lockdown, the hardcopy peripherals (HCP) market shipped just 0.34 million printer units in the quarter ended June 2020, a 60% decline from same quarter last year and almost 48% fall on quarter-over-quarter (QoQ) basis, research firm IDC said.In a first for the printer market, more buyers preferred to purchase printers from e-commerce channels. From around 20% share of purchases from online channel in the quarter ended June 2019, April-June 2020 saw 35% of the sales flow in from e-commerce route, IDC’s study shows. Without the Covid-19 impact, the market was estimated to grow marginally at 1%-2% growth rate but has posted its sharpest ever decline to-date, Nishant Bansal, senior research manager, IDC India, said.The shipments in the inkjet category of printers declined 47% while the laser segment (including copiers) suffered a sharper YoY decline of 75% following the drop in demand from the commercial segment.“We expect this trend [individuals demand exceeding corporate] to continue for a few more quarters till there is widespread availability of a [Covid] vaccine,” Bansal said. The transition to the more cost-effective inkjet segment began a few quarters earlier and has accelerated with Covid-19 pushing demand from home buyers, Siva Kumar, senior general manager - inkjet printers, Epson India, said. We have seen consumer demand go up almost 2X in the June quarter as parents urge kids to print and work on projects to reduce screen time, he added.Sunish Raghavan, senior director - Printing Systems, HP India, said demand for printers with Wi-Fi connectivity has been high from the home segment, and the company is connecting with consumers by offering more pages in the box at purchase, and onsite and remote technical assistance through Whatsapp. “We expect vendors to launch newer variants of existing models for home use in coming months. We can also expect some aggressive marketing stressing on the use cases for remote learning and home offices, IDC’s Bansal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/printer-market-dips-60-despite-rise-in-home-buying/articleshow/77708630.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
August 24, 2020||Patna||Nadda’s NDA remarks leave Manjhi in lurch||PATNA: The fate of former CM and HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi hangs in the balance following BJP national president J P Nadda’s assertion that NDA was intact in Bihar and his party would contest the coming assembly polls with JD(U) and LJP. Manjhi quit the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan earlier this week in the hope of joining hands with JD(U), sources said. On Saturday, Manjhi was present at a virtual meeting of the state energy department addressed by CM Nitish Kumar. Nitish was taken aback when state energy department official R Pudakalkatti mentioned about Manjhi while proposing a vote of thanks at the meeting. Nitish was quick to thank Manjhi for being present there. “Mujhe kisi ne aapke barey mein bataya nahi (nobody told me about your presence),” he said. Manjhi has been praising Nitish ever since LJP chief Chirag Paswan started attacking the CM over several issues. Chirag went to the extent of saying that his party was in alliance with BJP and not JD(U). Chirag also alleged that the CM did not respond to any of his letters written to him. Rumours were agog that Chirag was about to part ways with the NDA. HAM(S) spokesperson Danish Rizwan on Sunday said, “Manjhi ji will take a final decision about an alliance with like-minded political groups in a day or two. Though our options are open, one thing is certain that we are not going to the Mahagathbandhan.” Reliable sources in HAM(S) said talks about seat-sharing among the three NDA constituents were almost in final stages. “It's just a matter of time when everything will be final and made open to the public,” they said. JD(U) has been asked to accommodate HAM(S) after its joining and BJP will give seats to LJP from its quota. “The two major partners don’t want to invite the wrath of the two Mahadalit leaders as Mahadalit votes constitute about 16% of the total electors,” a senior HAM(S) leader said. He, however, didn’t rule out HAM(S) merger with JD(U).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/naddas-nda-remarks-leave-manjhi-in-lurch/articleshow/77708798.cms||Ramashankar
August 24, 2020||Patna||Free treatment for patients at JLNMCH||BHAGALPUR: With a view to providing free testing and treatment of corona under the ‘Ayushman Bharat- Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY)’, the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) has made a separate ward in the department of medicine besides the High Dependency Unit (HDU) of Intensive Care Unit (ICU) at its Mayaganj hospital. “JLNMCH, which is a Covid-19 dedicated hospital, has well-equipped 30 beds in the medicine ward and 15 beds in HDU for patients coming under the category of Ayushman Bharat scheme,” said medical superintendent (incharge) Dr Kumar Gaurav adding, “We have a dedicated team of doctors, paramedics, health manager, data operators etc for managing the affairs.” “Several Corona positive patients, who were beneficiaries of Ayushman Bharat scheme, were tested free for Covid-19 and also given fee treatment including medicines,” added Dr Gaurav saying, “ If a medicine is not available in the hospital then we procure it from the market and provide it to the patients (under Ayushman Bharat) without any charge.” Making an appeal to the poor and the needy for taking advantage of free testing and treatment of Covid under Ayushman Bharat, the medical superintendent urged the beneficiaries to bring identification card (e-card) for PMJAY besides Aadhaar card, ration card etc for free testing and treatment as ‘biometric fingerprint identification’ of the beneficiary patients has to be taken. “Taking ‘biometric fingerprint’ for identification of the beneficiaries is another problem as the patients don’t want to give biometric fingerprints,” added a JLNMCH official saying, “We are encouraging the beneficiaries to take advantage of the scheme by getting e-cards issued for which four data operators and a health manager has been entrusted with the job.” The number of corona positives have increased to more than 4,700 in the district, said health department sources adding that 3,878 patients have recovered, whereas 776 are active cases. It may be mentioned here that a call centre at the National Health Authority (NHA), which is the agency responsible for implementing the Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna (AB-PMJAY), is also being used as a Covid-19 help centre and more than 600 to 700 dedicated agents are answering calls from citizens, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/free-treatment-for-patients-at-jlnmch/articleshow/77708940.cms||Kumar Rajesh
August 24, 2020||Patna||Hit hard by ‘funds crunch’, many elderly care homes in Patna face closure||PATNA: Hit hard by “funds crunch” amid the Covid-19 pandemic, few old age homes in the city have been shut down as they did not have enough donations and grants for feeding the inmates. Others are also having a tough time and have stopped admitting new people to their centres. The manager of ‘Apna Ghar’, an old age home in Rukunpura, Rakesh Kumar Gandhi, told this newspaper that there were only seven inmates left at the centre, instead of 20. “No new inmates are allowed here due to the fear of contracting Covid-19,” he said. ‘Gariba Singh Old Age Home’ has now been converted into a day care centre that serves free breakfast and lunch to nearly 25 elderly people every day. Its secretary Kumar Gaurav said, “We also distribute free masks and sanitizers among them.” Another centre, ‘Sahara Old Age Home’, which used to function at Dhanaut, shifted all its 27 inmates to ‘Gulzarbagh Old Age Home’ on July 22. It was then turned into a beggars’ home. The number of inmates at ‘Farewell Desk Old Age Home’ in Nehru Nagar also declined considerably during the pandemic. Some centres, on the other hand, are trying to function and take care of the elderly even during the Covid-19 crisis. ‘Sewa Kutir’ near A N College is fulfilling all the needs of its 49 inmates. “Our premises are sanitized thoroughly at regular intervals and everybody follows social distancing norms during lunch and prayer meetings,” said ‘Sewa Kutir’ secretary Amresh Kumar. He, however, regretted that the centre’s income had declined considerably amid the pandemic. Social activist T N Roy pointed out that those running old age homes did not want to risk the lives of senior citizens who were more susceptible to coronavirus. “The old age homes do not have sufficient funds to hire the services of doctors or nurses, as a result of which many senior citizens are likely to lose the only roof over their heads,” he added. However, state social welfare minister Ram Sewak Singh said, “All old age homes, whether run by the government or by non-governmental organizations, are getting full financial help. They have also been directed to adhere to all the safety norms to protect their inmates from any infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hit-hard-by-funds-crunch-many-elderly-care-homes-face-closure/articleshow/77708961.cms||B K Mishra
August 24, 2020||Madurai||South TN reports 27 Covid-19 deaths||Madurai/Trichy: The southern districts reported 1,114 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday taking the tally to 83,040, of which 9,808 are active cases. Twenty-seven deaths in the region took the toll to 1,428. Meanwhile, the central region of the state recorded 562 fresh cases taking the tally to 26,763 on Sunday, in which 5,379 are active cases. The region also recorded 12 deaths pushing the total number of deaths to 395. Theni district recorded 170 cases, the highest number in south, but the district never reported less than 250 cases a day for nearly a month. On Saturday, it reported 144 new cases. Theni has 2,076 active cases, the only district to have over 2000 active cases. Madurai had 105 new cases, which took the tally to 13,433, of which the active cases are 975. Three people died in Madurai due to the disease on Sunday. The only other districts to have more than 100 new cases are Kanyakumari-181, Tenkasi-140 and Tirunelveli-158. Virudhunagar district had a new low with just 10 people testing positive on Sunday, followed by Sivaganga with 43 and Ramanathapuram with 38. Tuticorin reported 91 new cases. The deaths were reported in Theni-7, Tirunelveri-4, Sivaganga, Madurai, Tenkasi and Virudhunagar three each and Kanyakumari one death. In the central region, Pudukottai district reported 155 Covid-19 cases on Sunday. With this, the total number of positive cases in the district has climbed to 5,068. Thanjavur recorded 116 fresh cases, taking the tally to 5,682. As per the bulletin, three patients died in the district on Sunday. Trichy district reported three deaths and 97 cases taking tally to 6,660 on Sunday. Karur and Nagapattinam registered 49 and 22 fresh Covid-19 cases. Both the districts reported 1,299 and 1,889 cases so far. A 74-year-old man from Nagapattinam and a 95-year-old man from Karur died on Sunday. Tiruvarur reported 29 new cases taking the tally to 2,784. The district also recorded the death of three men aged 81, 80 and 68. Ariyalur district reported 64 cases on Sunday, while Perambalur reported 30 fresh cases. Perambalur reported the death of a 67-year-old man with diabetes at Trichy MGMGH on August 18. Ariyalur and Perambalur have recorded 24 and eight deaths so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-reports-27-covid-19-deaths/articleshow/77711308.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Varanasi||Mother-son killed over property dispute, three cops suspended||Gorakhpur: A police station in-charge, a sub-inspector and a head constable werer suspended on Monday following a double murder over a property dispute in Pokhri village under Gagha police station limit in Gorakhpur district on Sunday A mother and her son were allegedly killed in a clash between families of two brothers over property dispute in Pokhri village on Sunday, said police adding that a case has been registered against 10 persons and eight persons have been arrested. SSP Gorakhpur, Joginder Singh on Monday suspended Gagha police station in-charge Dilip Kumar Singh, sub-inspector Kalpnath Singh and head constable Pramod Singh for carelessness as the two families were fighting since morning over cutting of a Mahua tree. As per reports, one Rajesh Dubey and his brother Arvind Dubey of Pokhari village were having property dispute. On Sunday, during clash between the two families Rajesh Dubey, along with his brother-in-law and his son, killed Arvind Dubey’s wife Hemlata (50) and his 23-year-old son Harsh Dubey with a spade. At the time of murder, Arvind Dubey and his son Utkarsh Dubey were in police station making complaint against Rajesh Dubey and others for beating them. The villager said that if police would have taken issue seriously and had reached there in time, the killings could have been avoided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mother-son-killed-over-property-dispute-three-cops-suspended/articleshow/77729254.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Nashik||Solemnity, fervour mark Muharram in Nashik||Nashik: Members of the Muslim community in the city observed ‘Yaume Aashura’, the 10th day of the Islamic first month of Muharram, by observing a day’s fast, giving charity and also remembering the martyrdom of Imam Hussein, which coincides with the auspicious day. ‘Yaume Aashura’ is considered auspicious in Islam as big events associated with a number of Prophets happened on this day. Imam Hussein, too, was martyred on this day at Kerbala in Iraq by the forces of the then ruler Yazeed. A number of Muslims in the city organise the Tazia processions every year on the 10th of Muharram, but cancelled the same this time around due to the coronavirus pandemic. The traditional Hallo Ka Tazia at Imamshahi Dargah, near Sarda Circle, was the only one that was carried in a procession attended by very few people, mainly Hindus, and buried underground near the dargah. “Generally, we install the Tazia for 10 days and carry it in a procession on the day of Aashura, but this year the programme was short,” Shakil Ahmed, one of the residents of Nashik city, said. “During the first 10 days of Muharram, people listen to sermons and recite the Holy Qur’an at religious places. However, all this was done at home due to the pandemic ,” said another resident, Aftab Khan. Many families in the city offered special prayers at homes and also prepared ‘sherbat’ and good food on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/solemnity-fervour-mark-muharram-in-nashik/articleshow/77839171.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Patna||Frequent power cuts leave people harried in Patna||PATNA: Even as people in several localities of the city have complained of frequent power cuts since the last two days, Patna Electric Supply Undertaking (PESU) general manager Dilip Kumar Singh has blamed area-specific minor faults for it. Residents of Buddha Colony, Rajiv Nagar and Anandpuri faced frequent power cuts in the last two days. A Rajiv Nagar resident said there was no power supply for more than one-and-a-half hours in the locality on Sunday and frequent power cuts were observed on Saturday as well. Asked about the reasons for power cuts, the PESU general manager said, “Carbon gets accumulated at some junctions or the fuse blows up. In some private buildings, there are connection issues,” Singh said. He added power supply remained disrupted in some localities due to works being carried out by Bihar State Road Development Corporation. We also received complaint about leaves of a tree burning after coming in contact with live wire. Power supply was cut and branches were clipped to solve the problem,” he said. Singh added there was demand for 478 megawatt, 413 megawatt and 474 megawatt on August 20, 21 and 22, respectively, and it was met. He said power infrastructure in Patna is capable of handling demand for up to 1,700-1,800 megawatt. “Last year’s maximum demand in summer was for 700 megawatt. This year, the demand came down to 610 megawatt,” he added. Meanwhile state load dispatch centre sources said 5,500 megawatt state-wide demand was met at 7pm on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/frequent-power-cuts-leave-people-harried/articleshow/77708809.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 24, 2020||Allahabad||Armyman, 3 held for kidnapping trader, seeking Rs 5 lakh as ransom||Prayagraj: A rifleman posted with Assam Rifles and three others were arrested for allegedly kidnapping a trader and seeking a ransom of Rs five lakh from his family in Pratapgrah on Monday. Police have seized a 0.32 bore pistol, 20 live cartridges, two magazines, an arms license, an ID card, and the SUV used to kidnap the trader from their possession. The accused were identified as Shailendra Pratap Singh of Lalganj, Prince Singh of Sangipur, Nagendra Kumar of Udaypur and Abhishek Singh of Udaypur. SP (Pratapgarh) Anurag Arya said, “On Sunday, one Arti Devi visited Kunda police station and told the cops that her husband Ramesh Pal had been abducted Saturday evening while he had gone to the market.” The couple were residents of Purana Babuganj in Kunda. “On Saturday around 8 pm, she received a call from her husband’s mobile phone. The caller told her that a group of four to five men had abducted Ramesh and sought Rs five lakh for releasing him.” Inspector (Kunda) DP Singh said that one of the accused called Arti again from Ramesh’s mobile phone and asked her to deliver the money near Hisampur Magarh Pulia Road. They threatened to kill Ramesh if she approached the police. However, Arti and her brother Rahul approached Kunda police and the cops lodged an FIR under section 364A of the IPC against unidentified persons. Three police teams were formed to crack the case and the cops asked Arti to to stay in touch with the kidnappers. They asked her to go ahead with the accused’s instructions and go to the location with her brother. On reaching the location, the wife called the kidnappers, who asked her to stay put till they arrived. Meanwhile, police noticed that a suspicious-looking car was moving from Sangramgarh Road towards the location where Arti was. As one of the accused stepped down from the car and was talking to Arti about the ransom, police surrounded the car and nabbed the four. One of the kidnappers, identified as Guddu Singh of Lalganj, managed to flee the spot. Police said a 0.32 bore pistol, 20 live cartridges, two magazines and Rs 70 were recovered from Abhishek Singh, a resident of Udaypur’s Baruvara village. Police said that the pistol was registered in Abhishek’s name, who was posted as a rifleman \ constable in Assam Rifles. They also recovered his ID card.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/armyman-3-held-for-kidnapping-trader-seeking-rs-5-lakh-as-ransom/articleshow/77725811.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Patna||Covid-19 pandemic brake on India-Nepal rly project work||PATNA: The 68km-long railway project from Jayanagar in Bihar to Bardibas in Nepal has been put on hold due to Covid-19 pandemic. Nepal government has sealed the border soon after Covid-19 breakout in the country. A strong contingent of railway engineers and workers engaged in this project had to return home from the site in March itself. Ircon International Limited, a wing of railways, has been assigned the task to complete this project. Talking to this newspaper on Sunday, Ircon project head Ravi Sahay said the work had unfortunately come to a halt on March 25 due to the lockdown. However, railways had sought permission from the Nepal Embassy in India in July to restart the work after the lockdown relaxations. “But we have not yet received any message from the Nepal Embassy,” he said, adding railways has also approached Indian Embassy in Kathmandu to take up issue with its counterparts in Nepal to expedite the project work. According to Sahay, Ircon had procured health fitness certificates of their workers from Jayanagar hospital to carry on the work in July, but the Nepal government wanted each worker to be quarantined for 14 days in Nepal. He said Ircon is ready to restart work as soon as it gets permission from Nepal government. He said railways has completed the first phase work on 34km stretch from Jayanagar to Kurtha in Nepal. Work on the 17km stretch between Kurtha and Bijilpura has been held up. In the third phase, railways has not acquired the land from Nepal government for the 17km stretch from Bijilpura to Bardibas for laying new lines and construction of station buildings, he said, adding the entire stretch from Jayanagar to Bardibas is dotted with eight stations and six halts. Given the present situation, railways could complete the work up to Bijilpura till February 2021 and from Bijilpura to Bardibas by December 2021 end if the required land is handed over to Ircon in time, Sahay said. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the ministry of external affairs (MEA) has funded this project at an estimated cost of Rs787 crore after mutual agreement between the two countries signed in August 2018. A new rake of passenger train has been kept in readiness to run at least from Jayanagar to Bijilpura in the first phase. When contacted, a Railway Board official said the MEA had played a significant role in getting this project signed to stop China’s earlier offer to Nepal government to build a rail network there. India wanted to promote trade and business through rail communications with Nepal, he said, adding the new rail line project will strengthen further a friendly relation between India and Nepal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-19-pandemic-brake-on-india-nepal-rly-project-work/articleshow/77708708.cms||Kumod Verma
August 24, 2020||Business||Tata Digital plans to launch e-comm app||Mumbai: Tata Digital, incorporated in March 2019 by Tata Group to incubate tech platforms, plans to launch a “super app” by December or early next year, which will put India’s oldest conglomerate head-to-head against rivals Amazon and Reliance Industries in the e-commerce battle, the Financial Times reported. The Tata Group, which operates fashion shopping app Tata CLiQ, grocery e-store StarQuik and online electronics platform Croma, plans to offer a bouquet of products and services within the app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-digital-plans-to-launch-e-comm-app/articleshow/77709932.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Patna||Seven Gaya airport staff test Covid positive||GAYA: Seven personnel working at the Gaya airport have tested Covid-19 positive. Those tested positive are employees of the Airport Authority of India (AAI) and a private airliner. Altogether nearly 600 personnel work at the airport in different capacities. They include CISF personnel, custom officials, immigration officials, ground handling staff and those engaged in activities like maintenance, power supply, sanitation, fire control, air traffic etc. Confirming the Covid test reports of the personnel deployed at the airport, airport director Dilip Kumar said that all infected personnel are asymptomatic and they have been put in isolation. Full SOP including regular sanitisation was being done at the airport, he added. According to the airport director, the test was conducted on nearly 450 staff deputed at the airport. “Only seven of them tested positive,” the director added. Gaya Airport was earlier notified as the destination point for special flights operated under the ‘Vande Bharat’ mission and repatriation/chartered flights operated by several foreign airlines to ferry Bihar -Jharkhand natives stranded abroad due to nationwide lockdown. Regular flights for Delhi, Varanasi and Kolkatta are yet to resume. These flights were withdrawn in March’2020. Meanwhile, district magistrate Abhishek Singh has directed the health department officials to increase the number of RT-PCR tests in the district. As of now, most of the tests being done are Rapid Antigen Test (RAT). Incidence of false negativity of rapid antigen tests are said to be high. According to an official Press release issued late on Saturday evening, during review, it was found that several blocks were lagging behind in respect of testing. The DM directed senior health officials to personally visit such block headquarters, identify the fault lines and take corrective steps. “Wide publicity has to be given to testing facilities available across the district,” said the DM. The DM also said that particular attention in respect of RT-PCR tests is to be given to blocks where rapid antigen test has not given any positive result for three days in succession. Pipeline oxygen facility was being set up at Sherghati and Tekari sub-divisional hospitals. As per official statistics 1,12,771 tests have so far been conducted in the district. Altogether 3,876 persons tested positive. The number of active cases stood at 381. While 36 Covid positive have died at ANMMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/seven-gaya-airport-staff-test-covid-positive/articleshow/77708948.cms||Abdul Qadir
August 24, 2020||Vadodara||Covid cases in Vadodara crosses 7,000-mark||Vadodara: With an addition of 112 fresh cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Vadodara city and district crossed the 7,100-mark, taking the tally to 7,103 by Sunday evening. The testing of samples has also increased in the past couple of days. However, the positivity rate has remained almost stagnant. The 112 fresh cases that were reported since Saturday evening were results of 2,256 samples tested within 24 hours. The fresh cases have been reported from Chhani Jakatnaka, Race Course, Parivar Crossroads, Taiwada, New Sama Road, Manjalpur, Karelibaug, Makarpura, Atladara, Tarsali, Old Padra Road, Sudamapuri, Tandalja, Sun Pharma Road, Akota, Waghodiya Road, Navi Dharti, Gokulnagar, Warasiya, VIP Road, Danteshwar, Subhanpura, Maneja, Vadsar, Gorwa, Yakutpura, Fatehpura and Sevasi Road areas falling within the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) limits. In Vadodara rural, fresh cases were reported from Ranoli, Por, Dabhoi, Karjan, Shinor, Savli, Waghodiya and Padra. VMC also declared two more deaths in its medical bulletin on Sunday evening after which the official death toll due to Covid-19 during the pandemic has reached 130. All the four zones of VMC including east, west, north and south apart from Vadodara rural now count for 1,000 plus cases each. Since Saturday evening, Vadodara rural recorded the highest number of cases within 24 hours - 32 – after which the total number of cases in rural areas of the district reached 1,534. VMC’s south zone recorded 25 fresh cases taking the total in the zone to 1,386 whereas the west zone recorded 23 fresh cases taking the total to 1,078. The east and north zones witnessed addition of 17 and 15 fresh cases taking the total to 1,212 and 1,860 respectively. Of the 1,384 patients under treatment, a majority of them – 1,183 are stable, 146 are being treated with oxygen support while 55 others are under ventilator or BiPAP machine. Sunday witnessed 59 discharges including 14 from government hospitals, 22 from private and 23 from home isolation. A total of 2,737 individuals are under quarantine. Of these, 2,690 are under home quarantine, 36 are under quarantine at private facilities while 11 are under quarantine at government facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-cases-in-vadodara-crosses-7000-mark/articleshow/77708472.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Patna||State’s first utility corridor planned at Chhapra: Rudy||CHHAPRA: The first-ever utility corridor in Bihar will come up at Chhapra in Saran district, local MP and BJP national spokesperson Rajiv Pratap Rudy said on Saturday. The 27km-long corridor will be constructed with an estimated outlay of Rs230 crore, he said, adding that it would provide underground concrete pathways for different pipelines like optical fibre, cooking gas, electricity, water supply and sewerages like in metropolitan cities. Ina press statement, Rudy said, “Chhapra is not only the headquarters of Saran parliamentary constituency but also the headquarters of the district and Saran division. This corridor will facilitate the infrastructure development for different projects worth Rs1,000 crore.” Rudy said the plan was discussed at a virtual meeting on Saturday with urban development and housing department secretary Anand Kishor, MD of BUIDCo Raman Kumar, officials from department of energy, BSNL, Indian Oil Corporation, road construction department, besides Saran DM Subrat Kumar Sen. Kishor said, “The corridor is the result of Rudy’s untiring efforts. The departments concerned have been directed to submit their plans latest by Tuesday for government approval.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/states-first-utility-corridor-planned-at-chhapra-rudy/articleshow/77708437.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Allahabad||Youth jumps before moving train hours after brother’s death, dies||Prayagraj: A youth allegedly committed suicide by jumping before a moving train after his elder brother was found dead near Bamrauli, under Dhoomanganj police station, on Sunday. The deceased Jitendra (24) and Chhotu (18) were residents of Pantanwar village. SP (city) Dinesh Singh said that Jitendra and Chhotu were labourers and had fought over cooking egg curry on Saturday night. During the scuffle, Chhotu allegedly hit Jitendra, leaving him injured. The elder sibling left the house at night and was found dead near a railway track on Sunday morning. The SP added that Chhotu’s father had spotted his elder son’s body and informed other family members. When Chhotu came to know about his brother’s death, he too left the house and reportedly jumped before a train. The SP added that the duo often used to fight over petty issues. The bodies have been sent for postmortem examination. Police said they would be able to ascertain the cause of death after the postmortem examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/youth-jumps-before-moving-train-hours-after-brothers-death-dies/articleshow/77708107.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Business||High sales, health focus make e-pharmacy hot||BENGALURU: Consumer stickiness, average order size increasing to $15-20 and the possibility of selling other healthcare services like online doctor consultation and diagnostics services have caught the interest of large strategic names like Reliance Industries and Amazon, driving them to the e-pharmacy sector. E-pharmacy had over 3 million users before the pandemic struck in India, according to a white paper from industry body Ficci and market research firm RedSeer, but added 6 million new customers since March. Industry executives said Reliance’s talks with Netmeds, which were on for at least six months, triggered the consolidation in the industry between two other established brands — PharmEasy and Medlife. The proposed merger came about after Medlife found it tough to raise capital from external investors. “Our ecosystem was a crowded one and all the main four-five players were in the market to raise funds. Netmeds or Medlife were not able to raise from external investors and it reached a point that consolidation was inevitable. The ecosystem demanded there be fewer players and, on top of that, since Covid-19, digital health has become a top priority. So, the process got accelerated,” a top executive in the e-pharmacy industry said. The sector saw an investment of over $700 million in FY20, according to the white paper. “What they (remaining players) are trying to do is build a break-even business here and then have a wider play on overall healthcare needs. So, this becomes a good customer acquisition channel, and then serve consumers with high gross margin products like a consultation and lab-test,” a former e-pharmacy entrepreneur said. According to him, medicine delivery platforms haven’t been able to top gross margin levels of 25-30%. Ankur Pahwa, partner and national leader (e-commerce & consumer internet), EY India, echoed the views. “There is higher repeatability and retention for e-pharma, given the skew towards chronic ailments. Once on-boarded, customers tend to stay on even as discounts reduce over time. There is also the broader expansion into health tech around diagnostics, e-consultation, private labels, insurance, and wearables, which make it a larger opportunity,” he said. For most platforms, 60-70% of medicine order volumes are from chronic patients. Top e-pharma founders and executives said, while online sales contribute just 3% of the total medicine market, the recent developments will have a lasting effect on the sector. This would include a gradual fall in discounts, which was 20-30% last year and is now already sliding towards 15%. Giants like Amazon and Reliance would cautiously scale up the business amid the current regulatory framework. Industry executives said this will lead to a “mature” play by remaining players for the next one to two years. While all this happens, PharmEasy has also appointed JP Morgan for a new fund-raise of $100-200 million to prepare for the next round of battle in e-pharmacy. TOI had reported in its Friday edition that traditional chemists are alarmed by the recent developments and fear it could be monopolised over a period of time. “The heavy competition and aggressive activity are all behind us now. No one can out-discount the others. The crazy discounting will certainly stop. Advertising spends might go up. This (aggressive discounts) only works when you are trying to be the last man standing,” said Prashant Tandon, co-founder and CEO, 1MG. “We expect the ecosystem to come to a steady and mature state. For us, pharmacy is a little over 50%. The other digital health business — since Covid-19 — has taken off, making us a much broader digital health platform,” he added. “Reliance’s entry is a validation of the space and the online model. It’s good news for the sector and more people will try online medicine ordering,” said Dhaval Shah, co-founder of PharmEasy. He did not comment on his fund-raise initiatives, or the progress of the merger with Medlife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/high-sales-health-focus-make-e-pharmacy-hot/articleshow/77709805.cms||Digbijay Mishra
August 24, 2020||Business||Higher impairments pull Tata Capital’s FY20 profit by 87%||MUMBAI: Profit at Tata Capital, the unlisted financial services arm of Tata Group, declined 87% to Rs 124 crore in fiscal 2020 as impairments saw a rise. Impairments on investments and financial instruments increased 138% to Rs 1,581 crore from Rs 665 crore in fiscal 2019. Even though interest income, the main revenue stream of the firm, grew 19% to Rs 8,999 crore, its book size remained flat at Rs 77,110 crore. An analyst pointed out that this indicates that the book has high-risk assets, which could possibly turn into non-performing assets (NPAs) and the same may have to be written off in the future. Impairments over the two last fiscals increased almost five times, an analysis of the firm’s FY20 report showed. NPAs increased to 1.9% from 1.7% in fiscal 2019. Even though parent Tata Sons pumped in Rs 3,500 crore into Tata Capital over the last two fiscals, return on equity declined to 3.4% from 13.8% in FY19. Return on assets was at a meagre 0.4%. The equity infusion saw Tata Sons raising its stake in Tata Capital, among the top 10 private sector non-banking financial services firms in the country, to nearly 95% from 93% in fiscal 2018. Tata Capital, led by Tata Sons director Saurabh Agrawal, said in its annual report that the pandemic has changed the outlook for the financial services sector, which was already facing demand slowdown, worsening asset quality issues and limited credit availability. This affected March 2020 new business, which typically witnesses significant volumes and is expected to unfavourably impact vulnerable borrower segments such as self-employed and small and medium enterprises, by curtailing their ability to generate cash flows and service their loans. “Managing asset quality may take higher precedence over loan growth and the sector may see some consolidation,” it said. Tata Capital added that it has made a loan loss provision of Rs 315 crore against future impact of Covid-19 on impairments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/higher-impairments-pull-tata-capitals-fy20-profit-by-87/articleshow/77709877.cms||Reeba Zachariah
August 24, 2020||Surat||Rains throw life out of gear in Saurashtra, N Gujarat||Rajkot/Palanpur: Heavy rains continued to lash Saurashtra, Kutch and north Gujarat regions on Sunday which disrupted normal life in several districts. Four persons drowned in flood waters, while an eight-year-old boy died in a house collapse. In Kalavad taluka of Jamnagar, a 70-year-old man drowned in Balambadi Dam. Police said the deceased, Nagji Vala, stepped into the dam water to save his buffalo that had got swept away due to strong currents. In Lodhika taluka of Rajkot district, Dhuven Mawani (25) was swept away in the strong currents of Vansiyari river near Motavada village along with his motorcycle. Mawani was trying to cross a low-level bridge submerged in flood waters. In Kadi town of Mehsana district, 10-year-old Mohemmed Ghanchi died and his six-year-old sister Ayesha was seriously injured when their house collapsed on them due to heavy rain. The house was already in a dilapidated condition. A family of five from Kheralu travelling in a car got swept in flood waters near Tundav village in Unjha taluka of Mehsana on Sunday evening. While the locals were able to save three women, two men drowned. They were identified as Shankar Pandya (72) and his son Naitik Pandya (34). The family was returning after offering prayer at Chamunda Mata temple in Tundav, said Unjha mamlatdar AP P Jhala. Incessant rains resulted in waterlogging in north Gujarat districts of Patan, Sabarkantha, Mehsana, Aravalli and Banaskantha. World Heritage site Rani ki Vav in Patan too witnessed fresh flow of water. Many dams in Saurashtra.are overflowing. While one gate of Raval Dam in Gir Somnath district had to be opened, one of Shingoda Dam gate over Shingoda River was also opened due to increase in water level. As a result, Sanapada village in the downstream of the dam got inundated with waters gushing into several houses. The traffic on Kodinar-Somnath National Highway was disrupted as flood waters gushed on the highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rains-throw-life-out-of-gear-in-saurashtra-n-gujarat/articleshow/77708678.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Madurai||‘Efforts on to improve maternal healthcare’||Madurai: Madurai city health officer (CHO) Dr P Kumaragurubaran on Sunday said that all possible measures are being taken to bring the number of maternal deaths in the city to zero. It was alleged that at least two maternal deaths within the past few months of lockdown were due to lack of proper care by urban health nurses (UHNs). According to sources from the health department, in the past few months, two pregnant women died while one woman gave birth at her home and one woman had to be admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). All four cases were allegedly handled by two UNHs at Munichalai urban primary health centre (UPHC). “There was a maternal death, a couple of days ago and as usual a review was held. The review was held so we can identify any flaws and rectify them. Same mistakes should not be repeated,” said Dr Kumaragurubaran. With focus primarily now on Covid-19 for UPHCs, a review was held to assess any delays or flaws in maternal healthcare-related work and sorting them out. “Measures are being taken to improve number of deliveries in UPHCs. A special drive is also being held during the past three days to ensure online entry of data related to maternal healthcare is updated Any backlogs delayed due to Covid-19 work is being cleared,” said the official. Work for immunization and maternity benefit schemes are also being done up to date, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/efforts-on-to-improve-maternal-healthcare/articleshow/77711311.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Amid claps, this doctor gets slaps for honking in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A doctor from Vasna filed a complaint on Sunday with Maninagar police alleging that three men thrashed him merely because he had sounded his car horn. He said the men had stationed their car in the middle of the road in Maninagar. Tejas Dave, 54, a resident of Aayojannagar Society, stated in his FIR that the incident occurred when he was driving with his wife and son towards his hospital near Idgah Circle in Maninagar. “When I reached near Gordhanwadi, a sedan was parked in the middle of the road with three men inside,” Dave said. “I sounded the horn and after a couple of seconds the men moved their car away and I drove towards my hospital.” But the three men caught up with Dave when he was parking his car at his hospital. “The three men abused me for sounding the horn,” Dave said in his FIR. “I tried to pacify them.” Then the men began thrashing Dave, who screamed for help. Home guard jawans deployed near Idgah Circle rescued him. Dave alleged that the men threatened him and his wife before leaving. They also tore his clothes and broke his spectacles. Dave called the police control room and filed a complaint relating to causing hurt, criminal intimidation, and abusive language.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amid-claps-this-doc-gets-slaps-for-honking/articleshow/77709513.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Dehradun||Fake drugs worth Rs 1.5 crore seized from Roorkee unit||ROORKEE: A joint team of the state drugs control department and police raided an illegal pharma manufacturing unit in Roorkee late on Saturday and seized fake drugs worth around Rs 1.5 crore along with cash to the tune of Rs 4.6 lakh. The owner of the unit has also been arrested. The seized drugs include medicines of around 200 brands. The raid was conducted based on a complaint lodged with the Gangnahar police that a company — VR Pharma — based in Salapur village of Roorkee has been manufacturing spurious drugs for renowned pharma companies for over two years. SP (rural) Swapn Kishore Singh said, “A team led by Niraj Kumar from the state drugs control department and police raided the factory and found fake drugs manufacturing at the unit. We have arrested two persons, including factory owner Praveen Tyagi, and booked them under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Drugs and Cosmetics Act.” Police also recovered raw materials and packaging materials from the unit. This is the third such case registered in Roorkee this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/fake-drugs-worth-rs-1-5cr-seized-from-roorkee-unit/articleshow/77708663.cms||Tapan Susheel
August 24, 2020||Dehradun||HNBGU to telecast lectures for pharmaceutical students||Dehradun: The Hemvati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University (HNBGU) has created lectures in video-format which will be telecasted on the SWAYAMPRABHA TV channel from August 27 onwards. The lectures have been created for the university students who are pursuing the Bachelor in Pharmacy course and Master in Pharmacy courses. Dr Mona Semalty, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, told TOI, that 48 lectures have been created and they will be telecasted till September 12, 2020 before the second run starts from September 14-30, 2020. She added that the videos will cover the syllabus of BPharma and MPharma courses and will help the students in their preparation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hnbgu-to-telecast-lectures-for-pharmaceutical-students/articleshow/77708686.cms||Mohammad Anab
August 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Physical education teacher cultivates paddy||Mangaluru:Premanath Shetty, a physical education teacher (PET) at Swami Vivekananda College, Yedapadavu, near Moodbidri, who hails from Kavu in Puttur taluk, has taken a paddy field on lease, and he and his family members cultivated paddy on the field on Sunday, as physical training is not being imparted to students due to the pandemic. Premnath took the field on lease from Ibrahim, and the field was not was being cultivated from the last five years. He has taken tips from Keremaru Monappa Poojary, who is an award winning farmer. The paddy has been cultivated in the SRI method. The MO4 variety of paddy has been cultivated. Premanath says, ‘I am a nature lover, and the paddy being cultivated by me will be purely organic. We are aiming to harvest 28 quintals of paddy. Today not just my family members, but villagers as well as Scouts and Guides of Ramakrishna School Puttur have joined me in cultivating the paddy.” The family members sang ‘Paddhana’, a tradition of the coastal districts, while planting the paddy. Premanath, during his college days, was a state level shot put athlete and also a kabaddi player.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/physical-education-teacher-cultivates-paddy/articleshow/77708683.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Parents of noisy kids beat couple for their protest||Ahmedabad: A couple living in the Behrampura area was beaten by nine persons as the two objected to noise made by the children of the accused persons outside their house last month, states an FIR filed with Kagdapith police on Saturday.Juliet Christian, 35, resident of AMTS staff quarters in Behrampura, states in her FIR with Kagdapith police that the incident took place on July 13. She said that her husband Anthony Christian was watching TV at around 8.30pm on July 13. At that time, some local kids were playing on the verandah of their house. As Anthony got disturbed with the noise created by the kids, he scolded them and asked them to go and play at some other place. When the kids refused to budge, Juliet threw water on the verandah and one of the kids got wet. The children went to their homes and told their parents about it. After a while, nine persons — parents and family members of the kids, rushed there and began abusing Anthony and Juliet. Juliet said one of the women held her tight and slapped her. Her husband was also thrashed by others.The couple got scared with this incident and left the place for around a month. They recently returned to their house and filed a complaint with Kagdapith police. Police registered a complaint of causing hurt, criminal intimidation, uttering of abusive words along with abetment charges against nine persons and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/parents-of-noisy-kids-beat-couple-for-their-protest/articleshow/77709520.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Madurai||Robbery, snatchings down, but murders rock Madurai||Madurai: The city, in just four days, witnessed three separate murder incidents including that of two people in their 20s and of a 57-year-old man. These incidents took place even after the city police department’s effort to bring down crime incidents by conducting combing operations a couple of times in the last one month and arresting 41 rowdy elements. In the first incident, S Anand, 26, a history-sheeter from Vaigai Colony in Anna Nagar, was hacked to death by a gang of six led by Gopal from Karumbalai on Wednesday night. Anand and Gopal were auto rickshaw drivers and had picked up a fight over taking passengers. All the six were arrested. In the second incident, P Mani, 57, from Sappani Kovil East Street was murdered by his first wife’s son M Karthikeyan, 32, and his friends U Manikandan, 32, S Vigneshwaran, 32, and R Dhatchanamurthy, 26, on Friday night over a property dispute. Mani got remarried to a 24-year-old woman recently and denied Karthikeyan share in their ancestral property. Karthikeyan, Manikandan, Vigneshwaran and Dhatchanamurthy were arrested. In the last incident, V Parthiban, 28, from Velar Street in Arapalayam was hacked to death by unidentified people on Saturday night. The incident took place near a public toilet in Pillaimar Street in Manickavasagarpuram. The investigation is on to nab the unidentified miscreant. Total 288 anti-social elements were executed with bonds by city police. If an executive magistrate thinks that a person is harmful for society, he can ask such a person to execute a bond with sureties that he will not enter into any criminal offence within the specified time, sources from police department said. He can be arrested if the bond is breached. A police officer from the city police unit said that the crime incidents like robbery, thefts, snatchings and burglary have come down after the combing operations and increase in the vehicle checks. Murder incidents, too, will come down gradually. Madurai city used to witness around 40 to 45 murders in a year. This year it might come down due to the efforts taken by the police. “Law and order issues, too, have come down by and large. Three incidents of murders are just a coincidence, and the city is largely peaceful. One of the three murders is a more of a family dispute,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/robbery-snatchings-down-but-murders-rock-madurai/articleshow/77711315.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Madurai||Confined to homes, Ganesha Chaturthi remains low-key||Madurai: Ganesha Chaturthi was celebrated without any major law and order issues in Madurai district. Usually the festival is peaceful affair, but there was an atmosphere of uneasiness this year as the state government prohibited public celebrations in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. People restricted the celebration to their houses. It was a low-key affair in temples as only priests and temple authorities took part in poojas. There were only a few makeshift shops to sell things required for the festival and crowd was less compared to last year. The corporation and rural police set up detailed security arrangements and deployed police force in sensitive areas to ensure people follow the high court order and the state government’s instructions. A police officer from rural police unit said, “Usually there will be wide security arrangements during the immersion process to prevent any untoward incidents, but this year there was uneasiness in the air after a few right wing outfits threatening to go ahead with public celebration.” Four functionaries from the Hindu Munnani and BJP were booked for installing Ganesha idol at Othakadai Market on Saturday and the idol was seized. The accused have been identified as Hariharan, a functionary of the BJP’s OBC wing, Hindu Munnani’s East union president Thanikasalam, secretary Senthil Aravind and member Thilagar. Another case was slapped against them for installing another idol at the same place in another 30 minutes. In another incident, N Dhyalan, 32, from Melur was booked for installing an idol in Kadalakarar Street in Melur on Saturday. A police team seized the idol. A police officer from Madurai city police said that there has not been any untoward incident on Saturday. No case of illegal installation of idol was registered on the day. However, a couple of right wing activists tried to install idols a few days ahead of the festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/confined-to-homes-ganesha-chaturthi-remains-low-key/articleshow/77711316.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Mangaluru||KS Hegde hospital gets convalescent plasma therapy unit||Mangaluru: Nitte (Deemed to be University) Justice K S Hegde Charitable Hospital (Blood Bank) has got the first convalescent plasma therapy unit for Covid-19 in the City. Medical superintendent Major Dr Shivakumar Hiremath said the hospital has a well-equipped blood bank with a component and single donor platelet facility. “The Drugs Controller General of India has issued a license for plasmapheresis at the facility. On the first day itself, we harvested convalescent plasma from three donors and transfused them to Covid patients,” he said in a release. DK deputy commissioner Dr K V Rajendra, said, “This is a really good development for the district. The district Wenlock Hospital is also gearing up for the purchase of machine and is working towards getting necessary permission.” Plasma donors, through the NGOs Wellness Helpline and Blood help Care Karnataka, have travelled to Bengaluru to donate plasma in the last couple of weeks. Wellness Helpline has identified donors and had been pressuring the district administration through MLAs for setting up a unit in Mangaluru. Convalescent Covid 19 plasma therapy is a novel treatment to fight coronavirus. Plasma therapy uses antibodies from the blood of a recovered Covid-19 patient to treat others who are critically infected by the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ks-hegde-hospital-gets-convalescent-plasma-therapy-unit/articleshow/77708721.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Madurai||New JCBs infuse life into over 4K water bodies in Sivaganga||Madurai: A fund of Rs 4.5 crore that was meant to revive 184 waterbodies in Sivaganga district has been utilized in a novel way to revive hundreds of waterbodies leading to groundwater levels increasing in many villages.When Sivaganga district collector J Jayakanthan assumed charge in October 2018, he was told that there was a fund of Rs 4.5 crore, which was mostly contributed by farmers over many years. The District Watershed Development Agency had decided to use it for reviving 184 waterbodies. But the collector decided to purchase 20 brand new JCB machines with the fund at government rates.The collector said that after the purchase they started desilting of waterbodies after evicting encroachers from the waterbodies in the district from February 2019. Now, instead of the 184 works, around 4,400 tanks and channels have been cleaned in the district under the MGNREGS using the heavy machines. These machines have been used to clean more than 300 tanks and 900 channels.V Pandidurai, a farmer from Sakkottai, says that it would take them about Rs 7,000 a day to clear about an acre of land using a JCB machine, which they obtain on rent, but now they have to pay for only diesel, which works out to less than 50% and hence, many farmers are taking up this offer by the district administration. “We can approach it at any time, and get a machine without worrying about the cost. If we are not able to pay for diesel, the machine is provided totally free of cost for the work,” said S Alagarsamy of Thirupathur, another farmer.Farmers, who have access to JCB machines for free, have started approaching the district administration for desilting and removing juliflora plants and other overgrown trees from their waterbodies. “If it is a village tank or channel, the work is done for free, and as it is people who ask for removal of encroachments, the work is much easier as we only have to send the machines,” said the collector.If it is for the patta land, the farmers have to pay only for diesel as the district administration takes care of the salaries of the drivers from the district mineral foundation trust fund and the general funds of urban and rural local bodies. “If we seize around six vehicles involved in illegal sand mining or transportation, we can meet the cost of the salary of the drivers that will work out to Rs4 lakh a month,” said the collector. There is so much demand for these vehicles that they are operating round-the-clock except Sundays.No fund is availed from the state or Union governments. But, the augmentation of groundwater resources becomes necessary. The Waterbody Restoration Advisory Committee suggested the Sivagangai district administration to construct a subsurface dyke across the Vaigai near Thiruppachethi in the district to recharge the groundwater.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/new-jcbs-infuse-life-into-over-4k-water-bodies-in-sivaganga/articleshow/77711317.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Meerut||Missing man found hanging from tree in Bijnor||Bijnor: The body of a 42-year-old man, who went missing from home on Saturday, was found hanging from a tree in a jungle in Bijnor on Sunday. The deceased's brother claimed that he was murdered. Police are probing the matter.The deceased was identified as Rajesh Kumar of Tisotara village, under Nangal Soti police station. He went missing after he went out of his house at about 8 pm.Passersby saw his body in the morning and informed police.Dharamveer Singh, superintendent of police, said a probe is on. "Once we get the post-mortem report, further action will be taken."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/missing-man-found-hanging-from-tree-in-bijnor/articleshow/77707840.cms||Harveer Dabas
August 24, 2020||Dehradun||BJP to appoint 5 members in each dist to bridge gap between officials and workers||Dehradun: In a crucial party meet of the office bearers of the ruling BJP, it was decided that the saffron party would set up a team of five volunteers in each district, under the leadership of the district president, to bridge the gap between the administrative officials and party workers. The move comes after some party workers complained that officials don’t pay heed to their complaints. Confirming the move, BJP’s state president Bansidhar Bhagar told TOI, “The local MLAs will also lead the teams to ensure that grievances of party workers are addressed. Our workers work at grassroot level. Their concerns must be addressed.” Meanwhile, the issue of cabinet expansion also came up in the meeting but the party leaders agreed that CM Trivendra Singh Rawat will take the final call. Bhagat said that the CM will take a call on this after speaking with home minister Amit Shah. Bhagat also maintained that the party MLAs, who are damaging the image of the party, were given stern warning. MLA Mahesh Negi, who has been accused by a woman of raping her, was asked to cooperate with the police and other agencies in the investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-to-appoint-5-members-in-each-dist-to-bridge-gap-between-officials-and-workers/articleshow/77708715.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Duo asks for chutney, gets beaten||Ahmedabad: A man from Shahibaug filed a complaint with Vastrapur police on Saturday night alleging that he and his friend were beaten by the owner of Karnavati Dabeli, their manager and another staffer over a dispute which began when they asked for some chutney. Ravi Agrawal, 39, stated that he and his friend Kiran Panchal, 42, of Bodakdev, went to Karnavati Dabeli on Saturday evening.  Agrawal asked for some sauce from a staffer who talked rudely to him. Later, the same staffer picked up a quarrel, and the owner with two others beat them, alleging they were drunk.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/duo-asks-for-chutney-gets-beaten/articleshow/77709523.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Nagpur||Mundhe slams traders for refusing Covid testing||Nagpur: Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Sunday slammed traders for refusing to get tested for Covid in spite of his verbal orders. He charged that traders were interested only in their business and not bothered about controlling the pandemic in the city. “First, the traders said they would all get tested by August 7. Later the date was extended to August 18. Now they have simply refused to do it citing a state government circular. The circular nowhere says asymptomatic shopkeepers and their staffers should not get tested,” said Mundhe during his Facebook interaction with Nagpurians. “One trader told me that he had 10 staffers and so testing all of them would cost him Rs19,000. You have money to pay salaries to your staffers, but can’t spend a few thousands for the sake of the city,” said Mundhe. The commissioner further said shopkeepers have been demanding removal of odd-even rule. “I am not going to do it until the Covid curve flattens in the city. In spite of odd-even rule, there is alarming crowding in markets, which is spreading Covid. Shopkeepers don’t refuse to entertain customers who don’t wear masks because they don’t want to lose Rs100 or Rs200,” he added. Traders are not amused by Mundhe’s allegations. Dipen Agrawal, president of Chamber of Association of Maharashtra Industry and Trade (CAMIT), said the August 21 circular of the state government clearly says that only shopkeepers, who have symptoms, should get tested. “Mundhe can appeal to others to get tested, but if he threatens us then traders won’t tolerate this inspector raj,” he told TOI. Mundhe also appealed to citizens to take the pandemic seriously. He expressed concern over people spitting kharra and tobacco here and there. He appealed to asymptomatic patients to not seek hospitalization unless they don’t have self-isolation space at home. He also said that patients should not demand that they want to get admitted to a particular hospital. ‘Reduction in property, water tax not possible’ The municipal commissioner Mundhe straightaway ruled out reduction in property and water taxes and said an issue was being created unnecessarily over it. “If we reduce taxes then it will not be possible to provide civic amenities. Citizens must realize that if they want services then they will have to pay taxes. The goods and services tax (GST) grant from state government has already reduced because of economic slowdown, so any further reduction in NMC revenue will wreak havoc,” he said. Mayor Sandip Joshi countered him by saying that he was demanding only 50% reduction in taxes for six months. “The burden on NMC will be just Rs125 crore, which it can bear. Citizens are not in a position to pay full taxes this year. Our GST grant has reduced by Rs40 crore per month. Why doesn’t Mundhe appeal to the state government in this regard,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mundhe-slams-traders-for-refusing-covid-testing/articleshow/77710684.cms||Ashish Roy
August 24, 2020||Allahabad||Ganga, Yamuna still rising, admin on alert||Prayagraj: Flood relief teams were on guard as Ganga and Yamuna continued to rise for the fourth consecutive day in the city. District officials said the water level of Ganga at Phaphamau and Chatnag rose by 15cm and 4cm respectively on Sunday. At Naini, the water level of Yamuna rose by just one centimetre. On Sunday morning, the water level of Ganga at Phaphamau and Chatnag was recorded as 79.23mt and 76.7mt respectively, while that of Yamuna at Naini was 77.25mt. The danger mark for both rivers is 84.73mt. Flood control division officials said, “Flood relief teams have been activated and we have stepped up vigil in flood-prone areas like Meja, Sadar and Handia.” Officials said that Ganga is swelling due to the flood water being released from barrages in Narora, Haridwar and Kanpur. A senior official said that flood relief teams have been been briefed about their roles in case the water level of both the rivers breaches the danger mark. He also said that the district administration has identified shelter points in case the twin rivers are flooded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/ganga-yamuna-still-rising-admin-on-alert/articleshow/77708123.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Meerut||Youth's bullet-ridden body found; seven booked||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Bullet-ridden body of a 25-year-old youth was recovered from a forested belt in the Kotwali area here on Sunday. Police were alerted by passersby who spotted the body. Seven people have been booked for murder and a search is on for them. The deceased was identified as Asif, a resident of Mahmood Nagar in Civil Lines area. A team led by Satpal Antil, superintendent of police, arrived at the spot to investigate. He had been alerted by the victim's brother. Sources claimed that the killers had informed Asif's brother where the body was lying. A case has been registered at Nagar-Kotwali police station. Anil Kaparwan, SHO, said, "A case under IPC section 302 (murder) has been registered against one Sonu Sakka and six his associates. Raids are on to arrest them."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/youths-bullet-ridden-body-found-seven-booked/articleshow/77707845.cms||Mohd Dilshad
August 24, 2020||Allahabad||High Court seeks record of NSA proceedings against Dr Kafeel Khan||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court on Monday directed the state counsel to furnish the record of the proceedings under the National Security Act (NSA) that resulted in the detention of Dr Kafeel Khan and further extension of the same. Hearing a habeas corpus writ petition filed by Dr Kafeel’s mother Nuzhat Parween seeking his release, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Saumitra Dayal Singh fixed August 27 as the next date in the matter. Dr Kafeel was booked under NSA by the Aligarh district magistrate on February 13, 2020, for allegedly making an inflammatory speech on the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) campus during the protests there over the Citizenship Amendment Act (NSA). Subsequently, Dr Kafeel’s detention under NSA was extended on May 13 by DM Aligarh for a further period of three months, i.e., till August 12. The detention under NSA was extended as according to the district administration, there was apprehension his release may lead to law and order problems. On August 4, NSA was again extended for further three months, i.e., up to November 13. NSA allows preventive detention for up to a year. Earlier, at one stage, the court had directed the Centre as well as the state government to file a reply in the present case seeking release of Dr Kafeel. Today (on Monday), the counsel for the petitioner sought time for filing reply to the supplementary affidavit filed on behalf of the state government. He stated that he had received this affidavit only on Sunday, hence he wanted to go through it. The additional advocate general, representing the state government, also expressed his desire to file one more additional affidavit in relation to certain facts stated by the petitioner in the rejoinder affidavit filed earlier. Conceding their request, the court observed, “Having considered the fact of the case, we also deem it appropriate to peruse original record of the proceedings under NSA resulting into detention of Dr Kafeel Khan and further extension of the same.” According to the habeas corpus petition, earlier at one stage Dr Kafeel was granted bail by a competent court and was supposed to be released on bail. However, he was not released for four days and later the NSA was imposed on him. Hence, his detention was illegal as it was passed to nullify the effect of the bail granted by a competent court. The plea also challenged the detention of Dr Kafeel for four days before imposing NSA, even after he had secured bail in all the cases registered against him. According to the case file, Dr Kafeel has been behind bars since January 29, 2020 after a speech which he had allegedly delivered at AMU on December 10, 2019 during the anti-CAA protests. The speech was deemed ‘provocative’ by the Uttar Pradesh government, which booked him under NSA. Dr Kafeel came to limelight after the 2017 oxygen tragedy at BRD Medical College in which several kids had died for lack of oxygen cylinders. While initially he was hailed as a saviour of children for arranging emergency oxygen cylinders, he later faced action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/high-court-seeks-record-of-nsa-proceedings-against-dr-kafeel-khan/articleshow/77725873.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Surat||Farmer mints green from converted NA land||Surat: When Ramchandra Patel purchased the 18-acre babool-covered barren land parcel near Olpad in Surat district, he never dreamt that he would be successful in reversing a popular ongoing realty trend — that of converting a non-agricultural (NA)plot into a vibrant fertile farm — while agricultural land everywhere is getting sacrificed in the altar of urbanization. But the challenge 58-year-old Patel took up is returning him bounties. Today, he gets per annum turnover of more than Rs 45 lakh, as the once-upon-a-time uncultivable land is literally producing gold in every inch. Encouraged by his success, Patel now plans on investing in similar models in other places as well. The earthy story began in 1998 when Patel purchased the NA land with fears that the barren land may prove to be most ineffective for farming. In fact, he had even toyed with the idea of selling it once, after the land had been lying unused since 1981with some industrial unit. But he wanted to give it a try and first applied to get the NA land converted into agricultural land in 1999. However, his application remained unprocessed for nearly five long years. “Initially tax on farming on industrial NA land was less. But within a few years of my purchasing the land, tax rose many folds making it unaffordable for me. As I was sanguine about farming on my land, I applied for converting it into agricultural land,” Patel recounted to TOI. He said that he then approached the Gujarat High Court to get an approval for conversion in 2003-04. HC asked the district revenue authorities to check Patel’s eligibility and finally the land got converted in 2006. There was no looking back thereafter. Patel started sowing his dreams in the shape of turmeric, papaya, banana, guava and purple yam on the land shaping it up as a model farm. “I started practising zero budget organic farming by adopting all natural resources without applying any kind of synthetic fertilizer. We also started processing and selling our produce,” he added. Patel’s farming model had twin benefits. It fetched him success and secondly, it inspired his 35-year-old twin sons to join their father in farming. Soon, Jigar and Jatin left their construction and automobile electronics sales and service avenues to turn agriculturists like their father. Patel sells some stock of produce from a roadside stall in the farm, while the remaining is processed and packaged into turmeric powder, guava juice, banana wafers, purple yam wafers and also the popular Ratalu puri bhajiya. Few of the packaged items from Patel’s farm enjoy high demand in the city. Patel recently purchased another piece of land in Narmada district and is now trying to set up a similar model farm with traditional farming method. “Taking the zero-budget organic farming one step ahead, this time we are trying our hand in forest farming techniques, allowing other plants to grow along with our main crop. We check growth of other plants but don’t remove it completely,” Patel added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/farmer-mints-green-from-converted-na-land/articleshow/77708746.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
August 24, 2020||Madurai||Ex-judge protests cops’ inaction on attack against villager, wife||Madurai: Retired Madras high court judge Justice A Selvam staged a protest against police apathy in front of the Poolankurichi police station in Sivaganga district on Saturday. The judge, a native of Poolankurichi village, told reporters that a fellow villager Senthil, 36, and his wife Priyadharshini were attacked by one Prakash and his relatives Pavithra, Palanisamy, Panchu and Machakannu on August 1 at a public place in the village. Senthil’s hand was fractured in the attack and he was admitted to the government hospital. A complaint was registered with the Poolankurichi police on behalf of Senthil the same day. But, even after 22 days no action had been taken by police and they had to resort to protest demanding immediate arrest of Prakash and his relatives. The judge said that he had taken it to the notice of Sivaganga district collector J Jayakanthan who had informed the superintendent of police for action. But, no action had been taken, he said. Sivaganga SP R Rohith Nathan said that the SI of the station who had failed to act in the case had been transferred to the control room and that the inspector was investigating it now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ex-judge-protests-cops-inaction-on-attack-against-villager-wife/articleshow/77711318.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Vadodara||One more body found in Dahod river||Vadodara: Body of one more person, who was swept away in Anas River in Dahod district along with four others, was fished out by National Disaster Response Force on Sunday morning. Personnel of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and cops from Jhalod police station resumed search for the four persons – Bhimji Garasiya, Kalu Bhabhor, Valsing Damor and one unidentified person – on Sunday morning. As Anas river flows through neighbouring Rajasthan too, the NDRF personnel extended their search in the neighbouring state. Officials said that Garasiya’s body was found near Gora village which is around 20km away from Jhalod. “Search for three other persons will resume again on Monday morning,” said a police official. In all six persons were swept away in the river in spate on Saturday. Kadakiya Garasiya was the first one to get drowned, while the four others were stranded on a landmass in the river. Another person identified as Bharat Garasiya had managed to escape and reached the bank of the river. Later, the four persons stranded on the landmass were also dragged away by the strong current. All six of them had gone to the river to immerse the ashes of a relative who had died in the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/one-more-body-found-in-dahod-river/articleshow/77708499.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Kochi||A well-planned move to accept UAE funds?||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The direct involvement of the UAE consulate in the Life Mission project raises serious questions on whether the government decision to rope in UAE Red Crescent, the NGO, was part of a well-orchestrated plan to accept the donations from the UAE government for post-flood rebuild, the permission for which was denied by the Centre earlier. Days after the MoU was signed between the NGO and the Life Mission, another agreement was signed between the UAE consular general represented by Jamal Hussein Al Zaabi and Unitac Builders and Developers represented by its managing partner Santhosh Eappen. The agreement says that the builder is being entrusted with the task of constructing 140 apartments in Wadakkancherry, which is being funded by the UAE Red Crescent. It says that the builder has been chosen on the basis of the best quote offered by it in the tender process initiated by the UAE consulate. The Centre had earlier declined permission to the state to accept the Rs 700-crore aid offered by the UAE government as flood relief. “From the MoU, UAE Red Crescent seems to be a cover to bypass Centre’s ban on accepting UAE funds,” top government sources said. Further, the direct involvement of the UAE consulate for an apartment project for the state government is in total violation of the protocol set by the Centre. As per the protocol, except for routine matters such as request for factual information on technical subjects, foreign missions in India cannot establish direct contacts with the state government “on matters of substance and of more than ephemeral interest, such as foreign trade, external aid and project collaboration”. Legal experts cite violation of multiple laws in the whole string of events. “There is a clear-cut violation of FCRA, FTRA and FEMA in this case. It seems to be an ingenious attempt to circumvent the rule of the land. The state government should have been more careful while becoming part of such deals,” said former state law secretary B G Harindranath. TOI had reported how the provisions of Constitution as well as the sections Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act have been violated while inking the MoU with the NGO. Also, as per the section 3(1) (b) of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010, no foreign contribution shall be accepted by any judge, government servant, employee of any corporation or any other body controlled or owned by the government. The conversion of the housing project from a fully state government-funded project into an NGO-funded project happened swiftly. The state-level empowered committee (SLEC) that met on June 13, 2019, chaired by the chief secretary and also consisting of the then secretary (LSG department) T K Jose, then secretary to chief minister M Sivasankar, and CEO of Life Mission U V Jose had decided to give administrative nod to several projects under the Life Mission, including the project in Wadakkancherry. The SLEC had also earmarked Rs 13.09 crore for the Wadakkancherry project.. The UAE Red Crescent came into the picture on July 11, signing agreement with the Life Mission in which Rs 20 crore was pledged for the Wadakkancherry project. On July 31, 2019, the UAE consulate signed the deal with Unitac Builders and Developers. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said that the issue has become more mysterious. “Earlier, The Life Mission had signed an MoU with the NGO for implementing the project. What is the relation between all these organizations? Red Crescent had collected money from many sections in the GCC, including from Malayalis, for the project. Why is the government silent on the issue, despite allegations of huge corruption and fraud related to the project?” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/a-well-planned-move-to-accept-uae-funds/articleshow/77708732.cms||KP Saikiran
August 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Court infers man earns well, raises wife’s maintenance||AHMEDABAD: With the opening of a new business, a man has been ordered to pay more maintenance to his estranged wife, because she approached the court with new proof of his increased income. Last week, a magisterial court in Gandhinagar ordered Surajsinh Rathod to increase monthly maintenance to his wife Tejalben from Rs 2,000 to Rs 7,000 with judicial notice “of the price escalations and increase of cost of living in last five years”. In 2015, the court had ordered him to pay Rs 2,000 maintenance to his wife on basis of an application filed in 2011. The low maintenance amount was ordered because the wife could not prove higher income of her husband except that which he used to earn from agriculture. However, in 2018, the woman moved the court and demanded an increase in maintenance under Section 127 of CrPC. She moved the court as soon as she came to know that her husband had started a new business, had purchased 20 buffaloes and set up a barn. She claimed that the daily sales of the milk was more than Rs 5,000. She also asserted that the price indexation has gone up and it was not possible to maintain herself with meagre Rs 2,000. The woman also claimed that she had started living separately from her parents and that she had to pay the rent. She was not keeping well and the monthly expenditure incurred on medicines was Rs 2,000. She urged the court to increase the amount to Rs 9,000. Upon court’s notice, the husband appeared during the proceeding initially, but later did not respond to queries. This led the court to draw inference against him that he is well-to-do and is avoiding the court with an intention not to disclose true facts or to face cross-examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-infers-man-earns-well-raises-wifes-maintenance/articleshow/77709565.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Students fret as lengthy classes leave eyes sore||NEW DELHI: With online classes being held by colleges for over six hours daily, many students are finding it difficult to cope with sitting for long in front of laptop or phone screens as it has been causing them mental and physical discomfort. Last week, the students’ union of Lady Shri Ram College said they might boycott classes if the duration was not reduced by the university. Even teachers said there was hardly any need for holding classes for long hours as teaching could be done in a smarter way. Many psychology professors stated that long hours affected teaching adversely. On August 19, the Lady Shri Ram College students’ union held a general body meeting to discuss how the university was going ahead with an online semester without providing necessary study materials. A union member said many students were also concerned about the lack of resources and equipment for online classes, including continuous internet access. “A major issue is lectures being held for hours daily. Many students are dropping out as it’s not easy to sit in front of screens for so long,” the union member added. A second-year student of Hindu College said, “Students shouldn’t need to sit front of a screen through the day as apart from studying, they have to do other chores and activities. It wasn’t so taxing during normal classes.” Several teachers also voiced their problems and the predicament online classes put them in. Sanjay Batra, a chemistry professor at Sri Venkateswara College said, “My wife and I are both teachers. Our children are in classes IX and XII. Getting four laptops is difficult and interaction through the phone isn’t easy. Sometimes our day starts early and ends late at night with just 10-15 minutes of breaks in between. Holding continuous classes is not easy on students and teachers.” SPK Jena, professor of applied psychology at DU, said, “Studies have shown that people cannot be attentive for more than 45 minutes at a time, particularly for academic subjects. This causes cognitive strain on students. There should be significant gaps between classes. Classes of long duration shouldn’t be conducted by teachers just to finish the syllabus.” Even doctors advised breaks as sitting in front of a screen for very long was not healthy. Prashant Chaudhary, ophthalmology head at Aakash Healthcare Superspecialty Hospital, said they had received 6-7 cases of children with headaches, irritated eyes and blurry vision. “Children develop eye strain because looking at a screen for long causes eye muscles to contract. This is known as computer vision syndrome or digital eye strain. Parents are aware of the reason behind the problem, but traditional solutions will not work. Follow the 20, 20, 20 rule. After every 20 minutes of screen time, take a 20-second break and look 20 feet away,” he suggested. Sushil Sharma, senior orthopaedic surgeon at Kailash Hospital Noida, said, “A study conducted in the IT sector showed that people sitting in front of a screen for over 4-5 hours developed chronic pain. Even students have a tight schedule. After every hour, they should take a break of 10-15 minutes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/students-fret-as-lengthy-classes-leave-eyes-sore/articleshow/77709607.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
August 24, 2020||Dehradun||No help for injured animals in Doon, alleges PETA activist||Dehradun: An animal rights activist from Dehradun, who is part of the NGO People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), has lodged an FIR at Clement Town police station in the city against an unknown vehicle driver which had hit a cattle herd at Turner road on August 13. The activist has also made allegations against civic officials for their "negligence in sending a vehicle on time for which a pregnant cow had died on the road". Talking to TOI, the activist, Poonam Kumari, who is also a member of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA), said, “In the past one week, there have been five such incidents where stray animals have died in accidents and the delayed response from the authorities has left the animals severely injured on the road. The delayed response from the DMC is costing these stray animals their life. I have been helping these animals with the help of volunteers. But the issue must be taken up on priority as it is the shared responsibility of all citizens to save and protect these animals." The activist claimed that they are now putting radiant collars on the stray cattle and dogs to avert accidents at nights. “We had initially used radiant paint for putting marks on the stray animals and now we are putting collars around these animals. Till now, over 30 stray cattle have been collared by the volunteers," Kumari said. Meanwhile, municipal commissioner Vinay Shankar Pandey when queried, said, “Our team members are dedicatedly working for rescuing of animals in need and our team of doctors are also attending to these animals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-help-for-injured-animals-in-doon-alleges-peta-activist/articleshow/77708743.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Dehradun||ITBP personnel walk 40 km carrying injured woman to save her life||Dehradun: Battling flooded rivulets, broken routes and areas prone to landslides, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel rescued an injured woman, who had fallen from a hillside near a remote village in Pithoragarh district. The injured woman, identified as Rekha Devi, native of Laspa village in Munsyari division of Pithoragarh, broke her legs in the accident that took place on August 20. Despite multiple attempts, a chopper could not land anywhere near the village due to bad weather conditions. ITBP officials said that “on receiving information, the ITBP took up the challenge of rescuing the woman and a 25-member team of 14th battalion from the border outpost left for Lapsa village to rescue the woman.”“The team reached the village on August 22, which is almost 22km from the ITBP’s Milam base. Majority of the stretch was covered by foot by the jawans,” ITBP spokesperson Vivek Pandey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/itbp-personnel-walk-40-km-carrying-injured-woman-to-save-her-life/articleshow/77708735.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 24, 2020||Varanasi||Chlorine leak from Dinapur STP triggers panic in city||Varanasi: Around one and half month after chlorine leakage from cylinders at Jal-Kal at Kamaksha area, the city witnessed another incident of chlorine leakage from the sewage treatment plant at Dinapur on Saturday night. Timely action by STP staff and fire fighters nipped the problem in bud, although people in nearby areas started feeling suffocated due to high chlorine presence in air. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said that leakage of chlorine from pipe at Dinapur STP had been contained within a few minutes by stopping the supply successfully. All eight chlorine cylinders were safe but the plant has been shut down after the incident. Sharma claimed that no one, including the STP employees, were harmed due to the leakage as by the time chlorine spread on STP campus action was taken to contain it. Besides, rainfall at the time of incident further helped in subsiding the effect of chlorine, he said, adding that fire fighters and the NDRF personnel were rushed to the site. When TOI contacted general manager Ganga Action Plan of UP Jal Nigam, A K Purwar on Sunday, he said, “A trial run of chlorine contact tank (CCT) was being done after attaching eight cylinders with a common header at the 80MLD STP when leakage started. The supply from the cylinders was stopped immediately to stop the leakage. The trial run of chlorine contact tank will be done again after initiating corrective measures.” After treatment of sewage water, its chlorination is ensured at CCT to prevent faecal coliform presence in it, he said, adding that this CCT is of the old STP. During November 2018 visit, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had inaugurated a new 140 MLD STP on the same campus of Dinapur, which had 80 MLD STP built under Ganga Action Plan-I. Earlier, on July 6 night, leakage in a chlorine gas cylinder kept in a scrap store of Jal-Kal department’s campus led to panic in its vicinity in Bhelupur area. Six persons had fallen unconscious. Municipal commissioner has ordered a probe into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/chlorine-leak-from-dinapur-stp-triggers-panic-in-city/articleshow/77709928.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Varanasi||Banaras Hindu University exams to be held via open book system||VARANASI: Following the recommendations of its academic council and approval by executive council, the Banaras Hindu University will conduct terminal semester examination of 2019-20 academic session through online Open Book Examination (OBE) system. In this system, the examinees will take examination remotely (from their home/ any other place) with no restriction on consulting books and other resource materials for writing answers. BHU spokesman Rajesh Singh said that the office of registrar (academic) has issued a notification in this regard on August 21 and the schedule of the exam will also be announced soon. As per the notification, the question paper of theory courses will have eight questions of which any four will have to be answered. Each paper would be of 70 marks with all questions carrying equal marks (17.5 marks each). The question paper is being framed to ensure that answer does not exceed three A4 size sheets or maximum 350 words. The total duration of the exam will be four hours for general students and six hours for those having benchmark disability, he said adding that it includes the time for downloading the question paper from the portal, writing the answers and uploading the hand-written answer sheets on the portal. The examinees will have to download the question paper from the portal (www.bhuonline.in) using their usual login and password. After writing the answers, the answer scripts will have to be uploaded on the portal within the given duration of the exam. Components like projects, dissertations or practical will be substituted by assignments and viva-voce (through Skype or other apps), he said adding that provision to clear back papers, supplementary exam or backlog of previous session would also be given in online OBE system. The same policy will be applicable on all ex-students for clearing their backlog of semester course, he added. For the students, who fail in the terminal semester exam or fail to appear for the exam for cogent reasons, supplementary examinations will be conducted tentatively in November, in online OBE mode, after the declaration of results of semester exams, he said. As students would take examination from their places with no restriction on consulting books and other resource materials for writing answers, the criteria of unfair means has also been revised, said Singh. The exam grievances boards in departments and university level shall be deemed to be the OBE grievance committee as defined in the UGC guidelines issued on April 29 to deal with the grievances of the students of related to the end semester exams in the OBE mode for 2019-20 session, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-exams-to-be-held-via-open-book-system/articleshow/77709944.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Meerut||Meerut divisional commissioner urges reduction in ambulance response time||MEERUT: Meerut divisional commissioner Anita C Meshram conducted an inspection meeting of the district administration authorities to check the preparedness for Covid-19. In a series of directives, Meshram urged that the response time for ambulance should be reduced and plasma therapy be encouraged for Covid treatment. “All the district authorities have been asked to keep their data updated and accurate. They have been asked to conduct micro-level checking of the work being done under Covid-19 to make sure that no lapse is reported,” said Meshram. Instructions have been further given to ensure that testing of those people living in containment zones is done positively. “Regular follow-ups of patients with comorbidities or above 50 years of age should be taken up. Awareness drives to maintain social distancing and regular washing of hands should be conducted,” added Meshram. She further said, “Plasma therapy should be encouraged to cure Covid 19 and response time of ambulance should be reduced. Also, a status on ventilators and other life saving equipment at all Covid related facilities should be put in place by the health authorities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-div-com-urges-reductionin-ambulance-response-time/articleshow/77707848.cms||Ishita Bhatia
August 24, 2020||Madurai||HC directs collector to consider plea against opening Tasmac shop||Madurai: The Madras high court has directed Thanjavur collector to consider a plea against opening a Tasmac outlet in Sri Rengarajapuram village. The court observed that even though the government says liquor ruins the country, family and life, many liquor shops are allowed to open within the close proximity of one another with the only justification that revenue is earned in crores.The court was hearing the public interest litigation plea filed by D Srividhya, a resident of Sri Rengarajapuram village in the district, who sought for a direction not to set up a Tasmac shop in the village.The division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam pointed out that the surroundings near Tasmac shops are unclean, adding that authorities are not taking up periodical inspection to check how Tasmac shops are being maintained. The judges said that law and order problems are also created by the behaviour of drunkards and action is taken rarely except for statistical purposes.The judges permitted the petitioner to submit one more detailed representation to the authorities on the menace and nuisance in the event of opening the tasmac shop at the area and directed the district collector to consider it objectively and pass appropriate orders within four weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-directs-collector-to-consider-plea-against-opening-tasmac-shop/articleshow/77711320.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Meerut||Why are NCERT books being smuggled? High demand, low supply||Meerut: For years they were bit players, pushing in small amounts of pirated books that fell into tiny gaps left by the demand-supply skew. The real game started in 2018, when the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) told schools affiliated to it to prescribe textbooks published by the National Council for Education Research and Training (NCERT).These books are published only in NCERT-authorized printing houses. But illegal players made an entry because government-sanctioned printing houses failed to meet the demand.“Session in private schools starts in April. And for the next two months, students, mostly from senior classes, struggle to find NCERT books in the market. Some photocopy while others download PDF. They are racing against time as first term exams are held by May-end before the summer recess,” a social science teacher said. The gap between demand and supply is so huge that even illegal publishers churning out fakes are not able to cops, sources told TOI.According to STF sleuths, illegal players grabbed the opportunity. They not only began printing pirated textbooks but ensured the books looked "real". These books and the originals are identical. The only difference is that the fake ones have poor paper quality and ink -- the latter hazardous to children’s health. These illegal printing houses also give massive commissions -- as high as 30 to 35% -- to vendors. NCERT-authorized publishers give about 15 to 20%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/why-are-ncert-books-being-smuggled-high-demand-low-supply/articleshow/77707864.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Nashik||Onion prices up 33% at Lasalgaon||Nashik: The average wholesale price of onions increased by 33% in a week at Lasalgaon APMC as the supply of the produce has been affected by rain. The average wholesale price of onion increased from Rs 1,200 per quintal on August 24 to Rs 1,600 per quintal on Saturday with around 5,200 quintal of the produce being auctioned at Lasalgaon . “Around 15,000 quintal of onions arrive at Lasalgaon APMC on a daily basis, but the supply has now reduce to between 5,000 and 8,000 quintal owing to the incessant rainfall,” an APMC official said. “Most of the farmers are not brining their produce to the market. This has overall led to the rise in average wholesale onion price,” he added. According to the official, the average wholesale onion price may go up further and cross the Rs 2,000 per quintal-mark during the next couple of weeks. The minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices on Saturday were recorded at Rs 600 and Rs 1,786 per quintal, respectively. Currently, the onions arriving in the market are the summer produce that are harvested between March and April. The shelf life of summer onions is around five-six months. Hence, farmers prefer storing them with a hope of getting better prices. There is no fresh harvest till mid-October when kharif onions start to arrive in the markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/onion-prices-up-33-at-lasalgaon/articleshow/77839242.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 24, 2020||Nagpur||On first day, 50% drop in idol immersion outside home||Nagpur: Mayor Sandip Joshi’s appeal to citizens regarding immersing Ganesh idols at home seems to have hit the chord, as the first day of immersions saw nearly a 50% drop as compared to last year. Sticking to the plan, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) started barricading all the lakes on Sunday. For the first time, the civic body is cordoning off all the lakes including Futala, which is the worst affected every year. As per the figures provided by NGO Green Vigil Foundation which was volunteering at Futala Air Force side on Sunday, around 150 idols were immersed in artificial tank. Last year, the NGO had recorded immersions of 338 idols on the first day. “Due to mayor’s appeal and the ongoing pandemic, the number of people coming out for immersions has reduced by half. But the number of people choosing to install Ganesha for a day has also increased,” said Kaustav Chatterjee, founder of NGO Green Vigil. According to NMC officials, the work of barricading all the lakes will be done in a day or two. On Sunday, three artificial tanks were installed at Futala lake and few others at Gandhisagar and Sakkardara lakes. This time, the number of artificial tanks in the city will be less as compared to previous years. “In the coming days, the tanks will be installed zone-wise. However, we appeal to people to do immersions at home to ensure Covid distancing,” officials said. While the civic body had asked people not to stand and perform aarti at the immersion site, a large number of people did otherwise. “We tried convincing people not to stay at one spot for long but they kept performing rituals. People need to realize that all these measures are being taken for their own safety. Covid-19 is at its peak in the city and it has become of utmost importance to take all precautions,” said Chatterjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/on-first-day-50-drop-in-idol-immersion-outside-home/articleshow/77721198.cms||Manka Behl
August 24, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks Karur dist collector’s undertaking on encroachments||Madurai: Madras high court has directed the Karur district collector to file an additional status report with an undertaking that there would be no further encroachments in the water body at Mudalaipatti village in the district. A division bench of Justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam passed the order while hearing a public interest litigation filed by V Annalakshmi who sought to remove the encroachments from the water body. The case was adjourned to September 10 for further hearing.Annalakshmi’s father Ramar alias Veeramalai, 65, and her brother Vandu alias Nallathambi, 40, were hacked to death by a gang for filing a petition in the high court opposing encroachment in the water body at Mudalaipatti in 2019. Taking cognizance of newspaper reports in connection with the murder of the father-son duo, the HC Madurai bench initiated suo-motu proceedings and passed several directions with regard to action against those involved in the murder, granting protection to the family and removal of encroachments in the water body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-karur-dist-collectors-undertaking-on-encroachments/articleshow/77711322.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Two workers asphyxiated to death at Jajmau tannery||KANPUR: Two civic workers, who were cleaning a septic tank at a leather unit in Jajmau, died due to asphyxiation on Sunday. Following the incident, the police rushed to the spot and initiated investigation. The deceased include Nitin (30) and Sanjay (50) of Deviganj area of Ahirwan Chakeri. “An inquiry will be conducted in this regard.” Police further said that the management of Supreme tannery in Jajmau engaged a team of four civic workers, including Nitin and Sanjay, to clean the septic tank on Sunday morning. After entering into the septic tank, Nitin and Sanjay knocked out of their senses as they inhaled the toxic smell. Two other civic workers made desperate attempts to establish communication with them, but in vain. Thereafter, they raised alarm, and the tannery management apprised the police control room. Meanwhile, locals have gathered at the scene. Nitin and Sanjay were rushed to a nearby private nursing home from where they were referred to Lala Lajpat Rai (LLR) hospital. At LLR hospital, doctors declared the duo brought dead. The locals, along with the families of deceased civic workers, held a demonstration and demanded compensation to the bereaved family members. The police later pacified the agitated family members and other locals by assuring them of strict action against the guilty, besides the necessary compensation. “A case will be registered if the tannery was functional in violation of the norms, and investigations are underway in this regard. Bodies of the deceased civic workers have been sent for postmortem examination,” said Chakeri station house officer Ravi Srivastava. A district official, meanwhile, said that the tannery owners, as per the environmental norms, had been instructed to provide adequate equipment to the workers cleaning the septic tanks and drains. “We are investigating as to whether this particular unit followed the norms or not,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-workers-asphyxiated-to-death-at-jajmau-tannery/articleshow/77710396.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow girl wins global online UN contest for Asia||Lucknow: The World Photography Day couldn’t have been better for Aeshwarya Singh, as she acknowledges on her Facebook post sharing her excitement over winning the global online competition organized by United Nations Major Group for Children and Youth (UNMGCY). The event spun around the broader theme of ‘The Role of Young People in Covid-19 and Humanitarian Response’. Aeshwarya won the competition ‘Creativity In The Times Of Covid-19’ in the category of Photography/Videography, under the adolescent group (11-19 years). The theme chosen by her was ‘Covid-19 and its impact on mental health’. An elated Aeshwarya, who is a class VI student of Loreto Convent, said that she had clicked the photograph standing in her garden with her father Dr Ashutosh Singh’s camera. The pensive moment of her grandmother, captured in a monochrome frame, was submitted with the caption ‘Searching for a ray of hope during lockdown’. Aeshwarya’s mother Ruchira shares that her daughter harbours great interest in photography and keeps trying her hands on different art forms. Ruchira says that Aeshwarya has an inquisitive and aesthetic mind and is also a melodious singer, a voracious reader, an articulate writer and an orator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-girl-wins-global-online-un-contest-for-asia/articleshow/77705624.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Kochi||IS: Accepting Babri verdict was playing into tyrants’ hands||Kozhikode: The Islamic State (IS) has exhorted Muslims in India and Pakistan to award death punishment to those who insult Prophet Muhammad. The latest issue of Voice of Hind, the India-specific mouthpiece of the IS, said the trend of insulting the Prophet is increasing in both countries and it needs to be dealt with ‘utmost harshness.’ Citing the incidents in Bengaluru and in some places in Pakistan, the online magazine said ‘the kuffars (infidels) do not understand any language other than that of force.’ Another article compared Babri masjid to Al Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem. It said the situation in India is not much different from that of Palestine. It said when the Babri masjid was demolished there were loud protests from every corner of the country, but there is utmost silence when a temple is being constructed at the site of a mosque. It said that even the ‘so-called’ Muslim leaders have asked the community to accept the court’s verdict. It is the result of the desensitizing process which made the community accept the aggressions. The ‘evil’ scholars have become a tool in the hands of the ‘tyrants’ who oppress the Muslims. To instil confidence in the minds of potential IS attackers in India, the magazine said the ‘enemy’ is really weak and does not know how to defend itself from even ‘amateur attackers.’ Raking up the controversy involving Asia Bibi, who was accused of blasphemy in Pakistan, the magazine said the government allowed her to leave the country safely instead of punishing her. It also congratulated the accused who murdered Kamlesh Tiwari of ‘Hindu Samaj Party’ who allegedly insulted the Prophet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/is-accepting-babri-verdict-was-playing-into-tyrants-hands/articleshow/77708762.cms||Prashanth M P
August 24, 2020||Nagpur||8-month pregnant woman forced to cross broken bridge on foot||Nagpur: Eight-month pregnant Sarita Talandi, 29, had to walk across the rubble of a bridge swept away in the flood last week, to reach the ambulance on the other side of the Kambhalpetha nullah in Sironcha taluka. She fought back from the jaws of death after managing to reach a Primary Health Centre (PHC) at Tekadatalla from her village Kambhalpetha, around 5km away, which was cut off from rest of the district due to floods. With very low haemoglobin, the woman’s life was saved due to Dr Sachin Madavi at Tekadatalla PHC, who shifted her to Aheri sub-district hospital, around 90km away. The bridge over Kambhalpetha nullah, which joins several villages like Tekadatalla, Nemda, Regunta, Jaffrabad, Pusukupalli and others, was swept away in floods last week. Local residents had joined hands to repair a portion but more rains put paid to their efforts. Talandi, whose date of delivery is in September, alerted Dr Madavi through the Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) worker about labour pains. Dr Madavi immediately sent his vehicle to bring Talandi amid heavy flood and rain. “She survived only because she reached the PHC,” said Dr Madavi, who has worked at the PHC for last five years. “Next day, blood report showed her haemoglobin level was 3 mg, lower than the lowest possible mark of 6mg. I immediately alerted 108 and summoned an ambulance,” said Dr Madavi. “It reached Kambhalpetha nulla but the bridge had been swept away. Even our PHC vehicle could reach only till the nullah. We had no choice but to make Talandi walk across, holding her cautiously, knowing a fall could lead to death,” he said. Dr Madavi knew the woman needed blood infusion to survive even at Aheri sub-district hospital. “My senior at Gatta-based Navodaya school Mahesh Bejankiwar spotted my appeal in our alumini group, and donated blood. Talandi was later shifted to Chandrapur, where she was administered couple of more bottles of blood to save her life,” he said. Sironcha tehsildar Ramesh Jaswant said he had already visited the damaged bridge at Kambhalpetha and repair work has started. “On priority basis, we would try to repair it, and also couple of other bridges ahead,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/8-month-pregnant-woman-forced-to-cross-broken-bridge-on-foot/articleshow/77710696.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 24, 2020||Surat||Five villagers donate plasma, another dozen to donate today||Surat: Among 17 villagers from Olpad taluka of Surat district who have vowed to donate plasma, five kept their promise by donating theirs on Sunday at New Civil Hospital (NCH) in the city in a bid to help patients recover from Covid-19. According to NCH’s blood bank officials, to encourage plasma donation among the villagers, Olpad BJP MLA Mukesh Patel accompanied the five to the hospital on Sunday. Another 12 will donate on Monday, the authorities said. “Total 17 villagers of Olpad taluka which include farmers, traders and diamond polishers have set an example in responsibility by agreeing to donate plasma. Many other villagers too have come forward to donate plasma and it’s remarkable,” said Dr Mayur Jarag, in-charge, blood bank, NCH, Surat. “We are creating awareness in Olpad taluka about plasma donation and villagers are responding well to our appeal. We must appreciate their desire to help others with their plasma,” MLA Patel said. “I contacted Covid-19 in the last week of June and recovered from staying in home isolation. I consider plasma donation to be a noble service to the society as it will help other patients in their recovery,” said Hitesh Patel, a resident of Umara village. According to NCH sources, over 190 people have donated plasma at the hospital so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/five-villagers-donate-plasma-another-dozen-to-donate-today/articleshow/77708792.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Dehradun||RSS leaders meet protesting Gangotri priests||Dehradun: Senior leaders of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), including Suresh Joshi (a.k.a Bhaiyyaji Joshi) and Krishna Gopal, met priests of the revered Gangotri shrine on Sunday. The priests have been protesting against the Char Dham Devasthanam Board Act. Brijesh Sati, spokesperson of Devbhoomi Teertha Purohit Hakhakookdhari Mahapanchayat, told TOI that the meeting with RSS office-bearers lasted for over an hour. “The priests told them that they will go against the BJP in the upcoming assembly polls in both Uttarakhand and in Uttar Pradesh as the saffron party has taken an unjust decision. The RSS leaders assured us that they will put our concerns before the lawmakers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rss-leaders-meet-protesting-gangotri-priests/articleshow/77708780.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rs 10L of silver, cash burgled from firm||Ahmedabad: A chartered accountant from Ghatlodia filed a complaint with Ellisbridge police on Saturday stating that burglars broke into two of his offices on the 7th floor of Abhishree Complex in Ambawadi and stole cash and silver bars worth Rs 10 lakh. Jitendra Vageria, 40, resident of Sarvodaynagar stated the burglary took place on Friday night. Vageria said that he had closed his office at around 7.30pm on Friday, and he got a call from an employee on Saturday morning to come to the office immediately. When Vageria reached his office, he found the main doors of both the office were broken .Drawers and lockers in which he had kept valuables were found open. Vageria said that the burglars stole silver bars weighing 1kg worth Rs 40,000 and Rs 9.80 lakh cash from his office. The burglars also took away a DVR camera worth Rs 2,000 in which they might have been captured. Ellisbridge police registered a complaint of burglary and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-10l-of-silver-cash-burgled-from-firm/articleshow/77709612.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad roads riddled with potholes, but GHMC says they are better than last year||HYDERABAD: Heavy rains exposed the poor quality of the roads laid by private agencies under the Comprehensive Road Maintenance Programme (CRMP). The roads at several important stretches were severely damaged, causing inconvenience to the commuters. Persistent rains led to the erosion of the bitumen layer and the roads were peppered with potholes, leading to waterlogging at junctions. Surprisingly, GHMC officials said that the conditions of roads are much better compared to last year. The main road opposite to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) head office, the junction in front of My Home Bhooja (besides Biodiversity Park), the road adjacent to Sri Peddamma Temple Arch (Jubilee Hills Road No. 36) and the road near Madhapur Metro Station are among those which are in a pathetic condition. Another stretch that was not properly laid is Banjara Hills Road No. 1 (going towards Jalagam Vengal Rao Park). Even a small spell of rain is enough to inundate that area. Verification revealed that the road slope was not laid properly, preventing water from draining into the manholes. Near the Biodiversity Park, a road near GHMC head office and the stretch connecting KBR park and Madhapur is bitumen eroded due to heavy rains and vehicle movement made the condition even worse. This led to residents and commuters questioning the quality of the material used. “It’s quite surprising that newly laid roads are unable to withstand the rains. There should be a financial audit and also a social audit. Bad roads are dangerous, especially for pregnant women and senior citizens,” said Ridhima V, a resident of MLA Colony, Road No. 12 Banjara Hills pointing out to the stretch connecting KBR park and Madhapur. Ironically, the GHMC officials were satisfied with the conditions of roads. “Despite the heavy downpour this month, many main roads are in a better condition compared to previous years. GHMC has identified 3,067 potholes (including the ones on CRMP stretches) after rains battered the city. They are being filled,” said a GHMC official. Under CRMP, 401 stretches have been handed over to private agencies for a period of five years at a cost of Rs 1,827 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-roads-riddled-with-potholes-but-ghmc-says-they-are-better-than-last-yr/articleshow/77710680.cms||Nabinder Bommala
August 24, 2020||Nagpur||Travel & stay issues add to woes of outstation JEE/NEET students||Nagpur: Almost 10,000 outstation students are expected to appear for JEE and NEET exams in September across various centres in Nagpur. Apart from those coming from neighbouring districts, Nagpur is a popular exam destination for JEE/NEET aspirants from Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh as well. Various travel restrictions compounded by reduced accommodation facilities may prove to be a challenge for such outstation students. The National Testing Agency (NTA), the body that conducts the exams, does not release city-wise enrolment data but estimates from schools/colleges/private centres which host these exams, say around 45,000 students appear for both exams. One such school trustee said, “Around 20% of the enrolled students come from outside. Every year we face the issue of outstation students in a hurry to rush out because they have to catch a bus or a train to their hometown.” He elaborated that the ‘rush’ is to collect mobile phones which cannot be taken inside the exam hall. “So we hand out mobiles first to outstation students so that they can reach the bus stop or station quickly,” said the trustee. With inter-state private buses are not plying and train options almost negligible, private vehicles seem to be the only viable option for outstation students. But inter-state and inter-district travel restrictions can’t be predicted for September as of now, feel academics. Owner of another institute, which will host the exams, said, “Whatever information regarding e-passes and quarantine for travellers is applicable today can’t be expected to remain in place for September. So even though we know that exams are to be held next month, there is no clarity as to how many will actually turn up due to travel restrictions. You don’t want a situation where someone drives down from Chindwara and gets stuck at the border due to paperwork.” Even if travel restrictions are off in September, outstation students who plan to come in advance may face another challenge. Accommodation won’t be available easily due to many hotels shutting down. Tejinder Singh Renu, president of Nagpur Residential Hotels Association (NRHA) said no visitor must make the mistake of assuming that ‘walk-in’ rooms will be available. “Unless someone has confirmed reservation, it won’t make sense to travel for an overnight journey. Many hotels are closed and those which are open already have leased rooms to hospitals. In the usually busy Central Avenue, there are hardly three hotels functioning,” said Renu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/travel-stay-issues-add-to-woes-of-outstation-jee/neet-students/articleshow/77710706.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 24, 2020||Kochi||Teen beats odds, wins space science contest||Kochi: It has been six years since Aravind Swami (16), presently a Class XII student of Chavara CMI Public School, Pala, has been diagnosed with chronic bronchitis following a chest infection that occurred at the age of 10. Every year, he spends nearly six months in hospitals due to recurring pneumonia and respiratory infections. But hard work and passion for reading about space science has helped this boy to overcome the barriers of physical challenges and secure the Bronze Honour in the International Astronomy and Astrophysics Competition 2020 (IAAC) junior category. IAAC is a reputed contest that enables students from all countries to prove their skills and creativity in the fields of astronomy and astrophysics. In the competition conducted online in June, Swami reached the final round after competing with students from across the globe. In the final, he scored 80 out of 100 marks by answering 40 objective types questions in 40 minutes. The competition is known for its difficulty levels as it tests the participants’ knowledge about astronomy through astrophysical calculations and advanced research questions based on space science. Swami is the elder son of T Swami Dasan, a staff of Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, Kalady and Sophie K J, an employee at Pala MACT Court. “The disease started for the first time when he fell ill after playing in a swimming pool. He has lost most of the academic days over the past six years as the frequent infection forces him to be hospitalized for nearly two months. This happens multiple times every year,” said Dasan. Since childhood, he has been crazy about space science and dreams of becoming an astronomer, Dasan said, adding that Swami makes use of his treatment days by spending a lot of time watching movies and documentaries on astronomy & space and by reading research articles and encyclopedias. Swami came to know about the competition through a newspaper article in April. “Though I applied for the test, I never thought I would get through. The questions were challenging but I happy that I could make it,” he said. The achievement has won him accolades from many and Kerala Legislative Assembly Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan has sent a letter to Swami congratulating him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/teen-beats-odds-wins-space-science-contest/articleshow/77708795.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
August 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Man-elephant conflicts drop in Gudalur forest division||Udhagamandalam: The Gudalur forest division has seen a decrease in man-elephant conflicts in the past two years, thanks to the regular monitoring of elephant movement in the area and other measures to prevent the same.While the number of people killed in elephant attacks had come down to three in 2019 from 10 in 2018, no one has lost life so far this year in the division.Sumesh Soman, district forest officer, Gudalur division, says, “Since last October, there has been no report of human loss due to elephant attack in the division.”The last case of elephant attack was reported in September 2019, when a man from Devarshola was trampled to death. According to the official, the Gudalur forest division is highly fragmented with about 155 reserve forests and human habitats among them. “Hence, elephants have to cross human habitats to reach another reserve. There lies the problem. Also, the division is surrounded by Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, Vyanadu forest and Nilambur forests, from where elephants stray into our division.”To mitigate the man-animal conflict in the division, they had developed a programme wherein a team of 3-4 temporarily engaged anti-depredation watchers headed by a forest guard was deployed in their jurisdiction to take note of the presence of elephants and their movements. “They go on foot and gauge the direction that the elephants might move at night. They post their real-time GPS location screenshot, a selfie and status of elephants found there on a WhatsApp group,” the officer said.At 7.30am and 6.30pm every day range officers have to report to the district forest officer with details from the field monitoring teams and based on that precautionary measures are taken.Also, the forest department uses early warning beacons that are mounted on towers and triggered by SMS/missed calls to alert people living in vulnerable areas about elephant presence/movement. Group SMS are sent to them from the elephant monitoring cell in the DFO office daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-elephant-conflicts-drop-in-gudalur-forest-division/articleshow/77709617.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Varanasi||Money withdrawn from woman’s account, 4 arrested||Varanasi: Cantt police arrested four persons on Sunday for withdrawing money from the bank account of a woman in nexus with the employee of the same bank. The arrested persons were associated with the land mafia who had been trying to grab Varanasi Development Authority’s 45,240 sqmt land known as Rai Sahab ka Bagicha of Rs 139 crore putting the same woman on fore, said SSP Amit Pathak. The SSP said, following a detailed investigation Om Prakash and Prashant alias Rinku of Mirzapur, Umesh Kumar of Chandauli and Tarun Ranjan Srivastava, a bank employee were arrested for withdrawing cash worth several lakhs from the account of Rai Pushplata. Rai Pushlata is the same woman, to whom the band of land mafia, including Bhupendra Pratap Singh, Aqil Ahmed, Santosh Kumar, Rameshwar Pratap and others had tried to prove the owner of Rai Sahab ka Bagichas land with fake documents and committing fraud in official records after VDA decided to launch Vibhuti Nagar township project on it in 2002, said the SSP. This matter is still pending before the Supreme Court, he said adding that in a dramatic turn the land mafia tried to cheat Rai Pushplata with whom they had conspired to grab the land. SSP said that in 2017 Bhupendra and Aqil ensured signing of lease deed, will and patta with Rai Pushplata for the same land against which she was given Rs one crore in March 2019. He said that this money was deposited in a private bank by opening an account in her name in its Ramkatora branch. Later, with the help of bank employee Tarun the account was transferred to Godowlia branch, he said adding that Bhupendra was made a nominee of the woman in this account. Later, the gang started withdrawing money from her account with the help of cheques with her fake signatures. During interrogation, arrested persons confessed their involvement in withdrawing money from her account after which they were arrested, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/money-withdrawn-from-womans-account-4-arrested/articleshow/77710359.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Kanpur||Pvt hosps to get free Antigen kits for speedy Corona tests||Kanpur: Private hospitals which are running flu OPDs at their premises will have to provide the facility of Covid-19 test using Antigent test kits to patients free of cost and the hospitals will be provided free Antigen test kits by the district administration in couple of days, said divisonal commissioner Dr Sudhir M Bobde During a review meeting on Saturday, the commissioner asked the district magistrate to provide antigen kits to the hopsitals running flu OPD at the earliest. In the beginning kit would be delivered to big hospitals and later to small scale hospitals too. The commissioner said that several private hospitals were running flu OPDs and their patients had to depend on private labs for Covid-19 smaple tests. Sometimes it takes six to seven hours in receiving the reports and by that time the condition of the patient becomes precarious. To deal with such cases, the district administration has decided to provide Antigen test kits to the hospitals as these kits provide results in half an hour. The divisional commissioner said the administration would monitor the testing process in the hospitals receiving Antigen testing kits. District magistrate Dr Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari directed chief medical officer Dr Anil Mishra to provide testing kits to the hospitals at the earliest. Earlier in a meeting, he had asked the health officials to focus on surveillance and contact tracing of the infected persons. Those who had come in contact with infected persons must be examined, he said. The district magistrate said in the meeting with the health department that the integrated command control centre has been counselling the patients who were in home isolation. The centre not only contacted the patients but also collected information about them. In case ratification of the virus infection the information to Covid hospital and home isolation was sent by SMS. Tiwari stated that since number of infected persons were rising, beds have been enhanced at Covid Level-2 and 3 hospitals. He asked the officials to enhance the capacity of testing per day between 2,500 to 3,000 per day. He also directed the health officials to conduct testing through RTPC PCR, Trunet,and antigen kits. Further, he appealed to the public to contact on 18001805159 in case of any problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/pvt-hosps-to-get-free-antigen-kits-for-speedy-corona-tests/articleshow/77710368.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Pvt agencies will have to restore roads: GHMC||Hyderabad: Officials of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) said that the private agencies will restore the roads and address the issue pertaining to rockslides. “The private agencies responsible for maintaining the roads will have to restore them. Some roads that fall under Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation(TSIIC) have also been handed over to these agencies under the Comprehensive Road Maintenance Programme (CRMP),” said Venkanna, deputy commissioner of Serilingampally. “The GHMC will monitor the road restoration work as well as the issue pertaining to rockslides. We will ensure that these are fixed,” he added. As per the contract, if the roads are not repaired within the deadline set by GHMC, penalties can be levied on the private agencies. The money will be deducted from their contract amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvt-agencies-will-have-to-restore-roads-ghmc/articleshow/77710683.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Dehradun||To maintain distancing, rope barricading made mandatory outside shops in Muni Ki Reti||Haridwar: In a bid to ensure that distancing norms are being followed in commercial spaces, local administration in Rishikesh on Sunday made rope barricading mandatory outside all shops in Muni ki Reti area . Police teams asked the local traders and shop owners to install rope and other barricades outside the shop immediately to avoid any legal action. Promod Sah, circle officer of Narendra Nagar, told TOI, “We have asked the shopkeepers for rope barricading to ensure social distancing. It will help us contain the spread of the virus. We are also taking action against those who are not wearing masks in public places.” Meanwhile, residents welcomed the step as the number of cases have been rising in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/to-maintain-distancing-rope-barricading-made-mandatory-outside-shops-in-muni-ki-reti/articleshow/77708801.cms||MS Nawaz
August 24, 2020||Varanasi||MLA praises Dy CM’s action against PWD engr||Gorakhpur: Gorakhpur MLA Radha Mohan Das Agarwal appreciated deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya’s action against the assistant engineer of PWD in Gorakhpur. The action was taken by the deputy CM after the issue was raised by the MLA in the Vidhan Sabha during the monsoon session. Agarwal had also met the deputy CM at his residence and apprised him about the careless attitude of PWD officials, following which Maurya instructed the PWD engineer-in-chief to transfer assistant engineer K K Singh from Gorakhpur and attach him to Lucknow headquarters. “The officials raised the height of Deoria road from 1 metre to 1.5 metre but didn’t make any drainage in the area. The area gets inundated and badly affects more than 10,000 people live in 50 colonies. It tarnishes the image of the government,” the MLA said. “People were agitated and public representatives have to face embarrassment. Accountability should be fixed and action taken against such negligent officials,” he said. Earlier, after Agarwal’s tweet to CM Yogi Adityanath for delay in action in killing of a person during celebratory firing in Lakhimpur Kheri, the accused was arrested on the same day on August 17. The police were not taking action against the accused for past two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mla-praises-dy-cms-action-against-pwd-engr/articleshow/77710297.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: He helped migrants leave, and now bringing them back||AHMEDABAD: Arvind Singh, a social worker who facilitated the return of over 1,000 migrant workers from Ahmedabad and other parts of Gujarat to their native places in Bihar, is now working to get the workers to come back to Gujarat and resume their work. “Now that things have normalised and most industries in Gujarat have resumed their operations, we are working towards getting them return from Bihar to Gujarat. Our workers are personally meeting people who had left for Bihar and asking them to resume their work in Gujarat,” Arvind Singh said. He is general secretary of Bihar Gujarat Maitri Sangh (BIGMAS) and Hindi Bhashi Mahasangh general secretary as well. He said that during the lockdown, migrant workers faced a lot of difficulties. “Apart from the fact that they were jobless and without money, they were very restless to return home. We co-ordinated with district administration officials in Gujarat and also government officials of Bihar to ensure that over 1,000 workers reached Bihar safely,” Singh said. He added that his organisation also worked closely with the state government to ensure that industrial units paid wages to their workers even during the lockdown. “Now that industrial activity has resumed, a majority of those who left are expected to return to Gujarat in the coming months,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/he-helped-migrants-leave-now-trying-to-bring-them-back/articleshow/77709624.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Vadodara||70 stranded at Pavagadh foothill rescued||Vadodara: As many as 70 people who were stranded near Khuniya Mahadev waterfall in Pavagadh on Sunday afternoon were rescued by local police. The rescued persons, most of whom were tourists, were stranded as the water level in a ravine suddenly increased due to heavy rains in the area. The town housing the Unesco-declared World Heritage Site had witnessed heavy rush of tourists since Sunday morning due to pleasant weather and weekend. Police said that due to heavy rains in the town in the afternoon, the water flowing down the Pavagadh hill had increased. The fast-flowing water led to rise in the level of water in a ravine on the foothills. “When we received the message that 70 people were stuck due to the gushing waters, I informed the disaster management branch for help and reached the spot along with other cops and a rope,” said sub-inspector P N Singh of Pavagadh police station. A rope was tied across the ravine and on the downstream side, cops stood holding the rope. “One after the other, some 70 people were able to cross the ravine. Later, we went till the waterfall to confirm that nobody was left behind,” Singh said. In the past too, some 30 to 40 tourists were rescued from the same spot as water had swelled due to heavy rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/70-stranded-at-pavagadh-foothill-rescued/articleshow/77708535.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Coimbatore||87 test +ve in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district recorded 87 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking its count to 1,325. The number of active cases now stands at 276. At least 38 patients were discharged in the day. With this, 1041 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the district. The hill district also saw three Covid-19 deaths in the day, taking the toll to eight. The new cases were reported mainly from villages such as Anikorai, Kookalthorai, Jegathala, Uyilatty, Hosahatty, Nedugula and Kappachi. Cases were also reported from Ooty, Kotagiri, Coonoor and Gudalur towns. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/87-test-ve-in-nilgiris/articleshow/77709630.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Land reserved for road project on sale||Coimbatore: The revenue department’s failure to notify the registration department, local planning authority and local bodies about change in alignment of the proposed western ring road project has dealt a blow to many people who bought land on the project route by shelling out a lifetime’s savings to build their dream houses. Shantha*, of Vadavalli, is one of the affected. A housekeeping staffer with a private hospital, she saved every possible penny from her monthly salary of Rs 10,000 for over half a decade with a dream to buy a small plot of land to build a house of her own. When one of her friends told Shantha about her plans to sell four cents land at Theetipalayam on the outskirts of the city, she sealed the deal in February 2018. Her savings wasn’t enough to buy the land. So, she pledged some of her gold ornaments and took a loan. But her happiness was short-lived. In three months, she came to know from one of the well-wishers that the land was earmarked for the western ring road project. When she approached government officials, they confirmed it. While the state highways department had changed the alignment of the road project to 32.43km through 16 villages from Kuniyamuthur to Gudalur from 26km through 12 villages from Kuniyamuthur to Thudiyalur in 2014 and obtained approval from the road safety committee the same year and administrative sanction from the state government in 2016, the revenue department is yet to notify the registration department, local planning authority and local bodies about it. As a result, likes of Shantha continues to purchase land and construct buildings on the route that is earmarked for the western ring road project. She said, “Isn’t the registration department that we all trust while purchasing land? If it had informed me about the project, I would not only have saved my hard-earned money but avoided mental agony and humiliation that I am facing now.” K Kathirmathiyon, secretary, Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said the revenue department should have updated the concerned departments about the changes in alignment of the road project as soon as they were approved, as it had done in the case of the initial project draft. “Despite repeated reminders and complaints, the revenue department is yet to notify the changes to them.” Explaining that four villages that were in the first draft were not included in the second draft, which instead added eight other villages, he said due to lack of communication, registration department was still allowing people to register land earmarked for the project while local planning authority and local bodies were permitting building construction. “Besides the public, it will also affect the revenue department, which might have to spend huge money as compensation during land acquisition. Due to multiple land transactions, the department might not even know who the current owner of land that it wants to acquire is,” he said. Sources with the registration department said they would stop the registration process as soon as they were notified about the changes in road alignment. When contacted, revenue officials assured to look into the issue. (* Name changed)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/land-reserved-for-road-project-on-sale/articleshow/77709648.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 24, 2020||Nagpur||Dr Sushma likely to be booked for murder||Nagpur: Koradi police, probing the mysterious death of four of a family — Dr Sushma Rane, her husband assistant professor Dhiraj and their two children, Dhruv (11) and Vannya (5) — are likely to book the woman doctor for murder holding her responsible for death of the other three. Bodies of Dhiraj and two children were found on bed while Sushma was found hanging in adjacent room of their Om Nagar residence on August 18. All the bodies had prick marks on hand, suggesting they may have been administered anesthetics using injection, including Sushma’s who is suspected to have procured anesthesia medications from a hospital in Dhantoli where she worked. It has also come to fore that Dhiraj had recently called many of his past friends from school and colleges to revive his friendship with them. Most of the persons whom he had contacted were women, said police. The investigation teams are now trying to find out the reason as to why Dhiraj had not attended college for the last 10 days preceding his death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dr-sushma-likely-to-be-booked-for-murder/articleshow/77710708.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 24, 2020||Kolkata||Network of friends finds Maidan’s missing Muskaan||Kolkata: When Muskaan, the six-year-old mare, went missing from Maidan on August 14, it left Anwar Ali of Kidderpore absolutely distraught. After she could not be traced, a search party was mobilised through social media posts by rugby players at Maidan. The network of friends finally found the mare on August 21 at Howrah’s Pilkhana, 6km away from Maidan. A day later, Muskaan was back where she belonged and had brought smiles back on the faces of everyone who knew her. On the afternoon of August 14, Ali had left Muskaan with her friends Roshni, Raja and Badal for a few hours to have lunch. Ali and his family own four horses and offer joyrides to visitors in the Maidan area. “We were without any earning during the lockdown. I sold my motorcycle to feed the horses. The entire family is attached to the horses, particularly Muskaan. My sons Sanwar and Sahil were extremely upset when they learnt Muskaan had gone missing,” recounted Ali. Someone said he had seen a young boy riding away on a horse towards the Howrah Bridge. Ali went across the bridge and asked people, who lived in and around Howrah station, for four days without luck. When he was about to give up hope, fitness trainer and Rugby player Sailen Tudu learnt about the missing mare. Tudu knew both Ali and Muskaan. A horse enthusiast himself, Tudu had photographed Muskaan on the Maidan before and posted one of the photos on Facebook, requesting help to locate her. “Within 24 hours I got a feedback from Nadeem Solanaki, one of our rugby players from Howrah, that he had spotted Muskaan on a road in Pilkahana,” Tudu told TOI. He went down to the spot with Ali and found that a teenager living on the pavement near Golabari police station had taken Muskaan. Cops were called in. Minister Lakshmi Ratan Shukla also stepped in to help return Muskaan to the owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/network-of-friends-finds-maidans-missing-muskaan/articleshow/77709653.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Rain causes rockslides across Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Incessant rains, which generally result in bad roads, have resulted in rockslides too. Knowledge City, the road behind Biodiversity Park and Outer Ring Road (the road leading to Financial District) are some places where rockslides was witnessed. No causalities were reported due to rocksildes, confirmed police and locals. In some places, huge rocks fell on the ground and were smashed into smaller pieces. Experts say that periodic inspections are the need of hour and rockslides can be avoided by ensuring efficient project design and execution. “Rockslide occurs due to negligence in design and execution. Cutting of rock should be done to match the weathering slope. Measures like constructing additional beams, studying water table and taking measures which include construction of horizontal drains or tunnels can solve the issue. Once the work is completed, periodic inspections should be done. The government should take rockslides seriously,” said S P Anchuri, VP (south), Structural Engineers World Congress. Commuters and residents living in vicinity said that rockslides are death traps. “Rockslides are death traps for commuters, passers-by and the hawkers who have set up their pushcarts attached to the rocks. The issue should be fixed on priority basis,” said Bharat Bhushan, a business analyst.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rain-causes-rockslides-across-city/articleshow/77710697.cms||Nabinder Bommala
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||TPF vice-president Nalamasa Krishna gets bail||HYDERABAD: Telangana Praja Front (TPF) vice-president Nalamasa Krishna, who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for his alleged links with Communist Party of India (Maoists) in June, was granted bail by IV Additional Metropolitan Sessions Judge, Nampally, on Friday on grounds of ill-health. Krishna had obtained bail in six different cases registered against him by Telangana police for playing a key role in supporting and furthering the activities of the banned Maoist party. He is expected to be released from Cherlapally jail on Monday. After Krishna moved the latest bail plea by citing reasons of ill-health, NIA, in opposition to the plea, put forth various arguments to deny bail to the TPF vice-president and recalled how the courts have refused bail to Revolutionary Writers Association (RWA) member Varavara Rao, who fell ill due to coronavirus and other health-related issues, Delhi University professor GN Sai Baba and Sadanala Ramakrishna. Krishna is reportedly suffering from severe back pain and is to undergo surgery. “Taking into consideration the totality of the facts and circumstances put before the court by both sides, taking into consideration Krishna’s present health condition, the right to proper medical care is also covered under right to life. This court is inclined to grant bail to the petitioner while imposing certain conditions,” judge D Hemanth Kumar said in his order. NIA had accused Krishna of organising revolutionary activities at the behest of Maoists besides providing logistics support, medical aid, shelter, information on the movement of security forces and political targets to members of the banned party. He is also accused of assisting top members of CPI (Maoists) in recruiting new members. “While seeking bail, we informed the court that the allegations levelled by NIA against Krishna are false. We told the court that his health is bad by producing the relevant medical reports issued by prison authorities,” B Karthik Navayan, the advocate representing Krishna, told TOI. NIA has declared four persons, Telangana Vidhyarthi Vedika president Bandari Maddileti, Telangana Maoists State Committee secretary Haribhushan, Menchu Sandeep and Krishna, as accused in the case. Except the fugitive Haribhushan, the other three were arrested. Krishna was arrested in June by NIA, while undergoing treatment at a hospital in Khammam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tpf-vice-prez-gets-bail/articleshow/77709631.cms||Srinath Vudali
August 24, 2020||Surat||Outgoing Gupta keeps in-charge VC waiting||SURAT: On his last day as the vice-chancellor (VC) of Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU), Shivendra Gupta kept the first woman in-charge VC Hemali Desai waiting for over one and a half hour on Sunday while handing over the charge. Gupta stood up from his chair only after 6.10 pm and refused to hand over the charge before that, in the presence of other senior teachers of the university. In an unceremonious exit for Gupta, no farewell was offered by the university administrative staff or teachers. On Saturday, Gupta was grilled at the Umra police station by senior police officials for over two and a half hours in the complaint against him for allegedly making derogatory remarks about Indian saints in a viral audio. Gupta had asked Desai to come to the university to take charge on Sunday despite it being a holiday. Gupta’s three-year term as VC ended on Sunday, however, it being holiday on Saturday and Sunday his last working day was Friday. But he continued to remain on the post till Sunday. Those trusted allies, who spent maximum time with Gupta during his VC’s tenure, were not present at the time of his exit. No senator or syndicate member except Kashyap Kharachiya, a syndicate member, remained present. Gupta refused to reply to questions while leaving the office. Meanwhile, the newly appointed in-charge VC, Desai, claimed that she has no specific plans to execute since she doesn’t know how long she will be holding charge. “Currently the university’s focus will be to hold exams as per government’s directives and complete admission process. Apart from that I have no other priorities,” said Desai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/outgoing-gupta-keeps-in-charge-vc-waiting/articleshow/77708838.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Nagpur||Decks cleared for rail travel between Itwari-Chhindwara||Nagpur: Soon, journey between Nagpur and Chhindwara can be completed in 2.5 hours. With safety inspection of last stretch of 20km between Bhimalgondi-Bhandarkund completed on Saturday, decks have been cleared to throw open the 149km broad gauge railway line between Itwari-Chhindwara under the South East Central Railway (SECR). SECR officials said the inspection by commissioner of railway safety (CRS for southern & south eastern circle) AK Rai went well and a report will be submitted soon. The inspection was done by motor trolley and special coach at 92 kmph speed in the presence of DRM Shobhana Bandopadhayaya and other senior officials. The line has a potential to run at a speed of 70 kmph. The upgraded line is expected to open in a month. The narrow gauge line was completely closed for traffic on December 1, 2015. After commissioning of the line, many passengers from small tribal hamlets for whom the narrow gauge trains were lifeline will get new transport facility to the busy town of MP and Nagpur too. The project was announced in 2008 railway budget at an estimated cost of Rs1,421 crore. However, physical work on the line started only after narrow gauge train operations were closed. There are 13 stations and 14 passenger halts between Nagpur-Chhindwara. The final call to open the line will be taken by the Railway Board. The project is running behind schedule as the final stretch between Bhimalgondi-Bhandarkund (20km) was slated to be completed by May 31, 2019. Earlier, route between Chhindwara-Bhandarkund was opened in January 2018, followed by opening of tracks between Itwari-Kelwad in February 23, 2019 and later Kelwad-Bhimalgondi. Though entire line passes through ghat sections, work on 20km Bhimalgondi-Bhandarkund was most challenging. The stretch has one 45-metre high bridge, 26 big and 275 small bridges and two tunnels of 700 metres and 120 metres each. “It’s the most difficult section with sharp curves and hills. The upgraded line now becomes a full circle from Nagpur connecting the main Delhi line via Junnardeo,” said DCM Anurag Kumar Singh. Rai also conducted inspection of electrification between Lamta-Nainpur. Work on only 25km route between Samnapur-Lamta is remaining. Its completion will make available another line between Nagpur-Gondia-Jabalpur. Presently, trains to Jabalpur operate via Itarsi through main line of Central Railway. New line to boost operations Work on Nagpur-Chhindwara (149km) narrow gauge to broad gauge conversion project announced in 2008 Total project cost Rs1,421cr Till now, work on 127km completed This includes Nagpur-Kelwad (48km), Kelwad-Bhimlagondi (44km) and Chhindwara-Bhandarkund (35km) The project involves 28 big and 307 small bridges and 2 tunnels Chhindwara-Bhandarkund (35km) work completed in January 2018 Bhandarkund-Bimlagondi (20km) final inspection over on August 22, 2020||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/decks-cleared-for-rail-travel-between-itwari-chhindwara/articleshow/77721244.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Plasma bank opened at CMCH||Coimbatore: Health minister Dr C Vijayabaskar and municipal administration minister S P Velumani jointly inaugurated the plasma bank at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) on Sunday. The plasma bank was set up at a cost of Rs25 lakh. On the opening day, two army men, a CMCH house surgeon and a photojournalist, who had recovered from Covid-19 recently, donated plasma. Vijayabaskar said plasma would be collected from donors by way of apheresis method. “Plasma would neutralize the virus in patients and reduce the need for artificial oxygen support.” Recently recovered Covid-19 patients are eligible to donate plasma, if they are in the age group of 18-65 years and don’t have high blood pressure, heart ailments, diabetes, kidney problem and cancer. Those who have undergone organ transplantation are not eligible to donate plasma. The health minister said a person could donate plasma for a maximum of three times. Once collected, the plasma would be stored in minus 40 degree Celsius. “It could be stored for a year and administered on Covid-19 patients whenever needed. Plasma therapy will reduce fatalities.” CMCH medical team has identified the patients for plasma therapy and the treatment would commence soon. Hospital authorities said donors would be screened thoroughly before collecting plasma. Their blood samples would also be checked. A CMCH source said 200ml plasma would be administered on Covid-19 patients on two consecutive days. ‘At least 10 more donors have registered their names with the plasma bank.” Later addressing the media, Vijayabaskar said the Centre’s move of scrapping e-passes for inter-state and intra-state travelling would pose a challenge to state health department in containing the virus spread. He also called on people to wear face masks, maintain social distancing and ensure hand hygiene. He said 1,902 people with Covid-19 symptoms were diagnosed at 6,312 fever camps in the district, which has 5,861 beds to treat Covid-19 patients. “Siddha treatment is offered at 25 Covid care centres in the state. All districts will have one such centre. People will get Covid-19 results through SMS on their phones within two weeks.” The plasma bank opening ceremony was attended by health secretary J Radhakrishnan, district collector K Rajamani, city corporation commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath, deputy director of public health G Ramesh Kumar, city health officer S Raja and CMCH dean Dr P Kalidas, ESI Hospital dean Dr Nirmala and other officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/plasma-bank-opened-at-cmch/articleshow/77709672.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Rampally 2BHK houses by Sept||Hyderabad: A total of 6,240 2-BHK houses at Rampally being built at a cost of Rs 54,183.60 lakh will be ready for inauguration by September-end. Hyderabad mayor Bonthu Rammohan along with Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), water board and Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) officials inspected the houses on Sunday. “The houses have a two-storeyed shopping complex with 44 shops on each floor. The society is spread over 41 acres of land and has a sewage treatment plant,” read a statement issued by the GHMC on Sunday. The mayor urged the beneficiaries to not fall prey to fraudsters. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rampally-2bhk-houses-by-sept/articleshow/77709668.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata man’s lung, liver will fly to Hyderabad hospital||KOLKATA: The city registered the second deceased organ donation during the pandemic on Sunday. For the first time, the organs of a deceased donor — lung and liver — will cross the Bengal border for transplantation in a different state. This is also the first time the lung is being harvested from a deceased donor in the state. The donor is a 44-year-old man from Dakshineshwar, who was admitted to Institute of Neurosciences Kolkata three days ago under Dr Amit Kumar Ghosh. The patient was declared brain dead on Saturday and his family agreed to donate his organs and informed ROTTO (Regional Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation). ROTTO offered the liver to National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation, which allocated it to KIMS Hospital in Hyderabad. The lung was also allocated to the Hyderabad hospital. The donor’s skin will be banked at SSKM, while the cornea will go to Sankara Nethralaya. “Amid the pandemic, INK doctors have done a great job,” said nephrologist Arpita RayChaudhury, ROTTO joint director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-mans-lung-liver-will-fly-to-hyd-hospital/articleshow/77709677.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Extend loan moratorium, say MSMEs||Coimbatore: With the loan moratorium announced by the Centre for industries getting over by August 31, micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) in the district are desperate for extension. As many as 80% of MSME owners who had availed loans are not in a position to pay their dues, industry representatives said. When the country-wide lockdown was imposed in March, the Reserve Bank of India had granted a three-month moratorium till May. Another three-month moratorium was announced till August. With the moratorium deadline nearing, MSME forums have been seeking extension of moratorium for a year. P Nallathambi, president of the Coimbatore Sidco Industrial Estate Manufacturers Welfare Association (Cosiema), said industrial units in the estate are working in 40%-50% of their capacity due to lack of workers and orders. “It would be difficult for us to pay dues,” he said. Bankers have started calling them and asking to have enough balance for debiting dues, said S Surulivel, president of Railway Suppliers Association (Rasa).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/extend-loan-moratorium-say-msmes/articleshow/77709707.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Transport bodies seek health insurance for drivers, workers||HYDERABAD: Several transport associations across the country, including Telangana, have urged the government to provide health insurance coverage to drivers and workers, who are risking their lives transporting passengers and essential goods in the testing times of Covid-19. The associations argue that drivers, cleaners and owners of nearly 5 lakh goods vehicles and 2 lakh cab drivers face the threat of getting infected while on duty. “We request the government to consider the plight of the transport workers and provide health insurance coverage for drivers and cleaners who are at a very high risk of contracting the virus while performing their duty,” said Manchireddy Rajender Reddy, working president of Telangana Lorry Owners’ Association. Owners and drivers of nearly 5 lakh goods vehicles, have also announced that they will go on strike in the first week of September to demand health insurance cover for all those who work in the transport sector. The truck drivers’ associations have also written to minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari under the phrase ‘Driver’s Life matters’. On the other hand, Indian Federation of App Based Transport Workers (IFAT) has also urged the central government to direct the cab aggregators to provide health insurance coverage to all its employees. “The safety of drivers/delivery partners should be of utmost importance. We are hopeful that the transport minister will soon respond to our concern,” said IFAT national general secretary Shaik Salauddin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/transport-bodies-seek-health-insurance-for-drivers-workers/articleshow/77709709.cms||Moulika.KV
August 24, 2020||Nagpur||Chanda registers highest jump of 94 patients, 1 death||Chandrapur: The district witnessed highest jump of 94 new patients in a day on Sunday taking the total number of Covid-19 cases to 1,448. The day also saw discharge of 60 patients raising the number of cured patients to 953. Meanwhile, one Covid death was registered late on Saturday evening which has raised the district’s toll to 15. A 55-year-old deceased belonged to Bazar ward in Chandrapur city. He was suffering from other ailments apart from coronavirus infection. He had tested positive on August 19 and was shifted to a private hospital in Nagpur. He, however, succumbed to Covid-19 infection late on Saturday evening while undergoing treatment there. Newly detected patients include 34 from Chandrapur city and suburbs, 13 from Warora, eight each from Ballarpur, Korpana, and Mul, 10 from Nagbhid, five from Rajura, four from Bramhapuri, two from Bhadravati and one each from Pombhurna and Sindewahi tehsils.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chanda-registers-highest-jump-of-94-patients-1-death/articleshow/77721257.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 24, 2020||Coimbatore||28 cases filed against Hindu outfit members for installing idols||Coimbatore: Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in the city were low-key and peaceful. At least 28 cases were filed against members of Hindu outfits across the district for placing Ganesh idols in public places and taking out processions in violation of the state government and Madras high court orders.As per police reports, members of the BJP and Hindu outfits such as Bharat Sena, Hindu Munnani, Hindu Makkal Katchi and Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) had placed idols on Pollachi Road, Trichy Road and at RS Puram, Ramanathapuram, Hope College, Poosaripalayam, Kurichi, Sundarapuram, Ganapathy, Chinnavedampatti and Kovaipudur, among other places, in the city limits, where 25 cases were registered under various sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act.The district administration, city corporation and police officials had deployed flying squads to crack down on the violators. Idols seized from Saravanampatti police limits were immersed in an artificial tank that was constructed for the purpose.A police officer said around 320 idols were placed on private premises such as Hindu outfit offices and houses of their representatives. “Such cases don’t come under violation. Those who have placed idols at their own premises have to tie up with the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department to immerse them without fanfare or processions.” In rural limits, three cases – two in Sulur and one Perianaickenpalayam - were booked for violations.Coimbatore MP PR Natarajan, meanwhile, said the Hindu Munnani and VHP had placed idols on main roads at RS Puram, Sundarapuram, Saravanampatti and Annur. “Police were mute spectators till they erected pandals and brought idols to the spot. After I spoke to police officials, they seized idols at a few places and filed cases. This is just an alibi to show in the court,” he said in a communication.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/28-cases-filed-against-hindu-outfit-members-for-installing-idols/articleshow/77709711.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Lower denomination notes ten a penny for city banks?||TAKE NOTETNNLudhiana: City businessmen are claiming that some banks are not accepting Rs 10 and Rs 20 notes from them due to which they are facing huge problems. The businessmen have shot off a letter to the Reserve Bank of India’s Chandigarh office and urged it to direct the banks in the city not to harass customers as there is no rule about not accepting currency notes of lower denomination. Speaking to the TOI, Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), said, “Several banks in Ludhiana have stopped accepting currency notes of small denomination like Rs 10 and Rs 20, causing problems to residents. Industrialists and traders are hit by this. It is very unfortunate as there was no order or notification to banks from RBI or the Centre and they seem to be doing this on their own. Therefore, we have written to the RBI’s Chandigarh office, explaining our problem and we are hoping that action will be taken.”According to Pankaj Sharma, a city businessman, “For the past few days, we have been coming across cases wherein banks are not accepting Rs 10 and Rs 20 notes, without citing any reasons. This is a setback for the businessmen, especially traders and shopkeepers, whose majority of collections are in smaller denominations. We urge the RBI to step in and resolve this problem before it becomes a serious issue for the business fraternity.” Showing ignorance about the problem, lead district manager, Ludhiana, Anil Kumar said, “This matter is not in my knowledge nor have I received any complaint. But there is no way a bank can refuse accepting Rs 10 and Rs 20 currency notes as there is no such rule. In case anyone is facing this issue, he can lodge a complaint with me and we will take appropriate action if charges are found to be true.”The lead district manager is responsible for maintaining coordination with the lead district officer of Reserve Bank of India, banks having presence in his area and other stakeholders to generate awareness about the various banking policies and regulations relating to the common person, obtain feedback from the public and provide grievance redressal or facilitate approaching the appropriate machinery for such redressal.Assistant manager of a private bank said, “There is no such problem in any branch of our bank. We are accepting Rs 10 and Rs 20 notes.”Money mattersSome banks are not accepting Rs 10 and Rs 20 notes, without citing any reasons, say businessmen Shopkeepers, whose majority of collections are in smaller denominations, major sufferersThey have shot off a letter to the RBI for a resolution There is no order or notification to banks from RBI or the CentreLead district manager says he is not aware of the problem and people facing it can report to him||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/lower-denomination-notes-ten-a-penny-for-city-banks/articleshow/77708828.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Kolhapur||28 deaths, 536 cases in Kolhapur dist||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district on Sunday registered 536 coronavirus cases and 28 deaths, including six from the city. With this, the total number of cases in the district swelled to 23,042, of which, 7,239 are from the city. Of the total number of Covid patients, 7,996 are currently undergoing treatment. District collector Daulat Desai on Sunday said that the proposal to convert existing hospital beds into ICU and oxygen ones has been submitted to the state government. Also, private firms have assured to undertake the conversion of beds in a week after receiving the necessary approval. Meanwhile, a separate ward has been developed at Gandhinagar’s public health centre to treat Thalassemia patients since the special ward at CPR hospital has been occupied by Covid patients. Rs 5k fine for home isolation patients if found roaming in public Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti has issued an order announcing Rs 5,000 fine on home isolation patients if they are found roaming on city streets while undergoing treatment. The order also states that the family members of such patients will have to face police complaint if the patient violates home isolation orders. Sangli reports 399 cases Sangli district on Sunday registered 399 fresh Covid-19 cases and 19 deaths. With this, the total number of casualties have reached 465 while cases have risen to 11,396. At present, 3,950 patients are undergoing treatment. 44 cases in Solapur city Solapur city registered 44 coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 6,588. Of these, 797 are currently undergoing treatment at various facilities. Solapur rural, on the other hand, reported 342 cases and seven deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/28-deaths-536-cases-in-kolhapur-dist/articleshow/77839348.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Nagpur||Pharma co executive abducted, robbed at knifepoint||NAGPUR: A 45-year-old pharmaceutical company executive was abducted at knifepoint and robbed of Rs1.43 lakh by three armed robbers and a woman, identified as Shweta, on August 21. It’s learnt Sanjaykumar Arya was heading towards Lata Mangeshkar Hospital in Hingna when his car was intercepted by three masked persons armed with knife. After sneaking into his car, intruders compelled him to withdraw Rs90,000 from an ATM. The three also snatched cash Rs3,000 in his possession. Later, the gang compelled Arya to call up a friend, Kaushik, to hand over Rs50,000 to a woman identifying her as Shweta. MIDC police have registered an offence against the four following Arya’s complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pharma-co-executive-abducted-robbed-at-knifepoint/articleshow/77710717.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Dehradun||Withdraw all cases against kar sevaks, demands Akhada Parishad||Haridwar: Swami Narendra Giri, president of the Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) — which is the apex body of 13 sects (akharas) of seers in the country — said on Sunday that an important meeting of the parishad is going to be held in Haridwar on August 26. Narendra Giri added that the meeting is crucial because several proposals will be taken up, including demand for withdrawal of all cases against kar sevaks pending in courts in different states. ABAP general secretary Mahant Hai Giri added, “We feel that but for the struggle launched by lakhs of kar sevaks, the movement would not have been a success. Cases against them are pending in courts. ABAP will demand its withdrawal in all states.” Narendra Giri further said that the other important proposal taken up would be their demand for conferring Bharat Ratna on former international president of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) Ashok Singhal for his crucial role in the Ram Temple movement. Giri said that Singhal as the VHP head played a significant role in bringing together seers from across the country and creating through them an awareness among the masses on the Ram Janmabhoomi Temple case. He added that the parishad will also reiterate its demand for a CBI probe into the Palghar incident in which two Hindu seers were allegedly lynched on April 16, 2020. “The ABAP seers are agitated over the slow pace of progress of the inquiry. At the meeting, a resolution will be adopted demanding a CBI probe. Once the resolution is adopted, a delegation of seers will meet the Prime Minister to stress on their demands. Preparations for the Haridwar Kumbh 2021 will also be discussed and CM Trivendra Singh Rawat will be urged to expedite the work,” Giri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/withdraw-all-cases-against-kar-sevaks-demands-akhada-parishad/articleshow/77707967.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
August 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: July crime rate 22% more than June||JAIPUR: The state’s crime rate has seen a dip of nearly 19% in July compared to the same month last year, state police data has revealed. While the number of cases registered in July 2019 was 25,394, it came down to 20,640 in July this year with cases of dacoity and rioting coming down drastically. However, criminal activities has seen a rise of 22 per cent or 205 cases in July compared to June. “This was always the concern for police. As soon as the lockdown eased, crimes were bound to increase. In categories like murder, abduction, rioting and theft, the jump has been more than other categories and police are working non-stop to curb this,” a senior police officer said. Between May and June, the crime rate saw an overall decrease of 22% which has been consistent from the past two months. In May, 6,197 more cases had been registered compared to the previous month though April had shown a decline of around 51% since the lockdown begin. “During the lockdown, the crime rate was low as people were inside their homes and heavy police presence was there but as the lockown was being gradually, initially the crime spiked but now we are seeing that it has remained consistent for at least two months which indicates police are working to keep it down”, a police officer said. Between June-July this year, the least increase was in the category of attempt to murder which had a single case being registered in these months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/july-crime-rate-22-more-than-june/articleshow/77709728.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Ludhiana||DPRO accompanied health min to Dehlon 2 days before testing +ve||Ludhiana: Two days before he tested positive for Covid-19, Ludhiana district public relation officer (DPRO) Puneet Pal Gill accompanied Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu to Dehlon.Gill’s positive report came on August 19.On August 17, Sidhu had visited Community Health Centre, Dehlon, to meet health worker Mastan Singh, who was attacked by Khanpur village residents when he went there to collect information about symptomatic patients. Sidhu, MLA of Gill constituency Kuldeep Singh Vaid, chief medical officer Rajesh Bagga and Congress workers were present there. While everyone was wearing a mask, nobody was bothered about physical distancing. A visitor, who was present there, said, “Several people had gathered there when the minister came to see the health worker. Nobody was maintaining physical distance. The rule against gathering of more than five people should be for everyone. All political leaders must avoid visiting places, as residents as well as their party workers gather there to meet them.” Sidhu said, “I have no symptoms. However, I will get myself tested for Covid-19 for attending Vidhan Sabha session.”On avoiding visits amid Covid-19 outbreak, Sidhu said, “I am not meeting anyone or visiting any place. The incident in which a health worker was attacked was an important matter for me. Since I am the health minister, all health workers are like family to me. Visiting the hospital to meet Mastan Singh was important to maintain the morale of all health workers. Moreover, I stayed there for about 20 minutes. I was wearing a mask and did not touch anything or anyone.”District president of Akali Dal Ranjit Dhillon said, “The elected representatives should also follow the rules and guidelines. Bed arrangements are being made in private hospitals now when people have started dying. The government has failed in controlling the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dpro-accompanied-health-min-to-dehlon-2-days-before-testing-ve/articleshow/77708854.cms||Payal Dhawan
August 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Activists want RTE quota in pvt schools implemented strictly||Coimbatore: Education activists have called for proper implementation of the 25% reservation for children from the weaker sections and disadvantaged groups in private schools, under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009 (RTE).Online applications for RTE admissions in private schools in the district for the academic year 2020-2021 will begin from August 27 to September 25, at www.rte.tnschools.gov.in. If there is more applications than the number of seats, a lot process will be conducted to select students. The state will sponsor the students.Meanwhile, activists said the government should ensure that the benefits of RTE reach the needy students from the targeted group. It should announce a break-up formula for disadvantaged and weaker sections. V Eswaran of MDMK, who has been speaking up for proper implementation of the scheme, said under the disadvantaged category, students from backward and most backward castes will be admitted and they needn’t show the income documents of their parents. “Under the economically weaker section, parents’ annual income has to be less than Rs 2lakh. There has to be a clear break-up for the seats given to disadvantaged groups and weaker sections. Many students from affluent families that can afford private schools have been admitted under RTE,” he said. “The government should implement the break-up formula like Andhra Pradesh and ensure proper implementation of the scheme.”Some private schools had tampered with the lot system in the previous years, said an activist from Pollachi. “There has to be proper monitoring,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/activists-want-rte-quota-in-pvt-schools-implemented-strictly/articleshow/77709722.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Coimbatore||NGOs to preserve heritage trees||Coimbatore: Several non-governmental organizations (NGOs) have come together to preserve heritage trees in the district. The initiative, Ma Maram Potrudhum, is a joint effort of NGOs Siruthuli, Osai, Restoring Nature, Arulagam, Residents Awareness Association of Coimbatore (Raac), Kovai Kulangal Padukappu Amaipu and C4TN. They are planning to publish a book that will feature 100 such trees. Awareness about tree plantation has increased and a lot of people are involved in plantation activities, said Raac secretary R Raveendran. “The book will contain information including medical values of such trees, height, age and mention in literature along with photos,” he said. People are requested to share information about heritage trees at 9629113505 or arulagamindia@gmail.com. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ngos-to-preserve-heritage-trees/articleshow/77709730.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Political parties hooked on to virtual meetings||HYDERABAD: Covid-19 has in a way helped political parties come to grips with the reality of maintaining social distancing with even the rank and file at the village level also getting updated and trained on virtual meetings. More than 3,000 virtual meetings and brainstorming sessions have been held since April by all the political parties, it is learnt. Leading the race is Telangana Congress, which has conducted more than 2,000 meetings through various applications. All the important PCC meetings and activities at the state level are being conducted on virtual platforms now. “We are soon going to launch training sessions on various issues on the virtual platform. From each district, a few leaders will be selected. By this month-end, about 3,000 leaders will be selected and they, in turn, will use their social media handles to convey our party stand on various issues,” Deepak John, chairman, social media wing of Telangana Congress, told TOI. All the district and mandal-level leaders now have their own social media handles. Sources said Telangana Congress has a virtual platform account for 1,000 people who can participate in a meeting in one go. The recent meeting of PV Narasimha Rao birth centenary fete here saw several national leaders like Manmohan Singh, P Chidambaram and others addressing the party workers through virtual mode. While Congress has stolen a march over others in organising virtual meetings, BJP is not far behind. Except for one meeting of the newly-formed state executive committee, all the party meetings and workshops at the local level are happening through social media platforms. “We have used the virtual platforms to gather our rank and file to distribute food and other necessities to migrant labourers,” Venkata Ramana, Telangana BJP IT cell in-charge, told TOI. BJP had also conducted more than 200 virtual meetings. The party conducts virtual rallies and national-level leaders have been addressing state-level meetings. The TRS, however, does not seem to be very keen on having increased virtual meetings and activities. “We are in the government. Our work should be made known to people in a proper manner. We don’t really focus on virtual platforms,” said a top TRS leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/political-parties-hooked-on-to-virtual-meetings/articleshow/77709713.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 67% of voter registration since February done online||JAIPUR: Following the launch of the ‘Voter helpline’ mobile app by the election department, so far, around 67% of the total registration (1.60 lakh) of voters since February, as a part of updating the electoral roll, has been done online. The mobile app was launched with the objective of the promotion of online registration of new voters in view of the Covid pandemic situation in the country. Around 1.07 lakh voters have registered themselves online. A new or an eligible voter can add his name to the electoral roll online through NVSP portal or by downloading ‘Voter helpline’ mobile app. The voters can also make changes and delete their names from the electoral roll through this app or the portal. “Of the total registration, 99,000 have been accepted by the department. There are around 30,000 pending forms. For correction, we have received 10,000 forms; for addition of names there are 13,000 forms,” said an official. The election commission will be holding a video conference with the state’s election departments on Monday to discuss summary revision of the electoral. According to the schedule of summary revision, the draft publication of voters’ lists will be done on November 16 and the final publication will be issued on January 15, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/67-of-registration-since-feb-done-online/articleshow/77709717.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: ‘Panel-directed sops on medicines, consumables will be a burden’||KOLKATA: Private hospitals in Kolkata have sought more clarity from the West Bengal Clinical Establishments Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) on discounts that they have been directed to offer to Covid patients on medicines and consumables, pointing out that the concessions may not be viable at a time when they are under severe financial stress. The Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI) — an umbrella body of private hospitals in the region — has sought a meeting with the commission even as it termed the latter’s Saturday directions beneficial for patients. In yet another advisory on Saturday, the WBCERC asked all clinical establishments to display their rate charts with break-up of service charges for OPD and indoor treatment. The WBCERC on Saturday ruled that while private hospitals can’t refuse admission to Covid patients who can’t pay an advance, they must offer a 10% discount on medicines and 20% discount on consumables. It also asked private hospitals to allow patients’ families the option to buy medicines from outside. “While we welcome the discount on medicines, it will be difficult to offer a discount on consumables since we have already been asked to limit daily PPE charges to Rs 1,000. It will be a financial burden for us. Secondly, it may not be practical to let patients’ families buy their own medicines, especially for serious patients in ICU. Drugs need to be changed or prescribed along with alterations in the course of treatment, which may have to be done in the middle of the night. We can’t wait for patients’ kin to buy and hand over the medicines to us,” said AHEI president Rupak Barua, who is also the CEO of AMRI Hospitals. A discount of 20% on consumables, Barua added, could leave hospitals bleeding since most are struggling to provide PPE within the prescribed ceiling. “It has been difficult to restrict our PPE charges since it is risky to compromise with its use. A further discount would make it difficult for us,” he said. Hospitals agreed and pointed out that consumables, like cotton, gloves, syringes and sanitizers, rarely allow a substantial cost margin for discounts. “We have been forced to ration the use of PPE and are already offering them at discounts, which is a severe financial strain. More concessions will hurt us badly,” said Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipto Mitra. While the commission’s new provisions would be beneficial for patients, they will be disastrous for hospital finances, felt a hospital head. “This is a big blow for us and we won’t be able to sustain ourselves for long if forced to allow discounts. There is no room for further concessions on PPE price since we are already heavily subsidizing it. Medicines are not sold for a wide profit, so that will be another blow,” said another hospital head, adding that while hospital authorities were ready to work in tandem with the government, it was “shocking” that the WBCERC was taking decisions unilaterally. “They should have consulted us before such a drastic ruling,” he added. Discounts will leave private hospitals drained, pointed out ILS Hospitals Group vice-president Debashish Dhar. “We wish the commission had consulted us and look forward to a dialogue on the issue. This can’t be viable for any of us in the long run, though we must abide by it now. It would be difficult to maintain the quality of treatment if we have to bear these losses,” said Dhar Medica Superspecialty Hospital chairperson Alok Roy feared this will encourage unfair billing. “Some may be tempted to make up for this through unfair charges that will neutralize the purpose,” he said. The decision to allow patients’ admission without an advance was, however, greeted by hospitals. “A few have been insisting on an immediate advance and now patients can rest assured they will get admission even if they can’t pay immediately,” said Barua.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/panel-directed-sops-on-meds-consumables-will-be-a-burden/articleshow/77709731.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
August 24, 2020||Goa||23 Gauree_Apps, Youtube videos make up for purohits at Ganesh Chaturthi||Panaji: This Ganesh Chaturthi was different for the devotees in many ways, with a pandemic around. One of the main changes was that the purohit had to keep away to cut down any risks of transmission. In many cases, it was the purohit themselves who told devotees to carry out the pooja with the help of apps and Youtube videos. Some even recorded an audio of the pooja and sent the devotees to be played during the rituals. Ponda-based dental surgeon couple Dr Sanjay and Dr Anjali Sukthankar could carry out the worship by following a video on Youtube uploaded by a local organisation Mardol Krutharth. “We connected it to a speaker and the instructions were playing in the background as we carry out the pooja. Both the sthapana pooja when the idol is installed and the uttar pooja before immersion of the idol was carried out following this video. I was a little apprehensive at first how it would go, but we did not feel anything amiss,” said Dr Sanjay. He said that the priests in the areas had inquired with residents beforehand this year due to the pandemic on the means they would be following to carry out the pooja. “We opted out and said we would use an online service this year because we did not want to take any chances. Like many this year, we decided to immerse the idol too at home itself in our well and we did not go out to the local immersion spot of a pond. The elderly, who usually miss this immersion ritual as they are not able to leave home because of their health, were also able to see it. So everything went better than expected,” said Dr Sanjay. Prashant Chanekar, whose family celebrates the Ganesh Chaturthi at the family home in Bhaili Pet, Bicholim, said that the regular family purohit had informed in advance that an app or online videos should be used this year during the poojas. “We used the Sanatan Sanstha app. Some said that the instructions were a bit slow. But I liked it very much as it explained the meaning behind every single ritual, which we may not know. There was not just the pooja but the aarti too were available on this app, sung by local singers, and we had to just sing along,” said Chanekar. In the case of Kishore Gawas, a government employee from Nadora, Colvale, the local priest himself recorded an audio, which was sent to the devotees over Whatsapp and the devotees followed the instructions during the rituals. “This method was in fact more convenient. Usually, the Bhat (priest) instructs us on the spot about what is needed for the rituals and we can get hassled finding them in time. In this case, we heard the recording beforehand and we arranged everything in the order that it was needed. We would do it at our own time and pace,” said Gawas. In other cases like that of the Chari family in Savoi Verem, the rituals were carried out based on instructions in a book. “My cousin had a book which spells out the rituals and we just followed them, as the priests could not make it this year,” said businessman Ramnath Chari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/23-gauree_apps-youtube-videos-make-up-for-purohits-at-ganesh-chaturthi/articleshow/77711143.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Postpone NEET, JEE exams: Owaisi||Hyderabad: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday joined the students in demanding postponement of JEE and NEET exams. In a tweet, he alleged that the Centre lacks empathy for students. The exams are scheduled in the month of September. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/postpone-neet-jee-exams-owaisi/articleshow/77709732.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan to test efficacy of antiviral drug soon||JAIPUR: The health department has issued directions to find out about the efficacy of antiviral drug Favipiravir used for treatment of Covid-19 patients. A health department official said, “The health minister issued a direction to rope in a team of doctors for assessing the effectiveness of Favipiravir on Covid patients.” A lot of pharmaceutical companies have rolled out Favipiravir with different brand names and have claimed it to be effective for treatment of Covid patients. Since the state government is yet to examine the drug’s efficacy, it has directed its officials to work in this direction. In this regard, health department has written to director, medical education department, informing about health minister Raghu Sharma’s directions to constitute of a team of doctors of medical colleges to conduct a study on the efficacy of Favipiravir 200 mg for treatment of Covid patients. SMS Medical College had already made its remark on use of Favipiravir earlier this month. On August 8, the department of medicine said, “Favipiravir is an oral drug effective only in mild Covid cases which has not yet been included in the national treatment guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare. Robust data for its efficacy in Covid has so far not emerged, therefore, this drug cannot be recommended for a universal use at present in the treatment of mild illness.” Recently, the state government found Tocilizumab and Remdesivir injections effective in Covid treatment and it has already issued directions to all the government-run medical colleges and attached hospitals along with district hospitals to provide it to corona patients depending on the requirement of the patient. SMS Hospital has found Tocilizumab effective. The medicine department of SMS Hospital claimed that an effective interleukin-6 inhibitor-Tocilizumab is available for treatment of cytokine release syndrome (CRS) associated with Covid. Tocilizumab has been cited as a reference drug for CRS and is already available with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-to-test-efficacy-of-antiviral-drug-soon/articleshow/77709733.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist logs 392 Covid cases, 444 patients discharged||Coimbatore: The district recorded 392 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the tally to 11,751, of which 3,098 are active cases. At least 444 patients were cured and discharged from treatment facilities in the day. With this, the number of patients recovered from the virus attack stands at 8,416. The toll, meanwhile, rose to 237, with the state including two more deaths that occurred in the district on Friday and Saturday in its bulletin. On Saturday, the district had logged 389 fresh cases of novel coronavirus and four deaths. At least 312 patients were also discharged from the facilities they were undergoing treatment. A health department official said 289 of the 392 new cases on Sunday were reported from the city corporation limits. “Cases were reported from Gandhipuram, Singanallur, Ukkadam, Ganapathy, Saravanmapatti, Ramanathapuram and Selvapuram, among other areas. In rural areas, people were tested positive for the virus from Karamadai, Kinathukedavu, Madukkarai, Mettupalayam and Thondamuthur.” According to him, most of the cases were reported from the existing Covid-19 hotspots. The deceased comprised a 40-year-old woman, who was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Thursday and died of obstructive sleep apnea, respiratory failure, pneumonia and bronchopneumonia on Saturday morning, and a 75-year-old woman, who was admitted to CMCH on August 13 and died of systemic hypertension, pneumonia and hypoxic respiratory failure on Friday. The official said 525 domestic flights had landed at the city airport in the past three months. “Of the 45,311 passengers who were made to undergo Covid-19 testing, 298 were tested positive.” Health minister C Vijayabaskar and municipal administration minister S P Velumani, meanwhile, conducted a review meeting with health secretary J Radhakrishnan, district collector K Rajamani and other officials in the city in the day. Neighbouring Tirupur district reported 75 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the count to 2,020. The number of active cases in the district is 629.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-logs-392-covid-cases-444-patients-discharged/articleshow/77709740.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Tension at Hyderabad's Khairatabad pandal after cops cover idol||HYDERABAD: Tension prevailed at Khairatabad Ganesh pandal on Sunday around 3.30pm after police placed a polythene cover in front of the nine-foot Ganesh idol. Soon, locals and devotees gathered at the venue, and some entered into an argument with the police asking them to remove the polythene cover, which made it difficult for them to have darshan. A few devotees posted videos and photos of the incident on social media. Confirming the incident, Khairatabad Ganesh Utsav Committee organiser, S Raj Kumar said, “Police visited the pandal and put up this polythene cover. Citing Covid-19 measures, cops warned us not to allow the devotees to perform puja near the idol.” The situation was brought under control within an hour after police removed the cover. Later, the committee put up a rope and barricaded part of the pandal and appealed on the public address system to follow social distance norms, and register the names of devotees for online puja. So far, about 1,200 devotees have registered for online puja. The restrictions have irked the devotees as many of them have been visiting this pandal for several decades. “We are quite upset with the police restrictions. How can they deny us the divine darshan. We are not against following Covid-19 norms,” said Y Ugandhar and Rajitha from Dilsukhnagar. The couple has been visiting this pandal for over three decades. The tradition of the governor performing the ‘Prathama Puja’ was broken this year. Governor Tamilsai Soundararajan had performed the first puja last year. Considered as an auspicious occasion and time to seek the blessings of Khairatabad Ganesh, almost all cabinet ministers and VIPs used to frequent this pandal. But that has changed this year as only a few have turned up so far and Khairatabad MLA Danam Nagender performed the first puja. Ministers Talasani Srinivas Yadav and Eatala Rajender are expected to visit the pandal.  “On the first day, anywhere between one and two lakh visitors used to throng this place, but now only 2,000 have turned up. The restrictions and fear of contracting the virus have forced many to restrict themselves to their homes,” a committee member told TOI. The Utsav committed deployed private security and volunteers as police did not make any arrangements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tension-at-khairatabad-pandal-after-cops-cover-idol/articleshow/77710715.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Nine from dist succumb to Covid, 171 test +ve||TNNLudhiana: Nine persons from the district died of Covid-19 at various hospitals of the state, while 171 from Ludhiana and 18 from outside tested positive here on Sunday. As per the local media bulletin, a 67-year-old man from Chandigarh Road died at a city hospital. A 56-year-old man from Police Lines with diabetes and blood pressure died at DMCH, where a 57-year-old man from Kulla Patti in Raikot with comorbidities also passed away.A 51-year-old woman from SKS Nagar, who had cancer, a 75-year-old woman from Mundiyan Kalan and a 62-year-old woman from Maharana Pratap Singh Nagar with heart trouble died at Rajindra Hospital in Patiala. An 80-year-old diabetic man from Muradpura and a 68-year-old man of Jamalpur Colony died at a city hospital. An 80-year-old man of Ambedkar Nagar died at Ludhiana civil hospital.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said with nine deaths, the district toll has risen to 312 and 69 outsiders have died here so far.He said to date 1,04,297 suspects have been tested. Of the 171 patients from Ludhiana district who tested positive, 63 were from flu corner with influenza-like illness, 42 were positive cases’ contacts, 13 from OPD, 29 healthcare workers, one pregnant woman, 18 from tracing process, one severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) case and four pre-operative patients.Local health department officials said till Sunday, the Ludhiana case tally was 8,679 and that of outsiders 877.The civil surgeon said on Sunday, 3,343 samples were sent for testing and so far 6,292 patients have recovered, which constitutes 72.5% of the total cases.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said there were 2,072 active cases in the district at present, and on Sunday, 465 persons were sent for home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/nine-from-dist-succumb-to-covid-171-test-ve/articleshow/77708865.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Ludhiana||PAU college to remain closed till August 28||TNN Ludhiana: With the surfacing of a Covid-19 case in the building of College of Basic Sciences and Humanities, the departments housed there (that of chemistry, biochemistry, microbiology, zoology, botany and math stats and physics and dean’s office) will remain closed from August 24 to August 28 as a precautionary measure. Dean, College of Basic Sciences and Humanities, Dr Shammi Kapoor said in an email, “The faculty and staff members of these departments shall work from home during this period. They are advised to be available on phone and not leave the station.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pau-college-to-remain-closed-till-august-28/articleshow/77708869.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Kolkata||Rain prediction adds to dengue worry for KMC||KOLKATA: A low-pressure area over north Bay of Bengal is set to trigger “widespread” rain across south Bengal, including Kolkata, between Monday and Thursday. While light to moderate showers have been predicted across most districts, the coastal areas of South 24 Parganas, East and West Midnapore and Jhargram could receive heavier showers, according to Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC). The impending rain has raised fears about a spurt in dengue cases. Several south Bengal districts could receive 70mm to 100mm rain over the next four days, according to an RMC bulletin. “We expect the system to intensify into a well-marked low-pressure belt and sail across the Bengal-Bangladesh border, triggering moderate to heavy rain across south Bengal. While the coastal districts of East and West Midnapore and Jhargram are likely to receive heavy showers, North and South 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly, Nadia and Burdwan too, will receive consistent rain on Monday and Tuesday,” said RMC director G K Das. With continuous rains lashing the city, the Kolkata Municipal Corporation health department officials are keeping their fingers crossed as they fear the rain will help create mosquito-breeding sites across the city. A section of the KMC health department officials are particularly worried over Kolkata’s dengue-prone areas. According to a vector-control department official, going by records, the city witnesses a spurt in dengue cases from August every year, which continues till winter sets in. “We are worried about intermittent rains that may lead to a spurt in mosquito-breeding sites all over the city. We are keeping a vigil over dengue-prone areas, such as the Dum Dum-Cossipore belt, Burrabazar, Hatibagan, the Girish Park-Jorasanko belt, Taltala, Park Circus, Bhowanipore, Behala, Tollygunge, the Jadavpur-Baghajatin belt and large areas off EM Bypass,” said an official. Sources in the KMC health department said they were keeping an eye on Parnasree and its adjacent neighbourhoods as well, since the civic body had to struggle hard to put a check on the spread of the dreaded disease from Parnasree to other Behala neighbourhoods during August last year. Later in September, several areas in the Jadavpur-Baghajatin belt were hit by the dengue menace. Large areas located off EM Bypass, like Patuli, Mukundapur, Madurdaha and Kalikapur were equally affected by dengue, said a civic official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rain-prediction-adds-to-dengue-worry-for-kmc/articleshow/77709739.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen want odd formula to even out||Ludhiana: Confusion prevails over the even-odd system of opening of non-essentials’ shops on weekdays, as under the five-day working system, on some weeks establishments with odd numbers will be able to open for more days than even numbers and vice versa.For example, in the coming week even number shops will be able to remain open for three days on Monday (August 24), Wednesday (August 26) and Friday (August 28), while odd number shops will get two days Tuesday (August 25) and Thursday (August 27) only. In the subsequent weeks, the order may change.Businessmen are of the view that they should be allowed to operate for six days a week and the market committees should be given the power to fix the system that is fair to all shopkeepers. Or, everyone should be allowed to open their businesses for five days, and curb movement of the customers instead. Businessmen also feel that situations arising out of even-odd formula will only lead to chaos and fights among traders, so the system should be scrapped. Raj Kumar Singla, president of the market committee of shops supplying fasteners at Gill Road, said, “The even-odd system is very confusing and it will lead to arguments and fights among traders. First, in the absence of a numbering system in the majority of the markets in Ludhiana, it is very difficult to convince everyone to adopt the system decided by the committee. Besides, there will be weeks when odd number shops can remain open for more days and on others even number. It would be better if the government scraps this system and allows all shops to open for five days a week otherwise our livelihood will be destroyed. If this is not acceptable to them, they can stick with the order of allowing 50% non-essential shops to open for six days a week and we will ensure no undue advantage is given to anyone.”According to Munish Sachdeva, who has his shop in Cycle Market, “This system will lead to differences among shopkeepers and it will become very difficult for our suppliers to deliver goods as they cannot come on different days. Our business will be hit if suppliers face difficulty. Therefore, the government should allow shops to open on Saturday as well and leave it to us to ensure that 50% shops open.”The orderAs per the order issued by deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, “Not more than 50% shops dealing in non-essential commodities will remain open on a given day…Non-essentials’ shops having even serial number will open on even dates and those with odd serial number will open on odd dates. Commissioner of police, Ludhiana, and municipal corporation commissioner will implement this even-odd formula.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-want-odd-formula-to-even-out/articleshow/77708873.cms||Mohit Behl
August 24, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: New strain of virus surfaces in Kota||KOTA: A new more lethal strain of coronavirus, which has been detected in Kota, has claimed eight lives in the last two days. People afflicted with this strain need more oxygen support which has been proved by the fact that consumption of oxygen cylinders in New Medical College Hospital has risen. The number of Covid cases in the district has touched 4,682 and has claimed 85 lives so far. “Most of the Covid patients who are being rushed to hospital these days have severe pneumonia and need oxygen immediately. It was not so earlier which could be an indication of change in the strain of coronavirus,” said Dr Manoj Saluja, MD (Medicine), at New Medical College Hospital (NMCH), convener of death audit committee, who is also treating Covid patients. The new strain has been noticed among patients in Kota since end of July which may be due to liberal interstate travel and movement, he said. The new strain is more virulent and lethal, he added. In a substantial number of cases, it was noticed that the patient was either brought dead or he expired within 24 hours of his admission which shows that the virus strain progressed very rapidly. The pattern of re-evolution suggests that some agent factor has modified, the virus has become lethal or some new strain has arrived from outside community due to liberal interstate travelling, he said. “Earlier, the deaths were reported among elders and patients with comorbidities but now even the younger population in the age group of 30-40 years without any co-morbid conditions are falling prey to the virus,” said Dr Saluja. The death audit committee has been working to analyze the actual cause of deaths to lower the mortality rate, he added. Earlier, most of the patients in the hospital were asymptomatic but now this trend has also changed and most patients arriving at the hospital are symptomatic and they instantly require oxygen which has raised oxygen consumption in the hospital. They require high flow of oxygen, he added. Now, as per the fresh guidelines, asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms are recommended home isolation, he added. Meanwhile, additional principal, NMCH, Dr Rakesh Sharma, said that five persons, including a 90-year-old woman died on Sunday in Kota while undergoing medical treatment for Covid-19 while three others had died on Saturday. 3-day lockdown in Pushkar from tomorrowPushkar town will again face three-day lockdown from Tuesday. Only essential services like medical, grocery and milk will be allowed. The decision was taken after the market associations and Purohits demanded to contain virus spread in the holy town. At present, Ajmer has 95 positive patients. On Saturday, August’s first death of a 60-year-old patient was reported. Notably, there was no positive case in the town till the first week of July. The district administration on Sunday evening declared three-day complete lockdown. The move will break the chain of infection in the town, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-strain-of-virus-surfaces-in-kota/articleshow/77709742.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Havmor sues Delhi-based brand for trademark theft||VADODARA: Popular Ahmedabad-based brand, 70-year-old ice-cream and desserts company Havmor, has sued a Delhi-based pickle and cereals brand for trademark violation. It has accused Hands On Trade Pvt Ltd and Rajasthan-based VLS Foods Pvt Ltd of selling its products under the brand name of Usha Aunty’s Havemore. Requesting the court to restrain the company from using the word ‘Havemore’ as its trademark or any such word which is phonetically or visually similar to Havmor, the ice-cream major has also dragged online retailer Grofers India Pvt Ltd in the case for selling the products through its platforms. It has asked all three companies to pay token damage of Rs 2.8 lakh. VLS Foods manufactures products for Hands On Trade, which markets them under the alleged disputed trademark. Accusing Hands On Trade of illegally adopting an identical and deceptively similar trademark or word ‘Havemore’ to sell its cereals, chocolate flakes, corn flakes, pickles and ketchups, Havmor has claimed that it learned about the illegal adoption in May after its employees came across these products on sale in Grofers’ Ahmedabad platform. Havmor found out that Hands On Trade had applied for registration of trademark on January 10. It also claimed that the registrar of trademark too in its report had cited of ‘finding the trademark identical and similar’. On May 29, Havmor sent a notice to all three companies.  In its reply, Hands On Trade mentioned that their full trademark is ‘Usha Aunty’s Havemore’ and because of the suffix, the trademark is different. Havmor, however, countered it by pointing out that the company had applied for registration of trademark as ‘Havemore’, which is misleading. Despite attempts, Hands On Trade’s lawyer – Jaideep Verma – refused to comment on the matter which is sub judice and being heard by the Ahmedabad city civil court. The next hearing will take place on September 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/havmor-sues-delhi-based-brand-for-trademark-theft/articleshow/77708543.cms||Jay Pachchigar
August 24, 2020||Jaipur||Covid cases breach 70k-mark in state, death toll rises to 955||Jaipur: With Rajasthan witnessing over 1,300 positive Covid-19 cases for the past eight days, the total count has mounted to 70,609 on Sunday. Eleven people died, while 1,345 infections reported in the state. Total toll has reached 955.A health department official said, “All the districts have been directed to take necessary measures to prevent deaths. We are working on early identification of Covid-19 infected people by increasing the number of testing.”The fatality rate in the state has gone down to 1.35% which was well above 2% in June-July.Eight districts reported one death each, while Jaipur reported three deaths taking its toll to 254. Barmer reported its 18th death, Bharatpur and Bikaner 67th, Jalore 11th, Kota 60th, Nagaur and Pali 41th and Tonk 10th.Active cases in the state remained at 14,330, which were 14,176 on Saturday and 14,525 on Friday. Currently, Jaipur has 2,840 active cases, which are highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (2,089), Kota (1,390), Alwar (1,382). Besides, 12 districts in the state have more than 200 active cases.An official said many active cases are undergoing treatment under home isolation who are found eligible for it as per the Indian Council of Medical Research norms for home isolation.However, the situation in other parts of the state is different as recovery ratio has increased to more than 77%, the active ratio of the Covid-19 cases is just above 21% in the state.However, the average growth of the cases remained 2.2% in the past one week, which shows that the number of new infections has grown by an average of 2.2% every day.Besides, 905 persons out of every 10 lakh people in the state have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state so far.Districts reported new cases are Jodhpur (210), Jaipur (193), Alwar (171), Kota (138), Bikaner (128), Bhilwara (93), Sikar (71), Ajmer (38), Pali (33), Udaipur (29), Sirohi (24), Bharatpur (21), Sriganganagar (21), Dholpur (18), Jhalawar (17), Churu (16), Dungarpur (15), Karauli (14), Dausa (13), Chittorgarh (13), Barmer (12), Pratapgarh (12), Sawai Madhopur (12), Hanumangarh (10), Tonk (8), Baran (5), Jalore (5), Jaisalmer (3) and Bundi (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-cases-breach-70k-mark-in-state-death-toll-rises-to-955/articleshow/77709751.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Coimbatore||DMK’s dalit woman panchayat chief alleges discrimination||Coimbatore: Days after discrimination against a dalit panchayat president in Tiruvannamalai district came to light, another dalit panchayat chief said that she is being prevented from functioning independently.K Saridha, 34, president of J Krishnapuram panchayat here, said on Sunday that a non-dalit man from her village was harassing her. “Usilamani alias Balasubramanian wants me to stand up when he enters the panchayat office. He has been abusing me using my caste name,” she said. “He also said that I should not place my name board in the office. Balasubramanian is a close associate of former president of the village Govindaraj, an AIADMK man.”Police have booked Balasubramanian under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. DMK president MK Stalin took up the issue and demanded protection for Saridha and action against those who threatened her. “Is there no protection even for panchayat presidents in this regime?” he tweeted.J Krishnapuram village panchayat president post was reserved for scheduled caste women last year. AIADMK had held the post till then. While the dalit woman candidate AIADMK fielded could not win, Saridha, whose family members owe allegiance to DMK, secured more votes. Most of the ward member posts were also won by DMK men.“When I was at the panchayat office on August 19, Balasubramanian came there and started hurling abuses at me. He asked me to stand up when he entered the office and threatened me with dire consequences if I function independently,” said Saridha.Govindaraj is instigating Balasubramanian, she said. “Usually, the panchayat president’s name is written on the panchayat sign boards. But he has warned me against writing my name.”Pollachi sub-division DSP K G Sivakumar visited the panchayat office on Sunday evening and conducted inquiry. A police team has been deployed at the village to prevent any untoward incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmks-dalit-woman-panchayat-chief-alleges-discrimination/articleshow/77709754.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||2,300 Covid cases, 11 deaths in T||Hyderabad: Telangana on Sunday recorded 2,384 new cases of Covid-19 taking the caseload to 1.04 lakh is the state, even as 11 more persons died. While the death toll rose to 755 in the state so far, about 80,586 patients have recovered from the virus so far and 22,908 active cases in the state remain under medication in hospitals and at homes. The case fatality rate in the state is currently 0.72% as against the country average of 1.87% while the recovery rate in Telangana is 77.30% compared to 74.69% in the country. With sample testing ramped up to 40,666 on Sunday (the second highest till date after 43,095 on Saturday), samples tested per million increased to 25,099 in the state, up from 19,159 days back. With cases on the rise in several districts, government facilities are currently overstretched in several parts of the state. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2300-covid-cases-11-deaths-in-t/articleshow/77710718.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Kolkata||Kin get daily updates of Covid patients at the click of a mouse||Kolkata: When banker Aritra Bachhar (name changed) was admitted to MR Bangur Hospital on August 14, he had high temperature, difficulty in breathing and abnormally low oxygen level. His wife and daughters, who were asked to stay in home quarantine, had struggled to get daily updates on his condition for a week. But their worries have now eased. The state health department, this week, has started providing daily updates of vital health parameters of Covid patients on a portal that family members can access from anywhere.“We were extremely worried about my husband. We spoke over phone, but since we couldn’t meet a doctor personally, it was difficult to get a true assessment of his condition. But now we can check his vital parameters and can be assured that he is safe,” said Bachhar’s wife.The Covid Patient Management System (CPMS) has come as a relief for family members of hundreds of Covid patients admitted to MR Bangur Hospital, ID Hospital, Medical College Hospital and Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute.Garia resident Supriya Mondal (name changed) said she had been prepared that any member of her family could be infected as both her parents are frontline Covid workers — her father a doctor at NRS Medical College and Hospital and her mother the nursing superintendent at MR Bangur Hospital. But when her mother called from office on Wednesday informing she had developed Covid symptoms and asked Mondal to go on quarantine, the first thing that troubled her was how to know what her exact condition was. “Even though my mother was carrying a phone, I wondered if she would tell me about her exact health status. But then I learned about the portal where I can log in with the registered phone number and access her health parameters. It is a relief since we are so far away from her,” said Mondal, a journalism student at a private institute.Mondal’s mother said she was instrumental in ensuring the system was running by this week. “A dedicated team of six nursing personnel have been updating the data of every patient admitted in MR Bangur Hospital twice a day in coordination with senior administrative officials. I had maintained all precautions, but still fell ill. I refrained from going home, but I had been with my family during the Independence Day weekend, which is worrying. I hope my family members are safe,” she told TOI. She said, she had fever, cough and shortness of breath when she got herself tested last Wednesday. The state had launched the CPMS earlier this month, but it became operational this week. “This system is proving to be helpful for quarantined relatives of Covid patients in hospitals. Also, the system allows clarity from the hospitals’ end too,” said Sisir Naskar, superintendent of MR Bangur Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kin-get-daily-updates-of-covid-patients-at-the-click-of-a-mouse/articleshow/77709752.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Dairy min takes dip in Bhavani during lockdown||Erode: State dairy minister Rajenthra Balaji took a holy dip in Bhavani river at Kooduthurai in Erode district on Sunday when the state was observing lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19. Talking to reporters after the dip, the minister said he was visiting temples across the state, including Pabanasam, Kanyakumari and Tiruchendur temples, to take holy dip and collect water from sacred waterbodies to use it during the kumbabishekam of his family deity temple at Moolipatty village near Sivakasi on August 28. The minister is a frequent visitor to the Kooduthurai area to take holy dip in Bhavani. During the dip on Sunday, the minister was seen escorted by police personnel to the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dairy-min-takes-dip-in-bhavani-during-lockdown/articleshow/77709750.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Two men arrested for poaching mouse deer||Erode: Two men were arrested near the Burgur forest range in Erode district on Sunday for poaching mouse deer.Forest officials said P Madesh, 30, his brother P Chinnapaiyan, 25, along with their friend K Madevan, 30 were caught on CCTV cameras installed in the forest while poaching monitor lizards and mouse deer. Subsequently, forest officials identified the men and went to their village Devarmalai near the Burgur forest range to question them. “We got hold of Madesh and Madevan. However, Chinnapaiyan managed to escape,” a forest official said. During the inquiry, the duo admitted their crime. Based on their statements, we arrested Madesh and Madevan and launched a search for Chinnapaiyan, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-men-arrested-for-poaching-mouse-deer/articleshow/77709753.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana once again records highest fatalities, cases in a week||Ludhiana: With as many as 76 persons losing battle to Covid-19 last week, things seem to be going from bad to worse on the pandemic front in Ludhiana. The number of fatalities was highest for a week since the disease spread its tentacles in the district.As per the state’s health bulletin issued on Saturday, the number of deaths in Ludhiana in the last seven days was 76, up 12 from 64 in the preceding week. During the August 2-8 week, the fatality count was 65, whereas in the preceding week, only 45 patients had died in the district.The latest health bulletin suggests that last week, Ludhiana saw the highest number of fatalities among all the districts of Punjab, with Patiala at second spot with 33 deaths and Jalandhar at number three with 29 casualties. According to the data, Ludhiana also leads the districts in terms of total deaths with 304 fatalities so far, followed by Jalandhar and Amritsar, which have seen 125 and 123 deaths, respectively. The latest bulletin suggests that with 3,867 active cases, Ludhiana district also has the maximum number of such cases in the state. Jalandhar is distant second with 1,829 active cases.As per the government data, the district also added the highest number of fresh cases to the state’s tally in the last seven days. While Ludhiana witnessed 2,373 new cases last week, Jalandhar and Patiala were at number two and three with 1,284 and 1,131 fresh cases, respectively, during the same period.As per the Saturday’s health bulletin, the number of cases per one lakh population in Ludhiana district was 358.6, which is higher than the preceding week’s 263.4. Jalandhar topped the list with 849.2 cases per lakh, while Amritsar had 519.8 cases. Pathankot district recorded the lowest 25.1 cases per lakh population. The state’s average of cases per one lakh population for Punjab is 146.50.As the rapid rise of coronavirus cases shows no signs of abatement in the district, many residents feel the authorities need to enforce the safety norms with an iron hand.“Orders are regularly being issued by the government to check Covid-19 in the state, but we don’t see these guidelines being enforced strictly on the ground. The authorities need to act tough against the violators and beef up checking and patrolling across the district to ensure there is a fear among those not following the norms,” said Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Dugri area.BOX‘Flattening of curve likely from Sept’A senior officer of the administration involved in taking policy decisions with regard to the fight against Covid-19 in the district said though high fatalities and cases are being reported, they expect the Covid curve to start flattening from the first week of September. Fatalities are also expected to come down as the administration has made adequate arrangement of Level III beds, shortage of which was one of the causes for the casualties. Besides, they are also making efforts to catch the patients early by increasing sampling, so that the soaring counts of both new cases as well as deaths are reined in, he added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-once-again-records-highest-fatalities-cases-in-a-week/articleshow/77708898.cms||Shariq Majeed
August 24, 2020||Kolkata||Maharashtrian homes cut short Ganpati celebrations||Kolkata: When the Dhote family was debating whether it was safe to go out to buy an idol for their Ganpati Puja at home, 10-year-old Shlok volunteered to make one with clay. when completed, the family worshipped the idol with greater fervour than usual. Just like the Dhotes, most Maharashtrian families in the city had a low-key puja this time because of the pandemic and curtailed the affair to one and a half days from Saturday instead of the usual three-day celebrations.Usually, it is an 11-day festival when done as a community puja and a three-day one when celebrated at home. Every year, the community in the city looks forward to the celebrations that start ahead of the Chaturthi, organised by the Maharashtra Niwas/Mandal on Hazra Road. This year, the community puja, as well as the accompanying cultural events were cancelled. Instead, a small one-and-a-half-day-long puja was held indoors without community participation. “We had no choice,” said Diwakar Joshi, a spokesperson for the Niwas.“We tried to do our best at home. Some of us even used the idols that we use for daily worship. So the immersion was also symbolical,” said Lalita Bagadthe, a resident of Southern Avenue. The mood was reflected by Satish Dhote, who said, “This has been a year of reflections and realizations. So, despite the sombre mood, the spiritual connect with God was stronger.”Since the puja coincided with a weekend, most households were able to cook all the traditional delicacies for the occasion. Instead of buying things from sweet shops, the families made the items, including modaks, shrikhand and sheera, at home to offer to the deity. The sweets were served to Ganesha with a platter of poori-sabji. The Ganpati stotram was recited by members of the household during the puja. “We wished the pandemic away and prayed that the Lord returns with happier times next year,” said Sunil Shinde, another spokesperson of the Maharashtra Niwas who is one of the main organizers of the community puja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/maharashtrian-homes-cut-short-ganpati-celebrations/articleshow/77709778.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 24, 2020||Erode||Weaver pays tribute to Dhoni with bedsheet||Erode: Paying tribute to former Indian cricket captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni, a weaver from Chennnimalai in Erode district has weaved a bedsheet with an image of Dhoni and his daughter. The weaver K Appusamy, 41, said along other weavers, he was planning to hand over the bedsheet to Dhoni when time is appropriate. “Since the pandemic is raging, we can’t do it now. If IPL were held this year in Chennai, we would have given it then. But IPL was shifted out of India,” he said, adding, “we will figure out a way to give the bedsheet to Dhoni.” Appusamy is a member of ‘Chentex’ one of the 30 handloom weaving associations functioning in the district. “We have weaved bedsheets engraved with images of former President APJ Abdul Kalam, St. Theresa, former chief ministers Karunanidhi, Jayalalithaa and cricketer Sachin Tendulkar,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/weaver-pays-tribute-to-dhoni-with-bedsheet/articleshow/77709780.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Injured makna treated in Kerala||Coimbatore: The Kerala forest department is taking care of the ailing tuskless male elephant (makna) that was spotted at Marudhamalai here on August 15.Officials of the Mannarkkad forest division in the neighbouring state were monitoring the animal between July 1 and 22, district forest officer Sunil Kumar told TOI. “After it damaged 21 houses in the forest division, our chief wildlife warden gave us permission to tranquillise the animal and fix a radio collar. While we were getting ready for the operation, the elephant left the division and entered Tamil Nadu. Coimbatore forest department officials informed us about its presence on August 17. They told us that it had suffered mouth injury,” he said.After spotting the animal at Marappalam in the Mannarkkad forest a few days ago, officials placed fruits laced with antibiotics to treat the wounds. “But the elephant did not touch them. We managed to tranquilise it at Kadampara area near Sholaiyur on Saturday,” Kumar said.The elephant is very weak as it is unable to eat, the official said. “Its tongue is damaged. After veterinary officers cleaned the wounds and administered antibiotics, the elephant managed to walk. It will take 48 hours to assess situation. Frontline staff have been deployed to monitor the elephant.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/injured-makna-treated-in-kerala/articleshow/77709756.cms||A Subburaj
August 24, 2020||Delhi||Not paid during lockdown, employee kills dairy owner||New Delhi: A dairy owner from Najafgarh, who had gone missing on August 11, was murdered by his employee who was angry at not being paid his salary during the lockdown, police said on Monday. The accused employee, Mohammad Tasleem (21), has been arrested. He belongs to Shamli in Uttar Pradesh.Police were informed about the disappearance of 45-year-old Om Prakash on August 12. Initially, a missing report was registered. However, a few days later Prakash’s body was recovered from a well after local residents complained of foul smell emanating from it. “Subsequently, an FIR of murder and destruction of evidence was registered and the decomposed body was sent for autopsy,” said DCP Anto Alphonse.During the investigation, police started inquiring about the activities of Prakash’s friends, employees and relatives as a routine exercise. The mobile phone of the deceased was found missing. Later, cops came to know that an employee named Tasleem was missing and he had also taken away the dairy owner’s bike.Raids were carried out at Shamli and Panipat, but the employee, who claimed to have gone on leave, couldn’t be located. On August 23, police got a tip-off that Tasleem had been spotted riding the bike in the area, but hadn’t visited the dairy. He was arrested soon.During interrogation, Tasleem confessed to killing Prakash after an argument over his salary. The mobile phone of the victim and the murder weapon, a knife, were recovered from him. The accused told police that he had been hired at a salary of Rs 15,000, but after the lockdown he was asked to work at a lower pay. This led to an argument and Prakash slapped him on the night of August 10.After Prakash went to sleep, Tasleem hit his head with a wooden stick and then slit his throat with a knife. When the victim died, he packed the body in a gunny bag and threw it in the nearby well. When the victim’s relatives asked him where Prakash was, he told them that he had gone somewhere for work. After that, he fled from the house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/not-paid-during-lockdown-employee-kills-dairy-owner/articleshow/77729825.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Delhi||Allow metro to resume operations on trial basis: Delhi CM||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday urged the Centre to allow the Delhi Metro services to restart on a trial basis and in a phased manner to ease commuters’ problems. The metro has now been shut for 155 days, since March 22. While interacting online with Delhi’s traders and representatives of market associations, Kejriwal said he had taken up the issue of resuming the metro services with the Centre many times and hoped the central government would give a go-ahead since the Covid-19 situation in the capital was under control. During the webinar that lasted more than an hour, traders raised various issues, including resuming the metro operations. “The metro should be started soon. There is a lot of problem in the movement of people. A limited number of people can travel in buses. The metro is used by both customers and employees. Our staff members are finding it difficult to commute on a daily basis,” said Vijay Kumar, president of South Extension Market Association. “I agree that transportation is a huge problem. We have... requested the Centre to consider Delhi somewhat separately from the whole country,” the chief minister replied. “The corona situation in Delhi is improving. If they do not want to open the metro in other states, they can do that. But the metro should be allowed in Delhi on a trial basis and in a phased manner.” Kejriwal said he hoped that “the central government will soon take a decision on the same for the convenience of the people”. The Covid-19 situation, he said, is under control in the capital due to the efforts of its 2 crore people, religious and social organisations, along with traders who have cooperated a lot during the anti-coronavirus lockdown. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has put all safety measures in place for nearly three months now but the Centre has not allowed the metro operations to resume anywhere in the country. Delhi Metro is prepared to commence operations whenever directed by the government, said Anuj Dayal, executive director of corporate communications at DMRC. “All necessary guidelines to combat the spread of the novel coronavirus will be implemented and all efforts will be made to make travel safe for our valued commuters,” Dayal added. For public transport, Delhiites are now dependent on the 6,598 buses in the combined fleet of Delhi Transport Corporation and Cluster Scheme. But with strict social distancing norms in place, the buses are unable to cater to the growing demand. No bus is allowed to carry more than 20 passengers at any given point of time. The transport department has sent a proposal to Delhi Disaster Management Authority to allow more passengers to be carried in every bus but the decision was deferred in the authority’s meeting on Wednesday. Watch Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal urges Centre to restart metro services||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/allow-metro-to-resume-ops-on-trial-basis-cm/articleshow/77710729.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Goa||Apps, Youtube videos make up for purohits at Ganesh festivities||Panaji: This Ganesh Chaturthi was different for the devotees in many ways, with a pandemic around. One of the main changes was that the purohit had to keep away to cut down any risks of transmission. In many cases, it was the purohit themselves who told devotees to carry out the pooja with the help of apps and YouTube videos. Some even recorded an audio of the pooja and sent it to devotees to play during the rituals. Ponda-based dental surgeon couple Dr Sanjay and Dr Anjali Sukthankar could carry out the worship by following a video on YouTube uploaded by a local organisation Mardol Krutharth. “We connected it to a speaker and the instructions were playing in the background as we carry out the pooja. Both the sthapana pooja when the idol is installed and the uttar pooja before immersion of the idol was carried out following this video. I was a little apprehensive at first how it would go, but we did not feel anything amiss,” said Dr Sanjay. He said that the priests in the areas had inquired with residents beforehand this year due to the pandemic on the means they would be following to carry out the pooja. “We opted out and said we would use an online service this year because we did not want to take any chances. Like many this year, we decided to immerse the idol at home itself in our well and we did not go out to the local immersion spot — pond. The elderly, who usually miss this immersion ritual as they are not able to leave home because of their health, were also able to see it. So everything went better than expected,” said Dr Sanjay. Prashant Chanekar, whose family celebrates the Ganesh Chaturthi at their family home in Bhaili Pet, Bicholim, said that the regular family purohit had informed in advance that an app or online videos should be used this year during the poojas. “We used the Sanatan Sanstha app. Some said that the instructions were a bit slow. But I liked it very much as it explained the meaning behind every single ritual, which we may not know. There was not just the pooja, but the aartis too that were available on this app, sung by local singers, and we had to just sing along,” said Chanekar. In the case of Kishore Gawas, a government employee from Nadora, Colvale, the local priest himself recorded an audio, which was sent to the devotees over WhatsApp and the devotees followed the instructions during the rituals. “This method was in fact more convenient. Usually, the bhat (priest) instructs us on the spot about what is needed for the rituals and we can get hassled finding them in time. In this case, we heard the recording beforehand and we arranged everything in the order that it was needed. We would do it at our own time and pace,” said Gawas. In other cases like that of the Chari family in Savoi Verem, the rituals were carried out based on instructions in a book. “My cousin had a book which spells out the rituals and we just followed them, as the priests could not make it this year,” said businessman Ramnath Chari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/apps-youtube-videos-make-up-for-purohits-at-ganesh-festivities/articleshow/77711144.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
August 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Five assailants run SUV over woman in Guru Nanak Pura||Times News Network Ludhiana: Five men ran their SUV over a 45-year-old woman while escaping after thrashing her landlord’s son in Guru Nanak Pura on Bhamiya Road on Saturday night.The deceased has been identified as Nisha Shekhawat. She, along with her husband Vinod Shekhawat, a garment trader, and two children, lived on the first floor of the house and the landlord on the ground floor. Vinod said, “Our landlord’s son, Pankaj, had a fight with a group of youngsters a few days ago. On Saturday, about five men came in an SUV to his house. After thrashing Pankaj, they were escaping when the area residents tried to stop them. Nisha, too, tried to intercept their SUV. The five, however, ran their vehicle over her. Then they escaped from the spot, leaving the vehicle behind.”Nisha was taken to a private hospital, where she succumbed late at night. Division 7 police station ASI Sukhwinder Singh said, “We have identified three of the accused as Johny, Sunny, Gurdeep. We are yet to gather details of the two others. The accused had a tiff with Pankaj due to which they came to thrash him. Pankaj has sustained injuries. His condition is stated to be stable. A case has been registered against the accused under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC. We are on the lookout for the five.” While the police have lodged the FIR under Section 304 of the IPC, Vinod said the accused should be charged with murder. “If cops do not register a murder case, we will protest against the police administration on Monday. Nisha was standing in front of the SUV. The accused were aware of it, but still they ran the SUV over her. It is a murder.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/five-assailants-run-suv-over-woman-in-guru-nanak-pura/articleshow/77708878.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Kolkata||Migrants join corona winners’ club to help govt hosps in virus fight||Kolkata: They are a tribe of migrant labourers who had tested positive for Covid after returning to Bengal during the pandemic. These construction workers and masons have now donned a different hat to help the state fight the disease. After recovery, they are now helping take care of patients in Covid wards of government hospitals. These labourers have not only found a new livelihood but have noticed a change in their social status as they have become part of the Covid Warrior Club (CWC).From helping doctors and nurses maintain health charts to feeding the critical patients, assisting them to the washroom and narrating their own recovery stories to depressed patients, these warriors have joined the Covid care system in the state.“Working as a mason would leave me tired after a day’s work. Now, my work requires patience and kindness to patients, which I think I have in me,” said Khudu Shiekh, a migrant labourer.Shiekh had tested positive after retuning to his Murshidabad home from Mumbai in May. The 24-year-old now works in the Covid ward of Beliaghata Infectious Diseases and General Hospital. “I was touched by the plight of a 65-year-old patient, on whom I conducted a hip surgery and who had to be admitted to Matri Sadan, a Covid hospital in Berhampore when she tested positive in May. She told me that what was more painful than the surgery was that healthcare workers would not come near her, even as she needed help to go the washroom,” said Amarendranath Roy, assistant professor of orthopaedic surgery at Murshidabad Medical College.Since Murshidabad has 3 lakh migrant labours who returned home during the pandemic, Roy thought of roping in the ones cured of Covid. After discussing it with Mukesh, the then DIG, Murshidabad range, the proposal was forwarded to state chief secretary Rajiva Sinha. The Mamata Banerjee government immediately gave a green signal and the CWC came into being.Currently, 262 warriors are working in different Covid hospitals in the state, including 49 in Kolkata. Moreover, apart from food and transport, they are getting Rs 15,000 as monthly remuneration.“We also call them mask monitors as they check on hypoxia patients, who tend to take off their oxygen masks. They are absolutely dedicated and are doing a wonderful job,” said infectious diseases specialist Yogiraj Ray who works with them at Id Hospital. The ones who have passed Class XII or have studied further are also trained in taking blood pressure and monitoring oxygen saturation levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/migrants-join-corona-winners-club-to-help-govt-hosps-in-virus-fight/articleshow/77709788.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 24, 2020||Delhi||Online ‘Delhi Bazaar’ to help showcase products globally||NEW DELHI: An online bazaar for traders and manufacturers where they can showcase their products globally will soon be launched by Delhi government. Interacting with traders on Sunday to discuss measures to boost the city’s economy, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that just like the job portal, he had received a suggestion to launch a website for industries and shops based on the material they manufactured or sold, especially in industrial areas like Wazirpur, Bawana and Badli. “Through this portal, Delhi’s wholesale market and industries can put their products in front of the entire world and receive orders from them. We can call it Delhi Bazaar where people can market their products,” Kejriwal said. Sunday’s discussion, which was attended by 215 representatives from various sectors and all major markets in Delhi, was held through Digital Samvaad, a series of events held by the CM’s office to interact with industrialists and traders to understand the challenges faced by them because of the pandemic and to take suggestions on how to tackle their issues. “There was a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases for 15-20 days since June 1, after the lockdown was lifted. However, we did not implement the lockdown again. Probably, Delhi is the only city where lockdown hasn’t been imposed again as we understand that work and Covid management can go hand-in-hand,” Kejriwal said, adding that while controlling the viral infection and saving lives was the most important, getting Delhi’s economy back on track was essential too. Kejriwal said that hotels and weekly markets had been allowed to be opened and many other steps were taken to strengthen the state’s economy. “This is probably the first time that the rate of diesel has decreased by Rs 8. No other state would have dared to decrease diesel prices so sharply,” he added. “We have received a great response to Rozgar Bazaar. I’m happy that today we have around 9,000 companies registered on the portal and lakhs of vacancies have been posted. Lakhs of people are applying for jobs. Many people are getting jobs through the portal and many businesses are finding the right kind of labour,” said Kejriwal. The CM said that Chandni Chowk had been redeveloped and the area would be fully ready by November or December. “This was a pilot project for us. We will definitely implement this redevelopment plan at other markets and roads. Delhi’s markets should be of international standards and we will do everything to make it possible,” he added. Watch Online ‘Delhi Bazaar’ to help showcase products globally||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/online-delhi-bazaar-to-help-showcase-products-globally/articleshow/77710740.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Kolkata||All part of job now: Cops save 3 lives in 2 days, start plasma donor bank||Kolkata: The increasing number of SOS messages being sent on social media to Kolkata Police by harried citizens seeking plasma for Covid treatment has now led the force to experiment with something that was “never in the syllabus”. In an initiative coordinated by the welfare cell and the Lalbazar control room, every cop who has recovered from Covid — essentially under 40-45 with no co-morbidities, willing to donate plasma and has spent a minimum of four weeks in isolation after recovery — is being tested and a ready pool of officers is being prepared for plasma donation. On Saturday and Sunday, cops helped three Covid patients across city hospitals.“We now have a pool of willing cops who can continue donation for the next couple of days. They have different blood groups and can cater to different requirements. But this is limited, given that age is a big factor here. We can’t sustain this for a long time without external help,” said an officer from the welfare cell. So far, cops have donated plasma on 11 occasions, all to patients above 60. A few officers — like the Beliaghata OC — have donated separately to the Medical College plasma bank.Over the weekend, commissioner Anuj Sharma and joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma asked colleagues to help patients out. The first instance was for a 63-year-old man recuperating from Covid at a Phoolbagan hospital. The police tweeted back within hours of receiving the SOS, stating that a suitable donor had been arranged. “To have a list of donors ready helps save time and multiple tests,” said an officer.The second case was a Covid patient at a Dhakuria hospital. In this case too, a suitable donor was arranged for and the cops tweeted back. The appeal for plasma was noticed by the commissioner who asked his men to do the needful. “The control room made the necessary calls and arranged for the required plasma,” said an officer. The third appeal was for another patient at the same hospital. The requirement this time was AB-positive blood and the joint CP (crime) asked his officers to help. But the cops know their limits. “There are some important criteria for plasma donation. Not only must the donor be completely fit at least 40 days prior to donation for the antibodies to grow, s/he has to be without co-morbidities. The blood groups, of course, have to match. Typically, we are looking at young donors, but our pool is fast drying up. So far, over 1,500 cops have recovered. But it will not be possible to help everyone. While we are trying to help whenever someone is asking, it is time that NGOs and volunteers come forward to help develop a comprehensive plasma bank. We have decided to inform the state health department about the ground situation,” said an officer from the welfare cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/all-part-of-job-now-cops-save-3-lives-in-2-days-start-plasma-donor-bank/articleshow/77709792.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two Gujarat NCC cadets selected as officers in Army, IAF||Ahmedabad: Two NCC cadets Swapnil Gulale of Surat and Jayduttsinh Sarvaiya of Bhavnagar have been selected to join the Indian Army and the Indian Air Force (IAF) respectively as officers. Swapnil joined through the NCC special entry scheme which allows the cadets to report directly for the interview on account of holding an NCC ‘C’ certificate with A or B grading. Jayduttsinh cracked Air Force Common Admission Test (AFCAT) written exam for becoming an aeronautical engineer in the IAF. Both cadets will soon join training at their respective academies at Officers Training Academy (OTA) in Chennai in Tamil Nadu and Air Force Academy in Dundigal city of Telanagana. Swapnil, an NCC Cadet of 5th Gujarat Battalion and student of Sir P T Sarvajanik College of Science in Surat will pass out as a lieutenant in the Indian Army after completing 49 weeks of training. Senior Under Officer Jayduttsinh, who studied at PDPU in Gandhinagar, got success through AFCAT. Earlier another NCC cadet from PDPU, Achal Joshi had joined Indian Naval Academy in Ezhimala in Kannur district of Kerala for permanent commission in the executive branch (General Service) of the Indian Navy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-gujarat-ncc-cadets-selected-as-officers-in-army-iaf/articleshow/77710744.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government may soon start telemedicine services for non-Covid patients||NEW DELHI: You may soon be able to consult some of the top medical specialists from some of the biggest Delhi government-run hospitals. According to a source, the government is planning to start telemedicine services for non-Covid patients who usually visit hospitals that are now dedicated Covid facilities. “It has been five months now that big Delhi government-run hospitals that catered to huge areas of the city have been unable to treat non-Covid patients. The cases have come down now and Delhi government has been able to contain the Covid-19 situation, leading to discussions on how to take care of other patients,” said a senior official. He said a meeting was held last week with senior doctors of government hospitals on the issue. “Many of them are of the opinion that we can start by providing telemedicine facilities but nothing has been finalised yet. A decision may be taken this week,” he said. Delhi government already has a free corona telemedicine helpline and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had requested doctors to volunteer for the helpline. It is likely that the facility will begin from Lok Nayak Hospital. The 2,000-bedded hospital is the biggest Covid-19 hospital catering not only to the nearby Walled City and other areas of central Delhi but also to patients from neighbouring states like Uttar Pradesh. With Delhi getting abundant rain this monsoon, people are facing the risk of contracting seasonal vector-borne diseases like dengue, chikungunya and malaria. Other Delhi government-run hospitals that have become dedicated Covid-19 facilities include Guru Teg Bahadur and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospitals in northeast Delhi, Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital in west Delhi, and Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital in northwest Delhi. It is, however, not clear when these hospitals will offer telemedicine facilities, said the source. Lok Nayak Hospital has restarted its model treatment centre for patients of hepatitis C recently as patients were facing problems in getting such specialised treatment elsewhere. Since its OPD was closed after it became a Covid-19-only facility, the centre was also not operational.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-may-soon-start-tele-med-services-for-non-covid-patients/articleshow/77710746.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 24, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Work for Majerhat bridge comes to halt||KOLKATA: Construction of Majerhat bridge has come to a standstill as the state Public Works Department (PWD), the implementing agency, is yet to receive Eastern Railway’s permission for installing bearings. The setback may defer the bridge’s October commissioning. State officials said construction stopped since the last one week because casting can’t be done unless the bearings are installed. Bridge bearings are structural equipment installed between the substructure and superstructure (girder) to transfer the load resulting out of vehicular traffic movement, earthquake, wind speed or the superstructure’s self-weight. PWD on March 18 applied for ER’s permission to install the 12 bearings in the bridge’s rail overbridge (ROB) portion. ER engineers said the bearing design was being studied and a mandatory inspection would be carried out before permission was granted. Majerhat bridge is actually an ROB that connects the city with Behala and beyond. A span of the ROB fell on September 4, 2018. The new 650m bridge, being built since January 2019, has missed its September 27, 2019 deadline and is now veering towards an October completion. Last November, chief minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to railway minister Piyush Goyal urging him to intervene in the construction of the ROB’s superstructure (girder-launching) over railway tracks. On February 28, she approached Union home minister Amit Shah after which the project received a shot in the arm as the Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) gave its nod to girder-launching. The CRS, under the ministry of aviation, clears any new railway project across the country. The much-awaited girder-launching started from the Burdwan Road end on June 2 and the entire 76m length of it was launched by July 10. Concrete casting for the deck slab would have started by now. But for that, the 12 bearings along the length of the girder will have to be installed first. The Covid-induced lockdown suspended construction from March 22 to May 8. Amphan delayed work further. Despite setbacks, the girder-launching was done in July and PWD was looking forward to throwing the bridge open by the Pujas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/work-for-majerhat-bridge-comes-to-halt/articleshow/77709789.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
August 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad receives 96% seasonal rainfall||AHMEDABAD: The last 48 hours of rains in the city has resulted in the city getting over 70 mm of rains. This was more than 9% of the season’s total rainfall. The city received 769 mm of rains till 8 pm which was 96% of the total seasonal rainfall of 798 mm. In 2017 as on August 23, the city had received over 900 mm of rains which was 119% of the season’s total rainfall. Since 2015 barring 2017, the city had not received more than 580 mm of rains on August 23. The officials said there was rainfall activity throughout the night which continued till 12 in the noon. Again the city received light rainfall between 7 pm and 8 pm.  The heavy rains in the morning led to water logging in the western parts of the city and 14 complaints of water logging came from Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Bodakdev, Thaltej, Gota and Ghatlodia areas. Water logging was also reported from Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Sakejhe, Maktamputa and Bopal-Ghuma. Apart from tree felling there was a complaint of cave-in reported from Sarkhej area. “Following heavy rains there was settlement of the mud, and hence the cave-in was reported. Due to increased flow of water in the drainage line there was a leakage which resulted in the cave-in,” said an Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) official. The official said that the south west zone had received the highest rainfall of 872 mm followed by 811 in Paldi ward. The lowest rainfall received in the city was in Kotarpur area which had received 672 mm of rains so far. The IMD officials said that Ahmedabad city was likely to receive intermittent spells of light to moderate rain at times heavy rain on Monday. The officials said that due to continuous rains for the last two days the city maximum temperature dipped to 26.7 degree which was 5.6 degree below normal, while the minimum temperature was 24.7 degree which was 0.3 degree below normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-receives-96-seasonal-rainfall/articleshow/77710131.cms||---
August 24, 2020||World||Nepal panel suggests full term for PM Oli||KATHMANDU: A six-member panel formed by the ruling Nepal Communist Party to resolve the bitter intra-party rift has suggested that PM K P Oli should complete his five-year tenure, while executive chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal 'Prachanda' be allowed to exercise full executive power over party affairs, a senior party leader said on Sunday. The task force, formed by Oli and Prachanda on August 15 and later endorsed by NCP's powerful Central Secretariat on August 17, was led by the party's General Secretary Bishnu Poudyal. The panel had submitted its report to Oli and Prachanda on Saturday. Although the details of the report has not been made public, it is expected to pacify the intra-party rift which deepened further after Prachanda and senior leader Madhav Kumar Nepal demanded PM Oli's resignation. When Oli became PM two-and-a-half years ago in 2018, he and Prachanda had reached a tacit understanding to share the PM's position turn-by-turn. The panel has suggested the top leaders of the party to adhere to one-man-one-post principle and to promote coordination and collaboration between the two top leaders, senior NCP leader and standing committee member Ganesh Shah said. However, the report needs to be ratified in the standing committee meeting, which is likely to be convened this week, he said. According to party insiders, Oli is likely to reshuffle his Cabinet as soon as the Standing Committee meeting of the party endorses the panel's report. Watch NCP panel suggests completion of full term for Nepal PM KP Oli||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/nepal-panel-suggests-full-term-for-pm-oli/articleshow/77711413.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Chennai||Lyricist who brought chaste Tamil into breezy film songs||By R RangarajSeventy years ago the breezy, lilting number "Ayyaa Saamy Aaaoji Saamy" in ‘Or Iravu’ (1951) became everyone’s favourite. It was an unusual harmony -- the voice was of the most unlikely musician for a song of this type, Carnatic vocalist M L Vasanthakumari, its words were a mix of Tamil, Hindi, Telugu and English and although the song book credited it to K P Kamatchi Sundaram, the songwriter was Ku Ma Balasubramaniam, who had written a few short stories and poems, was active in the political scene and was trying to find a profession that would also quench his creative urge. Starting his career as a lyricist who struggled to get due credit for his work, Ku Ma Ba, as Balasubramaniam was later known, earned a reputation for being proficient in writing chaste classical Tamil, who went on to write lyrics for leading music directors like G Ramanathan, K V Mahadevan, T G Lingappa, Sudarsanam and Salil Chowdhury.But for someone who had a literary bent of mind, Balasubramaniam could not finish school. Born on May 13, 1920, at Velukkudi village in undivided Thanjavur district in an agricultural family, his father died when he was five and Balasubramaniam could not continue his studies beyond Class VI. Upto the age of 18 he attended to farm work and worked at a few stores. But his love for Tamil was undiminished. His mother taught him the songs of ‘Devaram’, ‘Thiruvaasagam’, ‘Thiruvarutpa’ and ‘Thayumanavar’. A voracious reader, he devoured anything that he could get his hands on. But without much resources, the daily Tamil newspapers were where he picked up words. His short story, ‘Inbathuli’, was published in ‘Navayugan’ newspaper, and thereafter more appeared in other publications. He began his tenure in public life by joining the Periyar group of poets as deputy general secretary. Later, Balasubramaniam worked for newspapers and magazines in Madurai and Coimbatore.With the excitement around independent India, he joined the party Tamizh Arasu Kazhagam (TAK), floated by Tamil scholar-activist Ma Po Si and went on to become its central executive committee member and general secretary. He also shouldered the responsibilities of the party publications ‘Tamizh Murasu’ and ‘Senkoal’, as deputy editor. Balasubramaniam took part as one of the prominent activists in the TAK border agitations, demanding renaming of Madras state to Tamil Nadu and asking for state autonomy, during which he courted arrest. At the time he came into contact with several poets Kannadasan, Ku Sa Krishnamurthi, Kuyilan, film director P Neelakantan and writer-fledgling politician M Karunanidhi. On the recommendation of Neelakantan, Balasubramaniam was drafted to make copies of Annadurai’s dialogue for ‘Oar Iravu’ of AVM Films. He got tto work as assistant director and also wrote a few songs for the film — "Pennnaaga Pirandhaalae Vaazhvil Ennaalum Thuyar Dhaanae", "Ayyaa Saamy" and "Enna Ulagamadaa". Following their success, he got a job at AVM.In 1952, director M V Raman took him to Mumbai and got him the work of writing dialogues and songs for Tamil remakes of films ‘Naasthigan’ and ‘Saamraat’. In two years, Balasubramaniam returned to Chennai and from then on it was no looking back. He wrote lyrics for scores of films like ‘Gomathiyin Kaadhalan’, ‘Kanavane Kankanda Deivam’ and ‘Sabhash Meena’ (Chithiram Pesudhadi, Kaana Inbam). He wrote more than 600 songs, including films remade from other languages, for leading music directors and captivated the hearts of music lovers.Some of the hits with his evergreen lyrics which continue to haunt music lovers were "Inbam Pongum Vennila" (Veerapandiya Kattabomman), "Maasila Nilave Num" (Ambikapathy), and "Aadaadha Manamum Aadudhae" (Kalathur Kannamma). He could conjure the breeziness of "Yaradi Nee Mohini" and "Ninaikkum Poadhae Aahaa" with the same ease that he could write the more heavy classical songs "Singaaravelane Deva" (Konjum Salangai) and the ‘bhakti’ element for devotional numbers like "Vaeloadu Vilaiyaadum Murugaiyya".Amid his hectic writing for films, Balasubramaniam would always find time to engage in politics. He addressed meetings of the DMK-led alliance in the run-up to the 1967 assembly elections. On the recommendation of Ma Po Si, the DMK government nominated him to the state legislative council in 1974 from the field of arts, a post in which he continued till 1980. In 1976, following ideological differences with Ma Po Si during the Emergency, Balasubramaniam along with some others, quit the TAK and joined the DMK. In 1989, the DMK government appointed him secretary of TN Iyal Isai Naadaka Manram, but he quit the post when the DMK failed to retain power after the 1991 elections. Despite being a noted writer, activist and former MLC, neither the film industry nor the DMK have attempted a remembrance to mark the centenary of the man in a befitting manner.A lifetime dedicated to writing, whether it was for harmonies on screen, fiery political speeches or philosophies for his short stories, Balasubramaniam was a rare combination who donned many hats without wanting to grab the spotlight, finding his creative impetus, stimulus and satisfaction in the written word.(The writer is president of Chennai 2000 Plus Trust)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lyricist-who-brought-chaste-tamil-into-breezy-film-songs/articleshow/77709790.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Goa||People fill in as priests for family celebrations||Bicholim: For the first time possibly, Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations were conducted without a priest officiating over the rituals. Responding to the need of the hour, Hindus in Bicholim and other parts of the state took it upon themselves to perform Ganesh pooja themselves. Worship in most homes was a simple affair devoid of the usual chanting of mantras. People, however, maintained a very positive and enthusiastic outlook to the strange situation created by the pandemic. “Performing the pooja without a priest was quite memorable experience,” said Pravesh Haldankar from Guirim, Bardez. In the run up to the festival, the Hindu priestly community had announced that this year, due to the pandemic, they would not visit homes to perform Ganesh pooja. “The brahmin community in Goa had taken the decision to prevent the spread of the virus. People welcomed the decision,” said a purohit from Karapur in Bicholim taluka, Anil Joshi. Another priest Shashi Kerikar from Honda, Sattari, said that they offered online services to those who could not perform the pooja and that the move was also well accepted. However, despite the offer to conduct the pooja online, most people chose to do it on their own. “This year we had decided in advance that we would perform the Ganesh pooja ourselves. We thought this year it would not be advisable for a priest to visit every house to perform the pooja given the pandemic,” said Suhas and Kushal Chodankar from Sonar Peth, Bicholim. Even immersion at many places was carried out in wells. Those who chose to do it in a larger water body, took the idol to less crowded spots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/people-fill-in-as-priests-for-family-celebrations/articleshow/77711149.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Andhra Pradesh: No sabotage in Swarna mishap, says FSL||HYDERABAD: The Andhra Pradesh Forensic Science Laboratory (APFSL) has ruled out the possibility of the Swarna Palace hotel being sabotaged to cause the fire which had killed 10 patients. FSL experts did not find any accelerants or suspicious material in the hotel, which was being used as a Covid Care Centre by Ramesh Hospital. Sources in Andhra Pradesh police said that even traces of sanitisers were not found during the analysis. The (APFSL) experts primarily opined that an electric short circuit could have caused the fire. “We collected materials from the scene of the mishap. Their chemical analysis did not show any accelerant or fuel. Electric short circuit in the computer section may have caused the fire,” said a police official. However, the CCTV footage of the hotel was not recovered during the investigation. Earlier, district level enquiry committee could also not find the footage. “The hardware to store the footage, is burnt or half burnt, may have been taken away. We are investigating into this and trying to find a back up of the footage available outside the hotel,” a police official said. Tollywood actor Ram Pothineni had recently tweeted that the Swarna Palace hostel could have been sabotaged. With FSL experts giving a clarification of the allegations, police will now focus on negligence on part of the hospital management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fsl-no-sabotage-in-swarna-mishap/articleshow/77709795.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 24, 2020||Kolkata||Gulf spl flights bring back unemployed professionals||Kolkata: The city airport hosted three international charter flights between Saturday night and Sunday afternoon — the highest in terms of frequency in the last 53 days — with repatriates coming back home from three Gulf nations, Kuwait, Abu Dhabi and Qatar. While flight G8 6269 from Abu Dhabi with 174 passengers on board reached the airport around 9.40pm on Saturday, the 10.30pm flight G8 7444 from Kuwait had 180 flyers. Both the flights were operated by Go Air. On Sunday afternoon, an Oman Air repatriation flight from Qatar with 154 passengers reached the airport at 3.40pm. A majority of passengers in all three flights were jobless professionals and labourers, who shared horrific tales of struggle and hunger to TOI as they reached the city. All of them had Covid-negative certificates and were allowed to go home and stay in quarantine. “With hopes of making a fortune out of my expertise in embroidery work, I had gone to Abu Dhabi on December 2019 like many of my neighbours from Howrah. But such had been my luck that within three-four months, I was jobless as the city came under lockdown. A colleague allowed me to stay at his apartment but since March, there have been several days when I had slept only drinking water and nothing else. There is no job for us any more. I am thankful to the company that they at least got me a ticket back home. I am not going back to any foreign nation ever,” said Rafikul Hasan Khan, a resident of Amta in Howrah who returned from Abu Dhabi. Dum Dum Cantonment resident Mitisha Mondal, who used to work at a resort in Kuwait, said she lost her job five days after the lockdown started in the country. “I had no clue where to go and live. There was no way I could even come back home. The horror of uncertainty without work and without means to return home while stuck at a foreign nation had sent me into depression. Thankfully, my employers arranged my ticket back home,” said Mondal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/gulf-spl-flights-bring-back-unemployed-professionals/articleshow/77709796.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: With 1,450 cases, highest single-day spike in August||NEW DELHI: Delhi on Sunday recorded 1,450 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike in August. The total death toll reached 4,300. Sunday also saw the number of containment zones going up from 591 to 627. On Saturday, Delhi had recorded 1,412 fresh Covid-19 cases, the previous highest single-day spike in August. The total number of positive cases now stands at 1,61,466, out of which 1,45,388 have recovered, discharged or migrated, putting the recovery rate at more than 90%. The number of containment zones in the capital was less than 500 earlier this month, after seeing a major dip from more than 700 red zones in July. The number of zones, however, is slowly on the increase and compared with Saturday, 36 more red zones were added on Sunday. In many districts, a large number of containment zones ceased to exist after the Union health ministry allowed these red zones to be de-contained 14 days after discharge of the last confirmed positive case instead of the 28 days norm earlier. “Though the numbers are increasing, district authorities are now planning micro-containment zones that affect very few people compared with the larger zones created earlier,” a state government official said. The total number of containment zones in Delhi till date is 1,458, out of which 831 have been de-contained, 135 are being scaled down for de-containment and 492 are active containment zones. Southwest district has the most number of red zones – 143, out of which 141 are active red zones. The Southwest district is followed by South (82), North (78) and West (71) districts. At present, the least number of containment zones — 20 — is in the Northeast district and other districts with less than 30 red zones are North West (23) and New Delhi (26). According to the state government’s health bulletin, total 18,731 tests — 6,261 RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests and 12,470 rapid antigen tests were conducted in the past 24 hours. A total of 14,31,094 Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the capital and the number of tests per million population is 75,320 in Delhi. The number of active Covid cases went up to 11,778, from 11,594 on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-1450-cases-highest-single-day-spike-in-august/articleshow/77710775.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 24, 2020||Delhi||Mushroom for more: Delhi farmer to fly in 21 workers||NEW DELHI: Pappan Singh Gahlot, a mushroom farmer from north Delhi’s Tigipur village who had sent 10 of his workers home in Bihar’s Samastipur by flight during the lockdown, is now flying them back along with 11 others. “My workers are part of my family and booking air tickets for them is not a very big thing,” said Gahlot, who does mushroom farming over three acres of land. “During the lockdown, I took care of their food and accommodation but one day I found one of them, Naveen, crying while talking to his child back in his village over a video call. I felt sad and booked their tickets as soon as domestic flights started,” Gahlot said. Now he needs helping hands and they need work. “The mushroom farming season is between August and April, after which the workers leave for their villages. I need to start work on the farm from September or the season will be over,” Gahlot added. And just any worker won’t do. “One needs training for mushroom farming as it is very scientific. The structure or the hut where these are grown need ambient temperature, water and air, which need constant monitoring. There has to be just the right amount of nitrogen as slightly more or less will spoil the mushrooms,” Gahlot said. “There is no work in the village. We tried to book train tickets but seats are not available for the next month and a half,” said Naveen Ram over phone from Samastipur. “Our maalik (employer) is a gem of a person and takes care of us. Thanks to him, I will be flying for the second time in my life,” he said. In May, Gahlot spent Rs 68,000 on 10 airline tickets and is spending around Rs 1 lakh this time. “It includes the wife and the son of a worker, for whom I’m giving half the fare,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mushroom-for-more-city-farmer-to-fly-in-21-workers/articleshow/77710791.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Construction workers can avail of 18 govt schemes after registering in mega drive||NEW DELHI: Delhi government is going to carry out a mega registration campaign for construction workers from August 24 to September 11, employment and labour minister Gopal Rai announced on Sunday. Special camps would be set up for construction workers to register themselves and take advantage of nearly 18 different assistance schemes, Rai said. “This registration process is fully online and till date, nearly 70,000 construction labourers have registered. Delhi government is working on the verification procedure of these registrations,” Rai added. The minister said that to expand this procedure, Delhi government is carrying out “Nirman Mazdoor Registration Abhiyan”. “During this 15-day campaign, the registration process will take place from Monday to Friday,” he added. Delhi government will set up camps at 70 schools—one each in all the 70 assembly constituencies of Delhi—to help workers who are not tech-savvy. Workers can also submit the application online by visiting www.edistrict.delhigovt.nic.in. For registration, the age of the worker should be between 18 and 60 years and he/she should have certification of work, photograph, local ID proof, bank account number and Aadhaar card. “If proper documents are furnished, the process of registration and verification will be completed on the spot and the workers will not have to visit government offices for the physical verification. After the successful completion of this registration camp, Delhi government will analyse the process and decide the future action plan,” Rai said. “During the Covid pandemic, Delhi government has provided financial assistance of Rs 5,000 to all registered construction workers for two months,” Rai said, adding that the government also provides various assistance to construction workers, including Rs 35,000 for the wedding of a worker’s son and Rs 51,000 for daughter’s wedding. He said the government provides Rs 500 per month for nursery to higher classes and Rs 10,000 for professional education to students who are children of construction workers. Apart from these, the government also gives Rs 30,000 as maternity benefit, old-age pension of Rs 3,000 per month, Rs 2 lakh for accidental deaths of construction workers and Rs 1 lakh in case of natural death, Rs 10,000 for last rites of any construction worker and if any construction worker becomes physically challenged, the government provides Rs 1 lakh as financial assistance. The construction work, which was halted due to the pandemic, has restarted and there is a demand of workers at construction sites, the minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/construction-workers-can-avail-of-18-govt-schemes-after-registering-in-mega-drive/articleshow/77710783.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Delhi||This one’s gold: Jeweller scripts own robbery for loan waiver in Delhi||NEW DELHI: On Friday night, when police in Central district got a call about a jewellery maker getting robbed at gunpoint, they didn’t realise that the complainant would eventually turn out to be the culprit. The jeweller, Abhijit Samanta, lodged a complaint that the robbers had taken away 2.6kg gold from his shop in Chandni Mahal. A probe later revealed that burdened with EMIs, he planned his own robbery with the help of two of his friends to get his loans waived off. Samanta, the owner of “Tara Gold Manufacturing” used to prepare jewellery for other jewellers. DCP (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said, “He told police that he had collected a payment of Rs 50,000 from a jeweller and returned to his shop around 8.35pm. Soon, a burqa-clad woman entered and held him at gunpoint. She slapped him and snatched the money. She then forced him to open the locker and took away 1.6kg gold jewellery and a 1kg gold bar. She then tied his hands, legs and mouth with a cloth and fled.” A team led by Chandni Mahal SHO Binod Singh checked the CCTV camera footage from Samanta’s shop and saw that the crime had taken place exactly as the complainant had described it. “However, footage from two other cameras installed in the vicinity showed that the woman’s entry was somewhat friendly. There was no pushing or shoving and the sequence seemed very civilized for an armed robbery. Samanta's behaviour was also found suspicious,” said Bhatia. When the complainant was quizzed about where he had been and whom he had talked to prior to the incident, he gave conflicting answers. After six hours of questioning, he confessed to having staged the robbery with two of his friends, Farhan and Munna. Subsequently, the trio was arrested. The debt-ridden jewellery maker told police that he had taken a loan of Rs 25 lakh from Central Bank, Rs 19 lakh from a finance company and Rs 17 lakh from IDFC Bank against his gold stock. He had also got the stock insured. Business had been slow since 2018 and the lockdown dealt a double blow to him. As a result, he couldn’t pay his EMIs. With the banks pressuring him for the loans, he decided to commit the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/this-ones-gold-jeweller-scripts-own-robbery-for-loan-waiver/articleshow/77709845.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Patna||Patna property dealer’s staffer shot, 4 injured||PATNA: Unidentified criminals shot dead a property dealer’s employee and injured four others by raining bullets from carbine and pistols at Beur Bazar under Beur police station area in Patna on Sunday. SHO Phuldev Chaudhary said the deceased was identified as Rajesh Kumar (40) of Parsa Bazar. “Rajesh was rushed to a hospital where the doctors declared him dead. He worked at the office of property dealer Tuntun Yadav as a deed writer. The incident took place at around 11.10am,” he said. The SHO said Tuntun had left his office just before the incident. “We suspect Tuntun was the main target. Criminals had come from Anisabad Mor side and fled in the same direction,” he added. The injured were identified as Anant Kumar, Dharmendra Yadav, Ranjeet Kumar and Chintu Kumar. “Dharmendra is Tuntun’s cousin while the other three injured are his employees,” the SHO said. He said Anant, Dharmendra and Ranjeet received gunshot injuries. Chintu was hit on his head with a carbine’s butt by one of the criminals when he tried to catch hold of him. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma told TOI that around ten empty cartridges, including that of 9mm used in carbine, were recovered from the spot. He said around eight to ten persons were sitting in the office when criminals barged inside. “There were six criminals on three bikes. After barging into the Tuntun’s office, they fired indiscriminately. All the six criminals were armed,” he said. “Rajesh has received gunshot injury in one of his vital organs due to which he died. Three sustained bullet injuries either in hands or legs,” he said. Sharma said police is investigating the matter from multiple angles, including property dispute and old enmity. In reply to a query, he said police were investigating if the incident was linked to the murder of RJD leader and former ward councillor Dina Gope alias Dina Yadav on May 12, 2018. Dina had been gunned down by AK-47 near Anisabad Mor. Police sources said Tuntun’s name had surfaced in Dina’s murder case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/property-dealers-staffer-shot-4-injured/articleshow/77708963.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 24, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: 4,660 cusecs released from Ajwa, riverside villages on alert||VADODARA: Over 17 villages along the Vishwamitri River were put on alert on Sunday after water was released from the Ajwa Lake in Waghodia taluka. The authorities released over 4,660 cusecs of water from the lake after the water level crossed 212 feet due to heavy rains in the eastern areas of the district. Water released from Ajwa flows into Vishwamitri River that passes through the heart of the city. The local administration has asked the locals in Waghodia taluka and Vadodara (taluka) to be on the alert.  The villagers have been warned against venturing near the river and not graze their cattle in the ravines. Desar, Savli, Padra villagers have also been issued an alert after over 20,000 cusecs of water was released from Kadana Dam in Mahisagar district. Officials said that the water level at Kadana dam touched 408.7 feet on Sunday afternoon and the inflow of water was 2.35 lakh cusecs. The authorities have planned to increase outflow to two lakh cusecs through hydro power-house and gates of dam. Villagers staying near Dev River in Waghodia taluka too have been put on alert after 964 cusecs of water was released from Dev Dam. Meanwhile, in Dahod district, water level in several dams is brimming due to incessant rainfall on Saturday and Sunday. A few water bodies in the district started overflowing. A biker was injured after a tree fell on him on Garbada road on Sunday morning. Sources in district administration said that villages in low-lying areas are kept on alert and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has been deployed. In Vadodara city too, the sky was overcast and most areas received scattered rainfalls on Sunday. Though water is being released from Ajwa Lake, there is no panic as as Vishwamitri is flowing at just nine feet in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ajwa-releases-4660-cusecs-water-riverside-villages-on-alert/articleshow/77708576.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Goa||State proposes policy to boost sea cage farming||Panaji: Mariculture, a specialised branch of aquaculture, may soon get a boost in Goa. The department of fisheries has proposed the Goa State Mariculture Policy 2020 to enable fish farmers in the state to take up this initiative. Sea cage farming is still in its infancy in Goa with no open sea cage farms installed in the state besides a pilot project initiated by the department of fisheries at Talpona, Polem, Nuvem in Canacona. Mariculture involves the cultivation of marine organisms for food and other products in an enclosed section of the sea such as cages, pens, or in tanks, ponds or raceways which are filled with saline water. The department has formulated a leasing policy to introduce systematic management strategies both for conservation and sustained fish production and to encourage artisanal fishers to take up offshore open sea cage culture so that they shift from capture fisheries regime to culture fisheries regime. “There is a need felt to consider open sea cage farming as a commercial activity so as to augment the seafood production in a sustainable manner. However, Goa has no water leasing policy for this new technology and as such it becomes necessary to formulate a policy for leasing the open waters to meet the requirement of the sector,” the notification read. Zonation of open water bodies with the help of competent bodies/research institutions will be drawn as and when required. Common property use conflicts will be drawn out so that mariculture activities as such will not hinder navigation, fishing and other users. The leasing policy and management will rest with a single entity so that full potential of the objectives may be established. Carrying capacity, environmental protection and conservation of aquatic ecosystems will also be chalked out. Purchase of species seeds would be from recognised list of marine fish hatcheries prepared by and approved by the department of fisheries. Species selected for farming in floating net cages requires a fish variety that meets the criteria of high valued species, hardy and tolerant species, ability to accept external source of food. The sea cages being situated in the sea can either be at risk due to natural factors or can be a source of risk hence adequate safety measures are required to be taken to prevent accidents including loss of life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-proposes-policy-to-boost-sea-cage-farming/articleshow/77711161.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Delhi||Fresh lungs: Four more forests for Delhi||NEW DELHI: To boost Delhi’s green cover, the forest department will soon create four more forests, some of which are likely to be ready by the year-end. The city already has 12 forests. The new ones are being developed at Aya Nagar, Jaunapur, Dera Mandi and Mamurpur in Narela, each of which will include butterfly zones, cacti gardens, waterbodies and herbal patches. Dominated primarily by native trees, the forests will also have shrubs and smaller plants. A forest department official said they were looking at replicating successful models like Taj Enclave near Geeta Colony or Garhi Mandu near Shahdara, which were inaugurated by Delhi government in the past few years. Walking tracks, gazebos, bridges to cross waterbodies and recreational zones for activities like yoga have also been planned at the city forests. “Monsoon is the best time to plant shrubs and native saplings. Work at the four forests is already under way and a couple of them might get ready by the end of the year,” said the official, adding that Covid-19 had slowed down their progress. The other forests that were developed recently include Nasirpur (28 hectares), Alipur (19.5 hectares), Mitraon (35.15 hectares), Taj Enclave (56 hectares) and Hauz Rani (28 hectares). At a recent meeting with Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai had given information about the ongoing development work. Rai said 10 lakh saplings had been planted this season, while the annual target of 31 lakh would be met by the end of the year. Delhi’s green cover has grown rapidly over the past few years. It currently stands at 21.9% (324.4 sq km). In 2017, it was 20.6% (308.4 sq km) and 20.2% (299.8 sq km) in 2015. The forest department officials said they had set an internal target of 25% green cover by 2025, which would be aided by the creation of the city forests. Delhi government had set a target of planting two crore saplings over the next five years. “With the creation of a city forest, you get more area to plant saplings. This ends in creation of mini green zones across the capital. With the current rate of plantation, reaching the 25% green cover target is quite possible,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fresh-lungs-four-more-forests-for-delhi/articleshow/77710796.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Alert in Andhra Pradesh as Krishna inundates fields||GUNTUR: Agriculture fields along the downstream of Nagarjuna Sagar project have been inundated due to massive floods in Krishna river. Meanwhile, Pulichintala project, the last balancing reservoir on Krishna basin, is brimming with waters resulting in release of floodwater to downstream. All the projects on Krishna basin have reached their fullest capacity prompting authorities to let out waters to the sea from Pulichintala. Pulichintala project is nearing its full capacity of 45 tmc as the level has already touched 42 tmc even as the flood from upstream continues. While the project is receiving around 3 lakh cusecs of water from Sagar, the authorities are guardedly releasing water to the downstream to prevent sudden inundation of villages and Vijayawada city. All the officials in the riverbank mandals in both Krishna and Guntur districts have been asked to stay on high alert for another 48 hours as the chances of flood continuing are high. Guntur district collector Samuel Anand Kumar and Krishna district collector A Mohammed Intiaz took stock of the situation with the field officials on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/alert-in-ap-as-krishna-inundates-fields/articleshow/77709811.cms||Samdani MN
August 24, 2020||Nashik||Woman loses gold chain in Nashik||Nashik: Two bike-borne suspects snatched the gold chain of a 53-year-old woman in Govind Nagar area of the city on Saturday evening and a case in this regard has been registered at Mumbai Naka police station. According to police, the crime took place at 7.30pm. “The woman, a resident of Govind Nagar, had gone to the medical store with her husband when the suspects came from behind on a motorcyle and snatched the chain from the woman’s neck,” a police officer said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/woman-loses-gold-chain-in-nashik/articleshow/77708055.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Kolkata||Another cyclist injured near Strand Rd, 3rd case in a month||Kolkata: Two traffic guards may report to Lalbazar about the hazards of allowing cyclists on Strand Road and Maidan areas after the third accident in less than a month when a truck hit a cycle at the Clyde Row-St Georges Gate Road crossing off Strand Road on Friday. The accident left the cyclist Brij Bihari Singh (53), a resident of Parnasree, seriously injured. He was treated at Command Hospital. The truck driver, Md Mohsin, was arrested from South Port area . Mohsin claimed he had not expected a cyclist on the road around 7am. In the previous two accidents, a biker and a bus driver were involved. Though main roads are not on cycling list, cops are allowing cycles to ply on parallel roads for connectivity of south and southwest Kolkata with Central Business District. But, three accidents in Hastings and Maidan areas in less than a month have led cops to go for a rethink. Cops have decided to penalize cyclists in the future. “The Strand Road is deserted, especially in the morning, after trucks leave from Port area. But most of the cyclists prefer using the road during the time of trucks’ movement. In the evening, many of them do not have proper tail lights and reflectors and bus drivers cannot spot them easily,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/another-cyclist-injured-near-strand-rd-3rd-case-in-a-month/articleshow/77709807.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 24, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: New Town to get six Wi-Fi hotspots soon||KOLKATA: The New Town Telecom Infrastructure Development Co (NTTIDCO) is planning to develop six Wi-Fi hotspots in different parts of New Town. Of the hotspots, one will be solar-powered and another will be a public data office, where a shop in the local market can provide Wi-Fi services to the neighbourhood areas against a small fee. Officials said the proposed Wi-Fi hotposts will come up in the places that are a little far away from main arterial road and traffic junctions like the Café Ekante outlets situated in different pockets of the township, at the Eco urban village and other places where people spend some quality time. “Having Wi-Fi connectivity in these places will help people work using the internet,” said an official. Currently, the NTTIDCO is providing the Wi-Fi services on a 10-km stretch of the Major Arterial Road of New Town. The NTTIDCO held preliminary talks with Kolkata’s C-DoT office last week over a video conference on the solar Wi-Fi hotspot and public data office. “They were also requested to share some advice on the ways, in which broadband speeds in the upcoming Bengal silicon valley IT hub can be made faster enough to get international attention from data centre developers, ISP providers, game companies and telecom players. The NTTIDCO will take this forward after consultations with the authorities concerned,” said Hidco chairman, Debashis Sen. Hidco officials said there is no cable line dangling in New Town as roadside spaces have been reserved in the township for laying optical fibre cables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-to-get-six-wi-fi-hotspots-soon/articleshow/77709847.cms||Suman Chakraborti
August 24, 2020||Nashik||Farmer swept away by water current||Nashik: A 48-year-old farmer was swept away in a strong river current while he was crossing the Bagh river in Harsul village, Trimbak taluka on Saturday afternoon. The farmer identified as Shivram Tulshiram Khutade resided beside the Bagh river. Harsul police said Khutade had borrowed a bullock for farming from one of his relative who stayed on the other side of the river. After finishing the work, he went to return the bullock. While returning from the relative’s house, the flow of the river had increased. While crossing the river, he shouted out to his wife on the other end of his river, informing her that he was crossing the river. To which, she said not to do so as the flow of water had increased, but he started crossing and was swept away. Khutade’s body was found at around 3pm on Sunday about 12 km away from where he got swept away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/farmer-swept-away-by-water-current/articleshow/77708093.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 24, 2020||Trichy||50 community toilets in Trichy get new lease of life||Trichy: Trichy corporation has completed renovation work of 50 of the 95 community toilets in slums and low-income group localities it had identified for redevelopment. The refurbished facilities, which will help sustain the open defecation free (ODF) status of the city, have been handed over to self-help group (SHG) women for maintenance.The city corporation had found in a survey last November that 95 of the 380 community toilets in the four zones were in a dilapidated state. As the process of redeveloping the 20-year-old facilities will consume time to sanction funds, the local body entrusted city-based Gramalaya NGO to refurbish the toilets. Slum-dwellers who do not have individual toilets rely on community toilets for sanitation needs. Gramalaya’s study found that some of these toilets had flawed septic tanks while a majority of the toilets lacked proper water taps and doors. Apart from sanitary issues, these shortcomings were discouraging the slum-dwellers from using the toilets. “Financial support was availed from HT Parekh Foundation, Mumbai. For Rs 2.25 crores, all the 95 community toilets will be overhauled,” M Elangovan, executive director, Gramalaya said. Dilapidated community toilets in Malligaipuram and Rajiv Gandhi Nagar were recently renovated.The renovated toilets will get a sanitary napkin incinerator each to prevent the dumping of napkins in underground drainage sewers (UGD). “The ongoing project to improve the sanitary condition of community toilets is being monitored by our technical team. Sustaining the ODF city status is one of our chief priorities,” Trichy corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/50-community-toilets-in-trichy-get-new-lease-of-life/articleshow/77709851.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 24, 2020||Goa||In a first,Goa’s recoveries more than twice the number of new cases||PANAJI: Goa’s active Covid-19 tally dropped to 3,383 on Sunday after the number of recoveries were more than double the fresh cases. Also, the state’s death toll rose to 144 after nine persons — five on Saturday and four on Sunday — succumbed to the virus over the weekend. The 209 new cases detected on Sunday was the lowest single-day count in more than two weeks. On August 6, the state saw 191 cases, but since then, an average of 398 cases a day have been reported. The state government has setup three wards at GMC to provide dedicated treatment to patients having comorbid conditions. These wards — having a total of 85 beds — will be commissioned on Monday. Also, a high dependency unit (ward 146) with 25 beds, for critically-ill patients, will have a round-the-clock team of 5-6 doctors, said dean Dr S M Bandekar. Each nurse will be given 4-5 beds.Two of the deaths reported on Sunday — a 66-year-old man from Sakhali and a 42-year-old woman from Ponda, both having comorbid conditions — were at the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. Two other men — a 51-year-old from Siolim and a 75-year-old from Margao – died at the ESI-Covid hospital, Margao. On Sunday, 543 patients were declared cured, taking the total to 13,999. While Porvorim has the most cases in North Goa with 178 cases, Margao leads South Goa (and the state) with 522 active infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-a-1st-states-recoveries-more-than-twice-the-no-of-new-cases/articleshow/77710804.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Trichy||Fresh cases down in Trichy city, but containment zones surge||Trichy: While fresh Covid-19 cases have declined by 62% in Trichy city compared to the same period last month, containment zones have seen a 100% surge. Trichy corporation has in the past five days established a dozen containment zones to curb local movement in places where more cases were reported and the drive is expected to continue. The city had on July 22 reported 146 fresh cases with daily cases varying between 80 and 150 in the last week though the infection rate subsequently declined in the first two weeks of August. On August 22, it reported only 56 fresh cases, one of the lowest daily tally since July. Despite the 62% dip in fresh cases, containment zones in the city has increased from 21 as on July 22 to 42 on Saturday. While it is usual for the containment zones to come down if fresh infections decline, Trichy corporation’s intense containment strategy has resulted in a two-fold surge in their numbers. Abiding by the state health department’s recent directives, the corporation decentralised decision-making and gave sanitary officials of all four zones the authority to take a call on the need for containment zones. Population density, floating population and vehicular movement in the localities that reported positive cases were considered for establishing them. “Residents avoid unnecessary travel in containment areas because of fear. As shops will also remain closed there, public movement is restricted in the locality,” a sanitary official said. The civic body attributes the dip in fresh cases to this containment strategy. Ponmalai has the most number of 32 containment zones while K Abishekapuram and Srirangam have five each. The containment strategy has helped to restrict mass movement in vulnerable areas such as Kammala street, Ponmalai and Sowrashtra street, officials said. “Since fresh infections surface due to local travel history, containing the vulnerable localities is mandatory. We are not thinking of the number of containment zones, our intention is to bring down fresh infection further,” Trichy corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fresh-cases-down-in-trichy-city-but-containment-zones-surge/articleshow/77709880.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 24, 2020||Nashik||Cops, kin to get 11th dose of immunity boosters||Nashik: The personnel of the city police commissionerate will receive the 11th dose of immunity boosting homeopathy tablets from Wednesday. Apart from the 3,100 police constables and 250 police officers, the tablets will also be provided to their family members. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Pournima Chaugule said that the expenses of the tablets would be covered from the police welfare fund. “The 11th dose of the tablets will be given to the personnel as these medicines have to be consumed on a regular basis to ensure that the immunity of the body is maintained,” said Chaugule. “The policemen are continuously on the field where they have to interact with a lot of people all the time. Hence, they are more vulnerable to Covid-19. We are continuously taking efforts to build their immunity so that they don’t catch the infection,” said Chaugule. A police personnel said, “Our safety often gets compromised as many still don’t observe safety protocols .”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cops-kin-to-get-11th-dose-of-immunity-boosters/articleshow/77708101.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 24, 2020||Kolkata||Four arrested after raid on central Kolkata bar||KOLKATA: The anti rowdy section of the detective department cracked down on a bar, serving hookah and drinks illegally to people, during a raid on Sir Syed Amir Ali Avenue on Saturday evening. Cops arrested four persons — the owners, Md Amir Khan (29) Md Shahrukh (25), the manager, Asif kah (25), and another employee of the bar, Arshad Azam (26). This is the third time such an incident was reported in the city during the lockdown. The raids conducted by the police were part of a drive to crack down on violations in Kolkata’s party zone during the lockdown. Cops slapped the four accused with IPC sections pertaining to 188 (for not following government orders), 120 (criminal conspiracy), sections 21 and 24 of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act, 2003 and Section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act. Several hookah bases and flavours were seized from the accused. At least three other bars located at Girish Park and Beniapukur are also under the police scanner for operating illegally during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/raid-on-hookah-bar-4-arrested/articleshow/77709870.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu govt to discuss impact of removing restrictions on inter-state travel||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu government is likely to discuss and review the implications of removing restrictions on inter-state movement of people before taking a call as directed by the Union home ministry. The meeting, to be chaired by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, could take place sometime this week. In a letter to chief secretaries of various states, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday told state governments that “there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for such movement”, as part of the Centre’s Unlock-3 plan. Terming such restrictions as “violation of guidelines”, he requested the states and their district administrations to ensure that “MHA guidelines are strictly followed”. In the case of Tamil Nadu, it has brought the intra-state travel of individuals under “auto-approved” mode for e-passes since last Monday. But, inter-state travel requires e-passes, strictly regulated, and adhering to quarantine norms. “We have to discuss and decide. As such there is no restriction for goods movement,” a senior official with the state government told TOI. “If inter-state border is opened for free access, then there is no possibility of contact tracing, if a need arises to monitor people. We have to look at its implication. Even liberalising e-pass has led to huge movement,” the official said, while adding that the chief minister will have to take a call on the date for the meeting. The directive from the Centre has nevertheless come as a welcome development for industries, especially MSMEs, who were largely banking on the return of migrant workers to enable companies to scale up production. The state, in a government order on August 21, added manufacturers of automobiles and their components, components for defence and all export units to the list of industries that can operate on Sundays (when intense lockdown is in place in the state). “The Centre has now directed free movement of people. We have requested the state to permit returning migrant workers, who produce Covid negative certificate from established labs from their place of origin, to resume work. While a fresh test can be taken on arrival, they can be placed under quarantine for a couple of days until the test results come,” M Balachandran, president, Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association (AIEMA) said. “If they test negative once again, they should be allowed to report to work. Small units cannot afford to spend on their 14-day quarantine. In addition, we have also requested the government to permit use of the AIEMA convention centre as a quarantine facility for migrant workers,” Balachandran said. Puducherry: The Puducherry government has abolished the epass system following directions from the Union government. “There is no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for such movements, as per MHA order,” read a message on the Puducherry government’s website. Secretary (home) Ajay Bhalla in an official communication to the chief secretaries of all states and Union territories made an announcement in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tn-to-discuss-impact-of-removing-restrictions-on-inter-state-travel/articleshow/77714828.cms||D Govardan
August 24, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu govt to discuss impact of removing restrictions on inter-state travel||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu government is likely to discuss and review the implications of removing restrictions on inter-state movement of people before taking a call as directed by the Union home ministry. The meeting, to be chaired by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, could take place sometime this week. In a letter to chief secretaries of various states, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday told state governments that “there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for such movement”, as part of the Centre’s Unlock-3 plan. Terming such restrictions as “violation of guidelines”, he requested the states and their district administrations to ensure that “MHA guidelines are strictly followed”. In the case of Tamil Nadu, it has brought the intra-state travel of individuals under “auto-approved” mode for e-passes since last Monday. But, inter-state travel requires e-passes, strictly regulated, and adhering to quarantine norms. “We have to discuss and decide. As such there is no restriction for goods movement,” a senior official with the state government told TOI. “If inter-state border is opened for free access, then there is no possibility of contact tracing, if a need arises to monitor people. We have to look at its implication. Even liberalising e-pass has led to huge movement,” the official said, while adding that the chief minister will have to take a call on the date for the meeting. The directive from the Centre has nevertheless come as a welcome development for industries, especially MSMEs, who were largely banking on the return of migrant workers to enable companies to scale up production. The state, in a government order on August 21, added manufacturers of automobiles and their components, components for defence and all export units to the list of industries that can operate on Sundays (when intense lockdown is in place in the state). “The Centre has now directed free movement of people. We have requested the state to permit returning migrant workers, who produce Covid negative certificate from established labs from their place of origin, to resume work. While a fresh test can be taken on arrival, they can be placed under quarantine for a couple of days until the test results come,” M Balachandran, president, Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association (AIEMA) said. “If they test negative once again, they should be allowed to report to work. Small units cannot afford to spend on their 14-day quarantine. In addition, we have also requested the government to permit use of the AIEMA convention centre as a quarantine facility for migrant workers,” Balachandran said. Puducherry: The Puducherry government has abolished the epass system following directions from the Union government. “There is no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for such movements, as per MHA order,” read a message on the Puducherry government’s website. Secretary (home) Ajay Bhalla in an official communication to the chief secretaries of all states and Union territories made an announcement in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-to-discuss-impact-of-removing-restrictions-on-inter-state-travel/articleshow/77714829.cms||D Govardan
August 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||APSCHE moots ceding AU schools to Andhra Pradesh govt||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) has resolved to advise universities to hand over schools maintained by them to the state government. Andhra University has been running two schools, one of them for as long as five decades. These schools were established with an objective of serving academic purposes of the wards of the Andhra University staff and faculty. But the situation is different now with the majority of the employees’ children studying outside the campus schools. Even though majority of the students in these schools currently hail from disadvantaged sections, the government welfare schemes are not being implemented in there. Handing over the schools to the state is expected to yield several benefits to the existing students, such as regular recruitments of teachers, making them eligible for government welfare schemes and better infrastructure under various government schemes. The line of education in schools is also different from the university’s higher education setting. Andhra University vice-chancellor Prof PVGD Prasad Reddy said that the proposal should have the concurrence of the executive council. “At present, none of the schemes of the state government are applicable to AU schools. We shall place the proposal before the executive council in the forthcoming meeting supposed to be conducted sometime in October,” said Prof Reddy. APSCHE also resolved to introduce smart cards to record attendance and restrict unauthorised persons from entering the university campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/apsche-moots-ceding-au-schools-to-govt/articleshow/77709898.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 24, 2020||Surat||Umarpada gets 185 mm rainfall||SURAT: Umarpada taluka has received over 2,876 mm rainfall _ the highest this season in Surat district _ with incessant downpour of up to 185 mm in the last ten hours on Sunday, according to the Surat Disaster Control Room data. Moderate to heavy rains occurred in many parts of South Gujarat on Sunday with Surat city drenched with 74 mm rainfall between 6 am to 4 pm on Sunday. In Surat district, though the situation is getting better in the low-lying areas in Limbayat and Mithi Khadi areas after the floods, the residents are still on the edge as rain continue upstream of Mithi Khadi which bring floods. Palsana received 43 mm and Kamrej got 65 mm rainfall on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/umarpada-gets-185-mm-rainfall/articleshow/77709000.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Minister contracts virus||MIDNAPORE: Saumen Mohapatra, minister-in-charge of the state PHE and environment departments, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday and went into quarantine. Mohapatra said he is asymptomatic and urged people to be careful. “I have tried to stand by the people during the pandemic. And I was not spared by the disease. I am asymptomatic and would urge everybody to be extra cautious. In many cases, people are not even aware that they have been affected, so all precautions need to be taken,” he said. Girish Chandra Bera, the former CMOH of West Midnapore, has also tested positive for Covid-19. He is now the CMOH of Alipurduar and is back at home in Midnapore on leave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/min-contracts-virus/articleshow/77709903.cms||Sujoy Khanra
August 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: IS operative’s home in UP village raided, 9kg of explosives found||NEW DELHI/LUCKNOW: A Delhi Police team that had gone with Islamic State operative Abdul Yusuf Khan to Uttar Pradesh seized an IS flag, a huge cache of explosives, suicide vests and belts, wires and equipment from his house in Beshahi village near Balrampur. One of his neighbours, who is suspected of having helped Khan in testing IEDs, was also questioned. A team from Special Cell and UP STF took Khan to his house on Saturday evening and questioned him on Sunday. Later, they found two jackets filled with explosive packets. On removal, the packets were found wrapped in transparent tape containing explosives and ball bearings and electric wires pasted on a cardboard sheet. Incriminating materials including a brown colour jacket containing 3 explosive packets and a blue colour check jack… https://t.co/xRC3Fjx192— ANI UP (@ANINewsUP) 1598170062000A leather belt containing around 3kg of explosives and 8-9kg of RDX was found packed in plastic wrap. There were also three metal boxes containing explosives and electric wires wrapped in transparent tape. Police also found a broken wooden box used as target practice. Khan had also procured a large amount of ball bearings, lithium batteries, timers and metal casings to make at least a dozen high-intensity IEDs. Khan’s father, Kafeel, and his mother, Ayesha, told police that they were unaware about his connections with groups related to IS. Ayesha claimed that she got a whiff of his activities while he was procuring wires and ball bearings and warned him against getting into “wrong jobs”. The phone through which Khan would get in touch with his handlers has been seized and sent for forensic analysis. The search at the village continued throughout Sunday. In the meantime, prohibitory orders were imposed at Balrampur village and the routes going towards the Indo-Nepal border through the village were sealed. Delhi Police brought Khan back to Delhi for further interrogation on Sunday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/is-operatives-home-in-up-village-raided-9kg-of-explosives-found/articleshow/77709929.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
August 24, 2020||Puducherry||Tamil Nadu govt to discuss impact of removing restrictions on inter-state travel||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu government is likely to discuss and review the implications of removing restrictions on inter-state movement of people before taking a call as directed by the Union home ministry. The meeting, to be chaired by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, could take place sometime this week. In a letter to chief secretaries of various states, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday told state governments that “there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for such movement”, as part of the Centre’s Unlock-3 plan. Terming such restrictions as “violation of guidelines”, he requested the states and their district administrations to ensure that “MHA guidelines are strictly followed”. In the case of Tamil Nadu, it has brought the intra-state travel of individuals under “auto-approved” mode for e-passes since last Monday. But, inter-state travel requires e-passes, strictly regulated, and adhering to quarantine norms. “We have to discuss and decide. As such there is no restriction for goods movement,” a senior official with the state government told TOI. “If inter-state border is opened for free access, then there is no possibility of contact tracing, if a need arises to monitor people. We have to look at its implication. Even liberalising e-pass has led to huge movement,” the official said, while adding that the chief minister will have to take a call on the date for the meeting. The directive from the Centre has nevertheless come as a welcome development for industries, especially MSMEs, who were largely banking on the return of migrant workers to enable companies to scale up production. The state, in a government order on August 21, added manufacturers of automobiles and their components, components for defence and all export units to the list of industries that can operate on Sundays (when intense lockdown is in place in the state). “The Centre has now directed free movement of people. We have requested the state to permit returning migrant workers, who produce Covid negative certificate from established labs from their place of origin, to resume work. While a fresh test can be taken on arrival, they can be placed under quarantine for a couple of days until the test results come,” M Balachandran, president, Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association (AIEMA) said. “If they test negative once again, they should be allowed to report to work. Small units cannot afford to spend on their 14-day quarantine. In addition, we have also requested the government to permit use of the AIEMA convention centre as a quarantine facility for migrant workers,” Balachandran said. Puducherry: The Puducherry government has abolished the epass system following directions from the Union government. “There is no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for such movements, as per MHA order,” read a message on the Puducherry government’s website. Secretary (home) Ajay Bhalla in an official communication to the chief secretaries of all states and Union territories made an announcement in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/tn-to-discuss-impact-of-removing-restrictions-on-inter-state-travel/articleshow/77714826.cms||D Govardan
August 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu govt to discuss impact of removing restrictions on inter-state travel||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu government is likely to discuss and review the implications of removing restrictions on inter-state movement of people before taking a call as directed by the Union home ministry. The meeting, to be chaired by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, could take place sometime this week. In a letter to chief secretaries of various states, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday told state governments that “there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for such movement”, as part of the Centre’s Unlock-3 plan. Terming such restrictions as “violation of guidelines”, he requested the states and their district administrations to ensure that “MHA guidelines are strictly followed”. In the case of Tamil Nadu, it has brought the intra-state travel of individuals under “auto-approved” mode for e-passes since last Monday. But, inter-state travel requires e-passes, strictly regulated, and adhering to quarantine norms. “We have to discuss and decide. As such there is no restriction for goods movement,” a senior official with the state government told TOI. “If inter-state border is opened for free access, then there is no possibility of contact tracing, if a need arises to monitor people. We have to look at its implication. Even liberalising e-pass has led to huge movement,” the official said, while adding that the chief minister will have to take a call on the date for the meeting. The directive from the Centre has nevertheless come as a welcome development for industries, especially MSMEs, who were largely banking on the return of migrant workers to enable companies to scale up production. The state, in a government order on August 21, added manufacturers of automobiles and their components, components for defence and all export units to the list of industries that can operate on Sundays (when intense lockdown is in place in the state). “The Centre has now directed free movement of people. We have requested the state to permit returning migrant workers, who produce Covid negative certificate from established labs from their place of origin, to resume work. While a fresh test can be taken on arrival, they can be placed under quarantine for a couple of days until the test results come,” M Balachandran, president, Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association (AIEMA) said. “If they test negative once again, they should be allowed to report to work. Small units cannot afford to spend on their 14-day quarantine. In addition, we have also requested the government to permit use of the AIEMA convention centre as a quarantine facility for migrant workers,” Balachandran said. Puducherry: The Puducherry government has abolished the epass system following directions from the Union government. “There is no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for such movements, as per MHA order,” read a message on the Puducherry government’s website. Secretary (home) Ajay Bhalla in an official communication to the chief secretaries of all states and Union territories made an announcement in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tn-to-discuss-impact-of-removing-restrictions-on-inter-state-travel/articleshow/77714827.cms||D Govardan
August 24, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu govt to discuss impact of removing restrictions on inter-state travel||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu government is likely to discuss and review the implications of removing restrictions on inter-state movement of people before taking a call as directed by the Union home ministry. The meeting, to be chaired by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, could take place sometime this week. In a letter to chief secretaries of various states, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday told state governments that “there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for such movement”, as part of the Centre’s Unlock-3 plan. Terming such restrictions as “violation of guidelines”, he requested the states and their district administrations to ensure that “MHA guidelines are strictly followed”. In the case of Tamil Nadu, it has brought the intra-state travel of individuals under “auto-approved” mode for e-passes since last Monday. But, inter-state travel requires e-passes, strictly regulated, and adhering to quarantine norms. “We have to discuss and decide. As such there is no restriction for goods movement,” a senior official with the state government told TOI. “If inter-state border is opened for free access, then there is no possibility of contact tracing, if a need arises to monitor people. We have to look at its implication. Even liberalising e-pass has led to huge movement,” the official said, while adding that the chief minister will have to take a call on the date for the meeting. The directive from the Centre has nevertheless come as a welcome development for industries, especially MSMEs, who were largely banking on the return of migrant workers to enable companies to scale up production. The state, in a government order on August 21, added manufacturers of automobiles and their components, components for defence and all export units to the list of industries that can operate on Sundays (when intense lockdown is in place in the state). “The Centre has now directed free movement of people. We have requested the state to permit returning migrant workers, who produce Covid negative certificate from established labs from their place of origin, to resume work. While a fresh test can be taken on arrival, they can be placed under quarantine for a couple of days until the test results come,” M Balachandran, president, Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association (AIEMA) said. “If they test negative once again, they should be allowed to report to work. Small units cannot afford to spend on their 14-day quarantine. In addition, we have also requested the government to permit use of the AIEMA convention centre as a quarantine facility for migrant workers,” Balachandran said. Puducherry: The Puducherry government has abolished the epass system following directions from the Union government. “There is no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for such movements, as per MHA order,” read a message on the Puducherry government’s website. Secretary (home) Ajay Bhalla in an official communication to the chief secretaries of all states and Union territories made an announcement in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-to-discuss-impact-of-removing-restrictions-on-inter-state-travel/articleshow/77714830.cms||D Govardan
August 24, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 paves way for e-learning, but deepens digital divide among students||Dehradun: One of the significant shifts seen due to the Covid-19 pandemic has been the move towards online learning adopted by schools. However, the exponential rise of e-education in the last four to five months has also led to a digital divide among students, that is, the proportion of students having accessibility to smartphones, computer and internet at home, to those who don’t, especially in the context of students of government schools. According to the state education department, around 4 lakh school students (both primary and secondary) out of the 7 lakh registered students in the state are attending online learning through various mediums. Mohit Upadhyay, principal of Government Primary School Khamarauli, Kalsi block in Dehradun, elucidates this problem when he says,“The biggest concern is that most of the students are using a mobile phone which is usually shared by the entire family. This limits their availability for mobile classes. Also, there are many students who don’t have smartphones or their parents aren’t tech-savvy enough to help them access online learning resources. He added that they are trying to get around the problem by “getting teachers who live in proximity to students to go across and help them understand their lessons.” Another issue being faced by students is inability to adjust to the online mode of teaching which is also leading to learning issues. Sonika Ramola, a government school teacher in Almora, said many teachers are finding it hard to get the student’s attention while teaching. She added that it has “severely impacted their pace of covering the syllabus.” Seema Jaunsari, director (academic research and training), Uttarakhand education department when queried about the matter said that their efforts are to ensure that all students are able to receive their learning materials. “Worksheets are being provided through WhatsApp. And for those who don’t have smartphones, we are handing out hard copies and guiding them about how to proceed with their studies whenever the students or their parents come to collect their mid-day meal’s cash compensation. We are also delivering worksheets to the houses of those students who are unable to come to the school.” Educationists meanwhile say that the government must take steps to address this digital gap otherwise, there is a possibility that many students may drift away from schooling which would be an unfortunate fallout of the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-paves-way-for-e-learning-but-deepens-digital-divide-among-students/articleshow/77708100.cms||Mohammad Anab
August 24, 2020||Patna||2,247 new Covid cases, 9 deaths in Bihar in 24 hours||PATNA: Bihar registered 80.6% recovery rate on Sunday and 2,247 fresh Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours. While nine more Covid patients died in the hospitals, 3,082 more recovered from the virus infection. Altogether 1,22,156 people have been tested positive for the virus and 98,454 discharged so far in the state. The death toll has mounted to 610. The state has registered 14% improvement in recovery rate in 10 days as it was only 66.1% on August 13. Bihar’s positivity rate is also low at 2.1% as the new cases per day has been below 3,000 on the last five days after the health department ramped up contact tracing, containments and testing capacity in the state. As per the health department’s bulletin, there were 23,092 active cases in Bihar. “The number of samples testing in Bihar has crossed 24 lakh mark with 1,01,036 tests conducted in the state in the last 24 hours. Total number of testing has reached up to 24,32,497 in Bihar so far,” state health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted. Among the 9 fresh causalities, six belonged to Samastipur, taking the corresponding tally to 21 in the district. Two from Katihar and one from Purnia also died due to the virus infection. The number of daily Covid cases has also declined in Patna district. On Sunday, Patna reported 203 fresh cases, taking the corresponding tally to 18,886. With 15,731 recoveries so far, the district still had 3,039 active cases. Patna has reported 116 Covid deaths so far. The district has 83.2% recovery rate, better than that of the state. Other districts with maximum number of Covid cases reported on Sunday were Begusarai (159), Muzaffarpur (127), Saharsa (120), Bhagalpur (115), Katihar (96) and Gaya (81). Six Covid patients died at AIIMS-Patna on Saturday, including two doctors — one each from Patna and Muzaffarpur. AIIMS-Patna bulletin said Dr Deepak Kumar (44) from Kadamkuan in Patna and Dr VBP Sinha (74) from Nayatola in Muzaffarpur succumbed to Covid-19. The other deceased from Patna included a 70-year-old man from Agamkuan, a 57-year-old man from Bihta and a 72-year-old woman from Bhootnath Road area. A 68-year-old man from Saharsa also died at AIIMS-P. Two men aged 68 and 75 years from Shikarpur and Alamganj respectively died at NMCH due to Covid, said its nodal officer Dr Mukul Kumar Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2247-new-covid-cases-9-deaths-in-bihar-in-24-hours/articleshow/77708997.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Riots book row: Authors allege breach of contract||NEW DELHI: The authors of the book, Delhi Riots 2020, have written to Bloomsbury alleging “breach of contract” and said the action “will invite civil and criminal liabilities”. The publishing house withdrew the book on Saturday. The decision continued to be widely debated on social media. Among those who spoke out against the withdrawal included writer and director of London’s Nehru Centre, Amish Tripathi, and academic Makarand Paranjape. Among those who defended it were actor Swara Bhaskar and writer Nilanjana Roy. One of the book’s three authors, Monika Arora, an advocate in the Supreme Court, put out an email letter addressed to Bloomsbury’s Paul Kumar on Twitter, saying they would take legal recourse. “This is breach of contract, unethical and unprofessional conduct. This will invite civil and criminal liabilities and you will be liable to pay damages to the authors for damaging their reputation, disowning them publicly, causing mental agony...” she wrote. The letter is also signed by the book’s other authors, Sonali Chitalkar and Prerna Malhotra. Arora also claimed the book was withdrawn due to “pressure from Bloomsbury UK, which in turn was pressurised by the social media campaign (against the book) on Twitter”. In another tweet, Arora wrote, “Nation must know truth of #DelhiRiotsTheUntoldStory”, and announced that Garuda Prakashan would now publish and distribute the book. The debate around “freedom of expression and censorship” continued on social media, with #DelhiRiotsTheUntoldStory remaining one of the two top trends of the day. Some writers such as Sanjay Dixit announced that they would cancel their contracts with the publishing house if it did not cancel the withdrawal. Tripathi tweeted, “If you are an author who believes that only books of your ideological side should get published, then you are an extremist. If you control the platform, then deplatforming is as bad as burning books. The answer to a book is another book. Deplatforming is sophistry.” Paranjape said, “Banning/withdrawing books is not the way to deal with sensitive or controversial content. When @BloomsburyIndia published a book on #ShaheenBagh, why did they withdraw the book on the Delhi riots by @advmonikaarora? Is it just double standards or an illiberal conspiracy afoot?” Supporting the decision, Bhasker wrote, “1. Deciding to not to publish a book is not a ‘Ban’. 2. This isn’t an opinion book. This is a book that’s covering up a riot where people died & the state failed, where there is video evidence of complicity of law enforcement agencies with rioteers. Lies is Not a free speech issue.” Roy posted, “This is not an abstract FoE (Freedom of Expression) argument. The Delhi riots, the hate speech from (Kapil) Mishra, others beforehand — that was real... There’s no defending a book that pushes lies and a dangerous conspiracy theory.” Last week, Arora had announced a virtual book launch, where the guest of honour was politician Mishra, who had allegedly made controversial statements before the northeast Delhi riots earlier this year. Watch Delhi Riots book row: Authors allege breach of contract over withdrawal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/riots-book-row-authors-allege-breach-of-contract/articleshow/77710816.cms||Anam Ajmal
August 24, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu govt to discuss impact of removing restrictions on inter-state travel||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu government is likely to discuss and review the implications of removing restrictions on inter-state movement of people before taking a call as directed by the Union home ministry. The meeting, to be chaired by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, could take place sometime this week. In a letter to chief secretaries of various states, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday told state governments that “there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for such movement”, as part of the Centre’s Unlock-3 plan. Terming such restrictions as “violation of guidelines”, he requested the states and their district administrations to ensure that “MHA guidelines are strictly followed”. In the case of Tamil Nadu, it has brought the intra-state travel of individuals under “auto-approved” mode for e-passes since last Monday. But, inter-state travel requires e-passes, strictly regulated, and adhering to quarantine norms. “We have to discuss and decide. As such there is no restriction for goods movement,” a senior official with the state government told TOI. “If inter-state border is opened for free access, then there is no possibility of contact tracing, if a need arises to monitor people. We have to look at its implication. Even liberalising e-pass has led to huge movement,” the official said, while adding that the chief minister will have to take a call on the date for the meeting. The directive from the Centre has nevertheless come as a welcome development for industries, especially MSMEs, who were largely banking on the return of migrant workers to enable companies to scale up production. The state, in a government order on August 21, added manufacturers of automobiles and their components, components for defence and all export units to the list of industries that can operate on Sundays (when intense lockdown is in place in the state). “The Centre has now directed free movement of people. We have requested the state to permit returning migrant workers, who produce Covid negative certificate from established labs from their place of origin, to resume work. While a fresh test can be taken on arrival, they can be placed under quarantine for a couple of days until the test results come,” M Balachandran, president, Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association (AIEMA) said. “If they test negative once again, they should be allowed to report to work. Small units cannot afford to spend on their 14-day quarantine. In addition, we have also requested the government to permit use of the AIEMA convention centre as a quarantine facility for migrant workers,” Balachandran said. Puducherry: The Puducherry government has abolished the epass system following directions from the Union government. “There is no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for such movements, as per MHA order,” read a message on the Puducherry government’s website. Secretary (home) Ajay Bhalla in an official communication to the chief secretaries of all states and Union territories made an announcement in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-to-discuss-impact-of-removing-restrictions-on-inter-state-travel/articleshow/77709863.cms||D Govardan
August 24, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu govt to discuss impact of removing restrictions on inter-state travel||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu government is likely to discuss and review the implications of removing restrictions on inter-state movement of people before taking a call as directed by the Union home ministry. The meeting, to be chaired by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, could take place sometime this week. In a letter to chief secretaries of various states, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday told state governments that “there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for such movement”, as part of the Centre’s Unlock-3 plan. Terming such restrictions as “violation of guidelines”, he requested the states and their district administrations to ensure that “MHA guidelines are strictly followed”. In the case of Tamil Nadu, it has brought the intra-state travel of individuals under “auto-approved” mode for e-passes since last Monday. But, inter-state travel requires e-passes, strictly regulated, and adhering to quarantine norms. “We have to discuss and decide. As such there is no restriction for goods movement,” a senior official with the state government told TOI. “If inter-state border is opened for free access, then there is no possibility of contact tracing, if a need arises to monitor people. We have to look at its implication. Even liberalising e-pass has led to huge movement,” the official said, while adding that the chief minister will have to take a call on the date for the meeting. The directive from the Centre has nevertheless come as a welcome development for industries, especially MSMEs, who were largely banking on the return of migrant workers to enable companies to scale up production. The state, in a government order on August 21, added manufacturers of automobiles and their components, components for defence and all export units to the list of industries that can operate on Sundays (when intense lockdown is in place in the state). “The Centre has now directed free movement of people. We have requested the state to permit returning migrant workers, who produce Covid negative certificate from established labs from their place of origin, to resume work. While a fresh test can be taken on arrival, they can be placed under quarantine for a couple of days until the test results come,” M Balachandran, president, Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association (AIEMA) said. “If they test negative once again, they should be allowed to report to work. Small units cannot afford to spend on their 14-day quarantine. In addition, we have also requested the government to permit use of the AIEMA convention centre as a quarantine facility for migrant workers,” Balachandran said. Puducherry: The Puducherry government has abolished the epass system following directions from the Union government. “There is no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for such movements, as per MHA order,” read a message on the Puducherry government’s website. Secretary (home) Ajay Bhalla in an official communication to the chief secretaries of all states and Union territories made an announcement in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tn-to-discuss-impact-of-removing-restrictions-on-inter-state-travel/articleshow/77714831.cms||D Govardan
August 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board to shut supply to unravel Greater Kailash-II seepage mystery||NEW DELHI: Following constant water seepage in some basements in Greater Kailash II, Delhi Jal Board (DJB) has decided to shut a 600mm supply line in the affected blocks for 36 hours from Monday evening to find out if there’s any hidden leakage in its main line. The decision was taken after Central Ground Water Board visited the basements and nearby parks following a complaint from residents about the non-stop seepage from unknown sources for over a month. The board then wrote to the DJB member (water supply) for shutting down the newly laid pipeline for some time. Once the line is shut, a groundwater board team will install equipment at various places in M, S and E blocks to find out the source. “If there’s a leakage, chances are high that the underground water level has risen,” said a Delhi Jal Board official. Water tankers will be made available in all blocks so that residents don’t feel any inconvenience, he said, adding that DJB had informed locals. Meanwhile, the seepage problem is spreading to other blocks too. Local MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj, who also visited the area, said thatt though no leakage had been detected in the water pipeline by the leakage detection unit on Friday, the supply would be stopped to help the central team detect the reason behind the seepage. “However, water supply in other areas like CR Park, Alaknanda and DDA flats in Kalkaji will remain normal,” he said. A similar issue was reported in Nizamuddin West sometime ago, which was eventually connected to an increase in the local groundwater level, the MLA pointed out. Some basements were even sealed, he added. “At Greater Kailash-II, we are assuming seepage from active aquifers or an increase in the groundwater level due to shutting down of tubewells on National Green Tribunal’s direction,” Bharadwaj said, adding that during the visit to parks, he had found water at 10-foot depth in tubewells. On Saturday, the GK-II residents welfare association wrote to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and the DJB CEO. The deputy mayor of South Delhi Municipal Corporation and area councillor Subhash Badhana also visited a few sites and directed the horticulture department to pump out groundwater from all tubewells from the parks at GK-II, said RWA president Sanjay Rana. “Super suckers were also deployed to desilt clogged drains in E Block on Saturday,” Rana added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/djb-to-shut-supply-to-unravel-gk-ii-seepage-mystery/articleshow/77710821.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 24, 2020||Pune||Instts expect rise in cut-off for FYJC||Pune: The first provisional merit list for admissions to first year junior college (FYJC) in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad was announced by the Central Admission Procedure (CAP) Committee on Sunday. Meanwhile, if the cut-off mark of the in-house quota is anything to go by, major colleges in the city are expecting even higher cut-off marks in the general merit list, thanks to students from across the state getting a chance to compete in the round. Chandrakant Raval, principal of Brihan Maharashtra College of Commerce (BMCC), said, “For our FYJC grant division, the in-house cut-off mark was 443 and 48 students confirmed their admission. For our non-grant division, 409 was the cut-off mark and 12 students confirmed admission. All admissions are routed through the government portal. There is stiff competition and the cut-off has increased as compared to last year even for in-house quota.” All junior colleges have 10% seats reserved under in-house quota. Students, who have passed Std X from a secondary school run by the same management within the same division are eligible for in-house quota admission. If the educational institute is not affiliated with a secondary school up to Std X, it will not have such an in-house quota. While the quota admissions were to end on August 23, the deadline was extended to August 25 for students, who could not confirm their admissions because they failed to receive a One Time Password (OTP) sent by the centralized portal. Meanwhile, other students, who have not confirmed their admission in the zero round must check the provisional general merit list for any error in their application and allocation. If the student finds an error, s/he needs to submit an ‘objection/correction request’ against the general merit through the Grievance Redressal Module in student login within the admission portal by August 25. Students can fill up Part 2 of the online forms and lock it until August 25, 3pm. Vice principal of Fergusson College Narayan Kulkarni said, “We get a lot of students from Marathwada and other areas for FYJC. Even students from across other schools in Pune and other boards apply in the general round. Hence, we will get the true picture of this year’s academic merit on August 30, when the cut-off mark of the first general merit list will be displayed. With a high pass percentage in all boards across the state for Std X this year and higher marks achieved in the above-90% category, cut-off mark in the first list is sure to be higher than last year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/instts-expect-rise-in-cut-off-for-fyjc/articleshow/77709931.cms||Ardhra Nair
August 24, 2020||Pune||SPPU forms committee for NEP awareness||Pune: Savitribai Phule Pune University has formed a four-member committee to spread awareness about the National Education Policy (NEP) among its stakeholders. Stating that there are many rumours floating around about the policy, the committee intends to dispel the rumours and give authentic information so that they can better prepare for the implementation stage. Sanjay Chakane, principal, Arts, Science and Commerce College, is one of the members of the committee. He said that the aim of the committee was to take online meetings, presentations etc and spread correct information about the NEP among its stakeholders. “Our stakeholders include, students, teachers, non-teaching staff among others. All of them know that a new policy has come about but most of them have not read the entire policy. There were fears among some professors that with NEP in place, teachers with the knowledge of only one subject would be redundant or that the new system of academic progress (5+3+3+4) will be detrimental for them. We will be dispelling all the myths being propagated in social media and others regarding this,” Chakane said. He added that the university also aims to ensure that all stakeholders know the change before it is implemented. “We do not know when the implementation would begin. Our aim is to make sure whenever it does, all staff including our non-teaching staff is prepared,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppu-forms-committee-for-nep-awareness/articleshow/77709920.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Lucknow||212 employees in Covid net, KGMU plans mass testing of all 9,000 staff||Lucknow: Even as more Covid-19 cases, including pro-vice-chancellor Prof GP Singh and two faculty members, were reported in the King George’s Medical University on Sunday, the varsity decided to conduct mass testing of all its 9,000 employees in one go to break the chain of novel coronavirus infection on the campus. University spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh said that the pro-VC got himself tested after developing minor symptoms and is home quarantined. With this the entire top brass of the varsity, including newly appointed vice-chancellor Lt Gen Dr Bipin Puri, chief medical superintendent Prof SN Shankhwar and medical superintendent Prof BK Ojha, is now 'isolated’ after testing Covid-19 positive. Several heads of the departments, including microbiology head and incharge of the testing facility Prof Amita Jain, have also tested positive in the past few days. RegistrarAshutosh Dubey is also in self isolation, though not been tested yet. As the outbreak threatened to paralyse services, despite having Covid-19 and in isolation, the VC took charge of the situation and took several decisions in an online meeting with officials to contain the outbreak. “The decision of mass testing has been taken to identify and isolate infected personnel so that the chain of transmission can be broken. All the tests will be done through the RT-PCR method. The drive will most likely start from Tuesday,” said the spokesperson. There are nearly around 500 faculty members, about 1100 resident doctors, 2,200 permanent employees and around 6,000 ad hoc personnel on university rolls. Extra guards were deployed at the three Triage areas from Sunday itself to check overcrowding and CCTV cameras were activated to keep 24X7 vigil on violators. The triage is an area where all patients report for Covid-19 screening before being referred to departments. Over 212 positive cases - 30 professors, 88 resident doctors, 18 nurses and 76 employees - have been reported in the university so far. Of these, about 70% have come in the past 10 days. Teachers, who did not wish to be quoted, said that the many cases are unreported. Apart from employees, many patients and their attendants, who are admitted after testing negative, are later being found to be positive after contracting infection during treatment. Some of them even suggested a lockdown on the campus for a few days or KGMUbeing declared a containment zone with restricted entry. TOI has been repeatedly highlighting how KGMU, that has been leading the fight against Covid-19 in UP, plunged into crisis because of laxity in safety protocol at the Triage areas and other parts on the campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/212-employees-in-covid-net-kgmu-plans-mass-testing-of-all-9000-staff/articleshow/77710802.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh sees 7,900 new cases, 93 deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 7,895 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the lowest single-day case total in the last one week, taking the cumulative caseload to 3,53,111. The toll increased to 3,282 as 93 more people succumbed to the disease. As many as 7,449 Covid-19 patients were declared cured on Sunday. AP on Sunday became the first state in the country to test more than 60,000 people per million population. The state reported an average 3% daily new cases in the last one week. The mortality rate stood at 0.92% as of Sunday. There are currently 89,742 active cases with 2,60,087 cumulative recoveries and 3,282 deaths. The recovery rate stands at 73.7%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-sees-7-9k-new-cases-93-deaths/articleshow/77709940.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: Covid fears force some families to defer festivities to February||PANAJI: For the state’s Hindus, Ganesh Chaturthi is much more than a festival. It is a time family members spend praying, cooking and eating together at the ancestral home, in an annual ritual of sorts. But as Covid-19 cases continue to rise, some families have taken a decision to defer the festivities, heartbreaking as it is for them. Most of these families will now be getting their beloved Ganapati bappa on the occasion of Ganesh Jayanti, during the Hindu calendar month of Magh, which will be in the second half of February. Businessman Manguirish Pai Raiker’s family sees at least 65 to 70 members descending at the family home in Savoi Verem in Ponda taluka each year for Ganesh Chaturthi. “We took the decision to defer celebrations to safeguard the elderly members of the family. No matter how much precautions we take, we would have to purchase so many fruits, flowers, vegetables from the markets. We have family members coming down for the festival from different parts of Goa as well as from outside the state. So we felt it was prudent to defer the celebrations,” said Pai Raiker. He said that as it is hoped that a vaccine may be available within the next three months, the family is positive the celebrations will be possible in February. “The shastra (scriptures) themselves show us the way, where it says that if you cannot observe Ganesh Chaturthi for some reason than you can do the same on Ganesh Jayanti day. This is a year of survival. If we survive the pandemic then we can have a grand celebration next year,” said Pai Raiker. Aditi Sardesai’s family had already started the preparations for Ganesh Chaturthi as usual, to be celebrated at their ancestral home in Madkai. But as Covid-19 cases showed an increase, a decision was taken just a week ahead of the festival to defer celebrations until February. “In February, on Ganesh Jayanti, it will be only a day-long celebration, where the idol is brought home in the morning and immersed in the evening the same day. As there is rise in cases, we did not want to risk it. We have around 20 to 25 members gathering in Madkai. My father-in-law is the head for the clan and he called up family members to ask their opinion and the decision was unanimous,” said Sardesai. She said that on Ganesh Chaturthi day, the family made the usual vegetarian spread on a smaller scale, similar to the one offered during the celebrations. The durva herb was offered to the Ganesh idol at the place of worship at home instead. Bussinesswoman Pooja Pai Khot said that both her maternal family as well at her in-law’s home it was decided to go for a February celebration. “My mum lives in Panaji and there are some cases in the vicinity and so the decision was taken. At my maternal home, they are likely to celebrate it during Navratri in the coming month. In the case of my in-laws’ family, around 40 to 45 members come down to the ancestral home in Canacona from all over Goa. There are members with ages ranging from 1 to 84 years and the celebration was deferred as a precaution,” said Pai Khot. The family in Canacona will be holding the celebrations on Ganesh Jayanti day now, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-fears-force-some-families-to-defer-festivities-to-february/articleshow/77710817.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
August 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC orders cases of Tablighi foreigners to be transferred||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court has ordered the transfer of a batch of cases pending against 27 foreign nationals, who attended a Tablighi Jamaat event, to the Saket district court so that they are swiftly decided. The foreigners allegedly indulged in missionary activities in violation of visa norms and flouted Covid-19 guidelines. The high court was hearing petitions filed by some of the foreigners who submitted that they had been released after paying fines but were unable to leave the country due to similar pending FIRs. Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani directed that the chargesheets arising out of different FIRs mentioned in four petitions be transferred from different trial courts in Delhi to the court of chief metropolitan magistrate, South-East Delhi, Saket district court, after the counsel for the foreigners urged the court to issue directions similar to the one by the Supreme Court on August 6 on the transfer of cases. The Centre and Delhi government said they had no objection to it. The court also directed that the records of all these matters be transferred to the court of chief metropolitan magistrate, Saket court. The plea said in each of these cases, the offences alleged in the FIRs were either the same as those alleged in the earlier FIR, in which they had pleaded guilty or no offence was made out. Meanwhile, central government standing counsel Ajay Digpaul submitted that look out circulars (LoCs) against these foreign nationals were issued by the Bureau of Immigration, Ministry of Home Affairs at the request and instance of the investigating agency. Once criminal cases are closed in accordance with law and a request for closing the LoCs is received, the Union of India will have no objection to closing all LoCs and permitting the petitioners to exit the country, he added. The foreigners said they have already admitted their guilt in the FIR lodged by Delhi Police’s Crime Branch and pleaded for lenient punishment under the provisions of plea bargaining. Their deportation orders were also issued, added their counsel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-orders-cases-of-tablighi-foreigners-to-be-transferred/articleshow/77710826.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Trichy||Sun rays fall on Kasi Viswanathar temple Sivalingam in annual event||Trichy: The auspicious event of sun rays falling over the Sivalingam at Arulmigu Kasi Viswanathar temple in Sarkarplayaman near Trichy was observed as a low-key event on Sunday. The annual event saw a significant drop in footfall of devotees due to complete Covid-19 lockdown being observed on Sundays.The temple, situated near Cauvery river, is believed to have been built by the Chola emperor Karikala Cholan. Annually, during the 7th, 8th and 9th days of the Tamil month of Aavani (August-September), the sun rays would fall directly on the temple’s Sivalingam for three continuous days. On Sunday, from 6 am to 6.30 am, the sunlight fell on the the 2.25 feet tall idol of the chief deity in sanctum sanctorum. Special prayers were offered by the temple priests for world peace and relief from Covid-19 outbreak.Usually, the annual event witnesses thousands of people gathering from various parts of the state. However, due to the ongoing lockdown and absence of public transportation, only around 30 people visited the shrine. “Devotees usually throng the temple during the special occasion. As the auspicious event has fallen during the complete lockdown, only believers in the neighbourhood came to the temple,” Meenatchi Sundaram, temple priest said.The temple priests said that crowd control measures were in place in the temple as more people are anticipated on Monday and Tuesday. The temple that remained closed since the Covid-19 outbreak in March 2020 reopened for observing the special event on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sun-rays-fall-on-kasi-viswanathar-temple-sivalingam-in-annual-event/articleshow/77709907.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Trichy||Heavy rain brings relief to Trichiites||Trichy: Heavy rain lashed parts of Trichy on Sunday evening. Most parts of the city, including the suburbs, experienced a sudden downpour coupled with gusty wind and lightning. The showers provided a relief to the denizens who have been reeling under hot and humid conditions for the past few weeks. Most parts of the city including Thillai Nagar, Palakkarai, Ponmalai, Cantonment and the airport area witnessed rain for 2-3 hours from around 6 pm. “The convectional rains have lashed most of the central districts including Ariyalur and Perambalur. Such rains will continue for the next few days but the intensity of the downpour will be low,” Mannargudi based independent weather observer N Selvakumar said. He added that good rains shall return to Trichy and the central region from the first week of September as there is a possibility of low-pressure area forming over the South Bay of Bengal and adjoining Indian ocean. “For a week from September 4, there is a possibility of all the districts in the state substantial heavy rain,” he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/heavy-rain-brings-relief-to-trichiites/articleshow/77709925.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Goa||Panaji’s lungs may get bigger, urban forest proposed along Miramar beach||PANAJI: The state government has proposed to create an urban forest in the state capital along the Miramar-Caranzalem beach front. Around 18 hectares land, owned by the state, could be developed into greenery under the Centre’s Nagar Van (urban forest) scheme. A proposal by the forest department and the directorate of urban development suggests that the land, already overrun by vegetation, could be converted into a coastal buffer zone by planting endemic trees and resilient shrubs. Officials from the principal chief conservator of forests, directorate of urban development and Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Limited (IPSCDL) conducted an inspection on Friday to understand the proposal’s viability. The Centre has floated the ‘Nagar Van’ scheme, which aims to create 200 urban forests over a period of five years. While the main objective is to protect forest land from degradation and encroachment, the government also hopes that urban forests will aid in pollution mitigation and make cities resilient. Interestingly, while the scheme stipulates that a minimum area of 10 hectares must be covered, CM Pramod Sawant has urged Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar to reduce the minimum area for urban forests from the proposed 10 hectares to four to five hectares for Goa. Though the state has 18 hectares in its possession, Sawant said that Goa does not have large chunks of land in urban areas. Deputy inspector general of forests with the National Afforestation and Eco-Development Board, Anand Kumar Prabhakar, recently wrote to the state government with the scheme’s guidelines asking the state to prepare a detailed project report. Prabhakar said that the union ministry for forests, environment and climate change would bear the expenses for fencing the urban forests and for setting up water conservation steps. Expenditure for tree plantation, and other infrastructure should be borne through state government funds or through NGOs and corporate entities. A grant of up to Rs 2 crore will be provided for each urban forest with the ministry estimating that Rs 415 crore will be required for the nationwide project. Given that Rs 2 crore will be insufficient, the state government has proposed to utilise funds from the Smart City Mission for the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panajis-lungs-may-get-bigger-urban-forest-proposed-along-miramar-beach/articleshow/77710827.cms||Newton Sequeira
August 24, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh sees 7,900 new cases, 93 deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 7,895 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the lowest single-day case total in the last one week, taking the cumulative caseload to 3,53,111. The toll increased to 3,282 as 93 more people succumbed to the disease. As many as 7,449 Covid-19 patients were declared cured on Sunday. AP on Sunday became the first state in the country to test more than 60,000 people per million population. The state reported an average 3% daily new cases in the last one week. The mortality rate stood at 0.92% as of Sunday. There are currently 89,742 active cases with 2,60,087 cumulative recoveries and 3,282 deaths. The recovery rate stands at 73.7%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-sees-7-9k-new-cases-93-deaths/articleshow/77715312.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hubballi||Ganesh Chaturthi a low-key affair in Dharwad||Dharwad: The usual hustle and bustle, processions, music, dance and bursting of crackers were missing as the city celebrated Ganesha Chaturthi on Saturday. Thanks to restrictions on public celebration of the festival due to Covid-19 pandemic, people preferred to stay at home and celebrate the festival with family members and limited number of relatives. Nearly 90% of Ganesh Mandals had decided not to install idols this time, and, as a result the important junctions in the city which used to witness people queuing up to have darshan of Lord Ganesha wore a deserted look. Businessmen in the Super Market, who used to install a large sized idol in a big pandal, chose to install the idol in a lorry. They performed pooja and instead of keeping the idol for seven days made it a one-day affair and immersed the idol in the evening. Uday Yandigeri, a member of the Mandal said the situation had forced them cut down on expenditure and fanfare. Thanks to continuous campaign launched by various government and non-government agencies against the use of idols made of Plaster of Paris (PoP), people preferred to buy idols made of clay. Veer Savarkar Geleyara Balaga of Malamaddi, which used to install the idol for three days and take it out for immersion in a grand procession involving cultural troupes and women drummers from Maharashtra, celebrated the festival in a simple way. They performed Gana homa and immersed the idol in the evening in a make-shift well. Vidyagiri police sub-inspector ST Dasaraddi, RSS leader Shridhar Nadgir and others offered pooja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ganesh-chaturthi-a-low-key-affair-in-dharwad/articleshow/77708130.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Colleges face heat over backlog issue||PUNE: Many students who could not appear for the semester examination over not meeting the mandatory attendance rules, those with multiple backlogs and students with “golden” paper remaining, are in a fix as many colleges are refusing to admit them. Mahesh Kakade, director of Savitribai Phule Pune University’s board of examination and evaluation, said, “The directives are very clear. Colleges should take responsibility for these students and ensure that their year is not wasted. The state government notification on May 8 which is based on the recommendations of the vice chancellors’ committee, made it is clear that all students should be promoted and exams taken as and when the situation permits. Moreover, the university’s circular number 93 on May 16, which was based on the state directive, had again said that all students will be promoted to the next level. Whenever the exams happen, then the continuity of his or her admission will be decided.” Kakade said it was not a student’s fault that exams were not happening and he or she was not able to clear the backlog. “Hence, provisional admission must be given by colleges as it is natural justice. Whenever the exams happen, these provisional admissions can be converted to confirmed admissions based on the result of the student. If we get a complaint from the students against a college, appropriate action will be taken after verifying the truth,” he said. Colleges having already started online classes for the next semester and many students have no clue about what to do. One of the worst affected are first-year law students of 2019-20 batch. Many students attended the first semester for hardly a month as their admissions were delayed, and then attended the second semester for a mere 10 days or so before the lockdown was announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/colleges-face-heat-over-backlog-issue/articleshow/77709946.cms||Ardhra Nair
August 24, 2020||Pune||With augmented reality, next level changes in tech||Augmented Reality (AR) may very well be the next transformative technology after the Internet. Experts predict that AR will bring the 8th mass media revolution after print, recordings, cinema, radio, television, the Internet and the cell phone. AR has the potential and ability to considerably enhance our daily life by making our work quicker, easier and safer than ever before. So, what’s the deal? Is it just a hype or can it really propel humans to achieve the next level of proficiency? AR means enhancing the physical world around us with a supplementary digital overlay of useful information. For example, if you are a cricket enthusiast, then you must know Decision Review System (DRS). During an LBW appeal, AR is used to trace the actual path of the ball it travels after it leaves the hand of the bowler. Now anyone can experience AR anytime anywhere. You just need a amartphone with a camera and an AR app. One may have tried face filters on social media apps. In near future AR will be used in AR glasses, which you wear like a pair of regular spectacles to make this interaction seamless. Experts are finding myriad interesting utilities and use cases for AR ranging from medical science to engineering to space and even farming. This leads us to what we consider one of the most powerful uses of AR — in education. Many systematic researches around the world and field studies conducted by ARious, where almost 800 students participated in an AR experience drive, have proven that AR significantly helps a child understand the concept better. Learning about intricate structures of an animal cell is a basic example. Let us compare reading about animal cell structures or watching a video against exploring it intimately using an AR app. While simply reading and looking at a 2D image still gives you a decent understanding, watching a video makes the concept clearer. AR takes it one step further by allowing you to interact with a virtual 3D model. Teachers can use AR to make lessons even more engaging. It can be utilized offline as well as online. Most of the video conferencing solutions have screen sharing option. Teachers can simply turn that option followed by starting an educational AR app in which they have the lesson for the day. We received many requests from the teaching community to help them get acquainted with the technology and reap the benefits. As a result, we have initiated a series of free online webinars “Harnessing the power of AR for Science Education”. More importantly, with individualized AR, the student has an infinitely patient guide, capable of endlessly repeating the lesson. AR is one of the fastest growing and influential technologies right now. The world will soon need developers/designers to build AR tools. Keeping this in mind few universities and colleges have started courses and modules to teach the necessary skills required to build it. The writer is the co-founder and CEO of ARious — AR for Curious (https://arious.app)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/with-augmented-reality-next-level-changes-in-tech/articleshow/77709938.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Trichy||Farmers call for releasing water in 17 canals||Trichy: As farmers from Trichy district have commenced preparatory works for raising nursery to cultivate early samba paddy on around 50,000 acres, they have appealed to PWD to release water from all 17 canals without any interruption. The canals include Uyyakondan and old and new high-level Kattalai channels. Already, 18,000 cusecs of water has been released from Mettur reservoir for delta irrigation. As water flows across the Mayanur regulator, the PWD started releasing water in some of the canals. However, farmers have demanded that water be released in all 17 irrigation channels by stepping up discharge so that the water reaches the tail-end of the canals in the district. PWD officials say the demand of all the 17 irrigation canals was around 4,400 cusecs. Considering the ongoing desilting works in Uyyakondan canal, minimum quantum of water has been released there. However, excessive growth of hyacinth was blocking the flow in the canal which can be cleared by releasing more quantum of water.  About 25,000 acres of land is irrigated by Uyyakondan canal from villages like Pettaivaithalai, Sirugamani, Thirupparaithurai, Pulivalam and Kodiyalam besides some parts in Thanjavur too, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam leader Ayilai Sivasuriyan said. “Farmers getting irrigation water from 17 canals would start raising paddy nursery from the first week of September. So, PWD officials should sustain the release of water in all the canals”, Ayilai Sivasuriyan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-call-for-releasing-water-in-17-canals/articleshow/77709934.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
August 24, 2020||Nagpur||MP team to study working of Nagpur Metro||Nagpur: Impressed by the working of Nagpur Metro, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has asked a team of the state’s Metro Rail Corporation (MPMRC) to study it. The MPMRC is building metro trains in Indore and Bhopal. In a meeting held on Thursday, Chouhan told MPMRC officials that MahaMetro had completed two stretches of Nagpur Metro very fast, and he wanted the same to happen in Indore and Bhopal. The minister wants to implement Nagpur’s pattern in the two cities. An MPMRC team will visit Nagpur next month, said sources in MahaMetro. Work on the project had started in May 2015 and the at grade (ground level) stretch on Reach I was ready by September 2017. Reach I (Sitabuldi to Khapri stretch) was commissioned in March 2019, while Reach III (Sitabuldi to Lokmanya Nagar stretch) was thrown open for public in January 2020. It was ready in September 2019, but as dates of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray were not available for inauguration, the opening got delayed. The expected deadline of completion of the project is June 2021, but Covid-19 lockdown has hit it badly. MahaMetro contractors are facing labour shortage as workers have gone back to their native states and are returning to work gradually. Officials are, nevertheless, confident of completing the project within time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mp-team-to-study-working-of-nagpur-metro/articleshow/77704973.cms||Ashish Roy
August 24, 2020||Patna||50% SDOs shuffled ahead of Bihar assembly polls||PATNA: In an important administrative reshuffle ahead of the assembly polls in Bihar, the state government on Sunday posted new sub-divisional officers (SDOs) in around 50% of the subdivisions. The state has a total of 101 subdivisions in 38 districts and new officers were posted in 49 of them. Young IAS officers of 2018-batch have been made the SDOs in 10 subdivisions. The posting of new officers assumes significance as the SDO happens to be the returning officer (RO) in the assembly election and plays a crucial role in conducting elections. All candidates of a particular constituency file their nomination papers before the respective RO. The election results are also notified by the respective ROs. As per a notification issued by the general administrative department (GAD) on Sunday, five of the six SDOs transferred are in Patna district, including those of Patna Sadar, Patna City, Danapur, Masaurhi and Paliganj. Similarly, all the three SDOs of Bhojpur district, namely those of Ara Sadar, Jagdishpur and Piro, have been transferred. Two of three SDOs of Nalanda district have also been transferred. Three SDOs each in Madhubani, Supaul, Begusarai and Samastipur districts have also been replaced by new officers. Of the 10 IAS officers who have posted as SDO for the first time, Nitin Kumar Singh has been posted at Patna Sadar and Vinod Duhan at Danapur. Similarly, IAS officer Vaibhav Shrivastava has been made new SDO of Ara Sadar, Shekhar Anand (Bagaha), Nikhil Dhanraj Nippanikar (Jehanabad), Ms Amrisha Bains (Mohania, Kaimur), Abhishek Ranjan (Madhubani Sadar), Ashutosh Dviwedi (Manihari, Katihar), Smt Sahila (Narkatiyaganj) and Pratibha Rani (Jamui). Among the Bihar administrative service (BAS) officers, Mukesh Ranjan has been transferred from Benippati to Patna City and Mukesh Kumar from Naugachhia to Paliganj. Similarly, Anil Kumar Sinha (DCLR, Kahalgaon) has been made SDO of Masaurhi in Patna district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/50-sdos-shuffled-ahead-of-bihar-assembly-polls/articleshow/77709009.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Delhi||All civic services under one roof: Wait continues||NEW DELHI: New Delhi Municipal Council’s ambitious project to integrate and supervise all 30 civic services through a command and control centre at Palika Kendra is yet to become operational. The first of its kind project that began in mid-2018 included coordination, command and control of civic services like LED street lighting, CCTV surveillance, air quality sensors, smart parking system, Wi-Fi, electricity and water supply, e-hospitals, property tax management, estate management and smart parking. An NDMC official said around 12 services had been integrated so far but the work on other services was pending. “We are yet to float the tender for hiring staff for this centre, who will work in three shifts. Once the inauguration date is finalised, things will move faster,” said the official. “Presently, the centre is operated by the staff from NDMC control room that takes care of complaints. However, the contract of some employees has expired. They will be called back once the hirings begin,” the official said, adding that they are expecting more clarity on the progress of the project by the August-end. Once operational, the project will help in keeping a vigil on the movement of all its service vehicles, such as garbage-lifting trucks and suction machines, mechanical sweepers, and complaints received for specific utility services. Radio frequency identification systems installed at residential dwellings will also help ensure garbage is picked from each house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/all-civic-services-under-one-roof-wait-continues/articleshow/77710829.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 24, 2020||Dehradun||Whistleblower Sanjiv Chaturvedi moves CAT against lateral entry into govt||Nainital: Whistleblower forest service officer Sanjiv Chaturvedi, currently posted as conservator of forests (research) at Haldwani has challenged in the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) the Narendra Modi government’s recently-introduced policy of lateral entry of private professionals to the rank of joint secretaries on contract basis. The officer, apart from seeking restraint on any future hiring through contractual system, has also challenged the constitutionality of the 360-degree appraisal system considered for appointment of an officer for the post of joint secretary. The Allahabad bench of CAT has given the counsel — representing the Centre through cabinet secretary, secretary department of personnel and training (DOPT) and the secretary ministry of environment and forest (MOEF) — time till September 3 to ‘come up with instructions’ on the matter. The order in this regard was issued by the bench of Justice Vijay Lakshmi and Anand Mathur on August 14. In his application before the CAT, Chaturvedi has argued that the contract hiring system is “completely arbitrary and irrational since an officer of the Indian Forest Service, trained and extensively worked in the sector from grassroot-level up to state level for more than 17 years (which in actual practice is 22 years as IFS officers of 1998 batch are just being empanelled) would not be able to get an opportunity to work as joint secretary in the environment and forest sector, while anyone from private sector having much less experience of 15 years, and having no real-time field exposure, to which a IFS officer is subjected to, would be eligible for working at the same post”. Chaturvedi has also asked the CAT to quash the 360-degree appraisal system which involves an expert panel taking opinions from peers, seniors, juniors and other stakeholders while considering an officer for the post of joint secretary. The system, Chaturvedi said in his application, offers an officer “no mechanism to check the veracity and liability of inputs because there is no opportunity for him to put his version or rebut the inputs.” The application adds that this system supersedes the vigilance clearance and integrity evaluation established under the All India Services (Performance Appraisal Report) Rules of 2007. The central government had introduced the lateral entry system in its first term and according to reports, nine professionals were hired at the rank of joint secretaries in 2019 ranging from economic affairs to civil aviation and environment, forests and climate change. Chaturvedi informed the bench that he has already served notice to the state of Uttarakhand while adding that he served a separate notice to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) since the counsel for the Centre also represents the UPSC. However, the counsel appearing for the three secretaries, TC Agarwal, said that he is “not authorised to represent or even receive notices on behalf of the UPSC.” Further, the counsel asked for more time to seek instructions from the department whereupon the court said in its order, “Under these circumstances the applicant is directed to serve fresh notice upon respondent No. 4 (UPSC) through fastest mode of service.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/whistleblower-sanjiv-chaturvedi-moves-cat-against-lateral-entry-into-govt/articleshow/77708135.cms||Prashant Jha
August 24, 2020||Trichy||SI, 56, dies of Covid in Thanjavur||Thanjavur: A 56-year-old sub-inspector who was attached to the Thogur police limit in Thanjavur died of Covid-19 here on Saturday. He was admitted to the medical college hospital in the district on Thursday. According to hospital sources, the deceased was identified as Karunakaran, SI at the Thogur police station near Thirukattuppalli. After developing Covid-19 symptoms, Karunakaran gave his swab sample for test at a primary health centre, where it was confirmed that he was Covid-19 positive on August 17. However, he did not go to hospital and chose to quarantine himself at his house. After he developed severe cold and cough, he was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital in Thanjavur on August 19. He was put under ventilator support till Saturday noon. However, hospital authorities announced that he passed away on Saturday evening. His body was laid to rest at the Thanjavur City Corporation's electric crematorium with full police honours on Saturday. Authorities from the health department have commenced tracing his primary and secondary contacts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/si-56-dies-of-covid-in-thanjavur/articleshow/77709939.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Chennai||Closed beaches leave many desperate, docs warn ensuring distancing tough||Chennai: S Shaariqah went to her grandmother’s place in Palavakkam just to see if the beach was open. It wasn’t and the 20-year-old begged a policeman to allow her to see the sea from the sand. “Seeing my earnestness, he allowed me to use a side road. After a long time, the touch of sand and the sea breeze felt good,” she said. With beaches closed for public due to Covid-19, are Chennaiites getting beach-sick? Many families can be seen enjoying a picnic in parked cars close to beraches. A policeman at the Marina told TOI many people beg him to allow them in. “But since it is closed and not safe, we do not allow. More youngsters come than families,” he said. P Rani, who enjoyed a picnic at Elliot’s beach in Besant Nagar, said watching the sea from a distance was a stress buster. “The ambience and the view help you forget the bad things happening around. I’m sure the beach misses me too,” she said. Many have stories to share about the beach. R Sathish, a media professional, explained how he was in depression and his friends had given up. “It was then that I started visiting the beach often. My relationship with the beach is something very special,” he said. Even the elderly miss the beach. V Sandhya oif Anna Nagar said it brought back so many memories. “Though we live far from it, we would visit it once a month. For us living in Chennai, the beach is more than just a place of recreation,” she said. Dr Rakesh said, “How much ever we run on tar road for a morning jog or indoor yoga or cross fit, we miss placing our feet on the beach sand. Just watching the waves or peeking in to a romantic couple or the sun rising, the breeze, the herbal juice shops is all is badly missed. Thiruvanmiyur beach is open for a stipulated time and walkers seem to keep that beach very clean so I visisted that recently,” he said. Most of Chennai's frisbee teams, runners, trekkers used the beach as their practice spot but now all that has stopped. Many even used it as a therapy. Epidemiologists however said, public spaces, if open with Covid norms, are safe. Corporation officials however said, it is difficult to ensure there is no crowding and social distancing at such large open spaces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/closed-beaches-leave-many-desperate-docs-warn-ensuring-distancing-tough/articleshow/77709947.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Lucknow||Good time for film industry to revitalise content: Imtiaz||Lucknow: Known for his nuanced portrayal of complex relationships, youthful dramas and bringing the most unconventional narratives like ‘Jab We Met’ and ‘Rockstar’ on celluloid, writer, director and storyteller Imtiaz Ali attended the ongoing virtual Metaphor Literature Festival ‘Colloquium’ organised by the Lucknow Expressions Society. An enriching session was held where he talked about his childhood influences, diverse passions inherent in his cinematography and how the youth acts as a major driving force in veering the world towards change and innovation. Kanak Rekha Chauhan, founder, Lucknow Expressions Society, welcomed Imtiaz with a couplet by Iqbal and the session kickstarted with the director talking about how the pandemic can be a good time for the film industry to introspect and revitalise content. “We’re fine, we’ll float, and we will be able to use this pandemic well and hopefully by the end of it we can churn out better quality in terms of production and scripting,” said Ali.  The organisers also had on board ‘Jolly LLB’ fame actor Sayoni with whom the director discussed his fascination and intricate layering of women in his films, how films become an outlet for real life traumas, and how real life couples can actually be unromantic on screen. He shared interesting anecdotes from his childhood of how movies instilled in him awe about metropolitans and the world beyond. “I used to take a train to Calcutta (now Kolkata) alone when I was in sixth standard,” said Ali talking about how train travel became an important part of his growing up and what intrigued him was the ability of being unknown in a train compartment and creating different identities for himself. “I’ve grown up with a lot of commies,” he said, adding that his stint at Hindu College shaped his political outlook which has reflected in songs like ‘Sadda Haq’, a socialist cry in Punjabi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/good-time-for-film-industry-to-revitalise-content-imtiaz/articleshow/77710811.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Trichy||Spl antenatal care for expectant moms in Pudukottai district, says health min||Pudukottai: Among the 5,068 Covid-19 positive cases reported in the district, 200 were pregnant women who were either treated or are undergoing treatment in government hospitals in the district. According to a statement from health minister C Vijaya Baskar, special focus has been given on antenatal care for pregnant mothers in the district, which helped 43 Covid-19 positive mothers to successfully deliver babies. Among them, 29 delivered through caesarean section. Currently, 154 Covid-19 positive pregnant women are undergoing treatment. “Apart from government Ranee’s maternity hospital operating round the clock, Pudukottai government medical college hospital has a dedicated 25-bed maternity ward with advanced equipment for quality treatment,” he said. All the pregnant women are put to Covid-19 test once their delivery dates approach, he said, adding both the mother and child were sent home only after they test negative. Furthermore, their health condition is monitored by primary health centres for the next few weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/spl-antenatal-care-for-expectant-moms-in-pudukottai-district-says-health-min/articleshow/77709942.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Rajkot||Rains throw life out of gear in Saurashtra, north Gujarat||RAJKOT/PALANPUR: Heavy rains continued to lash Saurashtra, Kutch and north Gujarat regions on Sunday which disrupted normal life in several districts. Four persons drowned in flood waters, while an eight-year-old boy died in a house collapse. In Kalavad taluka of Jamnagar, a 70-year-old man drowned in Balambadi Dam. Police said the deceased, Nagji Vala, stepped into the dam water to save his buffalo that had got swept away due to strong currents. In Lodhika taluka of Rajkot district, Dhuven Mawani (25) was swept away in the strong currents of Vansiyari river near Motavada village along with his motorcycle. Mawani was trying to cross a low-level bridge submerged in flood waters. In Kadi town of Mehsana district, 10-year-old Mohemmed Ghanchi died and his six-year-old sister Ayesha was seriously injured when their house collapsed on them due to heavy rain. The house was already in a dilapidated condition. A family of five from Kheralu travelling in a car got swept in flood waters near Tundav village in Unjha taluka of Mehsana on Sunday evening. While the locals were able to save three women, two men drowned. They were identified as Shankar Pandya (72) and his son Naitik Pandya (34). The family was returning after offering prayer at Chamunda Mata temple in Tundav, said Unjha mamlatdar AP P Jhala. Incessant rains resulted in waterlogging in north Gujarat districts of Patan, Sabarkantha, Mehsana, Aravalli and Banaskantha. World Heritage site Rani ki Vav in Patan too witnessed fresh flow of water. Many dams in Saurashtra.are overflowing. While one gate of Raval Dam in Gir Somnath district had to be opened, one of Shingoda Dam gate over Shingoda River was also opened due to increase in water level. As a result, Sanapada village in the downstream of the dam got inundated with waters gushing into several houses. The traffic on Kodinar-Somnath National Highway was disrupted as flood waters gushed on the highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rains-throw-life-out-of-gear-in-saurashtra-n-gujarat/articleshow/77709016.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Pune||2.91 lakh RTE applications, but only 37k confirm seats||Pune: A record 2.91 lakh applications were submitted under the Right to Education Act’s online admission process this year but only 37,494 students have taken admission against a vacancy of 1.15 lakh seats. Lockdown, migration of parents, and refusal by private school managements to admit students under the RTE Act are the reasons for a large number of seats remaining vacant, experts said. Rajendra Singh, working president of Independent English Schools Association (IESA), claims to have 4,300 schools as members most of them in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad areas. Singh said ‘irrational’ rules by the state education department have led to most schools under its wing to boycott the RTE admissions this year. “The state education department has told us to submit Aadhaar cards of the remaining 75% of students to get reimbursement for the 25% students who are admitted for free education under the RTE Act. But, parents of these students are not forthcoming with such details as the apex court has said that Aadhaar cannot be made mandatory. Secondly, when any student from the remaining 75% go abroad or change their schools, the total strength of students changes in consecutive years. The government refuses us reimbursement stating that the strength in the first year is different from the second year,” Singh said. Dinkar Temkar, state in-charge for RTE admissions, and joint director (primary education), said lockdown, is the reason for fewer admissions. “Secondly, many people have migrated due to which confirmation of admission has not been done. We have been telling them to send a mail or call the school and confirm admissions,” Temkar said, adding, “Aadhaar is mandatory to avoid duplication of students.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-91-lakh-rte-applications-but-only-37k-confirm-seats/articleshow/77709953.cms||Ardhra Nair
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana Congress wants Rahul Gandhi as party chief||HYDERABAD: Ahead of the crucial Congress Working Committee meeting on Monday, the old and young brigade of the Congress in Telangana is favouring Rahul Gandhi to take charge as the party president. The state party leaders say that they will abide by the decision of the party but are not in favour of electing a member outside of the Nehru-Gandhi family. There is no representation from Telangana in the CWC. Congress veteran V Hanumanth Rao said it is crucial that a Nehru-Gandhi scion is at the helm of affairs as party cadre is expected to follow them better. He said that Rahul Gandhi has proven to be a great leader. TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy and AICC secretary Ch Vamshichand Reddy said the rank and file of the party would like Rahul Gandhi to take over as AICC president immediately. While Youth Congress state president Anil Kumar Yadav said the youth is eagerly waiting for Rahul Gandhi to take over, former minister Marri Shashidhar Reddy said the Gandhi family alone can keep the party together. Former Union minister Renuka Choudhary, who is among the 23 leaders who have written to Sonia Gandhi seeking a full time party president, was not available for comments in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-cong-wants-rahul-as-party-chief/articleshow/77709969.cms||Roushan Ali
August 24, 2020||Nashik||Centralised O2 line work at DCHCs almost done||Nashik: The work of setting up a centralised oxygen pipeline at the dedicated Covid health centres (DCHC) in all the talukas of the district — to treat patients with moderate symptoms — is approaching completion, said senior officials.District Civil surgeon Suresh Jagdale said the DCHCs attached to the rural hospitals or trauma centres are being equipped with the centralised oxygen pipeline. The aim is to ensure that there is a centralized oxygen supply system in at least one DCHS in every taluka.Currently, the centralized system has been installed at the DCHCs that have been set up in district rural hospitals or trauma centres at Nagarsul in Yeola taluka, Lasalgaon in Niphad taluka, Nandgaon, Satana, Dindori, Igatpuri and Sinnar talukas. The Deolali Camp cantonment hospital, where a covid facility has been set up, also has the system. Officials said the work was also underway at other places in the rural areas of the district, including Malegaon. Patients with moderate symptoms are admitted at the DCHCs. The need for oxygen is felt when they suffer problems like breathlessness. Earlier this month, district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal had asked senior health and administrative officers to ensure that there was sufficient availability of oxygen facilities at the taluka places as well. Medical officers of the Nashik civil hospital and the rural hospitals are working round the clock to ensure that all the facilities are in place at all the Covid facilities across the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/centralised-o2-line-work-at-dchcs-almost-done/articleshow/77708134.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 24, 2020||Nashik||Citizens await city bus services||Nashik: As the state government has allowed intradistrict and the interdistrict bus services run by Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), the citizens of Nashik are awaiting the government’s clearance for city buses. The government has allowed Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) to start its services from September 3 but there is no word on city buses resuming in Nashik yet. Though the MSRTC sources said the services will resume by September 3. “The business, trades and industries have resumed but we are still not able to travel conveniently to our offices as we have to take personal vehicles which is dangerous during monsoon,” said Shruti Kanade, who works with a laboratory in Nashik city. “The government has allowed industries but travelling long distances especially in the night during monsoon on empty roads make things worse for us. Hence, we hope that buses are back on streets,” said Ranjeet Waghmare a resident of Samangaon who works in Ambad industrial area. A senior MSRTC officer said they are ready with the infrastructure to resume bus services once the approval is given. “Though we are not keen on running city bus services but at present when the city does not have any alternative, we will run the services till they are taken over by the local self-governing body” said the officer. The central office is likely to allow the MSRTC to run the buses from September 3, just as the PMPML, the officer said. “We will also start with 25% of buses, which means no more than 40 buses at a time, for shorter distances, with 50% capacity and following all Covid-19 health advisory,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/citizens-await-city-bus-services/articleshow/77708158.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 24, 2020||Goa||GSL warns against fake job advertisement||Panaji: Goa Shipyard Limited (GSL) has warned against fraudulent employment opportunities being advertised in its name and has asked people not to fall prey to such false notifications on social media. GSL general manager for HR Manoranjan Khuntia said that the defence public sector shipyard has noticed that some unscrupulous agencies or persons have been advertising false information about recruitment on various websites and social media on behalf of GSL. The false advertisement for the post of an office assistant trainee asks prospective candidates and job seekers to apply for the job through a private agency. “Candidates are advised not to fall prey to false and fake notifications. Goa Shipyard Ltd does not take any responsibility for such false and fake notifications,” said Khuntia. GSL said that all vacancies at Goa Shipyard Ltd are notified through open advertisement in leading newspapers and on its official website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gsl-warns-against-fake-job-advertisement/articleshow/77711171.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Agra||Video shows Congress Agra district president ‘seeking Rs 3 lakh per month to cease protest’||AGRA: A video that is making rounds in the public domain has landed CongressAgra district president Manoj Dixit in the soup and left his party brass red-faced, with the purported clip showing Dixit “demanding Rs 3 lakh per month to give up protest against private discom Torrent Power”. In the video — purportedly shot at the residence of Congress district general secretary Shahid Ahmed on August 15 — Dixit could be heard demanding an advance of Rs 5 lakh to seal the deal. Dixit could also be purportedly heard saying that “after receiving the payment, Congress would protest against the discom just as a formality to gather public support”. Taking serious cognisance of the matter, Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) chief Ajay Lallu ordered an inquiry into the matter, prompting both Dixit and Ahmed to tender their resignations on Sunday, which the UPCC chief accepted. Backing the residents’ demand for waiver of electricity bills for three months of the long lockdown period, the Congress district president led a massive protest at the Torrent’s office on July 21. Later, she was arrested along with seven party workers and sent to jail. Accusing Dixit of “extorting money from discom through protest”, BJP city president Bhanu Mahajan said, “The video has exposed the malpractices in the party. These leaders are protesting only to compel the discom to buckle to their demands. They are hardly concerned about the public.” Meanwhile, on Sunday morning, Dixit released a video, pleading her innocence before the party workers and the media. “I’m being targeted,” said Dixit in the video. Public relations officer of Torrent power Bhupendra Singh said, “We have nothing to do with the entire matter. The company has not sent anyone to meet the Congress district president. We have no business with her.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cong-dist-president-caught-on-camera-seeking-rs-3l-per-month-to-cease-protest-against-pvt-discom/articleshow/77709034.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 24, 2020||Pune||Katraj murder: One more in police net||PUNE: The crime branch of the Pune police has made one more arrest in connection with the murder of a 28-year-old man, whose body was exhumed from the backyard of a house in Katraj on Friday, five days after he was reported missing by his pregnant wife. This is the second arrest in the case. The suspect — Pratik Suryakant Dakale (21) — was taken into custody from Taljai hill slum pocket on Sunday night. The police had arrested the first suspect from Lonavla on Saturday. Two others are on the run. The murder was the fallout of a quarrel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/katraj-murder-one-more-in-police-net/articleshow/77709979.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Lucknow||Maya aide writes off neta’s fling with BJP||Lucknow: Amid intense speculation of senior BSP leader and party MLA Ram Veer Upadhyay and his son, Chirag, hobnobbing with BJP, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) general secretary and Mayawati’s aide Satish Chandra Mishra on Sunday said, Upadhyay remains suspended from the party since the Lok Sabha elections, when he was accused of helping Opposition candidates. A former minister in the previous BSP government, Ram Veer Upadhyay reportedly met chief minister Yogi Adityanath in Lucknow, sparking off speculation that he’s shifting loyalty to the saffron brigade. On Sunday, Upadhyay’s son reached BJP’s Braj region office in Agra and said he was influenced by the leadership of PM Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Calling himself a Ram Bhakt, Chirag told reporters that BJP was a democratic party. “Ram Veer Upadhyay is a suspended from BSP and is not active in party affairs,” Mishra said. He said, Upadhyay’s son was not even a party member and even if he joins BJP it would not affect the party. Mishra, a Rajya Sabha MP, said BSP was moving ahead with its desired strength. A Brahmin face of the party, Mishra said, members of upper castes, irrespective of their ideologies, were looking up to BSP. “The law and order situation has deteriorated and upper castes are facing a threat in the BJP regime. BJP would not be able to gain much by inclining towards Brahmin leaders from the Opposition,” he said, adding it’s only BSP which openly supported Brahmins in the past and continues to do so now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/maya-aide-writes-off-netas-fling-with-bjp/articleshow/77710831.cms||Pankaj Shah
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Meeting on Telangana, Andhra Pradesh water row postponed||HYDERABAD: The Apex Council meeting, which was scheduled to be held on August 25 to solve the water sharing issue between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, has been postponed. The new date of the meeting will be intimated soon, the Union jal shakti ministry has said. The meeting was deferred reportedly due to the chairman of the apex council and Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat testing positive for Covid-19. The Congress said that people of Telangana will hold CM K Chandrasekhar Rao responsible if AP is successful in taking away 6.3 tmc of water, which is flowing through Telangana. Telangana Congress chief N Uttam Kumar Reddy said that KCR should resign the day works begin at the site on the two irrigation projects in AP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-cries-foul-after-apex-council-meeting-postponed/articleshow/77710024.cms||Roushan Ali
August 24, 2020||Pune||E-pass in Maharashtra to stay as rural Covid cases up: Anil Deshmukh||PUNE: The state government will stick to e-passes for interstate and inter-district movement for now considering the rising Covid-19 cases in the rural areas, home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Sunday. There will be a review after a fortnight. The minister told TOI on Sunday evening that he spoke to both chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, and it was decided that the current restrictions should continue. Deshmukh’s tweet on Sunday morning said he was aware of the Centre’s guidelines on inter- and intra-state movement of people and goods and would take a decision only after assessing the situation. “In our situation, we cannot allow such free movement as the state is already leading in Covid-19 cases. There is a considerable rise in the rural areas, and unless there are restrictions on free movement, there may be a further increase,” he told TOI. E-pass to stay as rural Covid cases up: MinThe state had decided to restrict inter-district travel with e-pass for August. It will now have to be reviewed in view of the Centre’s direction, a state government official said. The Centre on Saturday had told all states to ensure that there should be no restrictions on inter- and intrastate movement of people and goods during the ongoing unlock process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-to-stick-to-e-passes-for-travel-says-home-minister/articleshow/77710010.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 24, 2020||Nashik||NMC Ganesh idol immersion arrangements get a thumbs up||Nashik: The civic body’s appeal to citizens to book time slots online for Ganapati idol immersion and to take ammonium bicarbonate powder for safe immersions at home has garnered a good response. Many families carried out the immersion rituals at their homes on Sunday — one-and-a-half-days into the festival. “Both our initiatives — to book slots for safe immersion at NMC-earmarked locations and to promote the use of ammonium bicarbonate for immersion of plaster of Paris (PoP) idols at home — have received a great response,” said Kalpana Kute, director of NMC’s solid waste management department. The NMC volunteers and officials collected about 210 idols that were donated or handed over for appropriate immersion. While 161 people made use of the online facility, 245 took the powder. “The exact figures would be known by Monday. Some idol sellers have even sold or gifted the power to their customers,” Kute added. “The arrangements were good and ensured organized and clean celebrations. I congratulate NMC for the same,” Mangesh Jadhav, a businessman, said. “We had a PoP idol and we were planning to immerse it in the artificial pond near the ITI-bridge. However, my son, who studies in Class VII, said we should immerse the idol at home by taking the ammonium bicarbonate from NMC. This was an excellent idea as it helped us maintain Covid-19 related safety measures,” Sanjay Kulkarni, another businessman from Kamatwade, said. For Anil Sonawane, the immersion at home was easier as he had made the idol using local soil. “Last year, we had an idol made of Shadoo clay. This year, we got it made of locally available soil. We immersed it in a bucket and used the same water and soil for plants,” Sonawane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-ganesh-idol-immersion-arrangements-get-a-thumbs-up/articleshow/77708165.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 24, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 centres in pvt hospitals raise rapid infection spread scare||Nagpur: Private hospitals are apprehensive about rapid infection spread in the city once they start treating the novel coronavirus patients. Among others, the concern was raised by around eight big private hospitals during their meeting with Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials on Sunday. The hospitals have demanded quarantine facility for their staff on the lines of government doctors and paramedics who are staying in hotels and hostels. Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA) president Dr Ashok Arbat told TOI as it has been officially accepted that community spread is a reality in Nagpur, staff and others visiting private Covid centres and hospitals will expedite the spread. “Around 200 people work in different shifts in a big private hospital. Ideally, staff engaged in Covid work is provided accommodation on same hospital campus. But most private hospitals don’t have any such facility. Besides, they are surrounded by apartments whose residents too are at a risk,” said Dr Arbat. The Government Medical Colleges (GMCs) had been rotating Covid duties followed by seven-day isolation to protect their doctors and nurses as well as their families from getting infected. Yet, not just many of them but also those in non-Covid duties are frequently testing positive. Recently, entire staff excluding the nodal officer of VNIT Covid Care Centre tested positive. “Same rotation pattern has to be implemented in private hospitals, but they may not have the same luxury,” said Dr Arbat, adding the private staffers come from middle class and may not have enough space for home quarantine. Orange City Hospital director Dr Anup Marar said, “We are keeping our fingers crossed on the attempt of authorities to spread all Covid patients across private hospitals. Private hospitals are in residential areas and some are even part of residential or commercial buildings. They have no buffer land space or follow isolation norms.” Dr Arbat and Dr Marar emphasized that only after all hospitals on government lands, including renovated NMC hospitals, are full, private hospitals should taken over as a last resort. “The government must take onus of any spread of the infection due to the decision of spreading Covid patients all over city,” said Dr Marar. However, Aureus Institute of Medical Sciences director Dr Anshul Chaddha differed saying it is entirely wrong to say that Covid treatment in private hospitals will rapidly increase infection spread. “Hospital like ours is taking all precautions to ensure that Covid warriors are entirely protected and safe by using good quality PPEs, masks, working time restrictions. Our infection control department has always been recommending and executing highest level infection control practices even before the pandemic, and needless to say that in current time we are following them religiously,” he said. Dr Chaddha added, “We have made certain structural changes to suit the requirements of infection control practices specific to Covid pandemic such as specifically designated areas for donning and doffing of PPEs, transfer of positive patients in specially-made Covisafe box, intensive staff training and so on.” “Who will monitor crowds and visitors at the hospitals,” asked Dr Arbat. Many people visit hospitals for laundry to electrical issues or to see their relatives daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-centres-in-pvt-hospitals-raise-rapid-infection-spread-scare/articleshow/77710023.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 24, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19 cases stabilising in central Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 5,975 more cases to its overall Covid tally on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 3.79,385 in the state.The number of people undergoing treatment, however, saw a drop and stood at 53,541 as 6,047 people were discharged. After a dip in the number of deaths on Saturday, the state saw a marginal increase on Sunday as 97 deaths were notified. According to the state health department, ten of the deceased were without comorbidities. Chennai had the highest number of deaths at 19, followed by Theni, which was a distant second with seven deaths. Coimbatore recorded two cases, but for the first time was the district with second highest fresh cases at 392 cases, pushing behind northern districts of Cuddalore, Thiruvallur and Chengalpet, which recorded 380, 354 and 352 cases respectively. Chennai retained the number one position in terms of highest fresh cases as it recorded 1,298 new cases. Even as Covid incidence is showing signs of stabilising in Chennai, northern and southern Tamil Nadu, the state health department is bracing for a challenge as the Centre wants curbs on inter-state travel to go. TN health minister C Vijayabaskar who was in Coimbatore to inaugurate the state’s second plasma bank at Coimbatore medical college Hospital said that scrapping of the e-pass system and allowing unbridled inter-state movement is going to turn Covid management tougher. “I request everyone to wear facemask without fail when stepping out and maintain social distancing. They also should wash their hands with soap or should use hand santizer,’ he said seeking the cooperation in controlling the pandemic. Vijayabaskar said the health department would soon start informing people who test positive through SMS. The state government has also decided to start siddha treatment centres in all the districts, he said. A region wise trend analysis showed that Covid cases were stabilising in central as well as northern part of the state, while Madurai in southern Tamil Nadu is recording a steady fall in new cases. From being one of the high incidence districts, Virudhunagar saw a drastic fall in cases. On Sunday, with just ten new Covid cases, the southern district recorded the lowest number of fresh cases in the state. Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri from west TN too recorded fewer cases with 12 and 19 respectively, while Salem, apart from Coimbatore, remained as hotspot with 261 cases. Kanyakumari (181) and Dindigul (178) recorded the high number of cases in southern TN, while Pudukottai (155) turned out to be district with highest numbers in central TN. According to the bulletin issued by the state public health department, the number of samples tested on Sunday were 70,127, about 3400 less than the previous day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-19-cases-stabilising-in-central-tn/articleshow/77710045.cms||---
August 24, 2020||World||Trump hails FDA's authorization of plasma treatment for coronavirus, after slamming agency||US President Donald Trump on Sunday hailed FDA authorization of a coronavirus treatment that uses blood plasma from recovered patients, a day after accusing the agency of impeding the rollout of vaccines and therapeutics for political reasons. The US Food & Drug Administration (FDA) announcement of its "emergency use authorization" of the treatment came on the eve of the Republican National Convention, where Trump will be nominated to lead his party for four more years. "This is what I've been looking to do for a long time," Trump told an unusually brief White House news conference. "Today I'm pleased to make a truly historic announcement in our battle against the China virus that will save countless lives." The FDA, explaining its decision, cited early evidence suggesting blood plasma can decrease mortality and improve the health of patients when administered in the first three days of their hospitalization. The agency also said it determined this was a safe approach in an analysis of 20,000 patients who received the treatment. So far, 70,000 patients have been treated using blood plasma, the FDA said. "It appeared that the product is safe and we're comfortable with that and we continue to see no concerning safety signals," Peter Marks, director of the FDA's Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, told reporters in a conference call. A day before the FDA's announcement, Trump tagged the agency's Commissioner Stephen Hahn in a Twitter post in which he said, "The deep state, or whoever, over at the FDA is making it very difficult for drug companies to get people in order to test the vaccines and therapeutics." "Obviously, they are hoping to delay the answer until after November 3rd. Must focus on speed, and saving lives!" Trump is looking to boost his lagging poll numbers during the Republican convention this week, and progress in treatments or an effective vaccine to gain control of the virus would aid his re-election chances. At least 5,686,377 cases of COVID-19 have been reported in the United States, according to a Reuters tally, and more than 176,000 Americans have died. US regulators provided emergency authorization for Gilead Science Inc's remdesivir as a therapeutic treatment for COVID-19 earlier this year. Reuters reported that a senior administration official said therapeutic drugs that are being studied specifically for COVID-19 could be authorized for use and making doses by fall. The White House declined to comment on a separate report in the Financial Times that the administration is considering fast-tracking an experimental COVID-19 vaccine being developed by AstraZeneca Plc and Oxford University for use in the United States ahead of the Nov. 3 elections. One option being explored would involve the FDA awarding emergency use authorization in October to the potential vaccine, which was developed by Oxford and licensed to AstraZeneca, the FT reported, citing people briefed on the plan. A spokeswoman for AstraZeneca denied the company had discussed an emergency use authorization for its potential vaccine with the US government and said it would be premature to speculate on that possibility. The company said the late-stage Phase 2 and Phase 3 trials for its vaccine candidate are still ongoing in Britain and other markets globally and that it did not anticipate efficacy results until later this year. There are no approved vaccines for COVID-19, but AstraZeneca's shot, called AZD1222, is widely seen as one of the leading candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-hails-fdas-authorization-of-plasma-treatment-for-coronavirus-after-slamming-agency/articleshow/77711422.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman poisons two kids, kills self||Vijayawada: A woman poisoned her two children by feeding them food laced with poison and went on to kill herself by eating the same food at Kondapalli in Krishna district on Sunday. The deceased were identified as Adapa Lavanya (28), her daughter Durga Srivalli (3) and son Hanish Kumar (1). According to police, Lavanya had been having problems with her husband Nageswara Rao for the last few months. On Sunday, she asked Rao to get food from outside. After he left, she mixed pesticide in rice and fed it her two children and consumed the same. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-poisons-two-kids-kills-self/articleshow/77710074.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Nashik||NMC starts preparing for plasma trials for patients||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started preparing plasma trials for all the critical patients in Covid hospitals. The NMC plans to use plasma of the recovered patients in the city to cure patients on oxygen or ventilator support and has started preparing a list of patients who have recovered from the infection.Initially, the NMC is planning plasma trials on 100 critical Covid patients and has also tied up with the Nashik district civil hospital for the purpose.“We have plans to use plasma of recovered patients to cure critical Covid-19 patients. We are in talks with two private blood banks in the city for collection of plasma from recovered patients,” an NMC official said.“The plasma is collected 28 days after the discharge of the patients. The plasma of co-morbid and female patients are not used. We are preparing the list of recovered patients,” he added.On being asked whether the NMC has received permission to conduct trials, the official said that district civil hospital has already sent a proposal to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) seeking nod to conduct plasma trials and it is expected to get it shortly.“The NMC does not need not separate permission from the ICMR as civil hospital has already applied. We can use plasma of recovered patients who are residents of Nashik city,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-starts-preparing-for-plasma-trials-for-patients/articleshow/77708182.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 24, 2020||Bhopal||Positivity rate big worry: 21,000 cases in Madhya Pradesh in 23 days, experts call for increasing test rate||BHOPAL: With more than 21,000 people testing corona positive in August so far, it seems that the lockdowns and other steps taken by the administration are not giving the desired results. The positivity rate has recorded a steady rise in the state since the beginning of the month, while more than 4 lakh tests have been conducted. Positivity rate is the number of people testing positive out of every 100 samples tested for Covid-19 infection. The first case of Covid-19 was reported at Jabalpur on March 20, after which the lockdown was imposed in the entire country on March 23. Till June 30, a total of 13,593 positive cases were reported in the state and 3.65 lakh tests were done, but the overall positivity rate was only 3.7%. This means that out of every 100 samples that were tested till June 30, only 3.7 people had tested positive. In July, 18213 new positive cases were reported while 4.02 lakh tests were conducted. But the positivity rate went up to touch 4.5% in July. Thus, of every 100 samples that were tested in July, 4.5 people were found positive. In August, the number of tests as well as new cases has gone up and till August 22, 21323 new cases have been reported, while 413709 tests have been done. The positivity rate has further increased to 5.15%.  Experts say that if the positivity rate is above 5%, there is a need to increase the number of tests further. Currently, the number of tests have increased significantly in state but still there is a need to increase it further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/positivity-rate-big-worry-21k-cases-in-mp-in-23-days-experts-call-for-increasing-test-rate/articleshow/77710055.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Rajkot||Road accident turns out to be murder||RAJKOT: A road accident turned out to be a murder case when the accused on Saturday confessed before police that he had rammed his MUV into a motorcycle with the intention to kill its rider on Jamnagar bypass on August 17. When the accused, Dashrathsinh Gohel, an ex-army man, rammed his MUV into a motorcycle being driven by Ramsang Parmar (40), killing him on the spot, the police registered a case of accidental death. Sukhdevsinh Jadeja, who was riding pillion behind Parmar, said that after ramming once, Gohel tried to over run the two-wheeler thrice. “Jadeja’s statement confirmed that Gohel had deliberately caused the accident with the intention of murder. When we rounded up Gohel and interrogated him, he confessed to the crime,” said J D Parmar, sub-inspector with Jamnagar Panchkoshi A division police station. Gohel serves as an army man in Assam. “Gohel said that his wife had confided to him that Parmar had molested her when she was minor. This filled Gohel with anger who decided to kill him,” added Parmar. Parmar used to work in a factory in Dared GIDC. After his job when he was leaving for his house on his bike, Gohel rammed his MUV into the bike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/road-accident-turns-out-to-be-murder/articleshow/77709086.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Agra||Div com’s father dies of Covid-19, 93 cases in Meerut, 80 in Bareilly||Agra/Meerut/Bareilly: Father of Agra’s divisonal commissioner Anil Kumar died while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Gautam Buddha Nagar on Sunday. The 74-year-old was tested Covid-19 positive on August 4. The divisional commissioner's mother, his two guards and four office workers have been tested positive so far. They are under treatment. According to the health department, 38 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the district till Sunday evening, taking the district tally to 2,519. Also, 21 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Sunday. Of the 2,519 cases, 84.4% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 288 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Significantly, Meerut witnessed its highest spike of Covid cases so far with as many as 93 people found infected on Sunday, taking the tally to 3,293. The positive cases included three healthcare workers, according to Meerut's chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar. One more death took the toll to 109. A total of 80 cases were reported from Bareilly district, taking the tally to 5,738, with 3,469 people under home isolation. In Shahjahanpur, a total of 49 positive cases were reported, taking the district tally to 2,583 with 30 deaths so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/div-coms-father-dies-of-covid-19-93-cases-in-meerut-80-in-bareilly/articleshow/77709064.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Man honey-trapped by ISI to secure sensitive information, detained||LUCKNOW: A 51-year-old Gorakhpur-based tea stall owner was nailed by Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) on a tip-off by Military Intelligence after he was honey-trapped by ISI agents during his Pakistan visit and forced to work for them. He was directed by his handlers to send photographs of key installations like Gorakhpur railway station, main gates of Air Force Station and Kundra Ghat military station and was paid Rs 5,000. ATS additional director general of police D K Thakur confirmed to TOI that the man was detained, but let-off as no evidence could be produced. Lucknow-based Military Intelligence unit had received an intelligence input from their counterpart in Kashmir on suspicious activity on a mobile number from Gorakhpur. MI shared its findings with UP ATS in first week of July and a joint team was formed to handle the case. “On Saturday, the man was confronted and brought for questioning to ATS headquarters in Lucknow. He confessed that he owned a tea stall in Gorakhpur and in December 2018, he had visited his cousin in Pakistan. There he met two ISI operatives, who took him to seaside resorts and offered him women and a separate lodge, where he engaged with them sexually and was secretly filmed,” the ATS officer said. On his return to India, he received calls and was instructed to click photos of sensitive places and paid for the job, ATS official said. “When he refused to work for ISI, he was blackmailed with his videos with girls, which were sent on his WhatsApp,” the officer said. He relented, but on July 15, he remarried and destroyed the SIM through which he interacted with handlers, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/man-honey-trapped-by-isi-to-secure-sensitive-info-detained/articleshow/77710838.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||CID begins Srisailam power plant fire probe||Hyderabad: Crime Investigation Department (CID) sleuths along with experts from relevant fields have inspected the fire accident site at Srisailam hydroelectric plant to gather evidence as part of the investigation. The mishap that occurred on Thursday night claimed the lives of nine persons. The government had ordered an inquiry, under the supervision of CID chief Govind Singh, into the incident. On Sunday, a CID team consisting one additional SP, three DSPs, three inspectors, two scientific officers from forensics, along with members of the clues team were sent to the spot. Assisted by an electrical engineer and fire department officials, the team has collected material evidence. “Apart from gathering material evidence...we are video-recording the entire scene. CCTV feed is being collected for analysis. Statements of survivors and employees are being recorded. We are also collecting maintenance records and employee logs. Forensic evidence will be sent to lab for analysis. We are also recording statements of witnesses,” said an investigator. The mishap occurred at one of the control panels in the four-storied hydro electric power plant. According to investigators, there are six such control panels linked to six turbines and generators at the power plan, generating 900MW of power. “The mishap occurred at control panel number 6. It was totally damaged. The fire later spread to other panels and they are partially damaged,” said a source from the CID. Due to excessive heat generated during the fire, the concrete floor on which the panels were set up also suffered damage. In the four-storied power plant, the mishap occurred on the top floor where control panels are located. Below them are generators, turbines, and water inlet valves. “We have to identify whether it was electrical fire or something else. It will be done through forensic analysis. Material evidence is being gathered so that it will not be lost during the process of restarting the plant,” said a forensic official. The fire mishap and cases of suspicious death registered at Egalapenta police station in Nagarkurnool are being transferred to CID.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cid-begins-srisailam-power-plant-fire-probe/articleshow/77710253.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||2 held for robbery in Kukatpally||Hyderabad: Two persons have been arrested by Kukatpally Housing Board police for robbing a victim. The accused — Syed Ghose (20), a driver from Hasannagar and Sk Moulana (25), an auto dirver from Kukatpally along with Mohammed Sohail, who is absconding — had threatened the complainant T Balgangadhar on August 4, stole his phone and face shield and escaped in an auto rickshaw. Two of the three accused were caught at HMT Colony late on Saturday night. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-held-for-robbery-in-kukatpally/articleshow/77710059.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Insurer to pay consumer for junking claim without reason||HYDERABAD: A district consumer forum has directed Universal Sompo General Insurance to pay Rs 10.6 lakh to a consumer for repudiating a claim without valid reason. The complainant, R Susheela, submitted that her husband Ramavath Lakpathi while working as an octopus police constable opened a savings account with Indian Overseas Bank (IOB), which offered a group personal accident insurance policy from Universal Sompo General Insurance for Rs 10 lakh on payment of Rs 118 covering the period from July 18, 2017, to April 13, 2018. She said her husband had paid the premium amount and listed her as his nominee. According to the complainant, in January 2018, there was a vehicle assault practice and her husband was driving a vehicle, with four commandos in it, when it met with an incident resulting in injuries to all. While undergoing treatment, her husband succumbed to injuries on January 28. Subsequently, Susheela submitted the claim form with all relevant documents but her it was rejected without any valid reason. The representative of IOB denied any role in repudiating the claim and added that the bank only acted as an agent. The insurance firm representative said that as per police documents, filed by the complainant in support of the claim, the deceased died in a commandos vehicle assault program, which was under the exclusion clause. During trial, the bench observed that the accident happened while the complainant’s husband was on his way to the training programme but not during the training operation. The bench said that rejection of claim citing exclusion clause amounts to deficiency of service and unfair trade practice and directed the insurance firm to pay claim amount, compensation, and legal costs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/insurer-to-pay-consumer-for-junking-claim-without-reason/articleshow/77709988.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Fake godman held in sexual assault case in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 44-year-old fake godman, who was absconding for two years for his alleged role in a sexual assault case, has been nabbed by Rajendranagar police. The accused, Jalaluddin Arshad Khundmir, hailing from Karnataka, was a self-acclaimed baba staying at Rein Bazaar. In October 2018, a woman along with her husband approached the baba for her health problem. As part of a ritual, he visited their house at midnight. On the pretext of rituals, he then took the victim inside a room, intoxicated her and allegedly sexually assaulted her.“The accused had escaped from Hyderabad and his whereabouts were unknown...,” Rajendranagar ACP Ashok Chakravarthy said. He was finally arrested from his native place on Saturday and produced before a local magistrate on Sunday. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)Watch Hyderabad: Fake godman arrested in sexual assault case||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fake-godman-held-in-sexual-assault-case/articleshow/77710026.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Quick and easy loan offers duping many of their cash||Hyderabad: Cybercriminals are now posing as employees from banks and offering low-interest loans to cheat people amid the pandemic. In such cases, the victim loses money in a bid to obtain an instant loan. So far, there have been eight such cases where the victims have lost between Rs 10,000 and Rs 2 lakh. “They inform the victims that they are giving a moratorium on the loan and the victims won’t need to pay two EMIs. The fraudsters trick borrowers into sharing their bank details, asking them to share the OTP (one-time-password) stating that the OTP is the confirmation code for availing the moratorium,” said an officer from the Cyberabad police cybercrime department. The fraudsters, in some cases, lure the victims stating they are eligible for instant loans from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 10 lakh with a low-cost interest EMI option to pay off the loan. Once the victim pays for the processing fee, legal documentation fee and other amounts as asked by the fraudster, they stop responding. In one such case, a government employee from Vanasthalipuram lost Rs 12,000. The fraudster called her pretending to be from a private finance service offering her a loan of Rs 5 lakh with a rate of low interest. She was asked to send personal details and ID proof through WhatsApp as part of the process. The victim was asked to pay the processing fee and legal documentation charges amounting to Rs 12,200. After making the payment online, the fraudster stopped responding. Police have advised citizens to verify before applying for loans online. “No bank official will ask for sensitive information like CVV and card details. The citizens are also advised not to share OTPs and fall into such traps,” said the Cyberabad police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/quick-and-easy-loan-offers-duping-many-of-their-cash/articleshow/77709949.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||23-year-old held for cheating people in guise of CM’s staff||Hyderabad: A person who had been issuing threats and cheating people by claiming to be part of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s personal staff was arrested by Karimnagar police on Saturday. Police said that 23-year-old Sai Chandan had created a fake chief minister’s office (CMO) letter head to claim that he was on the chief minister’s staff. Sai Chandan would also make claims that he had been appointed chairman of the Telangana anti-corruption commission. The 23-year-old would use these claims to cheat people by offering his help to do them various official favours in exchange for money.  Police said that they were investigating the persons who had helped Sai Chandan in creating a fake appointment letterhead from the CM’s office. The 23-year-old had also offered several unemployed youth help to secure jobs using his self-proclaimed position. Sai Chandan was booked on the charges of forgery, cheating and conspiracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/23-year-old-held-for-cheating-people-in-guise-of-cms-staff/articleshow/77710118.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Fire at Bonthapally solvent storage facility||Hyderabad: A fire broke out at a chemical storage unit in Bonthapally industrial area in Sangareddy district on Saturday night. Five workers, who were at the facility at the time of the mishap, managed to escape unhurt. Around 8.10pm, workers were transferring solvents from a tanker to barrels. “A spark must have triggered a fire. However, we are still investigating,” Jeedimetla station fire officer Subhash Reddy said. Six fire tenders were rushed to the palce. However, it took at least three hours for firefighters to douse the fire. “Some 500 barrels were gutted in the mishap, while the firefighters were able to save close to 100 barrels kept there,” the fire officer said. According to officials, the barrels, containing solvents, started exploding one after the other and the fire spread rapidly. “The three-acre facility had two sheds. The fire spread rapidly from one shed to the open place where some barrels were stored,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fire-at-bonthapally-solvent-storage-facility/articleshow/77710085.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||PDS rice smuggling racket busted||Hyderabad: Acting on a tip off, Rachakonda police on Sunday busted a public distribution scheme (PDS) rice smuggling racket and seized 14.5 tonnes of rice. Sleuths intercepted a DCM van at Nabeel Colony in Kothapet near Balapur and apprehended Mohammed Salman (24), a rice businessman, driver D Mallikharjun (32) and a student V Vijay (20) from Patancheru. The accused were handed over to Balapur police.. In a related development, Narsingi police arrested Md Younus (30), a businessman and Rupan Kumar (21), a driver while they were transporting illegally obtained PDS rice. The police team intercepted a minivan proceeding to Alkapuri township from Alijapur and seized 30 quintals of PDS rice while it was being transported to Zaheerabad. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pds-rice-smuggling-racket-busted/articleshow/77710078.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Man washed away in canal in Guntur||Vijayawada: A man working as a photographer was washed away in a canal at Jagarlamudi under Tenali mandal in Guntur district on Saturday evening. The deceased was identified as Pavan Kumar, who had gone for a swim in the canal along with two of his friends. The water current suddenly became heavy. While two of Pavan’s friends managed to escape by holding tree branches, he was washed away. The rescue teams fished out the body on Sunday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-washed-away-in-canal-in-guntur/articleshow/77710086.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Tried to dissuade Yusuf Khan, but was muzzled and thrashed, says ISIS suspect wife||LUCKNOW: A day after ISIS suspect Yusuf Khan was arrested and brought to his home turf in Balrampur, his wife Ayesha broke her silence and told TOI she faced assault and abuse when she would dissuade Yusuf from terror activity. His parents were also in shock and his mother said she never imagined her son would go astray. Talking to TOI, Ayesha said, she was married to Yusuf in 2010. “He was deported from Gulf in 2006-07 and then bagged jobs in Mumbai and Hyderabad. After marriage, he would frequently visit me. Later, he found himself a job in Uttarakhand, but returned with back-injury in 2013. After six months, he began working again. In 2015, he gave up his job and came home. It was then we found a sweeping change in his behaviour,” she said. The suicide vest recovered from the house in BalrampurHe would shut himself in a room and stay awake all night and spend time on the Internet, listening to videos on his mobile and nobody could enter his room, she said. “In 2018, he stopped working and decided to open a shop with a relative,” she added. Yusuf would bring suspicious objects home, including explosives. “When I intervened, he thrashed me brutally,” she said. Nobody else in the household knew about his nefarious activity. Yusuf’s father, Kafeel, said, he had enough wealth. “I own 22 bighas and another 10 bigha in mango orchards. I don’t know what made him tread the path to hell. I never inculcated such thoughts in my children,” he said. Yusuf has four children — Sara (8), Ibrahim (7), Safia (6) and the youngest Yusuf (3). “I want my children to study and do better in life,” said his wife, Ayesha. Yusuf’s brothers, Hashib (33) and Hafiz (30) work as drivers in the Gulf, while his youngest brother, Aquil (20) is employed in Bangalore and had returned home after the lockdown. His sisters, Sana, Sama and Huma stay at home, while Muniza studies in Class 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tried-to-dissuade-yusuf-but-was-muzzled-thrashed-says-wife/articleshow/77710847.cms||Athikrit Chakraborty
August 24, 2020||Mysuru||Ambedkar studies to be an optional subject for UoM BA students||Mysuru: In a first in the state, Ambedkar Studies will be introduced as one of the optional subjects at BA level in the University of Mysuru (UoM) this academic year. According to the varsity authorities, the proposal to introduce new combinations was approved in the academic council meeting held on June 16. The syllabus proposed for the subject includes life and social thoughts of Ambedkar, political and economic thoughts of Ambedkar, Constitution of India, works of Ambedkar, dalit movement in Karnataka, Ambedkar and his organisations etc. The varsity has finalised 15 combinations with the subject. The University has also sent circulars to all 231 affiliated colleges to introduce Ambedkar Studies as one of the optional subjects at BA level. Under graduate board of studies in Ambedkar Studies has notified the syllabus for all the six semesters for the new subject. According to the University registrar (administration) R Shivappa, learning Ambedkar, Indian Constitution, contribution of Ambedkar is essential for all. “We clubbed it together with various other subjects as it will help the students to know more about our government, Constitution among others that will help them in the future,” he said. “All the colleges have been directed to inform students of the new combination with Ambedkar Studies launched in their institutes,” he added. According to the notification issued by the UoM, 15 combinations that include Ambedkar Studies are * Ambedkar Studies, History, Political Science (ASHP) * Ambedkar Studies, History, Economics (ASHE) * Ambedkar Studies, History Sociology (ASHS) * Ambedkar Studies, History, Kannada (ASHK) * Ambekar Studies, History, English (ASHE) * Ambedkar Studies, History, Journalism (ASHJ) * Ambedkar Studies, Political Science, Philosophy (ASPP) * Ambedkar Studies, Kannada, Sociology (ASKS) * Ambedkar Studies, History, Folklore (ASHF) * Ambedkar Studies, Public Administration, Kannada (ASPAK) * Ambedkar Studies, Kannada, Journalism (ASKJ) * Ambedkar Studies, Ancient History, Anthropology (ASAP) * Ambedkar Studies , Psychology, Sociology (ASPS) * Ambedkar Studies, Sociology, Criminology (ASSC) * Ambedkar Studies, English and Political Science (ASEP)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/ambedkar-studies-to-be-an-optional-subject-for-uom-ba-students/articleshow/77727666.cms||Shrinivasa M
August 24, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: This year, Ganesha festivals themed on battle against novel Coronavirus||VADODARA: Devotees of Ganesha in the city have this year turned to the lord praying that he finishes the demon of Coronavirus soon. A number of devotees have themed the Ganesha festivals on the battle against Covid-19 that has kept the citizens under constant fear. The government ban on celebrating Ganesha festivals in public hasn’t deterred them from expressing their faith. “Every year our Ganesha idol is based on different themes. This time we decided to make the idol on Coronavirus theme as it is affecting everyone around us. People are praying that the virus should disappear so we have made a Ganesha idol that is killing Coronavirus with a trishul,” said Laxman Bharwad of Khodiyar Yuvak Mandal in Harni area. He added that the devotees will daily pray for a vaccine that would kill Coronavirus. Another Ganesha pandal in Baranpura too has based its theme on the virus. “The theme is dedicated to the Corona warriors who have been at the forefront in battling against the virus. We have installed the Lord’s idol in a small shop and the decoration around it is based on our fight against the virus,” said Mahendra Sonavne of Ganesha Bal Yuvak Mandal. “Since last three months, I have been making decorative pieces themed on doctors, health professionals, sanitation workers, police and the media. All of them have played an important role in our battle against the virus so I decorated our Ganesha pandal and dedicated this festival to them. All the material used in the decorative items is eco-friendly,” said Radhika Soni who has installed Ganesha idol at her home near Champaner Gate. Another Ganesha decoration theme in Manjalpur is urging citizens to follow social distancing rules and wear face masks when in public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/this-year-ganesha-festivals-themed-on-battle-against-novel-coronavirus/articleshow/77708516.cms||Tushar Tere
August 24, 2020||Nashik||Build drainage lines: Industries to MIDC||Nashik: The Nashik-based industrial associations have asked the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) to construct drainage lines in the Satpur and Ambad industrial estates. A delegation of Ambad Industries and Manufacturers Association (AIMA) and Nashik Industries & Manufactures Association (NIMA) recently met Jayant Borse, executive engineer of MIDC’s Nashik division, and discussed their issues with him. They also sought basic facilities like roads in Sinnar and other industrial areas. Borse assured the delegation to immediately look into the issues. The delegation included AIMA president Varun Talwar, AIMA office-bearer Dhananjay Bele and general secretary of the committee appointed by the Board of Trustees of (NIMA Ashish Nahar. “There are no drainage lines in both Ambad and Satpur industrial estates. Presently, industries are using soak pits to treat their effluents. These soak pits have become old and effluent is now coming out. We have been demanding construction of drainage lines for the past 15 years, but both MIDC and Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) are passing the buck,” Nahar said. “We met the new executive engineer of MIDC and urged him for construction of drainage lines in Satpur and Ambad industrial estates,” he added. Earlier, there were only few industries in both Satpur and Ambad estates and usage of water was also comparatively low. As a result, the effluent produced was also less. At present, both the industrial estates have been developed and fully occupied. Hence, treating drainage water has become the major cause of concern for the industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/build-drainage-lines-industries-to-midc/articleshow/77708202.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 24, 2020||Goa||HC seeks details on CCP ward committee members||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa has directed the government to file an affidavit on a petition filed challenging the nomination of ward committee members under the City of Panaji Corporation Act, 2002. The petition has been filed by social activist Aires Rodrigues. While directing the respondents to file an affidavit dealing with the challenges raised in this petition, the court has sought details of the qualifications of the nominated members and explain as to how such qualifications meet with the requirement of Section 41(2)(c) of the CCP Act. The court has also issued notices to the members. A division bench comprising justices M S Sonak and M S Jawalkar asked the government to explain the status of norms for recognition of non government organisations (NGOs), the requisite qualification for nomination as members and the manner in which such nominations are to be made. During the hearing, Rodrigues pointed out that according to him, none of the nominees fulfill the qualifications referred to in Section 41(2)(c) of the CCP Act. He stated that CCP has informed that it did not have details of qualifications and experience of these nominated members. Pointing out that the 21 members were nominated contrary to the statutory mandate, he has sought reconstitution of the ward committees in accordance with the law. “The affidavit is to indicate whether the state government has prescribed any norms, and if not, the time limit within which such norms can be prescribed,” the court said, adding that the affidavit should be filed by August 25. This is the second time Rodigues has filed the petition in this case. In February, CCP had assured the high court of the formation of these ward committees, based on a plea filed by Rodrigues stating that the committees had not been formed for the last 18 years. He said that public participation is a vital part of democracy and ward committees would act as link between the corporators and citizens for better planning. The ward committees have a role in determining integrated development planning, CCP budgeting and services for the public, he had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-seeks-details-on-ccp-ward-committee-members/articleshow/77711178.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Burnt body found in timber depot||Hyderabad: A partially burnt body of an unknown person was found at a timber depot in LB Nagar limits on Saturday. Police have registered a murder case and taken up the investigation. The owners of the Hollywood Timber Depot near Sagar X Roads found a male dead body when they entered the premises on Saturday morning. A month ago, the depot was demolished and the plot has been vacant ever since. According to the complaint, the body was partially burnt, lying in a supine position, with cut injuries on the neck and bloodstains on the right hand. The victim is suspected to be around 30-year-old but is yet to be identified, said police. The cops also found tyre marks on the ground. It is suspected that unidentified persons attacked the victim’s neck with some sharp-edged weapon and brought the dead body to burn it in the timber depot plot. “We are still investigating the case, checking for missing cases to identify the victim,” said LB Nagar inspector Ashok Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/burnt-body-found-in-timber-depot/articleshow/77710168.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||AWWA honours martyr Colonel Babu’s wife||Hyderabad: Army Wives’ Welfare Association (AWWA) chairperson Smrithi Joshi on Saturday honoured Santoshi Babu, wife of Colonel Santosh Babu who laid down his life along with 19 other jawans in a fight with Chinese troopers on the LAC. The event was part of a week-long annual programmed to commemorate the contribution of famililes of serving soldiers and martyrs. “The celebration of ‘Shakti’ commemorating the bravery and sacrifice of soldiers’ families kick starts immediately after Independence Day,” defence wind said in its statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/awwa-honours-martyr-colonel-babus-wife/articleshow/77710211.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||3 held for drinking alcohol in public places||Hyderabad: Three people were arrested for consuming alcohol in public places under Kushaiguda limits late on Saturday night. The accused were found in Kapra. Police have booked petty cases against them. Police sources said that they will take action against people who are found drinking in public places. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-held-for-drinking-alcohol-in-public-places/articleshow/77710296.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Committee formed to inquire cause of fire||HYDERABAD: A five-member high-level committee comprising senior engineers has been formed to inquire into the circumstances that led to the fire accident at the Srisailam hydroelectric plant. The panel will furnish a detailed report within 15 days citing causes that led to the incident and recommending measures to be taken to prevent such incidents in the future. The panel is headed by TSSPDCL chairman and managing director G Raghuma Reddy. Genco chairman and MD D Prabhakar Rao, who constituted the committee, told TOI that four of the nine victims could have escaped if they had a couple of more minutes. “They tried to come out of the escape tunnel but could not get enough oxygen due to thick smoke and collapsed. There are two tunnels of which one is exit way,” Prabhakar Rao said. Rao also said the two of the plant’s six units should have tripped automatically as soon as the fire broke out. “But it did not happen. We are unable to understand why it did not happen as the plant is equipped with the latest technology. The isolation was done from outside and vibrations were being felt. The power supply went off as fire engulfed and smoke filled up the tunnels,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/committee-formed-to-inquire-cause-of-fire/articleshow/77710267.cms||Roushan Ali
August 24, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal Covid-19 update August 23||BHOPAL: 17 people were diagnosed with Covid -19 at the country’s third EME centre in Bairagarh on Sunday. Overall, the increase in Covid -19 cases continued in Bhopal with 161 new cases of the infection taking the tally to 9,826 and 259 deaths have been attributed to Covid -19 in the state capital. Earlier, Bairagarh had reported 29 positives in a single. It is the second time, Bairgarh is reporting a new surge in infections. More than 500 cases have been reported from the area. Meanwhile, three people tested positive in Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) colony at Char Imli. Two doctors in Block-H of Gandhi Medical College (GMC) were diagnosed with the infection. One more staffer in AIIMS Bhopal is said to be Covid -19 positive. Rivera Township reported two fresh cases of the infection. Lovkush Nagar reported two positives and Green Meadows colony reported one positive case on Sunday. Four members of same family tested positive in Kotra Sultanabad. Crystal Ideal City phase-3 (Awadhpuri) reported four positives cases. E-6 and E-7 area in Arera Colony reported one case each. Four people were diagnosed with the infection in Indian Institute of Science Education and Research Bhopal (IISER) hostel. Silawatpura reported two positive cases. Other cases of the infection were reported from Narela, Bagonia village, Shastri Nagar, Misrod, Kamlakhedi and Harshvardhan Nagar among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-covid-19-update-august-23/articleshow/77710112.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Goa||After 30 year wait, Velus gets shade, stage for visarjan||Valpoi: Villagers of Velus in Valpoi finally have a shade and a stage at the site of immersion of Ganesha idols. The newly-constructed facilities were inaugurated on Saturday. Velus village comes under the jurisdiction of the Valpoi Municipal Council (VMC). Villagers said that they have been requesting the civic body to construct a shade and the stage at the immersion point for nearly 30 years now, but their demands always fell on deaf ears. Amresh Gaonkar, a resident, said that in absence of these facilities, the villagers often had to perform the immersion rituals in the rain. “All those who attended, including senior citizens and children would get drenched,” he said. Another villager, Kashinath Gaonkar, said that the Rs 6 lakh worth project was possible only after one villager, Dulo Gaonkar, donated his land after which the VMC was able to undertake construction work. Local councillor Ramdas Shirodkar said that the shade at the immersion point has been built by the VMC through the development fund. “In the past, the villagers faced severe problems during the time of immersion of the Ganesha idols, but this year they won’t have any such problems,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-30-year-wait-velus-gets-shade-stage-for-visarjan/articleshow/77711104.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||1,000 litres of arrack destroyed in Krishna||Vijayawada: Acting up on a tip off about arrack brewing, cops conducted raids in the farm lands at Katlapalli under Pedana mandal in Krishna district and destroyed 1,000 litres of fermented jaggery wash stored to make arrack. Machilipatnam rural inspector Kondaiah, along with the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), participated in raids. A case has been registered under AP Excise Act and cops have launched an investigation to nab perpetrators. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1000-litres-of-arrack-destroyed-in-krishna/articleshow/77710171.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Nagpur||Positivity rate continues to surge, 30% of total tested persons +ve||Nagpur: Covid-19 positivity rate in the city continues to increase. For the last 10 days, 30% of all those tested have been positive. Confirming the surge in last 10 days, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI, “Steep rise in number of cases is very unfortunate. But the testing centres started by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) are on right track. Detecting patients means they can be isolated and treated in time to control deaths, and also contain further spread. NMC is doing its job by continuing contact tracing, testing of high-risk contacts, persons with comorbidities etc free of cost. Cooperation of people in following Covid-19 guidelines is must.” The positivity rate was below 10% at the end of July. TOI had on August 13 reported positivity rate increased to 21%. There were 5,392 cases in the district in 143 days between March 11 and July 31. In the 23 days of August, the district registered over 18,071 cases for a total of 23,463. The district recorded over 1,100 cases every day in last six days. Chairman of NMC health consultative committee Virendra Kukreja said NMC should admit asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients in Covid Care Centres (CCCs). “Over 60% positive patients are in home isolation, many of whom might not have isolation facilities. This will lead to infection to other family members. Chances of home isolation patients going out or meeting people cannot be ruled out. We need to stop home isolation,” he said. Kukreja added admission of asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients in CCCs will also resolve problems of social stigma, if such, availability of medicines, medical care and food for patients. “Many patients are reporting in critical stage to hospitals, leading to deaths. This can also be prevented if all are admitted in CCCs. I spoke to officials in some other cities, like Navi Mumbai, where there are more cases than Nagpur, but they are yet to allow home isolation,” he said. As per data available from NMC, Zilla Parishad and the civil surgeon, over 11,000 positive patients are being treatment as on Sunday. Of these, 67.84% positive patients are in home isolation in the district. Some 15.82% are in Dedicated Covid Care Centres (DCHCs) and Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs) while remaining 16.34% patients are in CCCs. Only 368 of the total capacity of around 10,000 beds in CCCs in city are occupied. Mundhe said, “NMC is contacting all positive patients on daily basis. Option of admission in CCCs is given to all. At present, we are having capacity of 5,000 beds in CCCs. Another 5,000 beds are available, and can be brought into use. Over 300 patients are daily in CCCs as they opted for it. We cannot compel patients to be in CCCs as the government made provision of home isolation. It is the responsibility of positive patients to ensure isolation, and be under observation of doctors as per agreed guidelines,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/positivity-rate-continues-to-surge-30-of-total-tested-persons-ve/articleshow/77710144.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 24, 2020||Delhi||Instagram account hacked for ransom||New Delhi: A south Delhi-based fashion blogger and Instagrammer was in for a shock when she clicked on a link sent by a collaborator and found that her Instagram account had been hacked.A few hours later, she received a mail from the hackers suspected to be based in eastern Europe asking her to transfer a ransom amount worth a few hundred dollars in bitcoins to get her profile unlocked. The ordeal for the victim started last Thursday when she got a mail from Instagram saying her ID was changed. “This was shocking for me. I contacted Instagram after I got a mail from ‘Jon McKenzie’ who claimed to have taken access of my account and demanded money,” she said.The hacker even threatened to sell her account off to another person if she refused to pay up.The victim, Prerna Nigam, lodged a complaint with the cyber cell after this, but the ordeal went on for the next few days. Meanwhile, the woman put up a query on Twitter and was contacted by a person who claimed to help her to unlock her account. However, he too started demanding a huge amount for doing so.Two days back, the grievance unit of the social media site asked her to establish her identity and subsequently her profile was unlocked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/instagram-account-hacked-for-ransom/articleshow/77730086.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Nashik||Covid patients and staff at Thakker’s Dome CCC celebrate Ganeshotsav||Nashik: Covid-19 patients and healthcare staff of the Covid Care Centre (CCC) at Thakker’s Dome celebrated Ganesh festival with great enthusiasm.A Ganesh idol has been installed by the staff and the patients at the CCC, which is located near ABB Circle on Trimbak Road of the city. Patients and staff performed puja and aarti in the morning and evening.The infrastructure at the CCC at Thakker’s dome has been provided by the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI) Nashik, while the CCC is being operated by the health department of the civic body.NMC has provided various facilities for the patients at the CCC like Yoga lessons. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-patients-and-staff-at-thakkers-dome-ccc-celebrate-ganeshotsav/articleshow/77708236.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 24, 2020||Lucknow||Security up, barricading returns in Ayodhya||AYODHYA: The temple town of Ayodhya was fortified following a state-wide high alert after the arrest of ISIS lone wolf, Yusuf Khan, who was escorted by Delhi Police late Saturday to his native village in Balrampur, just 90km off Ayodhya. A security cover was thrown around the town and barriers erected in the run-up to the ‘bhoomi pujan’ at Ramjanmabhoomi were back by Saturday night. At least 30 security checkpoints were activated across Ayodhya and the town was virtually sealed with massive screening at the district border. “Entry has been restricted, not stopped. Ayodhya has always been on the terror radar and we received multiple intelligence alerts before PM Narendra Modi’s visit for bhoomi pujan,” said, Ayodhya DIG Deepak Kumar. The red zone area, which houses the Ramjanmabhoomi has been completely sealed with entry and exit restricted to only those residing in the periphery. “There’s no specific intelligence input of a terror strike, but we are maintaining round-the-clock vigil. We have deployed local intelligence personnel in the town and adjoining areas to keep a close watch,” said DIG Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/security-up-barricading-returns-in-ayodhya/articleshow/77710859.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
August 24, 2020||India||Minnows get minced, big guns go on trumpeting||Advocate-on-Record Prashant Bhushan's conviction for contempt of court has drawn angst, dismay and opposition from retired judges, notably R M Lodha, Madan B Lokur and Kurian Joseph. Their support, along with that of "thousands of lawyers", was flaunted by Bhushan's counsel during the hearing on sentencing before a bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari. Bhushan stood firm and refused to apologise for his "false and malicious" tweets attempting to scandalise the Supreme Court. He argued that whatever he had 'contemptuously' said was required for protection of right to free speech and democracy. During the proceedings to determine the quantum of sentence, he quoted Gandhi to tell the court that he would cheerfully accept the punishment. His supporters equated him with the Mahatma and Mandela. Bhushan's ilk, who project themselves as zealous protectors of right to free speech, seldom stood up for other advocates punished severely by the SC for much lesser crimes. Those advocates did not have the "you know who I am" credentials to flaunt. They were minnows who got minced in the contempt of court shredder without the 'right to free speech' brigade shedding a tear. In the last three years, advocate-on-record Mohit Chaudhary and lawyer Mathew Nedumpara were punished by the SC through suo motu contempt powers, which too has now been invoked against Bhushan. Pleadings of Chaudhary and Nedumpara and the punishments awarded to them by the SC did not stir a hair of Justices Lokur and Joseph, who were then sitting judges in the apex court. In April 2017, Chaudhary had complained to a bench of then CJI J S Khehar and Justices D Y Chandrachud and Sanjay K Kaul that something fishy was going on in the SC Registry, which had listed a deleted matter. He also hinted at collusion between litigants and registry officials for 'bench hunting'. Compared to what Bhushan got convicted for and what he has been saying and reiterating for the last 15 years, Chaudhary's words were mere background music. Hauled up for criminal contempt, Chaudhary tendered an apology. The bench was reluctant to accept it, finding hints of justification in what he had said. Chaudhary tendered an 'unconditional apology' again. When he was going through the nerve-wracking process, none of those reputed senior advocates who volunteered and signed resolutions for Bhushan made even a small noise for protection of right to free speech. Those who sought mercy for Chaudhary included K K Venugopal, Salman Khurshid, R S Suri, Sidharth Luthra, Colin Gonsalves and Ajit Sinha. Forget support, the retired judges had no soothing word for him. Two days after the Independence day celebrations in 2017, Justices Khehar, Chandrachud and Kaul said, "It was not an innocent act... but a well thought out decision to tread an unfortunate path which the existing Advocate-on-Record was unwilling to do... The allegations made against the Registry were false and there were innuendoes against the Court. The endeavour failed. Every action has to have an outcome. The contemnor thus must face some consequences of his conduct." Chaudhary was debarred for a month from practicing as AoR in SC. Last year, Nedumpara had questioned the process of designation of lawyers as 'senior advocates' by SC and alleged that it was conferred only on the kin of senior advocates and judges. While arguing before a bench headed by Justice R F Nariman, he took the name of senior advocate Fali S Nariman and repeated it despite warning from the bench. He was convicted for contempt. On March 27 last year, a Justice Nariman-led bench punished him with a three-month jail term despite Nedumpara pleading never to repeat his mistake. The bench ordered: "We sentence Nedumpara to three months' imprisonment which is, however, suspended only if Nedumpara continues in future to abide by the undertaking given to us today. In addition, Nedumpara is barred from practising as an advocate before the Supreme Court of India for a period of one year from today."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/minnows-get-minced-big-guns-go-on-trumpeting/articleshow/77711431.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Gas cylinder blast: 5 houses gutted||Vijayawada: As many as five thatched houses were gutted in fire after a cooking gas cylinder leak led to a blast at Sangam Jagarlamudi under Tenali mandal in Guntur district on Saturday night. The fire started in one house and spread fast to adjacent houses. Though no one was injured in the incident, about Rs 10 lakh worth of property was destroyed, according to officials. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gas-cylinder-blast-5-houses-gutted/articleshow/77710219.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Numbers dip, designated private hospitals de-notified in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation on Sunday began de-notifying designated Covid hospitals. The AMC had started requisitioning beds at private hospitals in May to boost Covid-care capacity. Ahmedabad was among the few cities in the country which had begun requisitioning private hospitals for strengthening Covid-care facilities. Senior AMC officials said that they are empowered to re-requisition the de-notified hospitals if required. The AMC has also de-notified Shrey Hospital, where eight persons died in a blaze that broke out in its ICU on August 6. The AMC had made up its mind about de-notifying Shrey on the day of the tragedy.The other hospitals were SMS-Chandkheda, Jivraj Mehta hospital, Al-Ameen, and Lokhandwala. Rajiv Kumar Gupta, the additional chief secretary of the forest and environment department — who heads the anti-Covid mission in Ahmedabad — said that the requisitioned bed capacity is also being rationalized. “In the case of Kothiya and GCS hospitals, the AMC will reduce the number of reserved beds significantly,” Gupta said. “Also, five of the recently designated 15 hospitals for private-quota treatment have been de-notified on various technical grounds.” Gupta said that due to a series of integrated Covid-management measures implemented over the past three months, the number of cases and deaths has come down. “Not only are these numbers decreasing day by day, but the positivity ratio has also come down from 35% to around 2.5%,” he said. “Consequently, as against the reserved bed capacity at these designated private hospitals, bed occupancy has come down to about 40%.” Gupta said that in a meeting held on Sunday, the AMC reviewed the situation and the bed requirement at designated private hospitals. The de-notification will help private hospitals use the previously reserved facilities for non-Covid cases. Ahmedabad’s PPP model based on requisitioning private hospital beds has been replicated all over the state and in several parts of the country. The strategy has earned praise from the NITI Aayog and the Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/numbers-dip-designated-pvt-hospitals-de-notified/articleshow/77710122.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Lucknow||623 fertilizer vendors’ licences suspended in UP||LUCKNOW: The state government has suspended the licences of at least 623 fertilizer vendors and lodged FIRs against 35 on charges of black marketing and hoarding. The action was taken as part of a drive conducted on August 19 and 20. Additional chief secretary, agriculture, Devesh Chaturvedi on Sunday said action was taken to check black marketing and to ensure that farmers get fertilizers at reasonable price. The drive covered 9,747 fertilizer shops during which officials took 3,287 samples. The department issued show cause notices to 517 vendors. “The department cancelled the licence of 22 sellers and sealed 17 shops. Warnings have been issued to 666 vendors,” Chaturvedi said. “On August 20, the department took as many as 653 samples of fertilizers from 3,119 places. During the drive, the government sought explanation from 247 sellers and suspended licences of 158 shops. As many as six shops were sealed by the department. On the same day, licences of 15 shops were also cancelled,” he added. Chaturvedi said on August 19, the department conducted surprise inspection at 3,109 shops and collected 1,059 samples. The same day, the government issued show cause notices to 270 vendors and suspended licences of 228 shops. On confirmation of complaints of black marketing, sale from 12 shops was prohibited and six shops were sealed.On July 22, the government also conducted a drive covering 3,519 shops to check black marketing of fertilizers. During the drive, the department collected 1,575 samples and suspended licences of 237 vendors. The government also cancelled the licence of seven shops. Warnings were to 421 vendors and sale of fertilizers was banned at eight shops. Five shops were sealed and an FIR was lodged against a person. “There is no shortage of fertilizers in the state. Instead, the state has 20% more fertilizer than it had last year,” Chaturvedi said, adding that the state government distributed 30% more fertilizer than last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/623-fertilizer-vendors-licences-suspended/articleshow/77710860.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Far fewer mandals seek permission in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: The Covid-19 pandemic has caused a dip in the number of Ganesh mandals in Aurangabad city and rural setting up idols and pandals this year. In 2019, the Aurangabad city police had granted permission to 863 mandals. This year, however, only 180 permissions were granted. Similarly, 1,524 permissions were given by the Aurangabad rural police in 2019. That number fell to 446. Aurangabad police commissioner Chiranjeev Prasad said the policemen and officers at the police station-level have played a crucial role in counselling the Ganesh mandals. He also gave due credit to the mandals for positively responding to appeals. Police had also requested the mandals to spend money on the families of Covid-19 victims and take up social causes. Some mandals had organized blood donation camps on Sunday. Police said the reduced number of pandals has not only reduced the burden on the police but has also reduced the chances of Covid-19 spread. “Fewer pandals means more manpower can be spared for other tasks, including ensuring peaceful passage of the festivals and Covid-19 bandobast,” said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/far-fewer-mandals-seek-permission-in-aurangabad/articleshow/77708252.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 24, 2020||Nashik||Case count in dist crosses 30,000-mark||Nashik: The district reported 674 fresh Covid cases in the last 24 hours, including 362 from Nashik city, taking the total number of cases to 30,009. The city has reported 20,074 cases so far. Seven patients succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday, including three from the city. The death toll stands at 768 in the district, including 429 in the city. A total of 530 patients were discharged in the district on Sunday, of which 208 cases are from the city. There are 4,934 active cases in the district which includes 2,752 cases in the city. The city had recorded its first patient on April 6 and by May 31, it had 214 patients with eight deaths. By June 30, the city had 2,182 patients with 105 deaths. By July 31, Nashik city had 9,441 patients with 276 deaths. Now, the city has added 10,633 Covid patients between August 1 and 23.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/case-count-in-dist-crosses-30000-mark/articleshow/77708240.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 24, 2020||Agra||Yatri stand in Mathura collapses, two killed, three injured||Agra: A magisterial inquiry has been ordered into the collapse of the shed of a Yatri stand, constructed from the MLA’s discretionary fund in Mathura’s Neem Village, that led to the death of two persons, including a woman, and injured three others on Sunday. The shed was constructed during Pooran Prakash’s reign as an MLA from Lokdal party in 2007. He, subsequently, joined the BJP and is presently an MLA from Gokul. While 70-year-old Khemchand died on the spot, Tulsi, 65, succumbed to her injuries during her treatment in the district hospital. The three injured were identified as Kalwa, Omvati and Aliya Khan. All three have been admitted to a hospital. Agitated local residents blocked the traffic by putting the deceased’s body on the road and demanded financial assistance to their family members. It was only after the intervention of district officials, who assured them of all possible help, that they lifted the blockade. Police said that all five persons entered the Yatri stand shed to save themselves from the rain when suddenly the roof collapsed. Mathura district magistrate Sarvagya Ram Misra said that a magisterial inquiry has been ordered into the matter. He added that chief minister Yogi Adityanath has announced Rs 4 lakh compensation to the kin of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/yatri-stand-in-mathura-collapses-two-killed-three-injured/articleshow/77709137.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal airport to get a new landing system||Bhopal: Raja Bhoj airport will have a new instrument landing system (ILS) to ensure safe landing of approaching aircrafts. Airport authorities said that the new ILS will be functional by the end of this year — which has a life span of 12 years. Process for replacing the old ILS has been started. Officials however said it is not an upgrade of the existing ILS CAT 1, but only a replacement. Director Anil Vikram told TOI that the old ILS has completed its life span. “Each ILS has a particular time after which it is mandatory to change it. The process to replace it has been started,” director Vikram. The installation of the new ILS will be completed by the end of this year only. “We are hoping to get the new ILS functional during the next winter. It depends on the technical aspects related to it,” said Vikram. “As per the international guidelines new ILS will be installed. We are using the same version as the previous ILS,” said Vikram. Presently, Raja Bhoj airport is equipped with ILS CAT1 facility. CAT 1 facility was installed at Bhopal airport in 2013 and the glidepath relocated three years ago at the runway to 50 ft from 45ft to facilitate safe landing during poor visibility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-airport-to-get-a-new-landing-system/articleshow/77710215.cms||Ramendra Singh
August 24, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 claims record 57 lives in a day, 47 in Ngp alone||Nagpur: Covid-19 death scenario is turning severe every passing day in Vidarbha. On August 23, nine districts in the region — except Wardha and Gadchiroli — reported Covid-19 deaths. Total 57 patients died in a day on Sunday which was the highest single-day casualty till date. Earlier, 56 deaths had been reported on August 20. Sunday’s death toll includes 47 deaths from Nagpur alone. Amravati and Washim reported two deaths each, while Yavatmal, Chandrapur, Akola, Buldhana, Gondia and Bhandara reported one casualty each. Vidarbha’s Covid-19 toll reached 1,176 with 789 deaths reported in just 23 days of August. Case fatality rate of the region is still at 2.7%. The relief factor for Sunday was that the number of cases, which used to be more than 1,600 daily for the last four days, came down to 1,308, despite the number of tests in the region remained more or less same. With Nagpur (808), Amravati (155), Chandrapur (94), Bhandara (64), Washim (50), Yavatmal (43), Akola (27), Buldhana (23), Gondia (21), Wardha (18), and Gadchiroli (5) reporting new cases on Sunday, total cases have reached 42,943. On the other hand, number of recoveries continued to surge. Total 1,254 patients recovered in a day — more than 1,000 for the fourth day in a row. With Nagpur (814), Yavatmal (97), Amravati (87), Akola (63), Chandrapur (60), Buldhana (54), Gondia (32), Washim (28), Bhandara (11) and Gadchiroli (8) – total 25,252 patients have recovered in the region. Recovery rate has shown further improvement and moving towards 60% mark now. AMRAVATI: Two Covid deaths and a spike of 155 cases took the district’s toll to 112 and patient count to 4,577 on Sunday. A press release by civil surgeon’s office said a 53-year-old male from Rajmatanagar and a 45-year-old male from Jay Siyaramnagar died during treatment. With 87 getting discharge today, the number of recovered patients reached 3,334. This left 1,131 active cases that included 19 under treatment in Nagpur and 337 put in home isolation. The rural belt reported 54 cases today that took its patient count to 1,254. Warud alone accounted for 22 of the cases to take its count to 86. Chandur Railway and Daryapur reported three each to take their respective tally to 28 and 105. Two cases each came from Nandgaon Peth, Paratwada, Chandur Bazar and Dawargaon along with Karanja Lad in Washim district. Single cases came from 13 other places. In city, Kanwarnagar reported seven cases that took its tally to 38 while Rampuri Camp and Ambikanagar reported three each to take their score to 92 and 12, respectively. BHANDARA: Highest ever single-day spike of 64 new Covid-19 cases was reported on August 23. Highest 19 cases were from Lakhni tehsil, followed by 15 from Bhandara and 10 from Mohadi. Now, Bhandara has 820 cases. For third day in a row, a Covid-19 death was reported in district on August 23, while 11 patients got discharge. Now, with 13 deaths and 457 recoveries, Bhandara has 350 patients under treatment. WARDHA: On Sunday, 167 test reports came and 18 of them were found positive for coronavirus. Twelve men and 6 women are among the positives from Wardha (5), Hinganghat (5), Karanja (3), Deoli (2), and each one from Samudrapur, Selu and Arvi. There are 218 patients under treatment while the caseload of district reached to 626. No discharge was reported on Sunday while total recoveries are at 395 and deaths 13. WASHIM: District reported 2 Covid-19 deaths on August 23. Both patients died during treatment on August 22. These include a 45-year-old man from Dhilli village in Washim tehsil and a 60-year-old from Lathi village in Mangrulpir tehsil. Now, Covid-19 toll in the district has reached 27. Surge in number of new Covid-19 cases continued on August 23 with 50 new cases, while 28 patients recovered. Now, Washim has 1,431 cases, with 1,026 of them recovered, and 378 under treatment. BULDHANA: A 38-year-old man from Bibi village in Lonar tehsil died during treatment in Buldhana on August 23. This took Covid-19 death toll of Buldhana to 42. Out of the 136 reports received in a day, 23 were positive taking total Covid-19 case count to 2,580. With 54 patients getting discharged, number of recoveries also surged to 1,688. Now, Buldhana district has 850 patients under treatment. Total 587 reports are still awaited. AKOLA: Out of 440 reports received on August 23, only 27 tested positive. Now, total Covid-19 cases in Akola are 3,468. With 63 patients discharged in a day, total 3,004 have recovered. Akola’s recovery rate is above 86% which is highest ever. Death of a Covid-19 patient was also reported today. The deceased was a 60-year-old man from Murtizapur who was admitted since August 18. The district’s toll has now reached 144. Patients under treatment are 320. CHANDRAPUR: The district saw highest jump of 94 new patients in a day taking the number of Covid-19 cases to 1,448 on Sunday. The day also witnessed discharge of 60 patients during the day raising the number of cured patients to 953. Meanwhile, one Covid death was registered late on Saturday evening which has raised the district’s toll to 15. A 55-year-old deceased belonged to Bazar ward in Chandrapur city. He was suffering from other ailments apart from coronavirus infection. He had tested positive on August 19 and was shifted to a private hospital in Nagpur. He, however, succumbed to Covid-19 infection late on Saturday evening while undergoing treatment there. Newly detected patients include 34 from Chandrapur city and suburbs, 13 from Warora, eight each from Ballarpur, Korpana, and Mul, 10 from Nagbhid, five from Rajura, four from Bramhapuri, two from Bhadravati and one each from Pombhurna and Sindewahi tehsils. GONDIA: A 75-year-old resident of Matatoli in Gondia succumbed to Covid-19 on August 23 taking the number of deaths 13. While 21 new cases were registered, 32 patients recovered in the district. Among new cases, 15 are from Gondia and remaining are from Goregaon, Tirora, Sadak-Arjuni tehsils. Now, Gondia has 1,014 total cases, 742 of them recovered and 259 are under treatment. YAVATMAL: The district recorded one more death — a 62-year-old man from Pusad — taking the overall toll to 67 on Sunday. The patient was admitted to GMC on August 20. On Sunday, there were 43 new patients of whom 22 are men. Also, 97 patients were discharged today. In all, 197 persons are in home quarantine while 168 are admitted to GMC’s isolation wards. Total 174 swab samples were sent for testing, informed GMC dean Dr RP Singh. GADCHIROLI: Five new cases were detected on Sunday while eight patients recovered from Covid-19 infection. The five include three from Armori tehsil, one staff nurse, and a traveller who came from Nagpur. Now, Gadchiroli has total 894 cases, 797 of which have already recovered and 96 under treatment. With this, Gadchiroli is the only district in Vidarbha to have less than 100 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-claims-record-57-lives-in-a-day-47-in-ngp-alone/articleshow/77710174.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 24, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: BJP, Congress likely to spar over speaker & deputy speaker’s post||BHOPAL: The three-day session of the Madhya Pradesh assembly, beginning from September 21, is likely to witness a show of strength among ruling BJP and opposition Congress as the House will elect the speaker and deputy speaker. Sources in BJP disclosed that the party being in majority in the House, is all set to field candidates for both the posts.  It was in January last year when the MP assembly elected Narmada Prasad Prajapati as the speaker and also witnessed voting for the election of deputy speaker as both the parties had fielded candidates. Congress had fielded Hina Kavre, a second term MLA from Lanji while BJP fielded senior MLA from Malhargarh (Mandsaur), Jagdish Devra, who is now the finance minister.  Being in majority, Congress won the deputy speaker’s election, breaking the old tradition to offer the chair to the opposition party. During the election of speaker, BJP had walked out in protest over the pro-tem Speaker's refusal to let it propose the name of its nominee for which the party had planned to field Vijay Shah. Now, the same tradition will be followed and being in majority BJP will keep both the posts with itself.  "I am not aware what the party leadership would decide on both the posts but, Congress is responsible for breaking the tradition. In Chhattisgarh, after the Congress government led by the then chief minister Ajit Jogi had changed the tradition, the successive BJP governments led by the then chief minister Raman Singh won both the posts of speaker and deputy speaker in the House. In MP, the final decision lies with the party leadership,” said former MP speaker, Sitasaran Sharma.  Congress has, however, decided not to open its cards. “During our government in the state, BJP had fielded a candidate for the post of speaker, breaking the tradition and we decided not to offer the post of deputy speaker to the saffron party. In the present situation, we will decide on the issue at the right time,” said former public relations minister, P C Sharma.  Names doing rounds for the post of speaker include former speaker Sharma, who is an undisputed choice in the party. Former minister Nagendra Singh Nagod and senior MLAs, Kedra Shukla and Girish Gautam could also be elevated to the coveted post. BJP may also field pro-tem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma for the post of deputy Speaker, said sources.  As per the assembly secretariat, the House will witness three sittings and tributes will be paid to former Governor late Lalji Tandon. On the second and third day, the government is likely to clear the budget proposals supplementary bills (ordinance) approved by the cabinet and other businesses. The session will adjourn on September 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-cong-likely-to-spar-over-speaker-dy-speakers-post/articleshow/77710236.cms||Rajendra Sharma
August 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Complete shutdown at law garden||AHMEDAABD: The solid waste department of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) sealed Handloom House situated near Law Garden and even forced the vendors near the law garden to close their shops as the social distancing had gone for a toss in the area. Harshad Solanki, the director of the solid waste department, said: “We had specific information that people were coming out in large numbers on Sunday night, and hence social distancing was not being followed. The team of our department was instructed to go in the fields on Sunday night. When the team found that shops adjacent to the garden were not following social distancing, the shops were ordered to close down.” “Even the Khau gali, which is now Happy Street, which was inaugurated earlier this year, too was closed and the vendors were warned of action if they continued to function without observing social distancing,” said Solanki. During the checking it was also found that no social distancing was being followed at Handloom House situated in the area, and hence when the team reached there they found people moving without masks. The mall was sealed at about 9 pm in the night. Solanki said that this was the third mall to be sealed after Ahmedabad One and Central Mall. Solanki said that a penalty of Rs 10k was recovered from Freeze Land Restaurant in Maninagar for violating Covid-19 guidelines. Also, a penalty of Rs 25k was recovered from Pomos Pizza at Jawahar Chowk in Maninagar and Rs 15k penalty was recovered from Dominos Pizza in Saijpur ward. Also Puffiza Restaurant in Law garden was sealed. Solanki sid that in all these areas there was crowding due to Sunday and no social distancing was being followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/complete-shutdown-at-law-garden/articleshow/77710218.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Kochi||100 days of fortitude on Covid-front||Alappuzha: Since the government announced relaxations in Covid-19 lockdown, the state has experienced a severe shortage of volunteers mainly because most of the youth returned to their jobs. It is in this context that two youngsters of Mararikulam North grama panchayat in Alappuzha district become relevant. Sarath K P, 26, and Amalraj R, 20, have been volunteering at the Covid-care centre and first-line treatment centre in their panchayat nonstop since May 10. Sarath and Amalraj had graduated from an ITI before the pandemic, but instead of setting out to realise their career aspirations, they have been serving the needs of the Covid- positive patients. When the two enrolled as volunteers, there were 180 members in 18 wards of the panchayat. A few weeks later, the numbers came down to 36. “Now there are 10 volunteers,” said Amalraj, who helps provide food and other support for the patients. “We got into the shoes of volunteers on May 10 and we don’t take any remuneration. We are doing this as our duty to the state,” Amalraj said. Their workload has increased since August 9 when the panchayat opened an FLTC at Kanichukulanagara with at least 70 patients. “Now we provide our service to FLTC 24 hours,” he added. The duo is not new to volunteering as they were actively involved in the relief operations during the floods in 2018. “Thousands from Kuttanad were shifted to relief camps in Kanichukulangara and we were active 24 hours helping them,” said Sarath. He believes the youth have a responsibility to step forward during a crisis. “We believe that when our people are facing severe issues like this coronavirus pandemic, we, the youth, should come forward and join the fight. Our country is blessed to have a large young population and we can wipe out the crisis together,” added Sarath, whose only regret is that they haven’t seen their families in over 100 days. “It is painful to stay away from family and have no contact with the outside world for over three months. But we know we should not go and visit them as it is a risk to their lives and that of our villagers. So, we stay near the FLTC without any contact with the outside. Our family members are supportive,” said Sarath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/100-days-of-fortitude-on-covid-front/articleshow/77709177.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||4 dists record 50% rise in weekly cases||Ahmedabad: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5 pm on Sunday added 1,101 positive cases, taking the total to 86,779. The state recorded a dip of 111 cases from all-time high daily tally of 1,212 on August 22. The new cases included 248 from Surat, 177 from Ahmedabad, 119 from Vadodara, and 99 from Rajkot. The state also recorded deaths of 14 positive patients, taking the death toll to 2,897. The deaths include five each from Ahmedabad and Surat, two from Junagadh, and one each from Vadodara and Rajkot. With the update, the cumulative cases in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot have reached 30,282, 18,536, 7,196 and 3,951 respectively. The deaths in these four districts are 1,685, 591, 119 and 76 respectively. A total of 972 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the number of total discharged patients to 69,229. The discharges include 174 from Surat, 172 from Ahmedabad, 121 from Mehsana, and 68 from Rajkot. As on Sunday evening, Gujarat had 14,653 active cases, which formed 16.9% of total cases registered so far. The share of discharged and dead patients in total tally is now at 79.8% and 3.3% respectively. Analysis of the weekly cases and deaths reveals that cases rose by 3.6% and deaths got reduced by 17%. In figures, the state recorded 277 more cases and 23 less deaths compared to the last week. Four districts – Dangs, Tapi, Banaskantha and Jamnagar – recorded 50% or more rise in weekly cases. Dangs recorded 27% of its total cases in the past one week. Among the four major districts, Vadodara recorded the highest rise in cases (5.7%), whereas Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot recorded a dip in deaths. Ahmedabad’s deaths at 26 remained the same in both the weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/4-dists-record-50-rise-in-weekly-cases/articleshow/77710202.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Bhopal||Digvijaya, son train guns on Bhadoria over ‘builder nexus’||Bhopal: Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh and his son, former minister Jaivardhan, trained guns on cooperatives minister Arvind Bhadoria and the ruling BJP for alleged connections with builder Raghavendra Singh Tomar who was raided by income tax officials two days ago. On Saturday, Jaivardhan tweeted, “Became the chowkidaar (watchman) of the purchasable in Bengaluru. Shivraj ji’s special minister Arvind Bhadoria’s favourite turned out to be the owner of benami property worth hundreds of crores meaning in possession of crores of rupees of black money.” Jaivardhan was referring to Bhadoria, who as MLA from Ater, allegedly accompanied the Cong rebel MLAs to Bengaluru in March this year and Cong govt was toppled.  @digvijaya_28 took on Chouhan and the BJP’s “Mein bhi Chowkidar” slogan of Lok Sabha 2019 elections. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/digvijaya-son-train-guns-on-bhadoria-over-builder-nexus/articleshow/77710256.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Chennai||Arts colleges intake to begin this week||Chennai: More than 90,000 students will be admitted to 109 government arts and science colleges in the first round of admissions that will begin this week. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the higher education department is conducting admissions to arts and science colleges online. According to a circular issued by the directorate of collegiate education (DCE), the first round of admissions will take place from August 28 to September 4. Selected students will be intimated by SMS or email on August 26 to reach the colleges to complete admission procedure. More than two lakh applications were received through the Tamil Nadu Government Arts and Science Colleges Admissions (TNGASA) website for the 90,000 seats available. The applications were sent to the respective colleges to be processed. Further, the DCE has issued detailed guidelines for admissions to government arts and science colleges this year. According to the guidelines, colleges should prepare a rank list for each programme offered based on marks and the merit list should be based on reservation. If any student gets into the merit list for more than one subject, the college should contact him/her and the seat preferred should be allotted. If a student cannot be contacted, the allotment should be made based on the preferences he/ she ahd listed in the application. The rank list for BA Tamil will be based on Class XII Tamil marks and BA English Literature will be based on English marks. For the other BA, BSc, BCom programmes, the rank list will be based on marks scored in subjects excluding the languages. The colleges were asked to verify applications and documents before selecting a candidate and contact students who have not uploaded certificates. The directorate also warned managements against sharing the details of applications with outsiders. “Students either can visit the respective colleges or visit nearby government arts and college with the selection order, original certificates and secure the admission. They are asked not to bring along their parents to facilitate social distancing in campuses,” the circular said. If needed, the directorate will seek permission to allot 20% extra seats in government colleges, it added. Government college principals said they have received more applications than last year as the process was migrated online. “Many students from Tirunelveli, Nagercoil, among other places, have applied to our college. We usually get students only from neighbouring districts. This year, we are not sure whether all the students can join our college,” principal of a city college said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/arts-colleges-intake-to-begin-this-week/articleshow/77709159.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Nagpur||NMC seals 3 shops in Khamla run by high-risk contacts||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has sealed three grocery and general stores in Khamla which were being operated by family members of positive patients who have been ordered to remain in home isolation. TOI on August 22 had highlighted high-risk contacts of some positive patients, who were supposed to be under home quarantine, running shops in Khamla that too on ground floor of the same building where patients are in home isolation. It was also highlighted that some positive patients from Khamla were operating shops in other areas too. Taking cognisance, a team of NMC’s Laxmi Nagar zone led by assistant commissioner Raju Bhivgade inspected and sealed three shops in Khamla. “We also displayed a banner at these shops declaring Covid-19 positive patient in home isolation and it’s a prohibited area,” he said. NMC sources told TOI that municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe has directed additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi to register FIR against high-risk contacts or positive patients if they are found operating shops or other commercial establishments. It has also come to fore from a few shopkeepers that family members of some Covid patients are not getting themselves tested so as to continue to run their shops. The NMC had asked shopkeepers and their staffers to get tested for Covid from private laboratories as one asymptomatic patient can infect a large number of customers, which can also trigger a chain of infection spread in other areas. Shopkeepers’ organizations, backed by some public representatives, have opposed the move and condemned the NMC’s decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-seals-3-shops-in-khamla-run-by-high-risk-contacts/articleshow/77710254.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 24, 2020||Lucknow||Has Rajnath Singh’s son been short-shrifted again?||LUCKNOW: The redesignation of Noida MLA Pankaj Singh -- from general secretary to vice-president -- for example, being seen as another attempt to short-shrift Union defence minister Rajnath Singh's son. The state BJP has tried to maintain caste and regional balance in its newly formed state executive, but some decisions have been subjected to an incisive scrutiny of political observers. The redesignation of Noida MLA Pankaj Singh -- from general secretary to vice-president -- for example, is being seen as another attempt to short-shrift Union defence minister Rajnath Singh's son. "There are 16 vice-presidents and just seven general secretaries in the state executive. The post of general secretary certainly carries more clout, while the one of vice-president is more ceremonial as far as working is concerned," says a party insider. "Pankaj has been ignored in the past when the BJP government's ministry was formed in 2017 and during the reshuffle in 2019. And now this redesignation which is hardly flattering," says a political observer. "Besides, while the state BJP chief has been reiterating that the party follows the principle of 'one man one post' in letter and spirit, it was thrown to winds when JPS Rathore was 'elevated' from the post of vice-president to general secretary. Rathore is also the chairman UP Pollution Control Board," he adds. The Rajnath loyalists also point out to the dumping of Darshana Singh. The present Mahila Morcha chief, Singh, failed to find a place in the state executive. Like Rajnath, she also belongs to Chanduali district and is facing a challenge from the general secretary of the morcha, Archana Mishra, whenever an election for the post takes place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/has-rajnaths-son-been-short-shrifted-again/articleshow/77710862.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 24, 2020||Kolhapur||386 Kolhapur families donate idols to KMC||Kolhapur: As many as 386 families donated their Ganesh idols for appropriate immersion instead of them immersing it in the water bodies on Sunday, marking the one-and-a- half-days of the festival. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) had facilitated the idol donation by setting up pandals and providing vehicles to carry the idols. Accroding to the KMC, this was the highest number of idols donated on the one and half-day of the celebration. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti and mayor Nilofer Ajrekar has appealed to the citizens to donate idols which will be then immersed by the KMC workers at Irani Quarry. Satish Rajopadhye, resident of Rajarampuri said, “We usually immerse the idol in Kotitirth lake, however, this time we decided to donate due to the pandemic. The local authorities had made good arrangements for the donation of idols and set up immersion kunds.” The number of artificial ponds at several places set up by the KMC will be further increased. Barricades were placed at Kotitirth lake, Rajaram lake to ensure social distancing among people. Many ‘sarvajanik mandal’ preferred to donate idols. Some mandals immersed idols but no procession was held. The mandals opened their pandals for public viewing but very few has fancy decorations. This was done to avoid the rush of people . The traffic department has made traffic diversions to avoid congestion. Meanwhile, rural development minister Hasan Mushrif inagurated a Covid Care Centre at Kagal where a Ganesh idol was installed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/386-kolhapur-families-donate-idols-to-kmc/articleshow/77708261.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Cane, paddy in over 9,500ha in Kolhapur suffer flood damage||Kolhapur: The recent floodings have caused some damage to crops — mainly sugar cane and paddy — in more than 9,500 hectare. However, it is believed that most of the crops will recover from the damage. The district agriculture department has issued directions to the local authorities to carry out an actual survey and find quantum of damage. Last month, the Panchaganga river and other small rivers had crossed the danger levels twice. The farms along the river banks were inundated for four to six days. Waterlogging for a long time can cause weakening of the roots and halt the growth of the crop. But it has been observed that generally, the crop can regain growth once the fields become dry. Last year, sugar cane grown on around 68,000 hectare was severely damaged. However, it was found that the damage did not majorly affect the volume of sugar cane at the time harvesting. This time, about 5,500 hectare of sugar cane, 2,600 hectare of paddy and few hundred hectare of groundnut and soyabean have been hit. Dnyandeo Wakure, district agriculture superintendent, said: “We have ordered an estimation of the losses. The farmers will be given compensation accordingly. Crops can recover as there is a break in the rainfall. This year, the situation in the district is better.” IMD’s Agromet division has advised the farmers in Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara district to ensure draining out of the water from fields as the heavy showers may return. Also, it has advised groundnut farmers to use the insecticides as there are chances of rust and tikka (spot disease). Meanwhile, the gates of Radhanagri dam are closed and currently, water is being discharged at 1,400 cusec from the powerhouse channel. Panchaganga is at 33.5 feet. Six barrages continue to be submerged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cane-paddy-in-over-9500ha-in-kolhapur-suffer-flood-damage/articleshow/77708278.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Goa||Technical problems delay ration for Netravali locals||Poinguinim: Constant power failure and poor internet connectivity are posing a problem for villagers of Netravali in collecting their monthly ration from the only fair price shop in the area. Besides, in the absence of a regular bus service, villagers have to walk long distances to reach the shop. Fed up with having to stand in queue for hours, sometimes for even the entire day, because the poor internet connectivity plays havoc with the biometric machine, one villager Rakhi Prabhudesai said, “The situation gets aggravated on account of frequent power failure in the village, as the weak internet disconnected every time there is a cut.” The person at the fair price shop, which is managed by the Mahalaxmi V K Society, said he opens his shop regularly at 8am, but is helpless in such situations. Civil supplies inspector from Sanguem taluka, Jeevan Manjrekar, admitted that there is an internet connectivity issue at Netravali. He said that the problem has already been put up before the department concerned. Amit Naik, another villager, said, “Since the problems we are facing are genuine and cannot be rectified, I request the government to permit distribution of ration by waiving off the compulsory use of the biometric device or else provide broadband facilities to the fair price shop.” The worst hit are the residents of the hilly areas of Saljini and Verlem, who not only have to trudge 18km to collect their monthly ration, but then have to wait for hours at the shop due to these problems. Deputy sarpanch of Netravali, Abhijit Desai, said that “the panchayat supports offline distribution of the monthly ration quota”. The fair price shop has a total of 1,000 beneficiaries drawing their monthly ration quota — 700 Below Poverty Line (BPL), 200 Above Poverty Line (APL) and 90 Antodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) ration cards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/technical-problems-delay-ration-for-netravali-locals/articleshow/77711195.cms||Albert Fernandes
August 24, 2020||Nagpur||Ration shop owners claim higher risk of getting Covid due to crowding||Nagpur: With one death and eight others openly declaring in the fraternity that they have tested Covid positive, ration shop owners are complaining that crowding at their outlets due to availability of free grains has made them increasingly susceptible to infection. The positive cases emerged in less than a week. A shopkeeper at Budhwari died on August 17, four days after he tested positive. Some of the shopkeepers who tested positive have spread a message among other members of the association about their status. Guddu Agrawal, president of Ration Dukandar Sangh — the association of PDS shopkeepers, said he is experiencing Covid-like symptoms since 3-4 days and plans to get tested. Last week, shop owners had moved the high court seeking further exemption in use of biometric machines, in which consumers have to put their thumb impression. As shopkeepers too have to handle the gadget after that, they feel it increases the risk of infection. With many customers unable to use it, social distancing too could not be maintained. “The court has extended the exemption which ended on July 31, directing the government to decide on the matter,” said advocate Firdaus Mirza, who represented the shopkeepers. The exemption was first allowed in March following a demand by shopkeepers. “Even if eight shopkeepers have voluntarily declared that they are positive, there may be many others who have not disclosed. With the machines, it was difficult to keep distance,” said Ritesh Agrawal, who filed the petition. “Free grain distribution under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana announced as a Covid relief measure has increased the crowds as compared to earlier times. Customers are not only buying regular quota of grain but are also lining up for free ration in large numbers,” said Guddu Agrawal. He said even as regular grain is supplied in time, the monthly quota of free rations is invariably delayed by 15 days. This further increases the crowds, as customers repeatedly come to the shop inquiring about the free quota. There are long queues in front of shops as against limited numbers seen earlier. Jay Ramteke, who has a shop at Indora, said, “It is tough to maintain distancing. Many customers have to be helped in using the biometric machine, which does not take the impression if sanitizer is applied just before use. Even the shopkeeper has to punch in the details after taking the impression, which increased the risk.” “Though the shop was in his wife’s name, the deceased also used to man the counter and there are chances he may have got the infection from there,” said a relative of the person who died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ration-shop-owners-claim-higher-risk-of-getting-covid-due-to-crowding/articleshow/77710288.cms||Shishir Arya
August 24, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Tale of Rs 8 lakh diamond, greed & a fake abduction||BHOPAL: A fake kidnapping saga by a poor tribal to get Rs 1 lakh from his father led to the arrest of two persons involved in diamond smuggling, common in Panna where precious stones are found in shallow mines. Two persons were held while the tribal who misled the police is being quizzed. It started about two months ago when Mamta, a Gond tribal girl found a diamond from a farm field near the shallow mines of Brajpur in Panna district. She informed about her find to her father Ramvishwas and brother Kalloo. Diamonds found in shallow mines are deposited with the district mining officer for auction. And the proceeds are handed over to the owner of the diamond after the government deducts its royalty. But this family allegedly got in touch with two persons involved in the blackmarketing of diamonds. Shubham Jain and Chotoo Jadia, the two traders, promised to hand over the money to Ramvishwas after depositing the diamond with the government. But they did not keep their promise, said superintendent of police Mayank Awasthi on Saturday. The 3.29 carat diamond is worth about Rs8 lakh. One day, Kalloo overheard the duo talking to his father about the diamond proceeds. They were telling him about a Rs1 lakh payment to be made soon and the remaining after the auction of the precious stone. Kalloo decided to dupe his father and made a call to his brother that he was kidnapped. He also told his father that if the ransom was not paid, they would kill him. When the police started investigations, they found Kalloo in a nearby jungle - all alone. Soon he spilled the beans. The police would not have been able to know about the illegal trade of diamond had there been no complaint of kidnapping. Police suspect their involvement in other such cases. The SP said Chotoo and Shubham were arrested .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/tale-of-rs-8l-diamond-greed-a-fake-abduction/articleshow/77710292.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
August 24, 2020||Chennai||HC asks NCW to check if women wed convicts on parole out of free will||Chennai: Taking serious view of convicts, particularly life convicts getting married while out on parole, and thereafter returning to prison leaving the wife to suffer in her matrimonial home alone, the Madras high court has asked the National Commission for Women (NCW) to ascertain whether a mechanism must be brought in to find out whether such marriages are arranged with the free consent of such women, or if they agreed to it under coercion and compulsion. “The mental agony and hardship the women undergo by marrying convicts is unimaginable as they have to lead their life alone,” a division bench of Justice N Kirubakaran and Justice V M Velumani said. “No lady will come forward to marry a person undergoing imprisonment, that too, life imprisonment,” the court observed, adding that the NCW must examine the to-be-brides and find out if her consent was obtained by coercion due to various religious and communal reasons. Women marrying convicts suffer psychologically, physiologically apart from the stigma and married women need moral support and physical companionship of her husband, the judges said. The court made the observations while hearing a habeas corpus plea moved by Shamma, seeking 30 days ordinary leave for her husband Aslam, a life convict detained in Coimbatore Central Prison. Aslam is in prison for more than 20 years now. “It is stated by the petitioner that the convict married her when out on a day’s parole 10 years ago. She has been living with her mother-in-law since,” the judges said. It is not only in the present case but in many cases life convicts marry and return to prison, the court noted. Clubbing together all such cases in which convicts married during parole, the court suo motu impleaded the NCW, the state commission for women and the Union ministry for women and children development and directed them to file their responses by August 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-asks-ncw-to-check-if-women-wed-convicts-on-parole-out-of-free-will/articleshow/77709174.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad collector: Rs 500 fine for not wearing mask||Aurangabad: Newly-appointed district collector Sunil Chavan on Sunday said people stepping out of their homes without wearing appropriate face mask would face a penalty of Rs 500 if caught. They would also be given a mask free of cost.Chavan added that people from the rural areas need to be more particular about wearing the protective gear.“Prevention is one of the most effective approaches in the battle against Covid-19. Wearing face masks can help contain the spread of the disease,” he said.Chavan, who held a review meeting with the health professionals from the government and private sectors, stressed upon the need for more testing in the rural areas. “The rapid antigen tests would be carried out in more rural areas, including growth centres and market places. It will help in early detection of the infection,” he said.Chavan said Aurangabad district has a recovery rate of 74.03% among Covid-19 patients whereas the mortality rate is 3.02%. “We have sufficient number of Covid care facilities available in both rural and urban areas. The doctors have been playing a pivotal role in fight against the pandemic,” he said.Meanwhile, the Aurangabad chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has appealed to the administration to spread awareness about bills charged towards Covid-19 treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-collector-rs-500-fine-for-not-wearing-mask/articleshow/77708284.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Club Class to re-open; caution will temper service||Ahmedabad: After remaining closed for five months, two city clubs will reopen from Monday, with limited services and operations governed by stringent precautionary guidelines. The clubs have asked their members to book slots online to manage the visit flow.Rajpath Club will open up its gym, yoga centre, food court, and tennis facility for its members. All its other amenities will stay closed. Karnavati Club has also decided to open its gym, yoga centre, and restaurant for members, but other services will not be available. Karnavati and Rajpath clubs have decided not to re-open their jogging tracks and swimming pools. Indoor games facilities such as chess, carom, and badminton will also be out of bounds. While Rajpath Club will give access to tennis courts from Monday, Karnavati Club office-bearers said that tennis can be played at the club only after four or five days.“We are making arrangements to ensure that only 30 members enter every hour,” said Mishal Patel, secretary, Rajpath Club. “All the amenities made available from Monday will run at about 30% capacity to ensure social distancing.” The club has 14,000 members and normally records daily footfalls of about 1,500.Karnavati Club vice-president Jayesh Modi said that on any given day, the club gets about 3,000 footfalls. Modi said since all the amenities are not being opened up, the number of visitors will be small.Only 25 persons will be allowed in the restaurant at any given time. “The jogging track will remain closed until further notice,” Modi said. The club has a membership of about 14,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/club-class-to-re-open-caution-will-temper-service/articleshow/77710250.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||537 west families put in quarantine||Ahmedabad: For the second consecutive day, the western part of the city reported higher number of micro-containment areas than the eastern part of the city. Of the 675 families quarantined on Sunday, 537 were from the western part. According to AMC officials, Covid pandemic is spreading in the western areas, particularly in the South West Zone comprising Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Bopal-Ghuma, Maktampura and Sarkhej. Of the 675 families, 345 families — a population of 1,092 — were quarantined in SW Zone. On Saturday also, 569 families were notified under micro-containment. On Saturday, the SW Zone had 369 families under containment. On Sunday, the North West Zone, comprising the areas of Bodakdev, Thaltej, Gota and Chandlodia, had 96 families or 395 persons under containment. AMC said a society is declared micro-containment zone if there are three or more cases there. The officials said that of the 28 societies declared micro-containment zones, 20 are in the western part . In Jodhpur, 107 families or 314 people were in micro-containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/537-west-families-put-in-quarantine/articleshow/77710260.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Lawyers seek zero-interest loan worth Rs 2L||Aurangabad: The All India Lawyers Union (AILU) has demanded disbursement of Rs 2 lakh as zero interest loan for the lawyers to tide over difficulties arising due to Covid-19. In a memorandum submitted to the state government, the AILU has also sought the benefit of farmers welfare scheme, claiming that some of its members have returned to farming during the current pandemic. “The Covid-19 outbreak is difficult to contain any time soon until an effective vaccine comes in the market. It could take a few months more and will further impact the livelihood of the lawyer community. Considering our different liabilities and expenditure, the government must dole out financial help,” AILU leader Sunil Rathod said. He added that some lawyers who have agriculture land at their native places tried to return to the farming during lockdown. “The overall condition, however, is not favourable for the lawyers to resume farming as they are not eligible for different welfare schemes by virtue of their current profession. The necessary amendments in rules and regulations concerned is the need of the hour,” Rathod said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/lawyers-seek-zero-interest-loan-worth-rs-2l/articleshow/77708297.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Nagpur||ZP closed for a week after 18 test positive||Nagpur: With large number of Zilla Parishad (ZP) employees getting affected by Covid, the administration has decided to close it for a week. So far 18 employees have tested positive and in two departments a chain of transmission had got formed. The health department will however, continue to function. The decision was taken in an emergency meeting of chief executive officer (CEO) Yogesh Kumbhejkar and president Rashmi Barve, on Sunday. According to the order issued by Kumbhejkar, the Nagpur ZP would remain closed from August 24 to August 30. The closure would mean loss of four working days. August 26 is a public holiday on occasion of Mahalaxmi while August 29 and 30 are Saturday and Sunday respectively. During the closure period, the ZP building would be sanitized every day. Every head of department has been asked to entrust two employees with sanitizing their respective departments. Kumbhejkar, has, however, made it clear that employees would have to attend work if need arises. This is as per Maharashtra Civil Services Rules. All the senior officers will have to remain in touch with their heads of department through e-mail, WhatsApp and mobile phones. Meanwhile, the opposition BJP has slammed the ruling coalition for taking such an important decision without consulting its leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/zp-closed-for-a-week-after-18-test-positive/articleshow/77710320.cms||Ashish Roy
August 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala reports 1,908 new Covid-19 positive cases||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state reported 1,908 new cases on Sunday, taking the caseload in the state to 58,322. Five more deaths were recorded and the toll has become 224. The five deaths confirmed on Sunday are Sisupalan (80) and Shanavas (49) from Thiruvananthapuram, Damodaran (80) from Kozhikode, Dinamani (75) from Kollam and Robert (75) from Alappuzha. As many as 1,768 people were infected through local transmission and the source of infection in 160 cases was unknown. Among the new cases, 35 are returnees from foreign countries and 105 from other states. Fifty healthcare workers were also infected through transmission. The positive cases reported are 397 in Thiruvananthapuram, 241 in Alappuzha, 200 from Ernakulam, 186 in Malappuram, 143 from Kannur, 133 in Kollam, 119 from Kozhikode, 116 in Thrissur, 106 from Kottayam, 104 in Pathanamthitta, 85 from Kasaragod, 39 in Palakkad, 29 from Idukki and 10 in Wayanad. Till now, 37,649 people have been cured of Covid, and 20,330 patients are undergoing treatment in the state. The total number of recoveries reported in the day is 1,110. As many as 1,82,525 people are under observation in the state, 1,65,996 under home or institutional quarantine and 16,529 in hospitals. A total of 2,066 people were hospitalised in the day. In the last 24 hours, 36,353 samples were tested in the state. So far, a total of 14,22,558 samples were sent for testing, including 1,63,554 from high-public exposure groups, as part of sentinel surveillance. The contact cases reported in the day are 367 in Thiruvananthapuram, 223 from Alappuzha, 178 in Ernakulam, 171 from Malappuram, 122 in Kollam, 120 from Kannur, 107 in Thrissur, 104 from Kozhikode, 103 in Kottayam, 95 from Pathanamthitta, 83 in Kasargod, 31 from Palakkad, 11 in Idukki and three from Wayanad. There are 17 infected healthcare workers in Thiruvananthapuram, nine in Ernakulam, seven in Malappuram, six in Kozhikode, five in Kannur and three each in Kollam and Thrissur. The number of patients who tested negative 125 in Thiruvananthapuram, 22 from Kollam, 45 in Pathanamthitta, 53 from Alappuzha, 72 from Kottayam, 19 in Idukki, 171 from Ernakulam, 70 in Thrissur, 250 from Palakkad, 100 in Malappuram, 12 from Kozhikode, 39 in Wayanad, 88 from Kannur and 44 in Kasaragod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-reports-1908-new-positive-cases/articleshow/77709196.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Bhopal||Gaushalas to be a poll plank again ahead of bypolls?||BHOPAL: Cows are a major poll issue in Madhya Pradesh. Congress had promised to open 1,000 cow sheds in the December 2018 assembly polls, but could open only around 600 cow sheds in its 15-month rule. BJP, which came back to power in March, is now in the process of opening as many as 4,000 cow sheds across the state. By the time the state goes for bypolls on 27 assembly seats, which would decide the Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led government’s fate, the work of cow sheds would reflect on the ground. Village panchayats have been entrusted with the responsibility. Altogether, the process to start 4,500 cow sheds has been initiated in the state. Of this, 4,000 cow sheds would be opened through MGNREGA workers. Officials said every cow shed would have a capacity of hosting 100 cows. Cow sheds would be constructed in one acre of land and around five acres of land around it would be developed for fodder purpose. Officials of the animal husbandry department informed that during the Congress-led Kamal Nath government, around 600 cow sheds were developed, and around 200 of them, were started. The work got delayed due to lockdown or else the majority of them would have got ready by now. A majority of them are on the verge of completion, officials added. The Congress government had set a target of April 2021 to complete the work of cow sheds. It has also developed a plan to make cow sheds self-reliant by making products using cow dung and cow urine, officials added. The BJP government has now speeded up the process. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had also discussed the issue in a video conference recently and announced that the government would come up with 4,000 cow sheds. The bypolls on 27 seats in MP are yet to be scheduled, but are expected to be announced anytime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/gaushalas-to-be-a-poll-plank-again-ahead-of-bypolls/articleshow/77710327.cms||Ankur Sirothia
August 24, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala reports 1,908 new Covid-19 positive cases||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state reported 1,908 new cases on Sunday, taking the caseload in the state to 58,322. Five more deaths were recorded and the toll has become 224. The five deaths confirmed on Sunday are Sisupalan (80) and Shanavas (49) from Thiruvananthapuram, Damodaran (80) from Kozhikode, Dinamani (75) from Kollam and Robert (75) from Alappuzha. As many as 1,768 people were infected through local transmission and the source of infection in 160 cases was unknown. Among the new cases, 35 are returnees from foreign countries and 105 from other states. Fifty healthcare workers were also infected through transmission. The positive cases reported are 397 in Thiruvananthapuram, 241 in Alappuzha, 200 from Ernakulam, 186 in Malappuram, 143 from Kannur, 133 in Kollam, 119 from Kozhikode, 116 in Thrissur, 106 from Kottayam, 104 in Pathanamthitta, 85 from Kasaragod, 39 in Palakkad, 29 from Idukki and 10 in Wayanad. Till now, 37,649 people have been cured of Covid, and 20,330 patients are undergoing treatment in the state. The total number of recoveries reported in the day is 1,110. As many as 1,82,525 people are under observation in the state, 1,65,996 under home or institutional quarantine and 16,529 in hospitals. A total of 2,066 people were hospitalised in the day. In the last 24 hours, 36,353 samples were tested in the state. So far, a total of 14,22,558 samples were sent for testing, including 1,63,554 from high-public exposure groups, as part of sentinel surveillance. The contact cases reported in the day are 367 in Thiruvananthapuram, 223 from Alappuzha, 178 in Ernakulam, 171 from Malappuram, 122 in Kollam, 120 from Kannur, 107 in Thrissur, 104 from Kozhikode, 103 in Kottayam, 95 from Pathanamthitta, 83 in Kasargod, 31 from Palakkad, 11 in Idukki and three from Wayanad. There are 17 infected healthcare workers in Thiruvananthapuram, nine in Ernakulam, seven in Malappuram, six in Kozhikode, five in Kannur and three each in Kollam and Thrissur. The number of patients who tested negative 125 in Thiruvananthapuram, 22 from Kollam, 45 in Pathanamthitta, 53 from Alappuzha, 72 from Kottayam, 19 in Idukki, 171 from Ernakulam, 70 in Thrissur, 250 from Palakkad, 100 in Malappuram, 12 from Kozhikode, 39 in Wayanad, 88 from Kannur and 44 in Kasaragod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/state-reports-1908-new-positive-cases/articleshow/77712881.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Kochi||Kerala reports 1,908 new Covid-19 positive cases||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state reported 1,908 new cases on Sunday, taking the caseload in the state to 58,322. Five more deaths were recorded and the toll has become 224. The five deaths confirmed on Sunday are Sisupalan (80) and Shanavas (49) from Thiruvananthapuram, Damodaran (80) from Kozhikode, Dinamani (75) from Kollam and Robert (75) from Alappuzha. As many as 1,768 people were infected through local transmission and the source of infection in 160 cases was unknown. Among the new cases, 35 are returnees from foreign countries and 105 from other states. Fifty healthcare workers were also infected through transmission. The positive cases reported are 397 in Thiruvananthapuram, 241 in Alappuzha, 200 from Ernakulam, 186 in Malappuram, 143 from Kannur, 133 in Kollam, 119 from Kozhikode, 116 in Thrissur, 106 from Kottayam, 104 in Pathanamthitta, 85 from Kasaragod, 39 in Palakkad, 29 from Idukki and 10 in Wayanad. Till now, 37,649 people have been cured of Covid, and 20,330 patients are undergoing treatment in the state. The total number of recoveries reported in the day is 1,110. As many as 1,82,525 people are under observation in the state, 1,65,996 under home or institutional quarantine and 16,529 in hospitals. A total of 2,066 people were hospitalised in the day. In the last 24 hours, 36,353 samples were tested in the state. So far, a total of 14,22,558 samples were sent for testing, including 1,63,554 from high-public exposure groups, as part of sentinel surveillance. The contact cases reported in the day are 367 in Thiruvananthapuram, 223 from Alappuzha, 178 in Ernakulam, 171 from Malappuram, 122 in Kollam, 120 from Kannur, 107 in Thrissur, 104 from Kozhikode, 103 in Kottayam, 95 from Pathanamthitta, 83 in Kasargod, 31 from Palakkad, 11 in Idukki and three from Wayanad. There are 17 infected healthcare workers in Thiruvananthapuram, nine in Ernakulam, seven in Malappuram, six in Kozhikode, five in Kannur and three each in Kollam and Thrissur. The number of patients who tested negative 125 in Thiruvananthapuram, 22 from Kollam, 45 in Pathanamthitta, 53 from Alappuzha, 72 from Kottayam, 19 in Idukki, 171 from Ernakulam, 70 in Thrissur, 250 from Palakkad, 100 in Malappuram, 12 from Kozhikode, 39 in Wayanad, 88 from Kannur and 44 in Kasaragod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/state-reports-1908-new-positive-cases/articleshow/77712882.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Nagpur||Hard to get beds in DCHs despite 46% occupancy||Nagpur: “Bed nahi hai” (There is no bed). This has become the stock reply from both government, trust-run and private Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs) in the city as well as the outskirts. Critically-ill and those with mild to moderate symptoms are finding it extremely difficult to get a DCH bed unless their plea is backed by influential people. Government doctors agreed that they received at least 50 calls mainly from politicians for even asymptomatic patients. Others preferring private DCHs have to first show they can foot the bills besides depending on patients survival rate, admissions are granted. Last week, TOI visited both IGGMCH and GMCH where several private ambulances were queued up with patients on mechanical support near Covid OPDs. “An official examined my father and instantly refused to admit him at the private DCH in Dhantoli. We were searching for a bed for over two hours,” the son said before he got a bed at IGGMCH DCH on Friday evening. The man died at IGGMCH on Saturday morning. Emergency cases, especially the untested ones, are also meeting the same fate. The headmistress of an NMC school died within two hours after being admitted to the IGGMCH casualty ward on Saturday. “She suddenly suffered a severe asthma attack around 3pm. Three private DCHs and one big hospital on station road refused to admit her as she was yet to be tested for Covid. Ultimately, we landed at IGGMCH where we were told that the ventilator was not available. She was given oxygen support while we again started checking out private hospitals. At 9pm, our relatives asked us to return as she had died,” a family friend said. Another man in his 60s from West Nagpur got admission in a private DCH only after two others refused to take him though he was symptomatic. A private ambulance operator said of late they are spending over three hours in getting a Covid patient directly admitted. “Along with money, you also need to show a high profile connection,” the operator said. Going by the civil surgeon’s patient admission record, 1,219 beds must be vacant in government hospitals, four DCHs in the city and one trust-run hospital at Hingna. GMC, IGGMCH and AIIMS have 685 admissions against a combined bed strength of 1,260. The other five DCHs have 366 patients against over 1, 000 beds. VHA President Dr Ashok Arbat said that multiple factors are responsible for the situation. “NMC should guide private hospitals. Patients, too, must come before it’s too late. Many suspected critical patients tested positive while in admission. Later, NMC penalized those hospitals for treating Covid patients without nod,” he said. IGGMCH deputy medical superintendent (Corona patient care) Dr Sagar Pandey said, “Without informing the NMC, private hospitals are transferring patients to us. The status of beds must be checked before sending patients as critical ones have a sharp fall in SPO2 level and need mechanical support. They can’t be kept waiting but have to be moved immediately to ICCU. Private hospitals must keep the NMC informed. The NMC must penalize offenders. Until beds are available, patients should not be moved.” Regarding critical patients dying in casualty and many waiting for hours, Pandey said 65 ICU beds are functional while IGGMCH needs two more ICUs with the same bed strength. “We are in need of manpower to operate more beds. The district authority assured us that they are providing it on a priority basis. Collector sir has already provided support staff for ICCU and other wards,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hard-to-get-beds-in-dchs-despite-46-occupancy/articleshow/77710274.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Corporations told to ensure quality of roads: Pradipsinh Jadeja||AHMEDABAD: The state government has instructed city corporations to make suitable changes to roadwork tender clauses to ensure road quality even in rain. Minister of state (home) Pradipsinh Jadeja told reporters on Sunday that the chief minister has already issued instructions to city civic bodies to begin repair of all roads, including internal roads, right after monsoon ends. Jadeja was in the city for inauguration and foundation stone laying ceremonies of projects worth Rs 86 crore, mainly in the eastern part of the city. He also flagged off two buses from Lal Darwaza. In reply to questions of reporters, Jadeja said the CM has instructed civic bodies to make adequate changes in clauses of tenders for road resurfacing to ensure road quality. Referring to the abundant rainfall received in the state and city, which led to bad roads, Jadeja said, “The state government has its roadmap ready, and the government and city corporations will begin repairs immediately once monsoon ends.” Jadeja further said that the GPCB has been taking action against industries that have been releasing untreated chemical water in the Sabarmati river and canals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/corporations-told-to-ensure-quality-of-roads-jadeja/articleshow/77710410.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||+ve or -ve? Man positively critical||Ahmedabad: Bakul Dave, 71, was discharged from one of the city’s largest Covid hospitals just five days after being treated. As the discharge note was being prepared, Dave was coughing and could barely stand. His family requested a retest. The hospital said no. “My father was discharged on August 21 at 4:30pm,” said his son Jeel Dave who has the discharge papers from SVP Hospital. “At a private hospital, my father tested positive. The hospital wanted Rs 1 lakh. I didn’t have the money.” Back at SVP again, an antigen test was negative. Now the patient is at a private hospital and is critical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ve-or-ve-man-positively-critical/articleshow/77710294.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Suicide vests, 15kg explosives seized from ISIS supect’s Balrampur home||LUCKNOW: Two suicide vests with leather straps and 15kg of explosives with trigger batteries stashed in metal boxes were seized from ISIS lone wolf Yusuf Khan’s residence at Beshahi village in Balrampur district of UP, confirming his inclination to execute ‘fidayeen’ strikes in the national capital. An ISIS flag and other incriminating material were also found by sleuths of Delhi Special Cell and UP anti-terror squad while scouring his house for clues on Sunday. Yusuf, who was arrested by Delhi Police after a brief encounter, was escorted by security personnel to his native village in Balrampur late Saturday and interrogated for 18 hours till 4pm Sunday. He has been taken back to Delhi. Yusuf told investigators he planned a lone-wolf strike in Delhi modelled around ISIS reprisals in Germany and Europe during the height of US and allied attacks on the caliphate in Iraq and Syria. A Class 9 dropout from a local school, Yusuf like his younger brothers worked in the Gulf, but was deported to India in 2006-07 as he didn’t possess a work permit. After his return, he worked as a painter in Mumbai and Hyderabad, before returning to his Balrampur home in 2013 after he suffered a shoulder injury, said police officials. Holed up in his village, Yusuf got hooked to the Net and waded into terror sites where he spent hours surfing ISIS and Al Qaeda videos. “In 2015, he encountered ISIS operatives on the Internet and was radicalised by an ISIS handler for India, Yusuf-Al Hind, who was later killed in a drone strike in Syria. He continued his pursuit and soon came in touch with Abu Huzaifa al Bakistani, a Pakistani terrorist, who coached him online how to put together a timer-linked improvised explosive device (IED) and design and attach time bombs to strapped suicide vests,” the ATS officer said. “ISIS radicalises its operatives to wear suicide vests and then target a public area with high footfall like Delhi’s Buddha Jayanti Park. These terrorists don’t operate in groups like Yusuf Khan,” an ATS official said. Yusuf’s family claimed he was involved in suspicious activity and would stay awake all night and didn’t allow anybody to enter his room. On Friday, Yusuf took out Rs 11,000 from an ATM and stuffed two pressure cookers in his bag and left home, saying he was going to Lucknow to buy cosmetic items for his store, a family member told reporters on Sunday. Delhi Special Cell officers also raided a house of a bicycle mechanic and seized mobile phones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/suicide-vests-15kg-explosives-seized-from-isis-supects-balrampur-home/articleshow/77710887.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
August 24, 2020||Bareilly||UP panel for child rights takes note of Class X student’s ‘suicide letter’||Bareilly: The UP State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (UPSCPCR) has taken cognizance of the 18-page suicide letter written by a 16-year-old student of Class X, who had allegedly killed herself and left behind the note addressing directly to PM Narendra Modi. In the letter, she had raised concerns over various issues such as corruption, deforestation, rising pollution, among others, and stated that these pressing matters have compelled her to commit suicide. Following the girl's demands, the state child rights committee has now sent a letter to the PM requesting him to discuss the issues in the Mann ki Baat radio show. Dr Vishesh Gupta, president of UPSCPCR told TOI, “We have taken cognizance of the issues mentioned by the student. She raised some valid issues and requested PM Modi to take note of it. The letter has been forwarded to the PM's office.” Earlier, the Class X student had shot herself dead on the eve of Independence day at a village under Babrala police station in UP’s Sambhal. Three days later, Sambhal police recovered a suicide note from her house which was addressed to the PM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-panel-for-child-rights-takes-note-of-class-x-students-suicide-letter/articleshow/77706735.cms||Maria Khan
August 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: All four dams close to full, Varasgaon releases water||PUNE: Good rain in the catchment areas in the last few days has brought the four dams that provide water to the city to near-full capacity. The total storage of the four dams are about 28.23 TMC (96.83%) of the 29.15 TMC. The water level in the Mutha river increased on Sunday with discharge of excess water from Varasgaon dam, the largest among the four dams that supply water to Pune city. It is almost (98.65%) full to its capacity of 12.82, and water was released into the reservoirs down stream. “The current stock is enough to cater to the drinking and farming needs for the entire year for Pune. The district will receive more rainfall in August and in September," executive engineer Vijay Patil of Khadakwasla irrigation circle said. After a deficient and worrisome July, there was bountiful rain in August, increasing the water levels in the four dams. The Khadakwasla irrigation circle discharged 5,136 cusecs of water into Mutha river on Sunday afternoon, Patil said. "We had stopped discharge from Khadakwasla dam on Saturday night, but considering the rising level of the water in Varasgaon, we have discharged 5,136 cusecs water into the river and 1000bl cusecs water into the Mutha right bank canal on Sunday afternoon," Patil said. Khadakwasla and Panshet dams are full while Temghar holds 82% of its capacity. Pavana dam which supplies drinking water to Pimpri Chinchwad has filled up to 82% till Sunday evening. "There is no discharge from Pavana at present. We will release water only after it fills above 90%," Patil added. Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department has forecast light rainfall over Pune district from August 24 to 27. "There is no strong system approaching central India before August 25. Secondly, the strength of the westerly wind will reduce over the coastal areas till August 27. Chances of a weather system forming over the Bay of Bengal are few. Hence, the state, including Madhya Maharashtra, and Pune district, will receive light rainfall," Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD Pune, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/all-four-dams-close-to-full-varasgaon-releases-water/articleshow/77710341.cms||Sandip Dighe
August 24, 2020||Kolhapur||545 fresh Covid cases, 23 deaths in Kolhapur dist||Kolhapur: As many as 545 Covid-19 cases, including 208 cases from Kolhapur city alone, were reported in the district on Sunday, taking the number of infected people to 18,487. Moreover, 23 people succumbed to the viral infection on Sunday, taking the death toll in district to 547. Currently, there are 7,874 active cases in the district. Kolhapur city continues to report highest number of Covid-19 cases.The tally of positive cases in the city has reached 5,768, of which 143 patients have succumbed to infection. The total number of active zones in the city has reached to 149, of which the containment zones in 98 localities have been lifted. Meanwhile, experts of Shivaji University, Kolhapur, have developed a contact-less thermal screening device. The device uses sensors to detect body temperature. The university authorities are in discussion with industrialists for production of the device in large numbers 131 cases in Sangli district Sangli district reported 11 deaths and 131 Covid-19 cases on Sunday. The total number of cases in the district has reached 8,443 while the death toll stands at 320 . So far, 5,040 patients have been discharged while 3,083 patients are still undergoing treatment. 271 cases in Solapur district Solapur city reported two deaths and 26 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday. The total number of cases in the city has reached 6,309 while 399 people have succumbed. The rural areas of Solapur district reported 245 Covid-19 while eight people died of the infection. So far, 9,456 persons have been infected in the rural areas of the district and 266 have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/545-fresh-covid-cases-23-deaths-in-kolhapur-dist/articleshow/77708314.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Aurangabad||CMIA partners with UNDP to set up help desk for MSMEs||Aurangabad: The Chamber of Marathwada Industries and Agriculture (CMIA) has joined hands with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to set up a help desk which will provide support to MSMEs. The help desk will provide information on various government safety guidelines, regulatory norms, schemes and support measures during the Covid-19 pandemic, states a release issued by CMIA. “The help desk will support MSMEs through in-person and telephonic consultation. It will offer advisory services on scaling operations and bridging the skill gap. It will also facilitate linkages to financial institutions and government departments,” said CMIA secretary Satish Lonika.It will also help recruiting skilled workforce in partnership with state skill development missions and other relevant government departments and support agencies. “The help desk will host regular webinars, consultation and interactive sessions for MSMEs to address or alleviate Covid-19 related business challenges. The help desk will be active till January 2021. MSMEs are requested to reach out to CMIA to benefit from the services being offered by the help desk,” Lonikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cmia-partners-with-undp-to-set-up-help-desk-for-msmes/articleshow/77708323.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Chennai||‘Tamil Nadu book to improve English full of errors, universities’ autonomy hit’||Chennai: A recently introduced textbook of the Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education, ‘Communicative English,’ for arts and science college students is riddled with grammatical errors, say educators who are irked by the council’s interference in universities’ autonomy. “Every university has its own academic council and board of studies that has the final word on syllabus and related issues. Through the launch of this book, TANSCHE will interfere with autonomy of the universities which already have soft skills courses,” said a professor, requesting anonymity. TANSCHE could have held workshops or found other ways to strengthen existing programme instead of prescribing a book, he said. “The council is a monitoring agency of the UGC in Tamil Nadu and doesn’t have the right to prescribe textbooks, since every university has the freedom to prepare its own curriculum,” he said. Each university has a board of studies faculty from different colleges and regions, who know what syllabus would be appropriate. “It cannot be homogenous, because we have students from urban, rural, and tribal areas. It should cater to their needs, this book doesn’t,” said another professor. “Even a vice-chancellor doesn’t impose or prescribe any textbook. For the council to bring out a book like this is not only undemocratic but also violates the spirit of autonomy.” Professors say they were informed about the book in February, after VCs’ approval. “They could’ve put their foot down, but didn’t. We were not even consulted or trained to teach this.” They said they were at least 25 grammatical errors within the first few pages, with one sentence reading, ‘Folk music has a fascination for me’, and another reading, ‘I studied the same school in which our former President, APJ Abdul Kalam studied.’ They said most are confused about how to teach it and a few are yet to start taking lessons. “We have expressed displeasure to the authorities and also our vice-chancellors. We hope they take the right steps,” he said. TANSCHE member secretary Vivekanandan was unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-book-to-improve-english-full-of-errors-univs-autonomy-hit/articleshow/77709204.cms||Aditi R
August 24, 2020||Agra||Hunger death: 5-yr-old’s kin get ration card, bank a/c, free edu, gas & power supply||Agra: Two days after a five-year-old girl died of hunger and sickness in Agra’s Nagla Vidhichand village, as reported by TOI on Saturday, the district administration has not only provided the family a ration card, bank account and Ujwala gas connection but also assured free treatment for her bed-ridden TB patient father and education for her two siblings. The UP government is also working on a plan to provide a house for the family under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna (PMAY). The gram pradhan, meanwhile, has promised a proper toilet for them. As an immediate assistance, the district administration officials handed over 50kg wheat, 40kg rice and five litres of cooking oil to victim Sonia’s parents — Pappu Singh and Sheela Devi — on Sunday, apart from vegetables, fruits and other daily essentials provided by the locals. Chief development officer J Reebha said, “We have given them enough ration to keep them going for now. Meanwhile, we will make arrangements to secure them a ration card, Aadhaar card, bank account and a gas connection. We are also planning to include them under PMAY.” District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “Apart from providing government benefits to the family, our priority is to ensure a permanent means of livelihood to them. The girl’s father is not in a condition to work. Her mother, who has been working as a daily wage labourer, will be enrolled under the MNREGA scheme. We will also try to cover them under a suitable pension scheme.” “Sonia’s father will be given proper TB treatment at a government hospital and her siblings will be given free education,” he added. The DM also ordered the private discom Torrent Power to ensure regular power supply to the family as the connection to the house was snapped over non-payment of bills. He said, “The district administration will pay the outstanding dues of Rs 7,732 under its corporate social responsibility scheme.” Later in the day, a health department team conducted the medical checkup of the family and provided them multivitamin and calcium tablets. Village development and revenue department teams, too, visited the house to record the details of the family. The DM added, “I have asked the officials concerned to find out whether there is any other family in such distress. We will provide them adequate help.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hunger-death-5-yr-olds-kin-get-ration-card-bank-a/c-free-edu-gas-power-supply/articleshow/77709209.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Over 400 from state test +ve in TN||Thiruvananthapuram: Over 400 persons — 425 to be precise — who travelled from Kerala tested positive for Covid-19 on their day of arrival in Tamil Nadu since June, as per the analysis of the health department of that state. The Kerala government, however, puts the number of people from state testing positive in other states in June and July at 334, showing a wide mismatch. Karnataka had also reported a few cases of persons arriving from Kerala testing positive in May but since June they are being recorded as cases with a history of domestic travel. The state health department had drawn figures for their studies from the NCDC (National Centre for Disease Control) and ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) portals. According to it, only 14 of 282 persons who tested positive in other states could have contacted the infection from Kerala in its study. The list of Keralites who tested positive in other states compiled by the department shows that a good number of them had travelled from Kerala to the respective states months and years ago. For instance, a 43-year-old woman from Thiruvananthapuram who had travelled to Kolkata in June 2016 was tested positive there on July 16, 2020. The department also finds that a 25-year-old woman from Pathanamthitta and a 39-year-old woman from Kollam who had gone to Kolkata and Gujarat respectively a year ago and tested positive in June could not have contracted the infection from here. “What’s the point in saying that someone who has not visited Kerala for months or even years would not have got the infection from here? The study should ideally focus on daily positive cases among Keralites being reported from other states on their day of arrival,” a public health official said. The daily number of passengers who are being tested positive at checkposts, railway stations and airports in Tamil Nadu is actually higher than the number of cases compiled from ICMR and NCDC portals. In August, 71 persons from Kerala were tested positive on their day of arrival in Tamil Nadu. For July and June, the numbers were 128 and 226 respectively. Between June and July, the local transmission in the state had also grown at a fast rate. The public health specialists point out that the infection could not be linked to the home state if patients are placed at a longer time frame between their time of arrival in another state and date of positivity. The health department has attributed the source of infection in six cases in Kasaragod to a Mangaluru hospital. It also cites false positivity in the case of a man who travelled from Kozhikode to Coimbatore and tested positive there in June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/over-400-from-state-test-ve-in-tn/articleshow/77709220.cms||Aswin J Kumar
August 24, 2020||Bareilly||UP: SHO suspended for sexually abusing woman||BAREILLY: A sub-inspector of police, who was recently made the station house officer (SHO) of Banda police station in Shahjahanpur, was suspended by the SSP on Sunday after preliminary inquiry found him guilty of sexual abuse. Police said that SI Sunil Kumar was suspended after a 26-year-old woman lodged a police complaint against him on Saturday stating that he had sexually abused her while posted at Kalaan station promising to offer support in the case against her husband. A preliminary inquiry by additional SP (rural) Aparna Gautam found him guilty of misconduct. According to sources, Kumar got in touch with the complainant, a resident of Dataganj in Budaun district and married in Kalaan, after she lodged a police complaint against her husband. The woman alleged that he then abused her sexually for a month promising help. However, he stopped answering her calls after he was transferred to Banda police station on August 10. Hence, the survivor met SSP S Anand on Saturday and lodged a complaint against Kumar. The SSP said, “The allegations against Banda SHO Sunil Kumar are serious and preliminary investigation has found him guilty. Hence, he has been suspended and CP Singh will take charge of Banda police station. Further action will be taken based on the outcome of the investigation.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sho-suspended-for-sexually-abusing-woman/articleshow/77706738.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 24, 2020||Nagpur||Public campaign starts to save trees near ‘Bapu Kuti’||Nagpur: Saving trees on the ‘Bapu Kuti’ stretch of Wardha-Sevagram road is turning into a public movement with green activists going the whole hog against the public works department (PWD) to stop felling for road widening.As reported earlier, of the 200 trees on the 10km road, PWD recently felled 70 trees. These trees were around 60-70 years old and were planted by Gandhians on the appeal by Mahatma Gandhi who stayed in Bapu Kuti in the 30s.The like-minded citizens under the Wardha Vruksha Bachav Samiti have joined hands to save remaining trees and have moved political leaders including PWD minister Ashok Chavan and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray. The samiti has also taken to social media to spearhead the stir.Environment scientist Dr Alok Bang said apart from the 130 trees that face the axe, many other trees have been left to die. “Construction activities include denuding the trees not only from one side but three sides,” he said.“Moreover, these activities have been done within 1 metre of the tree trunk. This will result in about 90% destruction of root mass. Even if not cut, the injuries sustained during digging and compaction would result in future mass mortality of the trees,” said Bang.The scientist said considering the cultural and historical significance of Wardha-Sevagram and ecological value of trees in combating climate change, they have requested local and district administration to acknowledge their stand.He further said that they have drawn attention of Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, KC Venugopal and Jairam Ramesh, and NCP’s Supriya Sule. District collector Vivek Bhimanwar has granted a temporary stay on felling. Dr Vibha Gupta, director, Magan Sanghralaya Samiti, said that they have also taken the battle to people’s court and “most of them don’t want trees to be cut”.Gupta also said that over 2,000 people from Wardha, including those from four gram panchayats through which the road passes, have declared support in last few days. “Many due processes such as obtaining NOC from GPs before cutting trees have not been fulfilled,” said Gupta.“Other formalities such as preparing environmental impact assessment (EIA) and social impact assessment (SIA) reports have been kept vague. These villages will file appeal opposing tree-cutting. A letter with 1,500 signatures from Warud has already been submitted to collector,” said Bang.Sushma Sharma, principal of Anand Niketan, Sevagram, said they have also filed an online petition, which has recorded over 2,400 signatures in last few days. “Peaceful protests were staged on Independence Day. We also carried out a special event called ‘Rakshasutra’ in which women tied rakhis to the trees, pledging support,” said Sharma.According to Murlidhar Belkhode of Nisarga Seva Samiti, many of these trees were planted and protected in the late 50s by stalwarts like Annasaheb Sahasrabuddhe, a close disciple of Gandhiji. “Some trees are even older and have been standing since Gandhiji’s times,” he said.“There are anecdotal reports of Gandhiji and Kasturba sitting under these trees during evening walk. With this historical context in mind, we believe the road to Gandhi ashram should reflect simplicity, minimalism and sustainability — the very essence by which the world has come to recognize and value Gandhiji,” said Belkhode.Considering the heritage and historical value of the road, the samiti has demanded to develop it as ‘Shantipath’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/public-campaign-starts-to-save-trees-near-bapu-kuti/articleshow/77710333.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 24, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC poll for panel chief via video-conference||Kolhapur: The election for selecting the new chairman of the standing committee of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) will be held on Friday through video conferencing. The post got vacant after resignation of Congress corporator Sandip Kawale. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao has directed district collector Daulat Desai to preside over the election process and hold it through video conferencing. Desai has been asked to record the election process and the minutes in detail, and submit the report immediately on the next day. Tuesday has been set as the last last date for filling the nominations. A senior official of the KMC said, “The links of the VC will be provided to the corporators through which they can participate in the process. They will ask to raise their hands and accordingly the vote will be counted. We are preparing all the requirements for the election to be held in a fair manner.” Meanwhile, some posts are viral on the social media opposing the conduct of the election via video conferencing. However, officials have claimed they have not registered any formal complaint from any of the political party opposing the election in this manner. They, however, said that the nomination has to be filed physically in the presence of the election officials. The tenure of the KMC is going to end by October. Currently, Congress is in alliance with the NCP and they have clear majority in the panel with nine members out of 16. It is likely that the NCP corporator Sachin Patil will be the official nominee of the Congress and NCP while the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Tararani Aghadi are yet to fix their candidate. Shiv Sena has only one corporator and it is likely to vote for the Cong-NCP candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-poll-for-panel-chief-via-video-conference/articleshow/77708330.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Bareilly||Rs 500 crore aid for co-op sugar mills to clear cane price arrears||Pilibhit: The state government has extended financial assistance to 24 sugar mills in the cooperative sector, in order to safeguard the interests of cane farmers, and to reduce the liability of cane price arrears that cooperative mills are carrying.As per principal secretary (sugarcane and sugar industry) Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, the amount of assistance will be directly transferred to bank accounts of farmers, as write-offs of their cane price dues.“An amount of Rs 500 crore has been granted to sugar mills in the form of soft loans, which is based on the respective mills’ payment-making capacity. The remaining cane price arrears owed by cooperative mills will be around 10-15% of the total value of sugarcane procured, which is around Rs 800 crore,” said Bhoosreddy.He added he was regularly monitoring the status of payments being made by sugar mills to cane growers, towards their outstanding cane price dues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rs-500-crore-aid-for-co-op-sugar-mills-to-clear-cane-price-arrears/articleshow/77706756.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha staring at Tocilizumab shortage?||Nagpur: With sudden surge in Covid-19 cases and unprecedented increase in deaths, hospitals in the region have started facing shortage of Tocilizumab, the drug used in conjunction with Remdesivir on patients recovering from the novel coronavirus. According to local authorities, enough stock of this life-saving injection is available, but distribution is monitored with restrictions to ensure that only extremely needy patients get the drug. Doctors from several private hospitals in Nagpur where Covid-19 patients are under treatment said that they have to rush to the authorities for availability of Tocilizumab when patients turn critical. “In Nagpur, divisional health authorities have joined hands with Food and Drugs Authority (FDA) to ensure the supply,” said PN Shende, assistant commissioner, FDA. Shende said it’s a policy decision to make important drugs like Tocilizumab available to Covid hospitals only on priority. “FDA has been monitoring its use and supply. Currently, we have more than 200 vials of the drug available and we will ensure it’s given to the needy patients,” said Shende. Earlier this week, state health minister Rajesh Tope had asked the state Covid-19 task force to take a decision on the use of Tocilizumab in treatment of patients after a recent trial finding by the drug manufacturing company revealed it didn’t reduce mortality or severity in patients with Covid-linked pneumonia. Members of Covid-19 task force in Nagpur who have been working closely with the patients said that the drug has worked in many critical cases. “Tocilizumab must be prescribed only in life-threatening situations. It has dual effects. It can sometimes depress the patient’s immune system drastically. Hence, we think that the administration should ensure that the drug must be available in stock,” said a senior member of Nagpur Covid-19 task force. Monitoring use and restricting distribution through the FDA is good idea, he said. In other parts of Vidarbha, there are many critical patients in Akola and Amravati. Here also the drug is available only in government Covid hospitals. For private hospitals, it is distributed in a restricted manner. Tocilizumab — one of the final saviours - Normally used in rheumatoid arthritis and cancer treatments - Improves hospital survival in critically ill Covid-19 patients admitted in ICU - Costs Rs41,000 per injection, but highly effective at critical stage - Govt had asked doctors not to prescribe it randomly - Demand is rising in Vidarbha after spike in cases in last two weeks - Stock limited, on-demand distribution with FDA and admin to ensure supply to needy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbha-staring-at-tocilizumab-shortage/articleshow/77710369.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 24, 2020||Kochi||Covid-19: 2nd round of sero-survey begins today in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The second round of population-based sero-survey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will begin in the state on Monday. The survey will be held in three districts: Palakkad, Thrissur and Ernakulam. The first round of the sero-survey conducted in June was also held in these districts. Of the 1,193 samples collected, only four positive cases — Thrissur (3) and Ernakulam (1) — were detected. The survey is being conducted in association with the state health department, for which a 20-member team has been appointed for each district. The expectation is to collect 1,200 samples, with 400 from each district. The test results will be analysed to know the impact of the local spread in these districts. The focus group will be healthcare workers, others who are in the frontline of the Covid fight, besides pregnant and vulnerable members of the society who fall under the high-risk group. The second round of the survey assumes significance as it is being conducted when the caseload has increased in the state and there are reports of widespread community clusters. When the first round was conducted in the three districts, the caseload had not peaked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/2nd-round-of-serosurvey-begins-today/articleshow/77712706.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Goa||Councillor writes to PWD over sewage discharge||Vasco: Councillor of Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC), Saifulla Khan complained to the PWD about sewage water being discharged into a nullah at Baina, Vasco. Khan submitted a letter to the PWD assistant executive engineer’s office stating that sewerage water was being discharged from the sewerage pumphouse no. 6, located opposite Nandadeep Apartments in Baina. In his complaint, the MMC councillor termed it as “a crime against humanity and an inhuman act by the PWD”. “This water should be treated and discharged properly. The PWD cannot be letting out untreated water into nullahs built by the MMC to drain out rain water,” he said. Before proceeding to the PWD office, Khan along with residents of the locality inspected the area. Khan said that PWD officials have expressed ignorance over the issue. “As it is, we are in a pandemic and the discharge of sewerage water has increased the risk of vector borne diseases in the area,” Khan said. He also submitted another letter requesting the PWD to repair a sewerage pipeline and two 15m chambers opposite Siddalingeshwar Temple at Mangor Hill, which are broken and choked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/councillor-writes-to-pwd-over-sewage-discharge/articleshow/77711200.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Covid-19: 2nd round of sero-survey begins today in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The second round of population-based sero-survey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will begin in the state on Monday. The survey will be held in three districts: Palakkad, Thrissur and Ernakulam. The first round of the sero-survey conducted in June was also held in these districts. Of the 1,193 samples collected, only four positive cases — Thrissur (3) and Ernakulam (1) — were detected. The survey is being conducted in association with the state health department, for which a 20-member team has been appointed for each district. The expectation is to collect 1,200 samples, with 400 from each district. The test results will be analysed to know the impact of the local spread in these districts. The focus group will be healthcare workers, others who are in the frontline of the Covid fight, besides pregnant and vulnerable members of the society who fall under the high-risk group. The second round of the survey assumes significance as it is being conducted when the caseload has increased in the state and there are reports of widespread community clusters. When the first round was conducted in the three districts, the caseload had not peaked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/2nd-round-of-serosurvey-begins-today/articleshow/77709263.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Kozhikode||Covid-19: 2nd round of sero-survey begins today in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The second round of population-based sero-survey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will begin in the state on Monday. The survey will be held in three districts: Palakkad, Thrissur and Ernakulam. The first round of the sero-survey conducted in June was also held in these districts. Of the 1,193 samples collected, only four positive cases — Thrissur (3) and Ernakulam (1) — were detected. The survey is being conducted in association with the state health department, for which a 20-member team has been appointed for each district. The expectation is to collect 1,200 samples, with 400 from each district. The test results will be analysed to know the impact of the local spread in these districts. The focus group will be healthcare workers, others who are in the frontline of the Covid fight, besides pregnant and vulnerable members of the society who fall under the high-risk group. The second round of the survey assumes significance as it is being conducted when the caseload has increased in the state and there are reports of widespread community clusters. When the first round was conducted in the three districts, the caseload had not peaked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/2nd-round-of-serosurvey-begins-today/articleshow/77712704.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Some in Congress seek MVA deal for AMC election||Aurangabad: A section of local Congress leaders have demanded that the party forge ties with Shiv Sena and NCP for the elections of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation elections, which, at the moment, have been postponed indefinitely in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The demand was raised during a party review meeting for Marathwada which was attended by senior leaders including Mallikarjun Kharge and Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat on Sunday. Congress leader Jitendra Dehade said forging a deal for the local elections along the lines of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi alliance in the state government would benefit the party in many ways. “The non-secular agenda of BJP can be countered at the local level as well if Congress joins hands with Shiv Sena and NCP. The alliance at the state level has infused new energy in party cadre and the momentum can be taken forward during civic polls,” he said. Though the civic elections have been postponed, a possible poll strategy was discussed at the Congress review meeting. Meanwhile, senior Congress leaders have the local unit to reach out to the people during the pandemic. “While the local party cadre has been helping the underprivileged sections of society and the government machinery since the outbreak of Covid-19, we have also been asked to identify further areas where intervention can be made for the larger public good,” said Dehade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/some-in-congress-seek-mva-deal-for-amc-election/articleshow/77708358.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Cops return Rs 26L to victim of cheating||Aurangabad: City Chowk police on Sunday handed over Rs 26 lakh to a courier operator who was cheated of the money by one of the employees. The accused, Shrikant Dhivre, has been arrested and remanded in police custody. According to police, the amount was recovered from him during investigation. “In an attempt to make some quick money and come out of financial crisis, Dhivre decided to siphon off the cash received by the courier company and cooked up a story of losing the bag containing the cash in an accident,” a police officer said. Police inspector Sambhaji Pawar said, “Upon verifying the complaint, we found certain discrepancies in Dhivre’s statement and further probe revealed that he has been misleading us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cops-return-rs-26l-to-victim-of-cheating/articleshow/77708362.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Bareilly||Principal secretary issues advisory to protect cane crop from red rot outbreak||Pilibhit: UP principal secretary of sugarcane Sanjay R Bhoosreddy has issued an advisory for field officers and cane farmers, to take preventive measures to protect the crop from red rot disease, also called cancer of sugarcane. Field officers across the state have been asked to prepare and implement micro plans to replace seeds in disease-affected areas.As per state sugarcane administration records, crop grown over 27.31 lakh hectares across 44 cane-dominant districts have been affected this year.Expressing apprehension of a red rot outbreak in the state, Bhoosreddy said, “This incurable disease spreads first from seeds of sugarcane varieties that farmers continue to sow year after year. Prolonged sowing of a single variety causes drastic decay of immunity in the sugarcane seed, due to genetic degradation.”“As this disease damages the crop to a great extent, farmers inevitably need to follow scientific recommendations of replacing the disease-affected cane varieties like co-0238, with early maturing and high-yield varieties like co-0118 and cos-08272,” Bhoosreddy said.Red rot is called cancer of sugarcane. It has only one remedy — root out and burn infected plants — just like how a cancerous organ has to be surgically removed, he said, adding it’s advisable for farmers to sow other crops in the forthcoming autumn season, in fields where sugarcane crop had been affected by red rot the previous year.Bhoosreddy further said in case red rod attacks sugarcane crop in over 20% cropped area at a fully matured stage, farmers are advised to harvest the crop immediately and burn the infected plants. They are also required to destroy the stumps and roots of infected plants through deep tillage, to remove the disease infection from the soil. “Simultaneously, the remaining healthy part of the crop should be compulsorily sprayed with recommended fungicides,” he said.He also said all field officers have been instructed through the advisory to alert sugarcane farmers of the preventive measures against red rot by ensuring extensive via through pamphlets, newspapers, kisan fairs, wall paintings, seminars, etc, advising them to only use certified cane seed for sowing.The director of UP council for sugarcane research, Jai Singh, said, “Red rot spreads from a fungal infection that transmits rapidly from one plant to another through soil moisture or water in fields. As this infection neutralises completely under soil layers, mulching of infected crop residue like roots and stumps is the only remedy to get rid of this disease, which has its outbreak soon after the end of the monsoon season.”He said field reports showed the outbreak of red rot in parts of central and eastern UP like Sitapur, Kheri and Kushinagar districts, even the monsoon is yet to abate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/principal-secretary-issues-advisory-to-protect-cane-crop-from-red-rot-outbreak/articleshow/77706788.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Low-lying areas downstream evacuated||VIJAYAWADA: Krishna district administration is on alert with a floodwater swelling River Krishna. Following continuous rains in the catchment area, flood level at Prakasam Barrage has increased to 3.1 lakh cusecs by Sunday evening. Officials lifted all 70 gates and released the floodwater to the Bay of Bengal. Irrigation authorities at Prakasam Barrage are closely observing the flood situation at Srisailam, Nagarjuna Sagar and Pulichintala dams and regulating the outflows while maintaining flood cushion. Officials estimate that the flood level will cross the warning level by Sunday late night as inflows are likely to touch four lakh cusecs. In the meantime, tahsildhars have kept a special focus on Thotlavalluru, Srikakulam, Avanigadda, Nagayalanka areas. They have also evacuated the inhabitants living in low-lying areas across the downstream mandals of Prakasam Barrage and warned residents of Pamula Lanka island against travelling in small boats to cross the river. Irrigation and panchayati raj authorities have started works to strengthen river bunds at problematic areas to prevent flooding of villages and mining authorities have stalled sand mining at Pedapulipaka and other sand reaches. Farmers have been requested not to go into the river and take steps to protect their livestock. Village volunteers and secretariat staff have been tasked with monitoring the movement of villagers. Police have strictly prohibited the immersion of Ganesh idols in the Krishna river and village volunteers and secretariat staff have arranged barricades at river banks to that end. District collector A Mohammed Imtiaz conducted a video conference with officials and directed them to monitor the flood situation. He asked panchayati raj authorities and tahsildhars to provide food and necessary facilities to flood victims taking shelter at relief camps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/low-lying-areas-downstream-evacuated/articleshow/77708363.cms||Venu Lanka
August 24, 2020||Vijayawada||At 42tmc, Pulichintala reservoir nears full capacity||Guntur: Agriculture fields along the downstream of Nagarjunasagar project have been inundated due to massive floods in Krishna river. With the floodwater continuing from the upstream, farmers are worried about saving standing crops in hundreds of acres. According to reports, cotton and chilli nurseries have been damaged in Machavaram, Dachepalle, Amaravati, Atchampet, Thullur and Tadepalle mandals while paddy fields were affected in Duggirala, Repalle, Kolluru, Bhattiprolu mandals. Agriculture officials said they will start enumeration of damages once the floodwater recedes. Pulichintala project, the last balancing reservoir on Krishna basin, is brimming with waters resulting in release of floodwater to downstream. All the projects on Krishna basin have reached their fullest capacity prompting authorities to let out waters to the sea from Pulichintala. With no let-up in inflow to Srisailam project, the irrigation authorities are releasing nearly 4 lakh cusecs to the downstream. The water level at Srisailam project touched 883ft against the FRL of 885ft. The project is brimming as water level touched 206tmc against the total capacity of 215tmc. Similarly, in Nagarjuna Sagar project the water level has touched 587ft against the FRL of 590ft. The project storage has reached 305 tmc of water against the full capacity of 312tmc. Pulichintala project is also nearing its full capacity of 45 tmc as the level has already touched 42 tmc even as the flood from upstream continuues. While the project is receiving around 3 lakh cusecs of water from Sagar, the authorities are guardedly releasing water to the downstream to prevent sudden inundation of the riverbank villages and Vijayawada city. All the officials in the riverbank mandals in both Krishna and Guntur districts have been asked to stay on high alert for another 48 hours as the chances of flood continuing are high. Guntur district collector Samuel Anand Kumar and Krishna district collector A Mohammed Intiaz took stock of the situation with the field officials on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/at-42tmc-pulichintala-reservoir-nears-full-capacity/articleshow/77708369.cms||Samdani MN
August 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Khalistani flag raised in Moga third time in 10 days||Bathinda: In third such incident in 10 days, a Khalistan flag was hoisted in Moga district on Sunday. This time, the flag tied to a flyover on the Moga-Kotkapura road. The saffron flag with ‘Khalistan’ written on it was spotted by some passersby, who reported the matter to the police. The cops took down the flag and initiated necessary legal proceedings. Earlier, on August 14, a flag was hoisted at the Moga deputy commissioner office complex, and on August 16, some miscreants had replaced the national flag with the Khalistani one near a gurdwara in Dhudike village of the district. Meanwhile, in view of the banned US outfit Sikhs for Justice (SFJ)’s legal advisor Gurpatwant Singh Pannun offering money for ‘ardas’ for Khalistan, security has been beefed up at the gurdwaras. In the incident of flag at the Moga DC office on August 14, three men — Akashdeep Singh of Sadhuwala village in Ferozepur, and Jaspal Singh and Inderjeet Singh, both from Rauli village in Moga — were booked. Akashdeep was arrested on August 20. It came out from his interrogation that they had put up the Khalistani flag for money. Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harmanbir Singh Gill said some mischievous elements are behind the incidents and they would be dealt with severely. He said although as per the Supreme Court order, hoisting any such flag was not a legal offence, as it was not a recognised one, it is a punishable offence if it was done with malicious intent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/khalistani-flag-raised-in-moga-third-time-in-10-days/articleshow/77710941.cms||Neel Kamal
August 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: More than 2,500 test Covid positive, push tally past 1.45 lakh||PUNE: The Covid-19 death toll in Pune Metropolitan Region surged past the 3,500-mark on Sunday, with 61 people succumbing to the contagion. The region recorded over 500 fatalities over the past week, pushing the toll to 3,556. On Sunday, 2.580 people tested positive for Covid-19. With this, the progressive case count (overall tally) for PMR stood at 1,45,041, according to the daily report released by district health officer Bhagawan Pawar. Sunday also marked the first time in three days that the daily case count dipped below 3,000. Of the 2,580 people found infected, 1,225 were from Pune Municipal Corporation limits. Pimpri Chinchwad recorded 750 positive cases, with municipal councils (149), cantonments (47) and rural areas (409) making up the rest. Also on Sunday, 2,406 people were discharged after recovering from the infection. With this, more than 1.10 lakh people so far have recovered in the region. The recoveries stand at 66,589 in PMC limits (1,243 on Sunday), 29,561 in PCMC areas (833 on Sunday) and 14,141 in the other areas, with 330 getting discharged on Sunday. According to the report, there were 31,324 active cases on Sunday — 19,123 patients in hospitals, and 12,201 people under home quarantine. In Pune limits, 7,861 people are being treated at various hospitals, while 6.957 people have been sent to home isolation. According to a report released by PMC, 2,661 people are being treated on oxygenated beds. The report further stated that condition of 803 patients was critical, with 493 people on ventilator support. Of the 61 fatalities, 38 were recorded in PMC limits, six in Pimpri Chinchwad, 13 in rural areas, one in cantonments and three in municipal councils. The report added that death in a majority of the patients was caused by underlying conditions. The patients suffered from comorbidities such as respiratory diseases, heart failure, hypertension and diabetes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-than-2-5k-test-ve-push-tally-past-1-45-lakh/articleshow/77710438.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
August 24, 2020||Lucknow||Get, set, roar: Tryst with lions oncards at Etawah Safari by Sept||Lucknow: Come September, you may expect a tryst with lions at Etawah Safari. After getting a go ahead from the Central Zoo Authority (CZA), authorities at Etawah Lion Safari are planning to release the cubs in safari area next month. The final decision, however, will be taken after due consultation with the district administration. At present, the Etawah Safari has seven cubs of varying age, and 11 adults, which are lodged in animal houses in the safari. While granting approval for the Etawah Lion Safari in 2012-13, CZA had fixed the minimum limit of 10 cubs for opening of the facility for public. The Etawah Safari was thrown open for the public in November last year but the wait for lion segment continued as the norms laid by CZA were not fulfilled. Later, the Safari authorities wrote to CZA requesting for relaxation of norms regarding the minimum count of cubs. Doing away with the rider of minimum cubs, CZA granted permission to safari administration to open the lion segment for public. “We had written to CZA seeking relaxation in norms for the opening of lion safari as many wildlife safaris in the country are running with hardly one or two animals. Finally, CZA agreed to relax restrictions for us,” said director, Etawah Safari, VK Singh. “We have completed preparations for the opening of lion segment but it will be done in consultation with the district administration in view of Covid-19 pandemic,” he added. The 50 hectare safari area, where the cubs will be released, is divided into two parts of 27 hectare and 23 hectare. Cubs will be released in both the parts. “We will continue to keep a watch on cubs. As and when we notice that they are ready for mating we would put them back in the breeding centre,” Singh said. ‘Releasing’ soon: Bahubali, Simba & Sultan Named after Bollywood blockbusters ‘Bahubali’, ‘Sultan’ and ‘Simba’, three of the seven cubs at Etawah safari are ready to steal the show when the lion segment opens for public. All the three are siblings, aged around 3-4 years, are born to the same lioness, Jessica. The revelry as well as rivalry between Simba and Sultan is there for all to see. According to safari officials, the two ‘teenage’ brothers have been vying for female attention. Etawah Safari director VK Singh said Simba and Sultan bond very well. “When one takes ill or feel low on energy and refuses to eat, the other offers its own food to show love. The two often sleep with their legs and arms thrown over each other,” he added. Three other siblings – Rupa, Sona and Bharat – aged more than a year, play among themselves. Another cub, born in April this year, is too young to be released in the safari now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/get-set-roar-tryst-with-lions-oncards-at-etawah-safari-by-sept/articleshow/77710899.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar says letter signed by Bhattal, Tewari ‘ill advised’||JALANDHAR: Two senior Congress functionaries from Punjab — state planning board vicechairperson Rajinder Kaur Bhattal and Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari — are among the signatories to the letter written to Sonia Gandhi asking for drastic changes and reform in the party.  Hitting back, Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar has said that such a letter was not expected from the Congress leaders at a time when Rahul Gandhi was taking on the current regime directly. “This letter is ill-advised and amounts to falling in BJP’s trap. BJP would love something like this to happen,” he has said. Bhattal, however, claimed that the letter did not amount to challenging the leadership of Gandhi family. “Sonia Gandhi has shouldered responsibilities very well. We are not challenging Gandhi family but there are several issues that need to be resolved so that party can get stronger,” she said. However, when specifically asked if it was a challenge for Rahul Gandhi, she said “I don’t want to say anything more, we just want Congress should be strengthened.” When contacted, Manish Tewari said he would not comment on internal party matters. However, Jakhar was scathing in his attack on those who have written the letter saying, “These leaders have either shown their true colour or jumping the wagon or weighing their options.” “It is not time for push back or for payback for these leaders as the party invested in them for all these years. Let the party benefit from their experience,” he said while speaking to TOI on Sunday evening. “This has come at a time when very basic democratic structure is in danger and words like fascism and racism, which were never part of political discourse in the country, are now part of daily political discussion. Need is to stand united and fight against the regime. Rahul Gandhi is already attacking the central government very strongly and is best suited for the job to head the party and its fight against the repressive regime,” he said. “Some of the signatories to the letter have mass following and are rooted leaders and they should have come with peoples’ movement against these things. Movements throw up leaders. However, by writing the letter they seem to be washing their hands off. Rahul Gandhi stepped aside accepting responsibility and question of leadership was thrown open. They could have come up with names for leadership. I had openly opposed some of the names which were doing rounds at that time as some were sponsored by corporate houses, while a few were not even worth consideration,” Jakhar said. He said these leaders were part of the decision making in the party and now they can’t absolve themselves by writing such letter. “They should have spoke up when they were in power and were part of the decision-making bodies,” he said, adding, “Rahul Gandhi accepts contrarian views and I am the living example when despite my criticism of him he pushed my name for PPCC president,” Jakhar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jakhar-says-letter-signed-by-bhattal-tewari-unexpected-ill-advised/articleshow/77710934.cms||IP Singh
August 24, 2020||India||4 yrs on, promised mandatory pharma ethics code elusive||More than four years after the government told Parliament that it had decided to make the uniform code for pharmaceutical marketing practices mandatory because the voluntary code hadn't worked, the department of pharmaceutical (DoP) is still holding meetings with the industry on implementation of the voluntary code. The code aims to end unethical practices like companies bribing doctors in cash or kind to prescribe their medicines. On Friday, the secretary held a meeting with industry associations. The minutes of the last meeting on February 17 recorded that he "showed his displeasure at the status of implementation of UCPMP". None of these meetings included civil society groups representing patient interests. "If groups such as citizens or consumers and civil society are not engaged, how can it be ensured that there is no nexus between the state and businesses, a concern that was acknowledged in government's own draft action plan on business and human rights?" asked Pradeep Narayanan, director of Partners for Change, an organization working on business and human rights which had done a study on UCPMP implementation. "In the study, we had found that the ministry kept issuing notifications extending the voluntary code even though companies did not honour the code, which indicated a wider nexus. That's why other stakeholders such as citizens and civil society need to be invited to such consultations," Narayanan said. In December 2014, the DoP had notified the UCPMP to be complied with by the pharma industry on a voluntary basis for six months starting from January 2015. "In 2017, the DoP tried to bring in a legally enforceable order to regulate unethical practices. The draft order was turned down by the law ministry for not being legally sound under the Essential Commodities Act. Since then, DoP has not made any further attempt to develop a legally binding instrument, presumably buckling to industry pressure," said Malini Aisola of the All India Drug Action Network, which had submitted several cases of violation of UCPMP to the DoP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/4-yrs-on-promised-mandatory-pharma-ethics-code-elusive/articleshow/77711440.cms||Rema Nagarajan
August 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh's Godavari flood receding but villages still under water||RAJAHMUNDRY: Even though water is receding gradually in Godavari, people in tribal mandals in East and West Godavari districts and Konaseema are still surrounded by water. The power supply is yet to be restored in the flood- affected areas. The third warning issued has been withdrawn at Sir Arthur Cotton barrage at Dowlaiswaram as nearly 17.74 lakh cusecs of water is being discharged into the sea. The water level is at 45 feet in Bhadrachalam. In Konaseema, 70,000 people in 74 villages are affected by the floods and 14 villages are inundated. According to the authorities, it will take another three days for the villages to be habitable. The villagers are placing sandbags to strengthen the soaked Godavari bunds but no major leakages of water from bunds has been reported so far. In four mandals under Chinturu ITDA, people have started to return to their homes to clean them and half of the 10,000 people in relief camps have started their return journey. Power has been restored in 279 villages. Road connectivity to Telangana has been restored but Chhattisgarh and Odisha remain cut off. The authorities are still making efforts to trace the missing person from the launch tragedy. In Velerupadu, Kukunoor and Poalvaram mandals (KR Puram ITDA) people remained on the hillocks. With electricity poles submerged, restoring power has become tricky. The floods have damaged most of the thatched houses and they are about to collapse. Tribals in 38 villages in the three mandals are surrounded by water. In Devipatnam mandal, the authorities are making preparations to remove mud from the villages once flood water recedes. Rampa Chodavaram ITDA has called for the services of 300 sanitation workers from Rajahmundry to clean the houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/water-recedes-in-godavari-but-tribal-mandals-still-cut-off/articleshow/77708379.cms||Samson Raj
August 24, 2020||Pune||ST bus movement from Pune gains momentum||PUNE: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) on Sunday said the number of its buses plying to and from Pune has been on the rise since it resumed inter-district operations on August 20. The transport body said a total of 80 buses (arrivals and departures) were operational on the first day. An official said the figure rose to 125 on August 21 and 180 the following day. “It is good to see the number of buses has been increasing since we resumed services,” an MSRTC official said. “While we still have a long way to go to reach normalcy, the increasing number of buses shows that number of passengers is on the rise,” the official added. Each 44-seater bus can carry a maximum of 22 on board at a time. The official said they expect 300 buses to arrive in and leave Pune daily by the end of the week. “If the situation continues, we should be able to achieve normal operations in less than a month,” the official said. Before the first phase of the nationwide lockdown was imposed in the third week of March, MSRTC’s Pune division had more than 1,500 buses plying per day, carrying more than 45,000 passengers. Another official said most people are catching buses headed to places like Kolhapur and Solapur. “Buses to these destinations and others run in 30-minute intervals, while Shivneri buses to Mumbai run once every hour,” the official said, adding that the passenger traffic to Mumbai has been less than expected. “It is a bit surprising that the passenger traffic between Pune and Mumbai has not been high as expected. Fear of Covid-19, owing to a large number of cases in Mumbai, might be among the main reasons,” the official said. Around 100 buses per day used to travel between Pune and Mumbai daily before the pandemic hit, the official said. “Ever since operations resumed, that number stands at 25. However, we are hoping that the Shivneri bus operations too will pick up pace soon,” the official added. The official said they have restarted online ticket bookings. “The online system is back on track now, after some changes that had to be made for the new seating system,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/st-bus-movement-from-pune-gains-momentum/articleshow/77710466.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 24, 2020||Kochi||No action on 35% of illegal buildings in Kochi: Audit||KOCHI: Auditors for local bodies who conducted detailed inquiry and site inspections have found that at least 35% of the buildings which had been identified as unauthorized constructions during 1996-2005 period have neither been regularized nor pulled down by the Kochi Corporation. The auditors have also identified numerous flaws in fixation and collection of taxes which have led to huge financial loss for the corporation. According to the auditors only a few of the total unauthorized constructions in the city come under the scanner of the local body. Even the unauthorized constructions identified by the corporation remain so even after decades. Once a structure is found to be unauthorized, it should be regularized if possible. Otherwise, it should be pulled down. As per norms, tax to be charged from an unauthorized building is thrice the normal. So, the inaction on the part of the corporation authorities have helped the building owners evade tax thus causing loss to the tune of crores of rupees to the civic body.  As per the occupancy certificate given by the corporation, many of the buildings used for commercial purposes in the city are being shown as dormitories. This will help reduce the tax by half and also to reduce the mandatory parking slots. The rate of tax for dormitory is Rs 60 per square metre while it is Rs 120 for commercial buildings. The local body doesn’t maintain proper register for unauthorized constructions, the auditors have found. The auditors along with corporation officials visited a few buildings in the city as part of a random inspection. Then, it was found that many of the owners of the buildings pay less than the actual tax they ought to pay. It was found that areas which are shown as open balcony, electric room, lift area, etc. in the records are being used for commercial purpose. A multi-storeyed building at Vyttila, for example, has a floor area of 1,161 square metre as per the occupancy certificate given by the corporation. As per the certificate, 149 square metres of the total floor area is used for commercial purpose while 1,013 square metres is used as dormitory. But the auditors found that the entire space is used for commercial purpose. Moreover, the basement of the building which is car parking as per the records has been converted into commercial space. This led to the corporation losing at least Rs 80,000 a year. Another area where the local body failed is in the tax collection. Tax arears to be collected from buildings owned by a private medical college at Edapally during 2011-12 and 2019-20 is Rs 3.7 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/no-action-on-35-of-illegal-bldgs-audit/articleshow/77709320.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
August 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Pak denies role in intrusion bid, 8 smugglers held||Tarn Taran: A day after Border Security Force (BSF) personnel killed five intruders trying to cross over into India from Pakistan, Tarn Taran police apprehended eight smugglers from various parts of the district. Pakistan has denied any part in the intrusion bid. Sources said police apprehended a few persons in connection with Saturday’s intrusion bid. “Investigations are in progress. All we can say for now is that the Pakistani intruders were well connected on the Indian side of the border,” said sources. They added that further investigations would reveal whether the intruders meant to smuggle heroin into Indian territory or had other plans. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) D H Nimble refused to divulge details of persons arrested in connection with Saturday’s intrusion attempt. He said there had been three smuggling attempts from across the border on Saturday. One incident took place near the Border Security Force’s (BSF) Dal Border outpost (BoP) while the other two incidents were reported from near BSF’s Mahinder BoP and near Sarai Amanat Khan. At Sarai Amanat Khan, police recovered four pairs of shoes stacked with 2.4 kg heroin while another pair of shoes worn by a labourer contained 1.3kg heroin. The five smugglers shot dead by the BSF on Saturday were barefoot. BSF officials explained this saying that shoes hamper movement in muddy conditions. However, he said they were exploring possibilities of a link between the smugglers arrested by police and those killed. Meanwhile, he said Pakistan Rangers categorically denied any intrusion or smuggling attempt during a flag meeting. “When we drew their attention towards footprints of the intruders, they said the footprints were not of humans but animals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pak-denies-role-in-intrusion-bid-8-smugglers-held/articleshow/77710945.cms||Yudhvir Rana
August 24, 2020||Bareilly||Woman kills step-daughter, 10, buries body in her courtyard||BAREILLY: A 10-year-old girl disappeared on Tuesday and when neighbours inquired about her with her stepmother, she told them that Kajal had gone to her relative’s place and would be back in a few days. But neighbours smelled a rat in Reetu’s — the stepmother — account and curiosity led them to Kajal’s seven-year-old sister Peehu. The little girl purportedly disclosed to them that her elder sister was allegedly killed by her stepmother who buried the body with the help of her father Ravi Babu in the courtyard of their house and they “threatened Peehu of serious consequences if she disclosed the matter to anyone”. Police dug out the body of the slain girl from the courtyard of their house in Bareilly’s Izzatnagar locality on Sunday and sent it for autopsy. Police said they detained Ravi and Reetu on the complaint of the victim’s granny and a case would be registered after they received the post-mortem report. Police said Kajal was eldest of two daughters of Ravi, who married Reetu after the death of her first wife. According to neighbours, Peehu told them that Reetu brutally thrashed Kajal, and then strangled her on Tuesday, said police. Later, the husband-wife duo buried her body in the courtyard. When police were informed about the crime, they sealed the house and sought the district magistrate’s permission to exhume the body. Izzatnagar SHO KK Verma said, “We have exhumed the body and recorded the statements of the grandmother, sister and neighbours. It appears that the stepmother killed the girl and buried the body in the courtyard with the help of her husband. We are waiting for the autopsy report to ascertain if it was a murder.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-kills-stepdaughter-10-buries-body-in-her-courtyard/articleshow/77708376.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 24, 2020||Vijayawada||VMC sets up relief camps, collector visits affected areas||Vijayawada: As flood level rose at Prakasam Barrage, people living in low-lying areas on the banks of the Krishna are on their toes. Many houses at Bhupesh Gupta Nagar, Taraka Rama Nagar were inundated by Sunday morning and officials shifted residents to flood relief camps. VMC has intensified flood relief activity. District collector A Md Imtiaz visited Bhupesh Gupta Nagar and interacted with people there. They told him tor that the misery associated with the floods is an annual affair and they are ready to leave the place if the government builds houses for them in a safe area. Around 2,500 persons were shifted to relief camps set up at IGMS. VMC chief Prasanna Venkatesh interacted with people at the camp at the IGMS and served food to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vmc-sets-up-relief-camps-collector-visits-affected-areas/articleshow/77708373.cms||Venu Lanka
August 24, 2020||Pune||Colleges get AICTE nod for MBA admission on undergraduate score, await state approval||PUNE: The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has declared that candidates can be selected for the Masters in Business Administration (MBA) course based on merit in the qualifying undergraduate exams only if seats remain vacant. However, the state government is yet to issue a notification in this regard. Candidates are waiting for the state government to initiate the online admission process. The point of contention arose as the directorate of technical education, the nodal agency in the state for a set of professional courses that include MBA/MMS, sent a report on December 12, 2019, cancelling the eligibility of certain entrance exams’ qualification for admissions. It stated that for admissions to the all India quota for MBA/MMS courses, instead of GMAT, MAT, ATMA and XAT scores, only scores in Maharashtra MBA/MMS CET, CMAT and CAT would be considered. After receiving letters from various stakeholders regarding the change, on August 10, the Ministry of Higher and Technical Education set up a three-member committee to explore the issue further and make recommendations. The committee was to submit its report to the government in 10 days. Meanwhile AICTE, on August 19, released a circular that all-India tests i.e. CAT, XAT, CMAT, ATMA, MAT, GMAT along with the seventh option of Common Entrance Test of the respective state are qualifying tests for admission to a PGDM course. Stating that the pandemic has led to some entrance tests not being conducted and with no indication on when these may be conducted, AICTE is considering alternative proposition through which selection of students could be made for admission into a PGDM course which will benefit both students as well as institutions. “Therefore, in the current scenario, PGDM/MBA institutions are allowed to admit students on the basis of marks obtained in the qualifying examination by preparing a merit list in a transparent manner. However, first preference will be given to candidates, who have appeared in any of the entrance tests mentioned in APH 2020-21 and qualified irrespective of marks secured at graduate level as long as minimum marks as per APH 2020-21 are secured. If vacant seats are still available, candidates shall be selected based on the merit in the qualifying undergraduate exam. The states may also use the relaxation while allotting seats through counselling,” stated the circular issued by Rajive Kumar, member secretary, AICTE on August 19. Parag Kalkar, dean of the faculty of Commerce and Management at Savitribai Phule Pune University said, “The PGDM courses can be given admissions like the way AICTE suggested as those come under its domain. But for MBA/MMS admissions, we need directives from the state government to proceed with the admissions. The opening up of vacant seats to be filled by candidates, who have completed their graduation even if they have not appeared for any entrance examination, is a good move. This will be helpful both to students and institutes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/colleges-get-aicte-nod-for-mba-admission-on-undergraduate-score-await-state-approval/articleshow/77698496.cms||Ardhra Nair
August 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Damini squad counsels woman planning to end life with child||Aurangabad: The Damini squad of the city police counselled a 26-year-old woman, who was planning to end both her and her three-year-old daughter’s lives by jumping into Salim Ali lake. The woman, a diploma holder in education, is married to a teacher attached with a zilla parishad school in Aurangabad. Police said some pedestrians noticed the woman standing on the boundary wall of Salim Ali lake along with her daughter. On questioning, the woman expressed her intention to end her life by jumping into the lake. One of the bystanders immediately called the police control room. Soon, an emergency alert was passed on to the area police station as well as the Damini squad headed by sub-inspector Varsharani Ajle. On reaching the spot, the squad found many people surrounding the woman appealing to her not to take the extreme step. The members of the squad took the woman into confidence. The woman revealed that domestic violence had pushed her to take the extreme step of ending her life. When contacted, Ajle told TOI, “Preliminary probe has revealed that her husband suspected her character. He comes home daily in an inebriated state and assaults her for no reason.”After counselling the woman for a couple of hours, a police constable in civil clothes dropped her home. Taking cognizance of her ordeal, the squad has summoned her husband and in-laws for counseling. The Damini squad has also alerted the higher-ups in the department, following which the community policing cell has taken the responsibility of providing a job to the woman as per qualification and skills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/damini-squad-counsels-woman-planning-to-end-life-with-child/articleshow/77708378.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Demand for direct Amritsar-London flight ramps up||London: Lobbyists battling for direct flights between Heathrow and Amritsar have leapt on news that a direct flight will be introduced one day a week under the Vande Bharat Mission starting Monday. From August 24 till September-end, Air India will operate Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) direct flights once a week between Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport, Amritsar and London Heathrow. When India started Vande Bharat Mission flights on May 6 to bring back Indian citizens, flights to Punjab went via Delhi. Now, under VBM phase 5/6, flights will leave London at 9.45am on Mondays and reach Amritsar at 10.25pm that evening. Flights will then depart from Amritsar at 2.40pm on Tuesdays and reach Heathrow at 7pm the same day. On the remaining days, passengers will have to travel via Delhi. “High demand for direct repatriation flights between Punjab and the UK during the lockdown is evidence that a flight between Amritsar and Heathrow is needed permanently,” said Sameep Singh Gumtala, global convener, FlyAmritsar Initiative and overseas secretary of Amritsar Vikas Manch (AVM). “This is a welcome step that should have been taken earlier. It will save many hours of time for people to reach Punjab,” he said, adding, “We are thankful to civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri and Air India and request them to continue to operate the flights to Heathrow after resumption of regular international commercial flights to India.” In April, Amritsar was the third busiest airport and in May, it was the second busiest airport in India handling international traffic. “Even Delhi, Mumbai and many other metro cities were left behind as the largest number of Britons were stranded in Punjab. If the majority of passengers travelling from Delhi to London are from Punjab, then why can't Air India fly from Amritsar?” Gumtala asked. His views were echoed by Manmohan Singh Brar, president of AVM, the civil society NGO working for development of Amritsar and Charan Kanwal Singh Sekhon, chairman of the SEVA Trust, UK which have been campaigning for the London Heathrow to Amritsar route since 2018.  “Not only will a Heathrow-Amritsar direct flight attract a large number of Punjabi travellers coming from Canada, USA and Europe due to better connections at Heathrow than Stansted, but it will also attract business class travellers as majority of Punjabi business community lives close to Heathrow, not Stansted,” said Sekhon. The British government had to arrange 28 repatriation flights from Amritsar to Heathrow between April and May 2020, flying about 8,300 Britons stuck in Punjab back to Britain. At the same time, the Canadian government organised 25 repatriation flights from Amritsar, evacuating around 7,500 Canadians to Toronto and Vancouver. Yet, Amritsar Airport does not currently have direct connectivity with London Heathrow Airport or Toronto and Vancouver. Thrice-weekly flights between Amritsar and London Stansted were introduced in November 2019 to coincide with Guru Nanak’s 550th birth anniversary but demands for a direct flight to Heathrow have remained. The potential of Amritsar for major destinations such as London, Toronto and Vancouver has been proven, said Brar. “The maximum number of people from UK and Canada who got stranded in India during the lockdown were from Punjab and not from areas around Delhi. A direct flight will give a big boost to Punjab and its neighbouring states,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/demand-for-direct-amritsar-london-flight-ramps-up/articleshow/77710943.cms||NAOMI CANTON
August 24, 2020||Pune||Over 15,000 recuperate in August within PCMC limits||Pimpri Chinchwad: Over 15,000 people who had contracted Covid-19 went on to make successful recoveries in August within PCMC limits. During the same period, data showed that there have 20,000 fresh cases. In its latest report, the PCMC’s health department said that as of Sunday, August 23, there have been 20,455 new positive cases alongside 15,382 recoveries. Officials said 40% of the new cases are among those in the 22 to 39 age group. The PCMC’s E zone, comprising Bhosari, Dighi, Charoli, and Bopkhel areas, has the highest number of the Covid-19 positive active cases. This zone is also home to several industrial units. Zone E has had 2,630 cases compared to F, which comes second with 1,511 cases. The D zone is currently the least affected with 586 cases. It comprises the areas of Wakad, Pimple Saudagar, Pimple Gurav and Tathawade. Santosh Patil, the PCMC additional Commissioner, said Covid’s doubling rate in the twin towns, which was nearly 12 days in July, has risen to 32 in August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-15000-recuperate-in-august-within-pcmc-limits/articleshow/77710454.cms||Piyush Bhusari
August 24, 2020||Goa||Man held for sexual abuse of special child||Panaji: Varun Nayyar, 30-year old son of a well-known Panaji-based businessman, was arrested by Goa Police for sexually abusing and molesting a teenage specially-abled girl. Police officials said that Nayyar was arrested based on a complaint filed by parents of the 13-year-old girl, who is suffering from dyslexia. Officials said the girl informed her parents that on August 17, the accused took her to an isolated place near Panaji in his car, where he molested and sexually abused her. He was booked under section 8 of Goa Children’s Act and was arrested soon after. Further investigation into the case are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/man-held-for-sexual-abuse-of-special-child/articleshow/77711204.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Allahabad||Complete ban on religious, cultural meets, says UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday reiterated that there should be a complete ban on organising any cultural and religious meeting in the state in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. The CM’s directive comes ahead of Muharram and Ganesh Visarjan in the coming days. The CM issues this direction at the team 11 at his residence on Sunday. “The Protocol needs to be adhered to at every cost. The assembly of more than five people at one place has been banned,” said additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi. There was a protest by some members of the Shia community, led by cleric Kalbe Jawad, in Lucknow on Saturday evening, alleging that the administration was not allowing the sale of taziya. They were also demanding that burial of taziya at Karbala should be allowed on the 10th day of Muharrum. The protest ended after the government assured the protesters that there was no restriction on observing rituals at home. However, there was no clarity on taziya procession and burial. Similarly, setting up of pandals for Ganesh Puja has also been banned due to pandemic. Yogi also batted for further increase in the quantum of testing and increasing the number of Covid beds across the state. This comes a day after UP recorded testing of 1.30 lakh samples. Yogi asked the officials to especially focus on Lucknow, Prayagraj, Kanpur and Gorakhpur which were having more case burden in the state. Until Sunday, Lucknow reported the highest number of 712 cases, while Kanpur recorded 320 cases. Likewise, Prayagraj and Gorakhpur recorded 266 and 232 cases, respectively. “Special measures will have to be taken for these districts,” Awasthi said. The CM further directed that the district magistrates and the chief medical officers should take stock of the situation in their respective districts twice – first in the district hospital and the second in the integrated command and control centre. “The problems coming to the fore should be addressed then and there only,” Awasthi said. At the same time, the CM gave directions to execute sanitation drives more effectively on Saturday and Sunday. Also the cleanliness committees will be restored. The CM also gave directions to expedite relief measures in flood affected areas, including distribution of ration kits to the needy. As many as 777 villages in 16 districts were affected by the flooding and 520 of them were marooned in UP. According to officials, more than 1.26 lakh rations kits have been distributed to the people affected by the floods. The state government is also in the process of constructing panchayat bhawans and community toilets in all gram panchayats. CM said that the officials need to form a strategy by taking into loop public representatives including MLAs and MPs. He said that the panchayat bhawan should also comprise mini secretariats, besides having arrangements for public functions. The CM also underlined the need for effective running of programmes under the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' campaign of the Centre. He said that the UP government's buildings in other states should be used to exhibit products of the one-district-one-product (ODOP) scheme. Likewise, the guest houses which are proposed to be built near Ayodhya should also be used to exhibit the ODOP products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/complete-ban-on-religious-cultural-meets-says-yogi/articleshow/77712268.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Pothole-riddled roads irk Sanganer residents||JAIPUR: Monsoon has once again exposed the pathetic condition of infrastructure in the city. The residents of Sanganer are grappling with the perennial problems of waterlogged roads and potholes. Kishan Sharma, a resident of Ballabh Marg, said, “We are living with poor condition of roads for so many years. The situation becomes worse during rainy season. Downpour leaves the lanes in knee-deep water. Two days back, I had gone to buy medicines and while returning, my scooter almost slipped in a puddle.” Manisha Tyagi, another resident of Namdeo Temple lane, said that in the last 15 years, roads of the area have not been repaired. “There are so many temples in my vicinity and people from all over the city come here, but the roads are in bad condition. During monsoon, they get waterlogged,” said Tyagi. Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) on its flood control centre is getting hundreds of complaints daily from Sanganer area. On August 14, it had to install mud pumps in two areas to remove water. Sanganer town is famous for its authentic cloth printing business and thousands of people arrive here as workers in the factories here. There is a demand to provide basic amenities to people. “Authorities and local politicians arrive in our area during election time, but when we actually need them, they are busy in their bungalows. The contractors construct main roads, but in interior part of the colonies, no one pays any heed,” said Mahesh Cheepa, a resident of Malpuara Gate, Sanganer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pothole-riddled-roads-irk-sanganer-residents/articleshow/77710469.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Cumulative cases cross 30,000-mark in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: With addition of 451 new cases on Sunday, Visakhapatnam district crossed the 30,000-mark with a cumulative Covid-19 tally of 30, 216 cases of which 5,042 are currently active. With five to seven deaths occurring regularly, the death toll has reached 213. Meanwhile, as people continue to throng markets and violate social distancing norms, the virus seems to spread unabated in the district. Daily over 500-1,000 new cases are being added without showing any consistent declining trend. Starting with 12,323 cases as on August 1, the tally crossed 30,000 by August 23. Speaking about the current containment measures, special officer for Covid-19, north coastal Andhra Pradesh, Dr P V Sudhakar said, “Right now we are focusing on improving the facilities for Covid-19 treatment, most importantly, enhancing the bed facilities with oxygen. Around 2,000 oxygen beds are currently available but we are trying to convert as many general beds as possible or at least 80% to oxygen beds. It is observed that most of the serious cases require oxygen. Also, we are keeping a 500-bed facility in the new KGH-CSR block ready to cater to Covid cases.” The doctor also said given the extent of the spread of the infection across almost all colonies that the entire city can be designated as containment zone. Containment clusters are not rigorously maintained like earlier but 50 metres is being demarcated as containment zone and another 50 metre as buffer zone. Currently there are 736 very active, active and dormant clusters, while 171 zones have been de-notified. “Contact tracing, especially primary and secondary contacts, is on and we are also focusing on early recognition of cases for better treatment. Routine quarantine centres have been done away with for outstation returnees. Also, for mild cases, no longer a second Covid-19 test is being done after 10-14 days as the virus is found to be ineffective after that period and such patients are getting cured on their own,” said Dr Sudhakar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cumulative-cases-cross-30k-mark-in-vizag/articleshow/77708384.cms||Sulogna Mehta
August 24, 2020||Pune||Serum Institute of India says reports of vaccine sales in ‘10 weeks’ incorrect||PUNE: City-based Serum Institute of India on Sunday dismissed as “completely false” media reports this week that claimed the company was “73 days” away from releasing a Covid-19 vaccine into the market. “The SII would like to clarify that current claims surrounding Covishield’s availability in the media are completely false and conjectural. Presently, the government has granted us permission to only manufacture the vaccine and stockpile it for future use. The vaccine will be commercialized once trials are successful and all the requisite regulatory approvals are in place,” the company’s owner, Adar Poonawalla, said in a statement. The SII has partnered with Oxford University-AstraZeneca to produce Covishield — their Covid-19 candidate vaccine. Advanced human clinical trials are underway.  The SII had in early August secured a nod from the Drugs Controller General Of India to conduct phase 2 and phase 3 human clinical trials of Covishield vaccine in India. About 1,600 adults are set to participate in the trials across the 17 selected sites in India, including at four hospitals in Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/serum-institute-says-reports-of-vaccine-sales-in-10-weeks-incorrect/articleshow/77710470.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 24, 2020||Pune||Police arrest two men in murder case||Pune: Four men on Saturday night hacked a 23-year-old Shankar Sutar to death following an old rivalry at Vidyanagar in Chinchwad. Sub-inspector Amol Kamthe of the Pimpri police and his team arrested Ajay Bhise (20) and Vinod Pawar (20), bothwith prior criminal records, in connection with the murder. “Two more suspects are on the run,” he told TOI. Kamthe said a few days ago Sutar and the suspects had entered a brawl over some pretty issue. “On Saturday night, the suspects attacked him near a temple in Vidyanagarwith sharp weapons and a big stone,” he said. Kamthe said the other two suspects would be arrested soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-arresttwo-men-in-murder-case/articleshow/77710473.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Region breaches six-digit-mark||CHANDIGARH: With 2,338 new cases on Sunday, the region’s three states — Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh — attained the grim milestone of crossing the 1 lakh mark. The first case in the region was reported from Punjab on March 1 and it took 176 days for the three states to collectively breach the six-digit-mark. As on August 23, the region’s infection count stood at 1,01,166. Of total, Haryana has the highest contribution with 54,386 cases, while Punjab added 41,779, cases to the region’s tally. The virus has infected 5,001 people in the hill state of Himachal Pradesh. All the three states have witnessed steep surge in cases in August with 25,660 fresh cases surfacing in Punjab, 19,421 in Haryana and 2,437 in Himachal Pradesh in the last 23 days. The heavy caseload has pushed the rate of active cases in Punjab higher than the national and world average. With 14,165 infected people out of 41,779 undergoing treatment, the percentage of active cases in Punjab stands at 33.90 % against the world average of 28.55% and national average of 23.28%. Although Haryana has a higher number of cases, with just 16.47% the number of active cases is significantly lower than Punjab. The percentage of active cases is 29.27% in Himachal. The heavy caseload took a toll on Punjab’s recovery rate which is lowest among the 20 worst-hit states in the country. In Punjab, 63.49% of patients have been discharged, the number of which is 82.41% in Haryana, and 69.20% in Himachal. High fatality rate has emerged as cause of concern, especially in Punjab where 1,086 people have lost their lives to the dreaded virus. In Haryana, the virus has claimed the lives of 603 people, and 27 in Himachal. The health authorities in all the three states have attributed increase in testing as the key reasons for the rise in the number of cases. With 38,039 and 28,341 tests per million population, respectively, Haryana and Punjab have better testing rates than the national average of 25,606. Haryana has tested 9,64,297 people while in Punjab and Himachal 9,07,160 and 194,380 tests have been conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/region-breaches-six-digit-mark/articleshow/77710951.cms||Vinod Kumar
August 24, 2020||Meerut||Jammu to Madurai, Jamnagar to Siliguri, pirated NCERT books everywhere||MEERUT: A hand-written note found somewhere between one of the pages of the 10 lakh-odd pirated NCERT textbooks that was seized in a Meerut warehouse recently made the UP STF jump on their feet. The books were to be delivered to almost every major town and city of India. There were names of vendors who would complete the "last mile", there were also addresses of the shops that would stock up the counterfeits -- one place in Asansol, another in Madurai and Munger, a third in Delhi and a fourth in Chennai. STF sleuths got a rare glimpse into the dark and massive network, its spread surprising even the top officers. It all started on Friday when, acting on a tip-off, the Special Task Force of the UP Police raided a godown packed with pirated NCERT books. The consignment was ready for dispatch. The STF put its market value at Rs 35 crore. The note that the STF chanced upon was part of a hand-written register that had had 926 entries containing the names, addresses and details of vendors including that of logistics firms. “Apart from the order register, hundreds of used and unused bill books, computers, most likely containing stock records and balance sheets, have also been seized from the godown,” said Brijesh Singh, deputy superintendent of police, STF. On Saturday, in another raid in neighbouring Amroha, the STF found a similar haul of fake NCERT textbooks whose market value has been pegged at Rs 15crore. In all, eight persons have been arrested so far. Sachin Gupta, a Meerut resident and a key player in the scam, is on the run. He is the nephew of BJP’s city vice-president Sanjeev Gupta. The party suspended him soon after the racket was unearthed. A four-member NCERT team has now found that most of the counterfeit books were published with the “original” watermark, suggesting complicity of insiders. "This seems to be the tip of the iceberg," a senior STF officer told TOI. "Few of us had seen a consignment of pirated books this size." In Chandigarh last year, the vigilance department and a team from NCERT- Delhi had unearthed a racket of counterfeit NCERT textbooks. Probe agencies had then claimed UP was the source of these duplicate textbooks. Watch Dark network of pirated NCERT books found all over India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/jammu-to-madurai-jamnagar-to-siliguri-pirated-ncert-books-everywhere/articleshow/77708388.cms||Piyush Rai
August 24, 2020||Kanpur||Complete ban on religious, cultural meets, says UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday reiterated that there should be a complete ban on organising any cultural and religious meeting in the state in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. The CM’s directive comes ahead of Muharram and Ganesh Visarjan in the coming days. The CM issues this direction at the team 11 at his residence on Sunday. “The Protocol needs to be adhered to at every cost. The assembly of more than five people at one place has been banned,” said additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi. There was a protest by some members of the Shia community, led by cleric Kalbe Jawad, in Lucknow on Saturday evening, alleging that the administration was not allowing the sale of taziya. They were also demanding that burial of taziya at Karbala should be allowed on the 10th day of Muharrum. The protest ended after the government assured the protesters that there was no restriction on observing rituals at home. However, there was no clarity on taziya procession and burial. Similarly, setting up of pandals for Ganesh Puja has also been banned due to pandemic. Yogi also batted for further increase in the quantum of testing and increasing the number of Covid beds across the state. This comes a day after UP recorded testing of 1.30 lakh samples. Yogi asked the officials to especially focus on Lucknow, Prayagraj, Kanpur and Gorakhpur which were having more case burden in the state. Until Sunday, Lucknow reported the highest number of 712 cases, while Kanpur recorded 320 cases. Likewise, Prayagraj and Gorakhpur recorded 266 and 232 cases, respectively. “Special measures will have to be taken for these districts,” Awasthi said. The CM further directed that the district magistrates and the chief medical officers should take stock of the situation in their respective districts twice – first in the district hospital and the second in the integrated command and control centre. “The problems coming to the fore should be addressed then and there only,” Awasthi said. At the same time, the CM gave directions to execute sanitation drives more effectively on Saturday and Sunday. Also the cleanliness committees will be restored. The CM also gave directions to expedite relief measures in flood affected areas, including distribution of ration kits to the needy. As many as 777 villages in 16 districts were affected by the flooding and 520 of them were marooned in UP. According to officials, more than 1.26 lakh rations kits have been distributed to the people affected by the floods. The state government is also in the process of constructing panchayat bhawans and community toilets in all gram panchayats. CM said that the officials need to form a strategy by taking into loop public representatives including MLAs and MPs. He said that the panchayat bhawan should also comprise mini secretariats, besides having arrangements for public functions. The CM also underlined the need for effective running of programmes under the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' campaign of the Centre. He said that the UP government's buildings in other states should be used to exhibit products of the one-district-one-product (ODOP) scheme. Likewise, the guest houses which are proposed to be built near Ayodhya should also be used to exhibit the ODOP products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/complete-ban-on-religious-cultural-meets-says-yogi/articleshow/77712267.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Lucknow||Complete ban on religious, cultural meets, says UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday reiterated that there should be a complete ban on organising any cultural and religious meeting in the state in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. The CM’s directive comes ahead of Muharram and Ganesh Visarjan in the coming days. The CM issues this direction at the team 11 at his residence on Sunday. “The Protocol needs to be adhered to at every cost. The assembly of more than five people at one place has been banned,” said additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi. There was a protest by some members of the Shia community, led by cleric Kalbe Jawad, in Lucknow on Saturday evening, alleging that the administration was not allowing the sale of taziya. They were also demanding that burial of taziya at Karbala should be allowed on the 10th day of Muharrum. The protest ended after the government assured the protesters that there was no restriction on observing rituals at home. However, there was no clarity on taziya procession and burial. Similarly, setting up of pandals for Ganesh Puja has also been banned due to pandemic. Yogi also batted for further increase in the quantum of testing and increasing the number of Covid beds across the state. This comes a day after UP recorded testing of 1.30 lakh samples. Yogi asked the officials to especially focus on Lucknow, Prayagraj, Kanpur and Gorakhpur which were having more case burden in the state. Until Sunday, Lucknow reported the highest number of 712 cases, while Kanpur recorded 320 cases. Likewise, Prayagraj and Gorakhpur recorded 266 and 232 cases, respectively. “Special measures will have to be taken for these districts,” Awasthi said. The CM further directed that the district magistrates and the chief medical officers should take stock of the situation in their respective districts twice – first in the district hospital and the second in the integrated command and control centre. “The problems coming to the fore should be addressed then and there only,” Awasthi said. At the same time, the CM gave directions to execute sanitation drives more effectively on Saturday and Sunday. Also the cleanliness committees will be restored. The CM also gave directions to expedite relief measures in flood affected areas, including distribution of ration kits to the needy. As many as 777 villages in 16 districts were affected by the flooding and 520 of them were marooned in UP. According to officials, more than 1.26 lakh rations kits have been distributed to the people affected by the floods. The state government is also in the process of constructing panchayat bhawans and community toilets in all gram panchayats. CM said that the officials need to form a strategy by taking into loop public representatives including MLAs and MPs. He said that the panchayat bhawan should also comprise mini secretariats, besides having arrangements for public functions. The CM also underlined the need for effective running of programmes under the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' campaign of the Centre. He said that the UP government's buildings in other states should be used to exhibit products of the one-district-one-product (ODOP) scheme. Likewise, the guest houses which are proposed to be built near Ayodhya should also be used to exhibit the ODOP products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/complete-ban-on-religious-cultural-meets-says-yogi/articleshow/77710940.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Kolkata||Driver thrown off bus while taking turn, dies in Kolkata||KOLKATA: In a bizarre incident on Sunday morning, the driver of a state bus died after being flung out through the vehicle’s door while taking a sharp left turn near Maidan. The driverless bus came to a halt after crashing into a tree. A couple of passengers sustained minor injuries. According to witnesses, multiple factors caused the accident. The driver, Mangal Mondal (40), was not wearing the seat belt. Moreover, he was leaning on the door while driving. The door, which had not been locked properly, flew open as he swerved onto Outrum Road from Dufferin Road near the Fort William East Gate and as a result, he fell from the cabin. “He had taken his hands off the steering wheel for it to rewind to the original position. At that moment, the unlocked door flew open and Mondal was thrown out of the bus. The vehicle, meanwhile, sped forward and crashed into a tree,” said an officer from the Maidan police station. The accident occurred around 8.45am. While carelessness in not locking the door properly and laws of motion came into play during the accident, it has also brought into focus the peculiar driving traits of bus drivers and their refusal to wear seat belts. Motorists, including taxi drivers, however, strap up when they take the wheel. Mondal, a resident of Falta in South 24 Parganas, was driving from Howrah station to the Thakurpukur bus depot when the accident occurred. Mondal was taken to SSKM Hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. Such accidents are rare. “There was a similar accident in Pune, in which the driver was thrown out while taking a sharp turn to avoid collision with another vehicle. Another involving a schoolbus driver was recorded in Worcester, UK, in 2015,” a cop said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/driver-thrown-off-bus-while-taking-turn-dies/articleshow/77710471.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 24, 2020||Chandigarh||23-PB-True Lies||SAD faces questions on Saini As gory details of torture and elimination of Balwant Singh Multani allegedly by former DGP Sumedh Saini during his tenure as Chandigarh SSP are coming out, the SAD supporters are facing more questions on social media as to why was Saini made DGP during Badals regime. The question was being raised since Behbal Kalan police firing, but it has assumed higher intensity now. Though SAD has well organised and active social media cell, its workers are find it tough to give any justification for Saini’s elevation as he had been facing very serious allegations of human rights violations for the last three decades and these were in public domain. The latest development in case against Saini has only laid more nails in SAD’s path to reclaim Panthic territory. Badal senior’s ability to reconcile contradictions helped him to survive and thrive at the helm for a long time but that amazing elasticity in his politics is now throwing up increasingly tougher questions. Only small fries operating mafias? If one has to go by profile of people arrested by Punjab Police in hooch tragedy and some people booked in illegal mining cases, it seems that small fires were able to carry out these big illegal activities with massive network in the state. No big name has been made public in case of spurious liquor network, even as the police have been sending press releases giving numbers of FIRs and arrests and recoveries. Similarly, as some cases of illegal mining have also been registered, neither any big name nor any big recovery has been reported so far, raising more questions than answering allegations and counter-allegations. Med varsity chief in UT for treatment The decision of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences vice-chancellor Prof Raj Bahadur to shift to Chandigarh after testing positive of Covid-19 has provided a lot of fodder to a score of organisations in Faridkot that keep on raising finger on his working anyway. Guru Gobind Singh Medical College, a constituent of the university, comes under him, and till recently Prof Bahadur was claiming all the facilities to treat Covid patients were available at the college. This despite the fact that it had come under scanner for some unsavoury incidents. Now many organisations, led by Bhai Kanahiya Cancer Sewa Society head Gurpreet Chandbhaja, are asking why the VC preferred to go to Chandigarh in his car despite being positive if the medical college had all the facilities. He should be getting treatment here to set an example for others to put to rest all voices about lack of facilities at the medical college. By going to Chandigarh he was approved their complaints, say members of organisations. Old pension scheme new headache for BJP? Old pension scheme is going to be the biggest issue of employees in the 2022 assembly election in Himachal Pradesh as it is directly connected with around 1 lakh employees and their families. Earlier, BJP had used the issue to get chief minister Jai Ram Thakur-led government into power by demanding old pension scheme. Employee unions are saying that politicians keep on increasing their pension from time to time by passing amendments bills in the state assembly but when it comes to give respectable pension to government employees, they claim that coffers are empty. Many have already started warning BJP functionaries to remain prepared for an onslaught in the next polls as employees and their families will teach them a lesson for “double speak”. First Covid then challan for Chaudhary VIPs in Shimla does not mind flouting rules and rarely do the police dare to act against them. However, power minister Sukh Ram Chaudhary became an exception to the norm as police challaned his vehicle for entering sealed and restricted road without permission. Recently, Chaudhary was admitted at Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital Shimla for treatment after he was tested positive for Covid-19. When he was discharged from the hospital, he left for home in his private car but his driver took the route from Mall Road, where private vehicles are not allowed. When cops saw this, they challaned the vehicle despite minister sitting inside. Cops, however, did explain later that vehicle was of electricity department and due to the fault of driver, the car entered sealed road and the minister was not at fault in the episode. (Contributed by IP Singh, Anand Bodh, Neel Kamal, Yudhvir Rana)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/23-pb-true-lies/articleshow/77710948.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Kolkata||Woman dies after childbirth, kin cry negligence||Kolkata: The relatives of a New Alipore woman, who died at Baghajatin State General Hospital on Sunday, have lodged a complaint with the Netaji Nagar police alleging medical negligence against the nurses and doctors of the hospital. The police said that the woman — Rima Basu, who lived on BL Saha Road — died around 9.30am on Sunday.“We are sending the case to the state health department,” an officer said. Cops said Basu was admitted on August 20. “The family claimed that there were no doctors around when she was admitted. On Saturday, she gave birth to a girl. However, Basu began to feel sick soon after, but none took their requests seriously despite repeated pleas,” an officer said. On Sunday morning, Basu began to feel breathless and had severe pain. By 9.30am, she was declared dead.Hospital administration told police that complications had developed after Basu’s caesarean delivery and efforts to save her failed. “There were doctors all around. No one wants a woman, who has just become a mother, to die. Her condition deteriorated so rapidly that we could not do anything,” doctors reportedly told cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/woman-dies-after-childbirth-kin-cry-negligence/articleshow/77710472.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Varanasi||Complete ban on religious, cultural meets, says UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday reiterated that there should be a complete ban on organising any cultural and religious meeting in the state in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. The CM’s directive comes ahead of Muharram and Ganesh Visarjan in the coming days. The CM issues this direction at the team 11 at his residence on Sunday. “The Protocol needs to be adhered to at every cost. The assembly of more than five people at one place has been banned,” said additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi. There was a protest by some members of the Shia community, led by cleric Kalbe Jawad, in Lucknow on Saturday evening, alleging that the administration was not allowing the sale of taziya. They were also demanding that burial of taziya at Karbala should be allowed on the 10th day of Muharrum. The protest ended after the government assured the protesters that there was no restriction on observing rituals at home. However, there was no clarity on taziya procession and burial. Similarly, setting up of pandals for Ganesh Puja has also been banned due to pandemic. Yogi also batted for further increase in the quantum of testing and increasing the number of Covid beds across the state. This comes a day after UP recorded testing of 1.30 lakh samples. Yogi asked the officials to especially focus on Lucknow, Prayagraj, Kanpur and Gorakhpur which were having more case burden in the state. Until Sunday, Lucknow reported the highest number of 712 cases, while Kanpur recorded 320 cases. Likewise, Prayagraj and Gorakhpur recorded 266 and 232 cases, respectively. “Special measures will have to be taken for these districts,” Awasthi said. The CM further directed that the district magistrates and the chief medical officers should take stock of the situation in their respective districts twice – first in the district hospital and the second in the integrated command and control centre. “The problems coming to the fore should be addressed then and there only,” Awasthi said. At the same time, the CM gave directions to execute sanitation drives more effectively on Saturday and Sunday. Also the cleanliness committees will be restored. The CM also gave directions to expedite relief measures in flood affected areas, including distribution of ration kits to the needy. As many as 777 villages in 16 districts were affected by the flooding and 520 of them were marooned in UP. According to officials, more than 1.26 lakh rations kits have been distributed to the people affected by the floods. The state government is also in the process of constructing panchayat bhawans and community toilets in all gram panchayats. CM said that the officials need to form a strategy by taking into loop public representatives including MLAs and MPs. He said that the panchayat bhawan should also comprise mini secretariats, besides having arrangements for public functions. The CM also underlined the need for effective running of programmes under the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' campaign of the Centre. He said that the UP government's buildings in other states should be used to exhibit products of the one-district-one-product (ODOP) scheme. Likewise, the guest houses which are proposed to be built near Ayodhya should also be used to exhibit the ODOP products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/complete-ban-on-religious-cultural-meets-says-yogi/articleshow/77712266.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: 5 die, 288 test positive in district||AURANGABAD: As many as 288 Covid-19 cases were reported from the district on Sunday, taking the tally of positive cases to 20,727. Of the total cases reported on Sunday, 61 confirmed cases were identified at the city’s entry points by the squads deployed by the civic administration, 42 cases were reported from the city and 23 samples collected by the mobile swab collection vans from the rural areas confirmed positive for the contagion. Also, 349 patients were discharged from different hospitals, leaving the district with 4,381 active cases. Five more people succumbed to the viral infection, taking the Covid-related fatalities in the district to 634.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/5-die-288-test-positive-in-district/articleshow/77708389.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Bareilly||Cops attach ‘property’ of Azam’s close aide||Rampur: Police in Rampur attached the "immovable property" of senior SP leader Azam Khan's close aide and former Rampur municipality chairman Azhar Ahmed Khan on Sunday after he was declared an absconder by the court. Azhar is wanted in 16 criminal cases against him at different police stations in the district. Azhar's wife Fatimah Azhar is the incumbent chairperson of Rampur Nagar Palika Parishad. Circle officer Dharam Singh said, "In compliance with the court order, Azhar Ahmed's moveable property has been attached at Katra Jalaluddin Khan locality after he failed to surrender himself before the court of law."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cops-attach-property-of-azams-close-aide/articleshow/77708402.cms||Nazar Abbas
August 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Health staff in a bind over testing targets||BENGALURU: Health officials on the ground are a bind over Covid-19 tests targets reportedly set by the government, as on the one hand there have been suggestions their jobs could be on the line, while on the other, they say people, especially those who do not have symptoms, are reluctant to be tested. A health official in Bengaluru said each of the 140-odd primary health centres in the city was initially set a target of 250 tests which was later scaled up to 500. “It’s an impossible target given the staff crunch,” the official said. Another official involved in field work, said, “People with symptoms come and get themselves tested, but why would people without symptoms take tests? We hold camps in various parts of the city every day in a bid to meet targets and threats won’t serve any purpose. There is a shortage of staff. Other than lab technicians, there are no skilled people to collect swabs samples.” However, BBMP brass, while insisting widespread testing is the need of the hour, denied officials are being threatened. BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad said the goal is to reduce the positivity rate to 5% from the current 15%. “It can be only achieved by testing more people,” Prasad said. “There are no targets as such, but we are clearly asking officials to conduct as many tests as possible for people who have symptoms, influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI). We have deputed enough staff.” Last week, Dr SR Nagendra, health officer of Najangud taluk, committed suicide and his colleagues had alleged he was under tremendous pressure to ramp up tests. Reacting to Dr Nagendra’s death, doctors had said young IAS and KAS officers are data-oriented and do not understand ground realities. “They want us to do a house-to-house survey. Covid is not like polio vaccination and can’t go from house-to-house and collect swabs. People who have no symptoms will not cooperate,” said a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/health-staff-in-a-bind-over-testing-targets/articleshow/77708857.cms||Kiran Parashar
August 24, 2020||Kochi||Duping case: Police suspect others might have fallen prey||KOCHI: District Crime Branch (Ernakulam Rural) probing the cheating case in which a family was duped of a combined amount of around Rs 2.25 crore is looking into the possibility of the accused duping other persons as well. The family was duped by the duo including a Maulavi in the pretext of helping a man who was stuck in Qatar due to a travel ban. Police had on Saturday arrested Muhammed Aslam Maulavi (50) of Pezhakkapilly and Muhammed Bijli (54) of Kanjirappally for the crime. Police said that as per the complainant Aslam had used his position as a Maulavi, a religious person, to gain the trust of the family. “The man had told the family about his connection in Qatar and even told them that Bijli was involved in the release of a prominent jeweller who was stuck abroad. The accused has worked as a Maulavi in different locations in Ernakulam. We have information of other people falling for the accused’s con. A probe is on to find the veracity of such allegations,” said a police officer. The duo was arrested on Saturday for falsely promising the family that they would assist in the release of a man who ran into trouble after a cheque of his bounced in 2016 at Qatar and taking money from them for the purpose. The man has been in Qatar since 2008 and faced the travel ban in 2016 after the cheque bouncing. He was arrested in Qatar in the cheque case. The accused was arrested after the family lodged a complaint with the chief minister’s office and police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/duping-case-police-suspect-others-might-have-fallen-prey/articleshow/77709340.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Faridabad||Haryana's Covid toll past 600, 6 assembly staffers test +ve||CHANDIGARH: Three days ahead of the start of monsoon session, six staffers, including an advisor to the Haryana assembly speaker, were tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday, while the state’s death toll from Covid-19 reached 603 with six more fatalities. The state also registered 1,096 new patients, taking the overall count to 54,386. Now, there are 8,961 active cases, including 232 critical patients, who are on oxygen and ventilator support. However, in a relief to the health authorities, a total of 809 recoveries during the day pushed the count of cured patients in Haryana to 44,822 at a recovery rate of 82.41%. According to information, six assembly staffers were among the 360 staff members of the House, who were examined by a team of Panchkula health officials. “Those tested positive are largely asymptomatic and have been isolated either at their residences or at Covid care centres,’’ said a health team member. Of the new cases, Panipat recorded the highest 134 and its overall count of positive cases reached 2,830, while Gurgaon reported 113 new cases, taking the district’s total to 10,985 with 131 deaths. Faridabad recorded third-highest 98 cases and the district’s total has gone up to 11,725 cases with 161 deaths. Ambala registered 97 new patients and two deaths, where the case tally has reached 3,148 with 26 deaths, while Hisar saw 96 new cases with one death and the district’s overall case count now stands at 1,647 with 13 deaths. Kurukshetra reported 75 new patients and one death, while Sonipat saw 66 new cases, where 41 deaths have been reported so far. Karnal reported 51 new cases, Rohtak reported 47, Rewari 45, Yamunanngar 42, Sirsa 41 new cases and one death, and Panchkula 40 new cases. Bhiwani saw 38 new cases, Kaithal 32 cases and one death, Mahendragarh 27 new cases and Jhajjar 25. Besides, 13 new cases came from Palwal, while Jind and Nuh reported nine and seven new cases, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/haryana-covid-toll-past-600-6-assembly-staffers-test-ve/articleshow/77718219.cms||Manvir Saini
August 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan BJP to hold protest on August 31||JAIPUR: The state BJP has rolled out its strategy for the next 3-4 months in the state in its first meeting of the newly appointed team members at the BJP headquarters on Sunday. The meeting was held in two sessions: the first session was addressed by BJP national president J P Nadda and the second session was chaired by BJP state president Satish Poonia. The party has underlined issues to be taken up in the coming months like electricity bills waiver, incessant locust attacks, farm loan waiver, illegal mining mafia, rising crimes, stalled developmental works, discrimination in ration distribution, unemployment allowance and ill management of Covid-19. The party will hit the roads demanding waiver of electricity bills for the last three months on August 31. The elected representatives will hold a protest at the district and block levels demanding immediate waiver. While on September 2, the party leaders, including MPs, MLAs, district presidents and heads of other frontal groups, will hand over memorandum to the respective district collectors. Meanwhile, Poonia has cleared that they are yet to close their internal inquiry on the absence of four MLAs from the assembly on August 14. He said that they are yet to speak to the party leaders and take feedback on them, while talking to mediapersons on the sidelines of the party’s organization team meeting on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-to-hold-protest-on-aug-31/articleshow/77710478.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Vijayawada||PSC defers departmental exams||Amaravati: In a big relief to government employees, Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has put off departmental examinations scheduled to begin from Tuesday in view of the prevailing health situation in the state. APPSC secretary and senior IPS officer, PSR Anjaneyulu, on Sunday said that they have taken the decision keeping in view of the requests from the employees. He said that lockdown is continuing in several districts causing trouble in operation of APSRTC buses and other transport vehicles due to Covid-19 which is likely to pose trouble to the candidates in reaching the centres. He said that flood situation in three districts was also taken into consideration to postpone the exam. He said that the next date of the examination would be announced shortly. About three lakh employees were worrying about appearing for the examinations amidst fears of contracting Covid-19. Clearing the departmental examination is a must for all ward and village secretariat employees to get their services regularized while it is mandatory for other employees to get promotions. AP Government Employees Federation (APGEF) chairman K Venkatramireddy welcomed the move. He thanked the commission and senior officials in the CMO for postponing the examination. He said that the examination would have put the fight against the Covid-19 paralyzed as more than one lakh employees from ward and village secretariats were actively involved in extending the services to the people. Reddy said that the government is actively considering removing negative marks in the online exam pattern as the pass percentage in the existing system is very less. “We have been requesting the commission not only to postpone the examination but to declare “all pass” for all those who paid the examination fee as the situation is not conducive to appear the exams,” said Municipal Teachers Federation (MTF) state president S Ramakrishna. He said that that the secretariat employees association president K Venkatramireddy succeeded in prevailing upon the government to postpone the examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/psc-defers-departmental-exams/articleshow/77708393.cms||Samdani MN
August 24, 2020||Pune||Sandalwood worth Rs 1.5L recovered||Pune: The Pune rural police on Saturday arrested two persons near Yavat and seized 22kg of stolen sandalwood worth Rs1.5 lakh from them. A sandalwood smuggler, who had come to purchase the sandalwood, ran away when police raided the spot. Prima facie probe revealed that the duo and their accomplices had stolen the sandalwood trees from Khadakwasla and Baramati. The Pune rural police’s local crime branch team, led by senior inspector Padmakar Ghanwat, took Ramdas Mane (25) of Baramati and Raju Shinde (30) of Daund into custody from Dapodi village based on a tip-off. “We also recovered Rs18,500 and a motorcycle,” Ghanwat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sandalwood-worth-rs-1-5l-recovered/articleshow/77710477.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: New guidelines for plasma therapy||BENGALURU: With the Centre permitting “off-label” use of plasma therapy for patients with moderate symptoms who are not improving despite use of steroids, the government has issued guidelines for convalescent plasma therapy. The rules state Covid convalescent plasma (CCP) therapy can be used only on moderately affected patients with increasing need for oxygen. Failure of steroid therapy is not required before starting therapy. It should be done before a patient goes into multiple organ failure. Doctors must also pursue other therapies involving remdesivir. The government has released standard operating procedure for CCP, stating one or two therapeutic units of 200-250ml should be administered 24 hours apart, depending on the condition of the patient. To attract donations, the state government had assured Rs 5,000 for the nutrition and care of each donor. Donors — men or women who weight more than 50kg — in the age group of 18-60 years, should preferably have symptoms. A separate consent form with the tag “off-label” is required. Blood banks can seek help of NGOs and the patient’s family can search for volunteers through social media. CCPs can be transferred between certified blood banks or qualified hospitals. The circular has been signed by Jawaid Akhtar, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-releases-guidelines-for-off-label-plasma-therapy/articleshow/77708996.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Molestation of patient in Bengaluru: No headway yet||BENGALURU: Investigation into the alleged molestation of a Covid-19 patient by a doctor at Victoria Hospital has made no progress even 24 days after a complaint was registered with VV Puram police. Police said an investigation is on, but till now there is no clarity on the suspect’s identity. The woman was pregnant at the time – July 25 -- when the alleged incident took place. “She is still Covid-19 positive and she delivered a baby last week,” police said. “So, we are unable to record her statement about the incident. We will do it once she recovers.” A police officer said the case was registered on July 30, five days after the incident. “An internal probe was launched in the initial days and then we got busy with the riots in KG Halli and DJ Halli by which time the internal probe was completed. We will get the probe report by Tuesday and then speed up the case,” the officer said. Dr Ramesh Krishna K, medical superintendent of Victoria Hospital, confirmed that the internal probe was completed and they have submitted a repot to the director of the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute. “We are not authorised to divulge findings,” Krishna said. The woman alleged that a doctor from Trauma Care Centre, a dedicated Covid-19 facility in Victoria Hospital, allegedly sexually harassed her on the night of July 25. Following a complaint from the hospital on July 30, VV Puram police registered a sexual harassment case against the unidentified doctor. The incident came to light after the woman told Dr Asima Banu, Covid ward’s nodal officer, about it. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/police-make-no-headway-in-case-where-doctor-molested-patient/articleshow/77708886.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: One in net on charge of raping minor||PUNE: The Chikhali police on Saturday arrested a 35-year-old auto driver after his aunt lodged an FIR accusing him of repeatedly raping her 16-year-old daughter between March and April. The incident came to light when the complainant realized that her daughter, a student of Class X, was pregnant, police said. “A court has remanded the man in police custody for five days,” assistant inspector N S Nyamane of the Chikhali police said. The girl was staying at the suspect’s house for studies while her parents stayed in a Pune suburb. “On March 14, while the girl was cooking, the suspect threatened to kill her and raped her. He repeatedly raped her till April last week,” Nyamane said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-in-net-on-charge-of-raping-minor/articleshow/77710479.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Bareilly||Two minor siblings drown while fishing in swollen Gagan river in Moradabad||Bareilly: Two minor brothers drowned while fishing in the swollen Gagan river under Majhola police jurisdiction in Moradabad on Saturday evening. According to police, three siblings — Shivam (18), Gaurav (17) and Aman (12) — along with a friend, Vansh, all residents of Ekta Colony, Majhola, had gone for fishing in the river near Kaanha Gaushala in Transport Nagar when Shivam lost his balance and fell into the river. As Gaurav tried to save him, he too lost his balance and fell into the river, said police. Seeing the duo being swept away by the river, Aman and Vansh ran towards the village to inform their families, who alerted police. A police team rushed to the spot and launched a rescue operation with the help of divers. The bodies were, however, fished out on Sunday morning. The victims — children of Ravindra, a labourer, and Baijanti — were students of a private school in Moradabad. Majhola police station SHO Rakesh Kumar Singh said professional divers were called in to rescue the children. “The rescue operation lasted till late Saturday night, but the divers couldn’t find the brothers. We resumed the operation the next morning and the divers fished out both bodies, which were sent for postmortem,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-minor-siblings-drown-while-fishing-in-swollen-gagan-river-in-moradabad/articleshow/77706851.cms||Maria Khan
August 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana's Covid toll past 600, 6 assembly staffers test +ve||CHANDIGARH: Three days ahead of the start of monsoon session, six staffers, including an advisor to the Haryana assembly speaker, were tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday, while the state’s death toll from Covid-19 reached 603 with six more fatalities. The state also registered 1,096 new patients, taking the overall count to 54,386. Now, there are 8,961 active cases, including 232 critical patients, who are on oxygen and ventilator support. However, in a relief to the health authorities, a total of 809 recoveries during the day pushed the count of cured patients in Haryana to 44,822 at a recovery rate of 82.41%. According to information, six assembly staffers were among the 360 staff members of the House, who were examined by a team of Panchkula health officials. “Those tested positive are largely asymptomatic and have been isolated either at their residences or at Covid care centres,’’ said a health team member. Of the new cases, Panipat recorded the highest 134 and its overall count of positive cases reached 2,830, while Gurgaon reported 113 new cases, taking the district’s total to 10,985 with 131 deaths. Faridabad recorded third-highest 98 cases and the district’s total has gone up to 11,725 cases with 161 deaths. Ambala registered 97 new patients and two deaths, where the case tally has reached 3,148 with 26 deaths, while Hisar saw 96 new cases with one death and the district’s overall case count now stands at 1,647 with 13 deaths. Kurukshetra reported 75 new patients and one death, while Sonipat saw 66 new cases, where 41 deaths have been reported so far. Karnal reported 51 new cases, Rohtak reported 47, Rewari 45, Yamunanngar 42, Sirsa 41 new cases and one death, and Panchkula 40 new cases. Bhiwani saw 38 new cases, Kaithal 32 cases and one death, Mahendragarh 27 new cases and Jhajjar 25. Besides, 13 new cases came from Palwal, while Jind and Nuh reported nine and seven new cases, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-covid-toll-past-600-6-assembly-staffers-test-ve/articleshow/77710952.cms||Manvir Saini
August 24, 2020||Vijayawada||German bank agrees to support Andhra Pradesh’s energy efficiency endeavours||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has mooted plans to take global agencies on board to enhance energy efficiency by using latest technologies. The German state-owned funding agency KfW and development agency GIZ have responded positively to its request. The KfW said in a letter to the energy department that Andhra Pradesh was progressing well in identifying opportunities of implementing different energy efficiency measures in several sectors like rural water supply, micro, small, medium enterprises (MSME), domestic, municipal and agriculture sectors. “The KfW and AP government share a common objective of the judicious use of electricity and promotion of energy efficiency and demand side management,” the KfW said. The energy department has also requested the support of the German development agency GIZ to extend technical support to AP in the area of energy research, development and training, said energy secretary Nagulapalli Srikant in a statement on Sunday. “As part of energy conservation and energy efficiency measures, the power utilities have been striving hard towards of reduction of technical losses in transmission, distribution and generation sectors. The further reduction of technical losses in a cost-effective manner and finding solutions for technical challenges are the big challenge,” he said. The energy department has identified that the energy intensive sectors like MSME and agriculture are using traditional and inefficient technologies leading to wastage of energy. Hence, the government is now focusing on long-term energy security, said Srikant. “Energy efficiency is the key to reach the target of reliable and affordable power. The chief minister wants to provide the benefit of energy efficiency to the future generations as well. For that, the energy department is going to adopt cutting-edge technologies to make available 24x7 affordable, clean and quality power at the door steps of the people and benefit industrial sector,” Srikant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/german-bank-agrees-to-support-aps-energy-efficiency-endeavours/articleshow/77708404.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Mum poisons 2 kids, kills self in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: A woman poisoned her two children by feeding them food laced with poison and went on to kill herself by eating the same food at Kondapalli in Krishna district on Sunday. The deceased were identified as Adapa Lavanya (28), her daughter Durga Srivalli (3) and son Hanish Kumar (1). According to K Sridhar Kumar, the inspector of Ibrahimpatnam, Lavanya had been having problems with her husband Nageswara Rao from the last few months. On Sunday, she asked Rao to get food from outside. After he left, she mixed pesticide in rice and fed it her two children and consumed the same. On returning home, Rao found them unconscious and rushed them to the nearest hospital. However, doctors declared them brought dead. He informed the police and based on his statement a case has been registered under section 174 of CrPC (suspicious death).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mum-poisons-2-kids-kills-self/articleshow/77708420.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Lucknow||Residents trump odds, give a facelift to their housing society||Lucknow: Residents of housing societies in the city are facing various problems due to lack of amenities. Be it maintenance, encroachment, sewage and parking, Residents’ Welfare Associations (RWA) of these societies are resolving these problems through their efforts as most of the builders remain non-cooperative. One such society is Rohtas Plumeria Homes in Vibhuti Khand of Gomtinagar TOI interacted with the RWA president of the society, Vinay Raj Pandey, to find out their daily struggles and expectations from the administration. Q. What are the major issues in your society? Ans: There are around 600 families in our society. We face daily problems because essential amenities like lifts, drainage and sewage system, boundary wall, firefighting system, parking and roads are not upto the mark. We face hardships every rainy season as the basement of the building and society roads get waterlogged. Initially, senior citizens and pregnant women had to use stairs because lifts were non-functional. Q. What steps did the residents take on their own to overcome problems? Ans: We took the initiative and got one of the two lifts functional and replaced generators. Ideally, it was the responsibility of the builder but he left the things midway. Residents pooled in money for a generator, got one lift repaired and even made efforts for road construction. As there is no boundary wall, our society was encroached. We got the squatters removed and stood united even when encroachers pelted us with stones. Q. What steps did the administration take to solve your problems? Ans: Former Lucknow Development Authority vice-chairman PN Singh helped us form RWA by pressurizing the builder. Earlier, there was no RWA to ensure smooth day-to-day functioning. He also directed the builder to complete the project but we are not able to contact him. Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) is taking interest in the project and is looking for sponsors for Rohtas Plumeria. Q. What is your message to city residents during the time of Covid-19? Ans: We all must follow Covid-19 safety norms to stop the spread of coronavirus. In our society, we all understand our responsibility. We don’t have any Covid-19 case in our society and are making efforts to ensure safety of all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/residents-trump-odds-give-a-facelift-to-their-housing-society/articleshow/77710950.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Surat||Covid-19 cases in Athwa cross 2,000-mark||SURAT: The city’s Athwa zone crossed the 2,000-mark in Covid-19 cases on Sunday when it reported 32 fresh cases. According to the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), most of the cases in Athwa _ which is 2,001 _ have been reported in August. As on August 1, Athwa had 1,135 cases but in the last 23 days it added 8,66. Also, the number of total positive cases reached the 15,000-mark. Out of the eight civic zones in the city, three zones have now over 2,000 Covid-19 cases which include Rander, Katargam and Athwa. Surat city reported 162 fresh cases and three patients succumbed to the virus on Sunday taking the death toll to 596. The highest daily cases were reported in Rander (36), followed by Athwa (32), Katargam (24), Limbayat (22), Undhna (22), Central (10), Varachha (A) (9) and seven cases in Varachha (B) zone. About 118 Covid-19 patients were discharged in the city taking the number of discharged patients to 12,623.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-19-cases-in-athwa-cross-2000-mark/articleshow/77709324.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Goa||No change in procedure to enter state for now: Govt||PANAJI: The Centre’s latest guidelines to states asking for all restrictions on inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods to be lifted, will have no impact on the Goa with the state expected to continue the existing standard operating procedure (SOP), said officials. South Goa district Collector Ajit Roy said that the state government stopped making it mandatory to obtain entry permits and transit passes months ago and at present only requires individuals to reveal their Covid-19 status. “The letter is for those states or districts which have imposed restrictions on movement of people. In Goa we had discontinued the e-pass system,” said Roy. On August 22, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to all chief secretaries asking them to ensure that no restrictions are imposed on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons or goods. “No separate permission, approval or e-permit will be required for such movements,” Bhalla said in the letter. He went on to explain that such restrictions create problems and impact the supply chain and result in disruption of economic activities. “All economic activity in the state has resumed and the state is only concerned about the testing SOP now,” said Roy. North Goa collector R Menaka could not be reached for a comment despite several calls and messages. Revenue secretary Sanjay Kumar also did not return TOI’s calls. At present, Goa offers three options to those entering the state via road, rail or air. Individuals can either opt for home quarantine, produce a Covid negative certificate or undergo a Covid-19 test at the point of entry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-change-in-procedure-to-enter-state-for-now-govt/articleshow/77711209.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Jaipur||Ahead of CWC meet, CM Ashok Gehlot urges Sonia Gandhi to lead party||JAIPUR: Reacting to speculations of Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi stepping down ahead of a Congress Working Committee meeting on Monday, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday reiterated his support to the Gandhi family saying she should continue to lead besides urging Rahul Gandhi to take up the reins of the party. Gehlot tweeted, “Where the fight is to save the ethos of our democracy, she has always taken challenges head-on. But if she has made up her mind, I believe @RahulGandhi should come ahead and be the Congress president as the country faces the biggest challenge to save our Constitution-Democracy.” where the fight is to save the ethos of our Democracy. She has always taken challenges head on. But if she has mad… https://t.co/agipcoLaQm— Ashok Gehlot (@ashokgehlot51) 1598189477000Gehlot reassured that members of the Gandhi family are the only unanimous face in the party accepted by all. He expressed displeasure on the letter signed by 23 Congress leaders calling for sweeping changes in the party. He didn’t mince words to express his disapproval of sharing the letter to the media. Most of the signatories belong to the old guard of the Congress who had rallied behind Gehlot in a month-long power struggle with Sachin Pilot. “News of 23 seniormost Congress leaders writing a letter to Hon’ble CP is unbelievable and if it is true, it’s very unfortunate... was no need to go in media I strongly believe that Hon’ble CP Smt Sonia Gandhi ji should continue to lead the party at this crucial juncture,” tweeted Gehlot. The letter was sent a fortnight ago and signed by 23 Congress leaders. The letter by former ministers and some MPs was believed to have been written a few weeks ago and sets the stage for a stormy Congress Working Committee meeting where issues flagged by dissenters are expected to be discussed and debated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ahead-of-cwc-meet-cm-gehlot-urges-sonia-to-lead-party/articleshow/77710511.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Woman cop, kin accused of abetting man’s suicide||Aurangabad: A woman constable and her three children have been booked by Mukundwadi police for abetment of suicide after a 51-year-old man jumped before a train on Saturday morning. Police have recovered a suicide note from the deceased man’s shirt pocket where he has blamed the constable and her family members of harassing and assualting him over a petty issue. The deceased has been identified as Shivaji Khandebharad from survey number 51 in the Mukundwadi area. After a formal case of accidental death was registered, Shivaji’s son Amol lodged a complaint against the woman constable, who is attached to the city police headquarters, and three of her family members. Police inspector Sharad Ingle said Shivaji had some differences with the woman constable, who happened to be his neighbour, over storing sand in front of his house. This led to a friction, following which the woman called her two daughters and her son. On August 19, there was an altercation between Shivaji and the accused family, after which Shivaji lodged a complaint with Mukundwadi police. Upset with the police complaint, the suspects allegedly thrashed him on Friday morning and even threatened of framing him in false cases. Amol alleged the growing friction as well as the fear of being framed in false cases got the better of his father. He left home on Saturday morning on the pretext of going to the police station but took the extreme step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/woman-cop-kin-accused-of-abetting-mans-suicide/articleshow/77708407.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Jaipur||Two youths rescued from Parvati River||Kota: Two youths, who were stranded on a high ground in Parvati River in Baran district on Saturday, rescued on Sunday. According to police, two persons, identified as Rakesh Harijan and Dhannalal Sahariya, had gone to catch fish in Parvati River. All of a sudden, the water swelled and both of them were stranded on a high ground in the river. The locals informed the police about two persons being stranded in the river following which SDRF team was called from district headquarters. The rescue operation was started in coordination with the police on Sunday, police said. The two persons were rescued with the help of ropes as the boat could not go due to big rocks. The heavy rains in adjoining Madhya Pradesh led to overflooding of Parvati and Kalisindh rivers in Baran and Jhalawar. It cut off Rajasthan–MP route with overflowing water on Itawa– Khatoli road that connects to the neighbouring state. Amid the heavy inflow of water into the rivers, administration in Jhalawar, Baran, Kota has been put on alert mode to meet any eventuality. Meanwhile, the overflowing water into Parvati River started flooding an overbridge on the river on Itawa-Khatoli route that cut off Rajasthan from Madhya Pradesh on Sunday and a large number of vehicles remained stationary on both ends of the overbridge. In Jhalawar, 10 gates of Kalisindh Dam were opened and 3219 cusecs of water was released on Sunday. Kalisindh River is currently flowing at 314.30 metre. Water level in Kalisindh Dam increased following rains in adjoining MP and 10 gates of the dam were on Sunday opened and 3219 cusecs of water was released in intervals, junior engineer at the dam Prateek Baswal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-youths-rescued-from-parvati-river/articleshow/77710513.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Former student accuses faculty of sexual harassment||KOCHI: A former student of UC College, Aluva, has come up with a social media post raising sexual harassment allegations against a senior faculty of the college. A Malayalam undergraduate student of 2016-19 batch of the college, along with seven of her batchmates, created an Instagram page and posted a video on it that showed four students, including the girl who complained, explaining the incident. The student, without naming the senior faculty who is now the head of a department, alleged that he misbehaved with her by touching her hip without permission in the college canteen in 2018. A complaint from the girl student has been received by the college’s principal through email and an inquiry committee has been formed by the college management. In the video titled ‘confession’, besides the girl who complained, four of her batchmates are seen talking about the incident and explaining why they didn’t complain when it had happened. In the description, the students said they are representatives of other students and through the video they want to rectify their mistake of keeping mum for two years without reporting the incident out of fear and trauma faced by them. The post is being circulated on social media and many users are supporting the students to speak out. “I was frozen when he grabbed my hip. After crying for nearly half-an-hour in the toilet, I went to him to ask him why he did so. Instead of apologizing, he tried to justify saying he thought I would take it “in its spirit”. Students always respected that man as he was an intellectual celebrity within and outside the campus. But that incident shook me hard and I was traumatised. I was afraid to talk against him as I thought no one would support me. It took me two years to gather courage to speak against him. Now, many of my coursemates, juniors and seniors have come in support saying many among them too have faced similar issues with him,” the complainant told TOI. Though the college management refused to comment on the issue, the principal confirmed that he received a complaint from the girl. “She is a former student of the college. We have received the complaint from her via email. We are looking in to it,” said principal David Saj Mathew. Another girl in the group told TOI that they did not name the faculty as they did not want to proceed with the issue legally. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/former-student-accuses-faculty-of-sexual-harassment/articleshow/77709359.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Do not restrict inter-state movement, Centre tells states||Bengaluru: With many states continuing to impose restrictions on inter-state movement of people and goods, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) has written to chief secretaries of all states, including Karnataka, to strictly adhere to its Unlock-3 guidelines. “The guidelines clearly state that there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods,” home secretary Ajay Bhalla’s letter reads. “No separate permission/ approval/ e-permit will be required for such movements. This includes movement of persons and goods for cross land border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries.” Bhalla goes on to state, “Restrictions are creating problems in inter-state movement of goods and services and are impacting the supply chain, resulting in disruption of economic activities and employment, besides affecting supply of goods and services.” He said such restrictions amount to a violation of guidelines issued by MHA under the provisions of Disaster Management Act, 2005.  Meanwhile, with most of its inter-state services still suspended, Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) is awaiting directions from the government on resuming services to other states. The corporation, which had suspended services in the wake of Covid-19, is now operating buses only to Andhra Pradesh. “It’s reciprocal,” a senior official said. “Since buses from there began plying here, we also started running services from here. But we will have to wait for directions from the state government on resuming services to other states.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/do-not-restrict-inter-state-movement-centre-tells-states/articleshow/77708936.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Fifth spell pushes water level to 95% in many dams||JAIPUR: The fifth spell of southwest monsoon has helped many dams and reservoirs in state to reach 80% of their water holding capacity. The initial three spells of monsoon were below expectation. In the past couple of days, heavy rainfall was witnessed in Kota, Udaipur and Bharatpur, Jaipur divisions which have actually rejuvenated the dams in the state which guided an elevation in their water level. Water in Kota Barrage has reached 109.170 cusec metre against its full capacity of 112.060 cusec metre, which is 97.42% of the full capacity. Similarly, water in Jawahar Sagar Dam in Kota has reached 52.901 cusec metre against its capacity of 67.120 cusec metre, which is 78.82 % full. Likewise, Jaisamand Lake in Udaipur is now 73.46% filled. “Water level at this dam has reached 305.730 cusec metre against its full capacity of 415.130 cusec metre,” said an officer. However, Bisalpur Dam, which caters to the drinking water and irrigation needs of people in Ajmer, Jaipur and Tonk, badly needs some heavy rainfall in its catchment area. “Last year too, after August 8, the dam’s catchment area saw good amount of rainfall resulting in elevation in its water level. It further forced us to open three of its gates for the release of water,” said an engineer at the dam. Presently, the Bisalpur Dam is 57.25 % full. “Though Jaipur witnessed heavy rainfall, its catchment area need more water. Last year on the start of the southwest monsoon, it was only 34% full,” said an officer. Meanwhile, mild to moderate showers continued across the state on Sunday when many places witnessed a rainfall varying from 150mm to 50mm. “The fourth and fifth spell of the monsoon so far are fruitful. More spells of heavy rainfall are likely,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fifth-spell-pushes-water-level-to-95-in-many-dams/articleshow/77710517.cms||Ashish Mehta
August 24, 2020||Kochi||Chambakkara mkt to reopen today||Kochi: District administration has decided to open the Chambakkara fish market on Monday, 80 days after it was closed. The market was closed on June 4. A report submitted by Thrikkakara assistant commissioner of police Jijimon K M details the measures to be introduced in the market. To curtail the movement of people and vehicles, token system will be introduced. Only those wearing mask will be allowed to enter the market and six- metre distance should be maintained by each. There will be two security staff at the entrance to record the details of visitors. Disinfection should be carried out after closing the market at 7am each day. Only wholesale shops will be allowed to open and only 20 retail sellers, who can buy fish from wholesalers, will be permitted at a time. There are around 15 wholesale fish dealers and the unloading should be done between 6pm and 6am next day. Retail merchants can buy fish from 2am to 7am. A public announcement system will be set up. Only one large vehicle will be allowed inside at a time. Each retail vendor will get 20 minutes to buy fish. 33 from boys’ home test positive Kochi: Ernakulam district on Sunday reported 200 new Covid cases, including 186 contact ones. As many as 22 cases reported from Kalamassery, 12 from Nellikuzhy and 33 from Don Bosco boys’ home at Palluruthy. Eight healthcare workers also tested positive. Multiple cases were also reported from other parts of the district. There are 1,865 active cases in Ernakulam. As many as 1,616 samples were sent for testing on Sunday when results of 1,592 were received. Results of 928 samples are awaited..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/chambakkara-mkt-to-reopen-today/articleshow/77709393.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Bareilly||Attacked by unidentified men on August 19, 50-year-old man succumbs to injuries||Pilibhit: A 50-year-old man, Tilak Ram of Ajitpur Patpara village under Gajraula police station, who was found lying on the roadside with multiple injuries near Mudela village in the evening of August 19, died at a private hospital in Bareilly on Saturday. The victim’s son Rajpal said his father was on his way to his native village from Pilibhit on a motorcycle when unidentified men attacked him near Mudela village. The assailants fled the spot leaving his injured father unconscious, he alleged. After one of his friends informed him about the incident, Rajpal said he shifted his father to a private doctor and lodged a written complaint at Gajraula police station around 3am on August 20. “As the condition of my father was deteriorating, he was shifted to the district government hospital, where doctors referred him to a higher medical facility in Bareilly on August 20, but he succumbed to his injuries on Saturday,” said Rajpal. Gajraula SHO Jai Prakash Singh said, “An FIR was registered under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke the breach of peace) of the Indian Penal Code, but after the victim’s death, IPC section 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) was added to the FIR.” “We are trying to ascertain whether it was a case of assault or a road accident. Further action will be taken based on the autopsy report,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/attacked-by-unidentified-men-on-august-19-50-year-old-man-succumbs-to-injuries/articleshow/77706883.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Nagpur||Two Covid deaths, 155 positive in Amravati||Amravati: Two covid deaths and a spike of 155 cases took the district's death toll to 112 and count to 4577 on Sunday. A CS office release said that a 53-year-old male from Rajmatanagar here and a 45-year-old male from Jay Siyaram Nagar died while undergoing treatment. With 87 getting discharge, the number of recovered patients reached 3334. This left 1131 active cases that included 19 taking treatment in Nagpur and 337 put in home isolation. The rural belt reported 54 cases that took its count to 1254.Warud alone accounted for 22 of the cases to take its count to 86. Chandur Railway and Daryapur reported three each to take their respective tally to 28 and 105 respectively. Two cases each came from Nandgaon Peth, Paratwada, Chandur Bazar and Dawargaon along with Karanja Lad in Washim district. Single cases came from 13 other places. In City, Kanwarnagar reported seven cases that took its tally to 38 while Rampuri Camp and Ambikanagar reported three each to take their score to 92 and 12 respectively. Two cases each came from Deshpande Plot (total cases 3), Aadarshnagar (2), Belpura (41), Frezerpura (25), Malik Layout (2), Rathinagar (11), Shankar Nagar (39), Krushnagar (53), Rajapeth (32), Gawalipura (2), Narayannagar (9), Badnera (278), Rukmininagar (15), Bhivapurkarnagar (2), Kalyannagar (8), Khaparde Bagicha (16), Masanganj (57), Bhagyodaya Colony (2) and Shobhanagar (7). Single cases were reported from 42 other localities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-covid-deaths-155-positive-in-amravati/articleshow/77710476.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Udaipur||Torrential rain in south Rajasthan, lightning kills 3 in Udaipur||UDAIPUR: Three persons were killed by lightning, water ran into homes, roads were submerged as torrential rain hit several parts throughout the day in Udaipur and other districts in the division on Sunday. In Dungarpur, after heavy water flow on three roads leading to the famous Beneshawar Dham, the area transformed into an island with more than 20 people stuck on the temple premises. In Banswara , all 16 gates of Mahi Dam were opened. Sarvania dam too overflowed after receiving heavy rains from the catchment areas. Udaipur received around 8 inches of rain in the last 36 hours. Sisarma river crossed the 5-feet mark and its water gushed into Lake Pichhola thereby increasing the water level. In Kherwada block, Som, the largest river in Udaipur district, overflowed after receiving continuous water from the catchment areas. Three men were killed by lightning near Kundeshwar temple near Eeswal of Gogunda block in Udaipur. Heavy to moderate downpour since Saturday evening caused waterlogging in many colonies in Udaipur on Sunday. Reports came in from colonies such as Gariyawas, Meera Nagar B block of Bhuwana, Bhatt ji ki Badi, and Hiran Magari Sector 4 that roads were completely submerged in the waters. In Shakti Nagar area, water entered many homes and people had to shift their valuables to other places. Power supply was disconnected at some places, administration warned the public not to step out of their homes to prevent any untoward incidents. At Dangiyo-ki-Pancholi road in Pratapnagar, a portion of boundary wall of the FCI godown collapsed and debris fell on the road which damaged a car passing by at the time. Luckily the driver had a narrow escape, eyewitnesses said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/torrential-rain-in-south-raj-lightning-kills-3-in-udaipur/articleshow/77710514.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Private hospital sealed for treating Covid-19 without permission in Andhra Pradesh||ELURU: Revenue and health officials sealed a private hospital at Eluru in West Godavari district on Saturday for allegedly treating Covid-19 patients without seeking permission from the government. Authorities found that Murali Krishna Multi Specialty Hospital was charging large sums of money from patients over the last one month and treating Covid-19 patients illegally. Covid-19 patients admitted at the hospital have been shifted to the district’s dedicated Covid-19 hospital in Eluru. Police have sealed off the hospital and the health department has submitted a report to the district collector. Speaking to TOI, district medical and health officer K Sunanda said that the hospital has been sealed and notices have been issued against the management. She further said that the hospital was treating Covid-19 patients since July 23 and had not obtained requisite permission from the government. A total of 70 Covid-19 patients have been treated at the hospital so far and 12 patients were at the hospital at the time of the raid, K Sunanda said while adding that there are allegations that the hospital was overcharging patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/private-hospital-sealed-for-treating-covid-19-without-permission/articleshow/77708435.cms||Samson Raj
August 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Grabbed land returned to rightful owner: Cops||Visakhapatnam: Days after launching a probe into a land grab incident at Isukathota area, Vizag city police have been able to restore the property to its rightful owner. Nearly a week ago, around 30 people descended on a site taken on lease by Rishikesh Marble and Granite Private Limited at Isukathota, overpowered the watchman, ransacked the office and changed the name on the board claiming that the site belonged to a Gabu Raghavi Reddy. The one-acre site worth over Rs 30 crore originally belongs to Kovvuru Gangi Reddy, former VUDA chairman and founding member of TDP, according to the police. After the incident, Santosh Kumar Bucha, who runs the marble company registered a complaint. Acting on the complaint, MVP Colony police led by inspector Ch Shanmukha Rao cordoned off the area and barred entry into the property. Subsequently, the property was returned to its rightful owner, said inspector Rao while adding that the police have nabbed seven people who trespassed into the property and are probing to find the others. Owner, Kovvuru Gangi Reddy’s lawyer, TVSK Kanaka Raju said, “Even though several influential people were behind this land grab, the police did not yield to any pressure.” YSRC’s Rajya Sabha MP V Vijayasai Reddy said that the restoration of the property to its original owners would not have been possible without the active intervention of chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/grabbed-land-returned-to-rightful-owner-cops/articleshow/77708485.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Wolf with disability enables conservation||AHMEDABAD: Divyangi, a handicapped Indian wolf rescued from the wild, will soon be the mascot of the Indian Wolf conservation programme carried out by the Sakkarbaug Zoo and at least 30 Indian wolves born at the breeding conservation centre in Sakkarbaug will soon be on the prowl in the wild. Yogendra Shah, a wildlife warden at Surendranagar who was the key person to rescue the schedule I Indian wolf and treat her, said that after rescuing the wolf in 2010 she was subjected to breeding at Sakarbaugh Zoo and 2017 she gave birth to one pup and in 2018 again, she gave birth to four pups. The programme began when the Central Zoo authority in 2015 made Sakkarbaug the leader for conservation breeding of Asiatic lion, wild ass, Indian wolf, chinkara and chausingha. “Though Sakarbaugh was the leading zoo for Indian wolves, it was helpless as the zoo only had three females and no males and of these three, Divyangi was handicapped. The department, however, did not lose heart and exchanged Asiatic lions of male wolves with Mysore, Jodhpur and Jaipur zoo and the programme began. All three were introduced with Divyangi first and the department was of the opinion that she would be able to adjust. Moreover, she was from the wild. Divyangi got comfortable with the Mysore male and gave birth to six pups and breathed her last in 2018,” said a senior officer. The first pup was a male who was named Deepak, who is now the key male in the breeding programme. Deepak is the pup from a wild wolf that was rescued. Shah said that it all began in 2010 when they got the information that a jackal was injured and was lying on the road for the last two days. “I along Bajan Range forest staff B R Makwana, Bharat Chasiya and Naseeb Khan went to the area only to find that she was an Indian Wolf from Bajana who was badly injured. “We immediately informed the IFS Pradeep Singh who was in-charge of wild ass sanctuary in 2010. He was on leave and asked us to ensure that the wolf did not die,” said Shah. “After primary treatment, the wolf was taken to Anand veterinary college where it was advised to impute both her front legs, but we refused as imputing both legs would be like allowing the animal to die. Only her front leg was imputed and the other leg that was badly injured was plastered. I along with Makwana and two others took care of the wolf and could save her second front leg. Since it was a schedule-I animal it was then transferred to Sakkarbaug Zoo where she was called Divyangi. We used to call her Sukhi as her eyes always had satisfaction,” explained Shah. “Later, when the conservator breeding programme was introduced and she became pregnant we had to give her the den that had a semblance of nature and hence, a den was even constructed for her to give birth to her pups. The department now has over 40 wolves and about 30 are expected to be released in the wild,” added Shah. A senior officer said that before releasing the wolves, the department would take up an exercise where they would talk to farmers and inform them that the wolves were needed as they help to keep the population of Neelgai and wild boar under control. H S Singh a wildlife expert says: “The maldhari and the cattle rearing community is against the wolf as they target their goats and small cattle and hence, they set ablaze the area where the wolf has delivered pups. The wolves are required as they kill Neelgai and wild boar babies and thus help in restricting the increase in their population. In the past wolves were found in thousands in Gujarat and now according to an estimate, there are less than 400 left in Gujarat. These animals were found right form the Kutch to Bhal region.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wolf-with-disability-enables-conservation/articleshow/77710556.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
August 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Kin wary of visiting Covid-19 patients in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Twenty days after minister Dr Seediri Appala Raju announced in Srikakulam that relatives of Covid-19 patients may visit the patients in hospitals if they bring along their own personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, very few have taken the initiative. According to a senior health official, less than one per cent of relatives of Covid-19 patients have approached the administration requesting to visit hospitals with their own PPE kits. “A PPE kit costs between Rs 500 and Rs 1,000. Many can’t afford it. Further, there is fear among people about visiting Covid-19 patients,” the health official told TOI. Fisheries minister Appala Raju had taken the decision to allow patients’ relatives to visit hospitals with their own PPE kits during a review of Covid-19 treatment services at Rajiv Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Srikakulam on August 3. On Sunday, the minister said, “Some people do choose to go to hospitals and interact with their relatives. This happened in case of a man from Mandasa who wore his own PPE kit to visit his relative. But many don’t do it due to the fear of the disease.” He further said: “The suggestion has been made only for Covid-19 hospitals in my own district (Srikakulam). The government cannot afford the cost of PPE kits for visitors.” He added that he will review the situation at Covid-19 hospitals in the district within the next two or three days. In Srikakulam district, there are 1,006 Covid-19 patients currently undergoing treatment at Covid-19 hospitals while 2,127 people are housed in Covid Care Centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/kin-wary-of-visiting-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77708444.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
August 24, 2020||Jaipur||RSRTC to run 300 more buses on several intra-state routes||JAIPUR: In order to increase its income and facilitate passengers travelling within the state, Rajasthan State Roadways Transport Corporation (RSRTC) is extending intra-state services. Also, in a scenario where no other state except Haryana is agreeing for mutual operations of interstate buses, the corporation is trying to penetrate into the state’s rural interiors and other cities From Monday onwards, RSRTC is adding 300 more buses for various routes across the state. “A decision has been made to meet the demands of our customers who keep requesting to increase the number of buses. We are getting a good load factor and it is better to increase our services within the state,” said Naveen Jain, CMD, RSRTC on Sunday. “Our load factor indicates that people depend on us during times of pandemic,” said a senior officer of RSRTC. Of the 300 buses, 42 will ply from Jodhpur zone, Kota (34), Sikar (32), Udaipur (26), Jaipur (25), Ajmer (45), Bharatpur (50 and Bikaner (28).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rsrtc-to-run-300-more-buses-on-several-intra-state-routes/articleshow/77710548.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Nagpur||One more death in Yavatmal||YAVATMAL: Yavatmal has recorded one more death of a 62 year old man from Pusad making the death toll to 67. He was admitted to GMC isolation ward on August 20. There are 43 new positive patients of whom 22 men and 21 women. 97 patients have recovered and hence discharged from the isolation wards. 197 persons are sent to Home Quarantine while 168 are admitted in the GMC isolation wards. 174 swab samples are sent to the lab for testing, informed dean Dr RP Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-more-death-in-yavatmal/articleshow/77710512.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Goa||Dead dolphin washes ashore Colomb beach||Poinguinim: A 2.5m-long decomposed dolphin carcass washed ashore at Colomb beach. After it was noticed by some villagers who had come for a walk on the beach, the forest department authorities at Paddi were intimated. The round forester of Paddi, Manjunath Kalangutkar, told TOI that a post mortem could not be conducted as the carcass was in a highly decomposed state. After the required formalities were carried out, the carcass was buried on the beach. Since February, this is the fourth dead dolphin to have been washed ashore along the Canacona beach stretch. One each was found at the Agonda and Rajbhag-Tarir beaches and two at Patnem-Colomb. Kalangutkar said that such sea mammals are protected under the Wildlife Protection Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dead-dolphin-washes-ashore-colomb-beach/articleshow/77711214.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Capitation fee: Surat school moves Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: A Surat school has filed an appeal in the Gujarat high court challenging the education department’s proceedings against it on allegations of charging capitation fee from students. In June, a single-judge bench had rejected a petition by Metas of Seventh Day Adventists School questioning the jurisdiction of the district education officer, who had issued three show-cause notices to the school upon receiving complaints from parents that the school was asking for donations under different heads. The school received notices in January, 2019, February 2019 and January 2020 from the DEO. The education department even ordered an officer to conduct an inquiry into the allegations against the school over asking donations from parents. The inquiry was completed and report submitted in November 2019. The school replied to the education department’s show-cause notices, which had alleged that despite clear prohibition on collection of capitation fee, under whatever name it is collected, as provided under Section 13 of the RTE Act and also under Rule-12 of RTE Rules, the school collected the fee. The school submitted before the HC that the DEO is not authorized to issue the notices, but the director or an officer authorized by him should have issued the notices. It also submitted that the school was not provided the inquiry report. The single judge heard the case and rejected the petition with observation that the school had not raised the issue of jurisdiction of DEO while replying to the notices. The issue of territorial jurisdiction may be raised by the school because the proceedings are still pending in the department. After the single judge rejected the petition, the school has now filed an appeal before the division bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/capitation-fee-surat-school-moves-hc/articleshow/77710558.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Use oxygen wisely, Karnataka govt tells hospitals||BENGALURU: With hospitals facing an acute shortage of medical grade oxygen, the state government has asked hospitals to be judicious in using the lifesaver, citing a clinical expert committee’s finding that its use has been excessive, non-judicious and lacking proper monitoring. While mandating an ‘oxygen therapy protocol’ drawn up by the committee for all hospitals, in its order the government said only Covid-19 patients with oxygen saturation below 94% must be provided oxygen support and others who don’t meet this criterion should be treated without oxygen therapy. Last week, several hospitals in the state had complained of a lack of oxygen supply and the problem was so acute that Kempegowda Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) had to shift its patients due to non-supply of the gas. Also, it was also found that 13 of the 19 district hospitals run by the health and family welfare department have no in-house liquid oxygen tanks on their premises. “Excessive use [of oxygen], besides having deleterious health effects, is resulting in wastage of the precious resource leading to a shortage of the commodity and waste of money,” the government quoted the committee as saying. Patients with below 94% oxygen saturation will have to be given oxygen support of 2-5 litres per minute through nasal prong or five litres per minute if the face mask is used. Recently, district hospitals invited tenders to set up oxygen tanks, but had received lukewarm response. In Tumakuru and Davanagere, two bidders participated in the tender. In 11 districts, there wasn’t a single bidder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/use-oxygen-wisely-state-tells-hosps/articleshow/77708965.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Man kills Indian rat snake & tries to sell it as python meat, arrested||KOCHI: A man was arrested for killing an Indian rat snake on Saturday night. After cooking and consuming the snake meat, he reportedly even tried to sell the snake meat as python meat. The incident was reported from the Kothamangalam forest division. The forest department arrested the man, Biju V J of Neriamangalam after booking him under relevant Sections of the Wildlife Protection Act. According to a senior forest officer with the Kothamangalam range the man committed the crime under the influence of alcohol. “The man used to stay at Neriamangalam. On Saturday night, he was drunk and saw the snake coming into his house. He killed and cooked it soon after. We have seized parts of the snake including its head and tail that he left behind after consumption. The materials used for cooking the meat have also been seized,” said the officer. The Indian rat snake is protected under the Schedule II of the Wildlife Protection Act. However, forest officers said that some people do eat it.  Sources said that the man attempting to sell the meat as python meat led to his arrest. “He had a few enemies in the area. When he tried to spread a rumour in the colony that he had python meat, they alerted the forest officers, leading to his arrest,” said a source. He was presented before a magistrate and was remanded in judicial custody on Sunday. Forest officers said that the man would be transferred to the Covid care facility at Karukutty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/man-kills-indian-rat-snake-tries-to-sell-it-as-python-meat-arrested/articleshow/77709514.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Brothers accuse gaushala doc of thrashing them||Ludhiana: Two brothers who work at a gaushala on Tibba road have accused a veterinary doctor of thrashing them over some monetary dispute. On Sunday morning, the victims came out of the shelter, sat on the road side and started crying. The injured duo were later rushed to a hospital by onlookers. They have been identified as Man Bahar (45) and his brother Dil Bahar (48). ASI Bhupinder Singh from police station, division number 7, said that the police received a call from a passerby that two workers of a gaushala were injured and crying outside the gaushala. The caller also stated that the both men had been allegedly beaten by a veterinary doctor of the gaushala. “When I reached the spot, the injured had already been taken to the hospital. The doctors have stated the duo to be unfit for giving statements. The police will further proceed after recording statements of victims. However, according to initial inquiry it had been revealed that both were thrashed by the doctor,” he added. On the other hand, Satyapal Thakur, manager of the gaushala said, “Man Bahar and Dill Bahar have been working here for the past couple of months. On Saturday evening, they left the gaushala after getting advance payment on the pretext of purchasing vegetables. However, they returned drunk. Both went into the room and started fighting with each other over some monetary dispute. They thrashed each other with utensils and injured each other. Our doctor intervened to end their fight and he even slapped both.” “Then the two went out and created a scene. The entire controversy has nothing to do with the gaushala, its management or the doctor,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/brothers-accuse-gaushala-doc-of-thrashing-them/articleshow/77709428.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||455 get degrees at IIT-Gandhinagar virtual convocation||AHMEDABAD: Amid Covid-19 epidemic, IIT Gandhinagar (IIT-Gn) on Sunday held its ninth convocation online. A total of 455 students got degrees in the ceremony including students of the first batch of BTech in computer science and engineering. Nandan Nilekani, one of the co-founders of IT giant Infosys, was the chief guest at the event. He said that it’s a difficult time to graduate during the global crisis. Nilekani underlined the emergence and importance in technology in Covid-19 pandemic and attributed success of initiatives such as work from home that kept the economy running. He also said that technology is at the heart of the current medical research to combat Covid-19. “In some sense, this crisis has led to the revival of technology and the revival of expertise,” he said. The students included 55 PhD students, 115 MTech students and 173 BTech students among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/455-get-degrees-at-iit-gn-virtual-convocation/articleshow/77710562.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Ludhiana||110 city parks get 278 compost pits||Ludhiana: With an aim to tackling the horticulture waste being generated in public parks and city the MC officials have started making compost pits in all parks of the city. Already 110 public parks have been covered where 278 compost pits have been made for management of horticulture waste and now the rest of the parks will be covered. The officials claimed that it will help in solving the problem of horticulture waste and they will be able to lift waste from roadside as well to prepare manure. The city has a total of 870 public parks under MC jurisdiction and of these, 650 public parks are in the hands of management committees. The officials will create compost pits in all parks because even if the management committees are handling the maintenance of these parks, they do not have solution for horticulture waste. However, at some locations the officials had to face resentment from these committees as they tried to stop these pits being made in parks but the officials claimed that parks still belong to the MC and they had to solve the problem of horticulture waste. The solid waste management policy notified in 2018 had also made it mandatory to create compost pits in all parks, kitchen gardens, education/research/ training institutions, defence/ paramilitary/ police establishments, sport complexes for the management of their green waste or any site where green waste is generated in routine for its management. JE, horticulture wing of MC, Kripal Singh said, “We will be covering all parks one by one and work has already started at many locations. The first experiment was done in Rose Garden, which proved successful.” The management of horticulture waste is a major issue for the MC officials as whenever there is pruning of trees in the city by the electricity department lots of green waste is generated. It remains along roadside for long and later creates trouble in traffic movement, besides, becoming an eye sore for residents. Even outside parks heaps of grass, pruned branches and other waste can be seen lying in large quantity and it has not been lifted for so long. So all these problems can be resolved with composting of waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/110-city-parks-get-278-compost-pits/articleshow/77709439.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Wrong body of Covid victim given to family in Udupi dist||Udupi: In a major mix-up, the health authorities in the district handed over the body of a man who died of Covid-19 to another family on Sunday. A 68-year-old man from Neramballi in Kundapur was undergoing treatment at the TMA Pai Covid Hospital for over 20 days. On Sunday, the kin of the patient received a call from the health department informing of his death. The health officials also informed that the dead body, which was kept in the Udupi District Hospital mortuary, will be brought to the crematorium in Kundapur and family members may see it from a distance. Speaking to TOI, son of the deceased said, “Initially, they did not allow us to go near the body. We put up a strong demand and they allowed us to see him after wearing PPEs. However, we were shocked to see some one else’s body inside the plastic bag. We could have cremated an unknown person instead of my father, if the bag had not been opened. We have sought justice from the authorities concerned for this mess.” Tension prevailed at the crematorium premises in Kundapur when the incident came to light. People gathered in large numbers and joined the family members to seek answers. Police and revenue department officials rushed to spot and tried to pacify the family members. However, relatives were reluctant to move until the body of the actual victim was brought to the crematorium. Finally, the situation was brought under control after the body of the 68-year-old was brought to the crematorium. Meanwhile, the body of the youth from Karkala, who also died of Covid-19, was sent to his native place to conduct the last rites. Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said all necessary steps will be taken to ensure such goof-ups are not repeated in future. “It is a mistake on the part of an ambulance driver, who was given the task of shifting the body of the Covid-19 victim from Kundapur. Instead of the 68-year-old victim, the driver shifted the youth’s body to Kundapur. I have directed the special team in the district involved in organising funeral of Covid-19 victims to take extra care while shifting the bodies,” the DC said. Meanwhile, district surgeon Madhusudhan Nayak said a departmental inquiry will be initiated into the incident. “Several of our staff are forced to work overnight without rest and many have threatened to resign. This may lead to shortage of staff in future. However, a departmental inquiry will be conducted and action will be taken against the errant,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/wrong-body-of-covid-victim-given-to-family-in-udupi-dist/articleshow/77708545.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Goa||Digambar, Chodankar stand by Gandhis||Panaji: Ahead of the crucial Congress working committee (CWC) meeting in Delhi on Monday, both, the leader of opposition Digambar Kamat and state Congress president Girish Chodankar have strongly backed the Gandhi family for party leadership. “Lets us discuss how to strengthen Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi to defeat the divisive BJP,” Kamat said. He appealed to each and every Congress worker in Goa to solidly stand by the leadership of Gandhis. In a statement, he said “The people have high hopes from the Congress Party all across the Country. The efforts of Rahul Gandhi of exposing the short comings of BJP government needs to be strengthened in the interest of the Country.” Stating that he is personally indebted to Sonia Gandhi for giving him an opportunity to be the chief minister of Goa (in 2007), Kamat said he would always remain obliged to her for her wholehearted support during his entire tenure (June 2007-February 2012) and even now while discharging my duties as leader of opposition. Chodankar said that any demand for restructuring the party at this time when all are fighting Covid-19, is absurd. “We should stand united with our president and support Rahul Gandhi who is exposing misdeeds of the government”, he said Meanwhile, former state Congress president John Fernandes has welcomed the statement of Priyanka Gandhi that a non-Gandhi should lead the party. Fernandes, a former Rajya Sabha member for many years, said if this happened, more former Congressmen who had served the party in the past, will return to the party fold. This, he said, will strengthen the party across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/digambar-chodankar-stand-by-gandhis/articleshow/77711223.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan domestic violence up 76% in June-July||JAIPUR: Domestic violence cases in the state have seen a spike of 76% between June and July while crime against women has seen a rise of 34% in the same period. On the brighter side, there has been a 14 per cent decrease in crime against women in July compared to the same month last year, which includes dowry deaths. Crime against women, which had seen a dip of 66% from March to April, had increased by 123% in May. Experts claimed that alcohol, lack of privacy and household chores were some of the main reasons for domestic quarrels. The total number of cases registered under various categories of crime against women increased to 4,171 in July compared to 3,118 in June. In July 2019, there were 4,898 cases of crimes against women. Categories of crime which had witnessed a decrease in the same month last year have seen an increase. Experts say the surge in numbers which was witnessed due to lockdown in April-May is gradually normalising as complainants are registering their cases early.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-domestic-violence-up-76-in-june-july/articleshow/77710566.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Business||Passenger vehicle sales in free fall||NEW DELHI: The auto industry has pressed the panic button and said that sales will be in a free fall this fiscal due to the impact of the coronavirus and the economic slowdown. Passenger vehicle sales are likely to crash to a 11-year low as absolute numbers in 2020-21 go below those sold in 2009-10. The industry’s capacity utilisation will be at around 50%, or “at best” 60%, as demand will remain severely depressed, despite the emergence of some green shoots over the past few weeks. This is notwithstanding the stabilisation in demand achieved in July, where a few companies managed to stay positive over the sales achieved in the same month last year. The situation is the same for other segments as well, where the numbers are estimated to see a major dip, according to an internal presentation made by the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (Siam) to various wings of the government, including ministries of heavy industries, and road transport and highways, sources told TOI. Siam said the “near loss of one full quarter sales” due to the coronavirus and subsequent lockdowns (April to June this fiscal) will depress overall volumes, and even a late recovery will not be sufficient to make up for the shortfall. According to projections, sales of passenger vehicles (cars, SUV/UVs, vans) will finish 2020-21 at 1.91 million units, lower than 1.95 million units sold in 2009-10. Volumes in two-wheelers (motorcycles, scooters and mopeds) will be less than what the companies had sold in fiscal 2011-12 (12 million versus 13.4 million in FY12). Siam is the apex body representing the auto industry in India and its members include Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai, Tata Motors, Hero MotoCorp, Bajaj Auto, TVS, Mercedes-Benz, and Force Motors. Siam director-general Rajesh Menon said investments into capital assets, R&D and new jobs will not be robust in view of the depressing sentiment and pressure on demand. Siam has asked the government for urgent relief in the form of tax incentives and other demand-generation measures. “We need to have at least 10% cut in GST rates across vehicle categories to drive in affordability. Moreover, we also need an incentive-based scrappage scheme to prompt customers to replace older vehicles,” Menon said. Siam president Rajan Wadhera has said the industry is passing through its most difficult period ever. “It’s a grim situation. We are in a very, very difficult period,” he said, adding that “high taxation” remains one of the biggest pain point. “While the government charges GST between 28% and 60% across different vehicle categories, the profitability of companies is only between 3% and 9%. It is around 3% in commercial vehicles, while for two-wheelers it is around 9% and passenger vehicle makers have around 5-6%.” While July numbers for the auto industry have shown positive signs, Siam said that some of the positives are led by pent-up demand as there was no sales during the lockdown period. Also, sales in July last year were weak, making it a low-base year. Already, top companies such as Maruti and Hero Moto have said they will control fresh investments and costs to fall in line with the tough environment. Watch Auto industry presses panic button as passenger vehicle sales dip||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/passenger-vehicle-sales-in-free-fall/articleshow/77711449.cms||Pankaj Doval
August 24, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 cases cross 15,000, death toll touches 200||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand recorded 495 new Covid-19 infections on Sunday, raising the case tally in the state to 15,124. The state also reported five fresh fatalities, pushing the death toll to 200. With this, the infection percentage touched 5.2% in the state. According to health department officials, the maximum of 249 cases were reported from Udham Singh Nagar, followed by 106 from Haridwar. “Dehradun reported 66 new cases of coronavirus on Sunday, followed by 18 from Pauri Garhwal, 14 from Nainital, 10 from Rudraprayag, nine cases from Chamoli, six cases each from Tehri and Bageshwar districts, and four each from Almora and Champawat districts,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Among the five deaths, two each were reported from All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Rishikesh and Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani. Another death was reported from the district hospital in Uttarkashi. Anoop Nautiyal, member of Social Development for Communities Foundation (a social organisation closely tracking Covid-19 scenario in the Himalayan state), said that cases have doubled in the 23 days of the ongoing month. “On August 1, the state had 7,447 cases and 83 deaths. Uttarakhand had witnessed its biggest weekly jump in Covid-19 cases last week with 44 deaths and 4,296 active cases. A total of 2,273 recoveries were recorded during this period. The state must strengthen healthcare facilities further to combat the Covid-19 situation,” Nautiyal said. However, in some respite for the state, the maximum of 459 recoveries were reported on Sunday. Till Sunday, the tally of cured cases in the state stood at 10,480. Covid-19 test results of more than 12,000 samples are still awaited. With Covid-19 cases rising in the state capital, the health department is also mulling to introduce 108 ambulance services to pick and drop coronavirus patients. At present, only 12 dedicated ambulances provide this facility to Covid-19 infected patients in Dehradun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-cases-cross-15k-death-toll-touches-200/articleshow/77708567.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Ludhiana||With restrictions back, tent houses stare at bleak future||Ludhiana: The Covid-19 spread has forced the state government to impose certain restrictions on weddings and even bhog ceremonies and this has come as a shocker for people who were running tent houses or were employed there. In the past over five months they could not generate much as there were hardly any bookings for functions and if there were any these were on a very small scale. Some are being forced to sell vegetables while some are still waiting for the situation to improve. Lally, owner of Ghai Tent House has been into this business for the past so many years and since weddings and other functions are now limited to small gatherings, he is forced to sell vegetables on road side. While describing the difficulties he said, “More than three months have passed since I have been selling vegetables to earn livelihood as I have to feed not only my family but my younger brother's family as well.” He said he was unable to generate much income from this vegetable business but at least they are able to eat food. He claimed that the scenario was very bad for people like him because they were associated with a business where gatherings were a must and now when these were not being allowed due to coronavirus, they had to look for some other alternative. For, Naresh Kumar and his wife Manjit Kaur, earning has become a big question mark. Naresh had a settled business of tent house for the past 25 years but lockdown and restrictions on public functions had spoiled everything. Manjit while sharing the problem said, “We are simply clueless because there is no hope around. We are selling vegetables now at Harnam Nagar railway crossing but there is so much wastage in this business that it is difficult to save anything.” She shared that, along with her family, Naresh had to take care of his brother’s family as he was no more. Naresh rued that they had kept tents, lights, sound system and other related things at two different places and when they could not earn anything they had to vacate one place as they could not pay rent of both places. He said there was no saving left now and at the moment they were unable to understand what should they do to improve their condition. Unlike Lally and Naresh, Vikram Khera from Khera Tent House has started transporting things in absence of bookings for decorations or catering. Khera said, “I am the sole breadwinner for the family and I have to take care of parents, my wife and two sons. Both my sons are handicapped and need special attention and care.” He said he had started transporting things from one shop to other so that he could earn something and family should not starve at least. He claimed that for starting a new business investment was required, but he does not have anything left now. “Initially, we were hoping that the situation will change early, but now things are turning worse with each passing day and life is getting challenging for me,” he added. However, Vinod Kumar from Balaji Decorators, who had been into this business for the past 10 years is not in a position to do anything except wait for the situation to become normal. Kumar shared, “If my wife had not been a doctor, then I would also have been forced to sell vegetables on road side. While earlier we were giving medicine free of cost to the people, now we have started taking Rs 20 fee from the visitors to her clinic, so that household expenses do not get affected.” He said the government should think something about their trade, which is facing losses due to these restrictions. He said that large marriage palaces, which can easily accommodate 100 people while maintaining social distancing at functions, should be allowed, so that their business could start. He said , “If things did not improve in the coming days, then there will be very bad situation for everybody.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/with-restrictions-back-tent-houses-stare-at-bleak-future/articleshow/77709447.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Agra||NHRC notice to UP government over hunger death||Taking suo motu cognisance of the TOI report on a five-year-old girl dying of hunger and sickness in Agra’s Nagla Vidhichand, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Sunday issued a notice to the chief secretary of Uttar Pradesh seeking within four weeks a detailed report on the incident, including the relief and rehabilitation measures for the family. It further directed the chief secretary to initiate action against the delinquent officials and issue instructions to all the district authorities to ensure that such incidents do not recur. The commission also asked the state government why the schemes announced to deal with the Covid-induced crisis have not reached its real beneficiaries, adding that the Agra incident is a serious violation of human rights “due to gross negligence by the local administration”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/nhrc-notice-to-up-government-over-hunger-death/articleshow/77709444.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hubballi||Covid patient ends life||Davanagere: A 55-year-old man from Shivakumara Swami Layout here, who tested positive for Covid-19 committed suicide at SS Institute of Medical Sciences and Hospital on Sunday. The patient was admitted to the hospital a few days ago, and was being treated at a special ward. “The duty doctors had spoken to him on Saturday night, and he seemed normal,” the hospital sources said. Twice on Sunday morning — at 6.30am and 8.30am — he did not respond or open the door when the duty doctors knocked on the door. Later, with the help of police, the doctors opened the door and found him hanging from the ceiling fan, said Vidyanagar Extension police, who are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/covid-patient-ends-life/articleshow/77708584.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Lucknow||IIIT starts MBA in digital biz||Lucknow: As from grocery store payments to online consultation with doctors everybody in Covid times seems to have moved on to the digital platform, the Indian Institute of Information Technology, (IIIT), Lucknow has also decided to teach students all about the digital business. In a first of its kind move, the institution has launched a Master of Business Administration (MBA) in Digital Business, a two-year course, that has been made in accordance with the new education policy declared by the education ministry recently. The course will offer candidates the flexibility to take an exit after a year or to complete it even after a break of a year or so. The institute opened its application process on Friday and the last date for submission of the application form is September 20. Director IIIT, Arun Mohan Sherry said, “We are the first one in the country to offer this course. It is offered mainly in some of the academic institutes in Europe. After pursuing the course a student can start his or her own online business venture or can take up various roles related to digital business in corporate sectors.” He said as many as 60 seats will be offered in the course initially and based on the demand it will be increased later. If a student wants to leave the course after one year he or she will be awarded a PG diploma in the digital business and on the successful two-year completion a master’s degree will be awarded. “From modern concepts like artificial intelligence and cloud computing to teaching traditional business management like managerial finance, it will be all in one course,” he added. He said the course will be offered in both online and offline mode. The offline mode will be started once the pandemic subsides. The candidates will be admitted on merit basis and personal interviews and the new academic session is expected to begin from October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/iiit-starts-mba-in-digital-biz/articleshow/77711023.cms||Mohita Tewari
August 24, 2020||Bareilly||Three poachers held for killing hog deer in DTR||Bareilly: Three of five poachers were arrested for killing a hog deer in Bheera range of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR) in Lakhimpur Kheri district and distributing the venison on Saturday. The hog deer is listed as endangered in the International Union of Conservation of Nature Red list and Schedule 1 of the Indian Wildlife Protection Act,1972. On a tip-off, forest officials raided the house of one Saligram at Piparia Bodh village and caught the five poachers red-handed distributing portions of the venison. Two of them fled. All five were booked under the Wildlife Protection Act and a search is on for the absconders, said Anil Patel, deputy director, DTR (buffer). “We have intensified patrolling and activated the network of informers to keep a track of all the restricted activities in the forests. On Saturday evening, we came to know that Saligram, Shyam Babu, Mani and two other poachers had killed a hog deer in Bheera range of forests. Range officer Rakesh Verma has recovered the venison."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-poachers-held-for-killing-hog-deer-in-dtr/articleshow/77708581.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 24, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Finance firm executive riding Harley Davidson hit by MUV, dies||GURUGRAM: A finance firm executive riding a Harley Davidson to Noida died on Sunday morning after being hit by an MUV that had crashed into the divider and toppled onto the other carriageway to collide with the bike near Cyber City. Police are probing if the MUV was being driven by a minor. Two youths were inside the vehicle and they, too, were injured in the accident. The biker, Alok Gupta (49), died during treatment at a private hospital. Gupta, a resident of Sector 57, had left home around 6am along with a few friends, who were on other bikes. They had just taken the Golf Course Road to Noida when the MUV, coming from the Shankar Chowk side, crashed onto the bike. Civil contractor Rajesh Khangwal was on another bike just 100 metres behind Gupta when the accident happened. “The car was speeding and the driver had no control over it. It crashed into the divider, flipped onto the other carriageway and collided with the Harley. The biker suffered critical injuries,” said Khangwal. He called the police and an ambulance and took the injured to a nearby hospital. Khangwal said both the youths who were in the car appeared to be in their teens. “The airbags of the car had opened, but the doors got locked under the impact of the crash. With help from other commuters, we brought out the two youths and rushed them to a hospital,” he added. Gupta’s friend Rahul Malik, an entrepreneur, was at a little distance. “The MUV flipped 4-5 times before hitting Gupta’s bike,” he said. It was Malik who lodged a police complaint. A case was registered at DLF phase 2 police station under IPC sections 304 (accidental death) and 279 (rash driving). Till late Sunday evening, the police were yet to identify the youths in the MUV. Aman Kumar, the station house officer (SHO) of DLF phase 2 police station, said Gupta’s body had been handed over to his family after an autopsy. “The car is registered in Faridabad. We are trying to identify the driver,” the SHO said. Watch Gurugram: Finance firm executive riding Harley Davidson hit by MUV, dies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/on-way-to-noida-exec-riding-harley-hit-by-a-vehicle-near-cyber-city-dies/articleshow/77710582.cms||Bagish Jha
August 24, 2020||Mumbai||No pre-arrest bail for RTI activist, Lavani dancer’s aide in Rs 2-cr extortion bid||Mumbai: The Bombay high court has rejected the pre-arrest bail applications of two Pune residents, including an RTI activist, accused of conspiring last year with a 34-year-old lavani dancer to attempt to extort Rs 2 crore from a 64-year-old developer. The dancer is also one of the accused in the case, the “oddity” of which Justice P K Chavan on August 18, found “so flabbergasting”. In January, she had lodged a rape FIR against the Pune builder. He was granted anticipatory bail by a Pune court in March. Last month the builder, in turn, filed a case against the dancer, her 32-year-old aide, the activist and others. She was arrested last month and got bail within days and immediately filed a petition before the HC to quash the case against her. Her 32-year-old aide surrendered before the police on Friday after the anticipatory bail plea was rejected, his lawyer Sunny Punamiya said on Sunday. Three other accused are out on bail, including the woman. In his complaint, the developer had said that he had met the lavani dancer in 2007 and they soon became ‘friends’. In 2013, he bought her a 3BHK flat where she and her family lived for two years, he added. S B Shetye, counsel for the activist, denied allegations that his client was the “main brain” and claimed that the FIR was a belated counterblast to an existing criminal case of alleged abetment to suicide against the developer. But additional public prosecutor Mankuwar Deshmukh argued that the activist was allegedly worth Rs 2,760 crore and custodial interrogation was required to unearth the full conspiracy. The activist had denied the prosecutor’s submission. The prosecution case was that last November, the dancer had threatened to file a false rape case and order a hit on the builder unless he paid her Rs 6 lakh and transferred the flat in her name. He agreed. But on December 26, 2019, she accosted the builder outside a mall and demanded Rs 2 crore. On January 11, 2020, she “sent’’ her aide to threaten him, said the prosecution. Justice Chavan had reserved the duo’s plea for orders on August 7. He observed that in an “offence of such large and colossal magnitude’’, without custodial interrogation, “it would be very difficult for prosecution to conduct free, fair, and full investigation’’. Meanwhile, on July 23, the HC heard and dancer’s lawyer Punamiya in her quashing plea, adjourned it to August 7 after the prosecutor sought time saying “the chargesheet is not likely to be filed within two weeks’’. It was filed on August 6. On August 17, a division bench of Justices Amjad Sayed and Abhay Ahuja ‘deprecated the haste’ shown by the investigating officer and sought an explanation at next hearing on August 31. The bench restrained Pune police from taking further steps and called the IO to court via video-conferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-pre-arrest-bail-for-rti-activist-lavani-dancers-aide-in-rs-2-cr-extortion-bid/articleshow/77710581.cms||Swati Deshpande
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Built & forgotten, rain water pits fail to serve purpose||HYDERABAD: Though rain water harvesting (RWH) pits are mandatory for high-rises and independent houses, citizens and builders diligently put them in place and forget them. At some apartment complexes, pipes are broken or filled with silt and debris, not cleaned for years, resulting in choking of storm water lines. At some locations, lids of some pits are damaged. RWH pits are functional only at high-rises with efficient facility managers and housing society members. Nearly half the pits built by the government are in bad shape. For independent houses, if the plot is over 300 sq yards, RWH pit is mandatory, but GHMC officials and Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWSSB) officials turn a blind eye to constructions ignoring RWH norms. While applying for occupancy certificate, builder/property owners show RWH pit at the site. Ironically, most pits are located either in setbacks of apartments (common area between compound wall and built up space). In 2017, GHMC and water board had built 7,167 RWH pits and handed over their maintenance to resident welfare associations (RWAs). In Begumpet, an RWH pit was damaged and was hardly of any use. Maintenance was one of the major issues in apartments too. Metal sheets, reinforced cement concrete and coarse mesh which are used in RWH pit construction are not replaced . “Efficient functioning of RWH pits requires replacement of material used in construction once in three to four years and the onus lies with people. We issue occupancy certificate only after checking all parameters,” a GHMC official said. Several attempts made by government to promote RWH pits failed. A decade ago to make the pits mandatory, government had collected Rs 6,000 per cubic metre (based on terrace area). In 2004, the state government offered 50% subsidy on construction cost but the response was poor. After failed attempts, line departments are only offering technical assistance, fixed construction cost (Rs 6,000 per cubic metre) and empanelled a list of contractors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/built-forgotten-rain-water-pits-fail-to-serve-purpose/articleshow/77709457.cms||Nabinder Bommala
August 24, 2020||Goa||Stress, anxiety on the rise over concern for family’s health: Study||Panaji: As Covid-19 cases continue to increase at a rapid pace, a month-long study conducted by Sangath which started in June, found that stress and depression are also being reported. Significantly, fear about family members contracting the virus has emerged as a bigger worry compared to the fear of suffering from Covid-19. Mental health professionals say that there is an universal increase in anxiety due to the Coronavirus pandemic and it is understandable that the pandemic would stress out individuals in Goa and other states. "The study will run during and post the pandemic to capture short and long term mental health and social outcomes. We will repeat assessments at 3,6,9,12 months post pandemic too," said Urvita Bhatia, Research Fellow, Sangath. Between June 11 and July 10, Sangath’s addictions research group, through a survey, reached out to around 673 individuals in Goa, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Delhi. Most respondents are from Goa and Delhi, and are in the 18 to 40 years age bracket. Though the study and its results are in the preliminary stage, the researchers noted that 83% of the respondents reported feeling moderate to high levels of stress, and almost 30% reported symptoms associated with depression. Though 98% of the respondents reported that they are Covid-19 free, 38% of them said that they are worried about family members contracting Covid-19. Much to the surprise of the researchers, fear of being infected and dying due is the least cause of anxiety, with financial burden being a larger worry. The survey showed that 23% of the respondents were worried about infecting others but only 9% were worried about dying from Covid. “Respondents report feeling least in control of their physical and mental health, and their future plans. They reported the greatest feelings of control over their relationships with their partners and families,” Sangath said in the preliminary results. Of the respondents, 54% found that their life is significantly different with just 3% saying that they see no difference. This probably explains why 67% of the people reported moderate stress levels while 16% said that they are “highly stressed” because of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stress-anxiety-on-the-rise-over-concern-for-familys-health-study/articleshow/77710616.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Injection borewells yielding good results||Hyderabad: The injection borewells set up by Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) in the IT corridor are yielding desired results, even though the RWH pits initiative has flopped. In Serilingampally circle, there are seven injection bore- wells. Cyber Towers (Madhapur), Shilpa Layout and Doctors Colony (Madhapur) are among areas where these structures yielded good results. The borewells channelise water from the stagnation point and recharge the groundwater. The rainwater will be diverted to these borewells through pipes. The average cost of building these borewells is Rs 1.5 lakh and the ground is dug for about 40 to 80 feet, depending on the site. Owners of the commercial establishments as well as residents said that they have witnessed substantial improvement in the ground water level and their bores are not drying up within a month unlike earlier. “Before injection borewells were built, the bore in my house used to get dry in May, but now the situation has improved,” said B Praveen, resident of Doctors Colony, Madhapur. “Plans are under way to build injection borewells in parks to replenish groundwater,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/injection-borewells-yielding-good-results/articleshow/77709484.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Economic slowdown in Telangana: RTA falls short of target by Rs 785 crore||HYDERABAD: The economic slowdown in the automobile industry this year due to Covid-19 pandemic has cast its shadow on one of the major revenue generating departments in the state. The Regional Transport Authority (RTA) has recorded its highest deficit of Rs 785 crore during the financial year 2019-20. As per data, RTA generated Rs 3,515 crore during 2019-20, which is a growth of Rs 11 crore from the previous fiscal’s earnings of Rs 3,504 crore but still Rs 785 crore short of the department’s target of Rs 4,300 crore. RTA officials said that the impact of economic slowdown was very high, especially when the state went into complete lockdown this year. “The impact of economic slowdown was high during the months of April, May and June due to the slowdown in vehicle sales. It is slowly picking up now, so we are anticipating an increase in revenue for the next quarter,” said C Ramesh, joint transport commissioner (IT and Vigilance). Sources close to the transport department said that quarterly and life taxes are the major contributions to the revenue in RTA and is followed by enforcement fee, service and detection charges. In May, after the government permitted essential departments to function, the RTA resumed its services by opening the online slot booking facility across all unit offices in 33 districts. “The department registered more than 3,000 transactions and earned a revenue of nearly Rs 4 crore in just two days after resuming its services. The limited number of slots and also the recently launched online services are playing a major role in the slow pick up of revenue ,” said an RTA official. The online services that were recently launched by the department to provide contactless, convenient and transparent service include issue of duplicate learner’s licence, duplicate licence, badge, smart card in lieu, surrender of existing driving licence and issue of history sheet of licence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/economic-slowdown-rta-falls-short-of-target-by-rs-785-cr/articleshow/77709489.cms||Moulika.KV
August 24, 2020||Goa||After incessant rain, clear weather this week||Panaji: After weeks of heavy showers at a few places, the state is expected to experience a week full of sunshine, with only a few isolated instances of rain. The India meteorological department (IMD) has attributed the reason for the clear weather to the lack of active weather systems that would otherwise usher heavy rainfall. “As of now, there aren’t any monsoon enhancing systems around so mostly we can expect light to moderate rainfall only. The chances of heavy rainfall are very less,” IMD scientist, Rahul M said. On Saturday, however, the IMD had issued an isolated heavy rainfall warning since the winds were mostly south westerly up to a height of four to five kms.  IMD readings reveal that, till now, about two-thirds of monsoon is over. The state, at this point, will require severe systems to form over the Bay of Bengal or the Arabian Sea for the monsoon activity to pick up. “We can expect few spells but no continuous rainfall. Since there are no severe systems visible as of now, we cannot at this stage say if the monsoon activity may pick up next week,” Rahul said. Thus far, Pernem has received the highest amount of seasonal total rainfall with 4030mm calculated as of August 23. Until now, most rain gauge systems have crossed over 3000mm while others are on the brink of achieving this mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-incessant-rain-clear-weather-this-week/articleshow/77711225.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Shimla||Himachal sees 106 Covid cases, tally tops 5k||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh on Sunday registered 106 new cases of Covid-19, taking the overall tally of cases to 5,001, including 27 deaths. The day also saw 120 patients being discharged after recovery, which pushed the count of cured patients to 3,461. Now, the state has 1,464 active cases. Of the new cases, highest 34 surfaced in Sirmaur district, followed by 27 in Solan, 17 in Kangra, 12 in Una, seven in Chamba, four in Hamirpur, two each in Mandi and Shimla, and one case was reported from Kullu district. The districts where the Covid patients were discharged after recovery are Kullu (51), Solan (30), Mandi (10), Hamirpur (9), Bilaspur (7), Kangra (6), Shimla (4) and Una (3). In all, total 194,380 persons were tested in the state till Sunday, out of whom 189,124 tested negative, while results of 255 samples were awaited. So far, 686 persons have tested positive in Kangra district, of whom 137 are undergoing treatment, 542 recovered, five died and two moved out of the state. Mandi district has reported 386 cases, of which 133 are active cases, 246 recovered and seven died. Bilaspur saw 263 cases, of which 115 are active cases and 148 recovered. Chamba recorded 353 cases, of which 99 are active cases, 250 recovered and three patients died. Shimla district has seen 268 positive cases, of which 60 are active cases, 205 recovered and two died. Sirmaur reported 619 cases, of which 155 are active cases, 456 recovered, one died and seven migrated out of the state. Solan recorded 1,257 positive cases, of which 457 are active cases, 758 recovered, five died and 37 moved out of the state. Una has seen total 370 positive cases, of which 91 are active cases, while 279 recovered. In Kinnaur district, 73 patients have been recorded to date, of whom 23 are active cases and 50 recovered. Kullu saw 254 cases, of which 116 are active cases, 137 recovered and one migrated. Lahaul-Spiti district has reported seven cases till now, of which three are active cases, while four recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-sees-106-covid-cases-tally-tops-5k/articleshow/77711068.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Kochi||Trivandrum airport privatisation: To cry foul after having lost is not fair, says Shashi Tharoor||Putting progress and development first, and ignoring his own party’s opposition, senior Congress leader and Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor had welcomed last week’s decision by the Union cabinet to hand over the management of Trivandrum airport to the Adani group on a 50-year lease. Talking to TOI, Tharoor dismisses unfounded fears regarding privatization and points out that the state government’s complaint about the outcome after fully participating in the bidding process merely exposes its double standards. Excerpts from an interview: With over 300 acres of prime land handed over by the state government, isn’t it only fair on its part to demand the right to be part of the airport’s management? The ownership of land and airport, as well as the responsibilities of ATC, security, customs, and immigration still remain with government agencies. No one is ‘giving away’ the airport. This is simply an operating contract. The terms of the Request for Proposal floated by AAI for the proposed privatization of airports clearly point out that the PPP model will be used only for ‘operation, management, and development’ of the airport. Moreover, the tenure of the agreement assigned will only be effective for a period of 50 years. Therefore, there is no question of a permanent handover of the airport. Read AlsoKerala CM moves resolution in assembly urging Centre to reconsider decision to lease Trivandrum airportKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday moved a resolution in the State Assembly urging the Central Government to reconsider its decision to hand over operations and supervision of Trivandrum International Airport through Public-Private Partnership.What could the state government have done?The state government had multiple options before it. For one, it could have chosen to opt out of the privatization process altogether, like the West Bengal and Tamil Nadu governments did when faced with the same situation in 2006. In fact, when AAI had put the Chennai airport up for privatization, the state assembly there passed a special resolution against the move, the employees union moved the high court to get a stay order and ultimately the plans to privatize were not taken forward. Another option is that our government could have worked out a deal with AAI where they could have taken over the management of the airport on the basis of a revenue-sharing agreement. Instead, the state government went ahead and participated in the bidding process. For them to cry foul after having lost is something that is neither fair nor acceptable to me and the people I represent. The rules were agreed with you. It is extraordinary to argue that your participation was only valid if you won! Adani group is building Vizhinjam seaport. With the airport too going to them, isn’t there the issue of the private entity monopolizing air and sea entry points? Even if there is some kind of commercial monopoly as a result of this group managing these two centres, it is important to recognize that the group itself doesn’t actually own the two centres and is only working on the basis of a time-bound lease or an operational contract in both cases. At the same time, individuals and goods entering via the airport and the seaport will be subject to the same laws and conditions as enforced by customs, immigration, and other law enforcement agencies. Given their investments at Vizhinjam, it is in the Adani group’s interest to ensure a viable, connected, and competitive airport in the same city. What will be the changes you foresee for Thiruvananthapuram once the private player takes up the management? It is my hope that a private player will deliver for the people a world-class airport in Thiruvananthapuram, an airport that will attract more airlines and serve more passengers. The development of our capital city requires us to be able to attract more companies to establish themselves here; many have told me that poor air connectivity has been a major disincentive. In the year before the lockdown, the number of airlines and flights serving Thiruvananthapuram actually declined. When more companies move to Thiruvananthapuram, they generate jobs for our people and bring in more employees who will rent your homes, make purchases in your shops, eat in your restaurants and hire your taxis. This is how a city grows and develops. The airport is a means to an end. The end is about what will make Thiruvananthapuram develop and flourish. If a private operator, motivated by profit, creates a better airport that more airlines will use, Thiruvananthapuram will benefit. How are you planning to convince your party?I was not consulted before the KPCC expressed its views, and I had expressed my opinion a long time ago, which I have merely repeated. I have made it clear I am only expressing the opinion of the MP of Thiruvananthapuram on what is good for Thiruvananthapuram, and that I am not speaking for the party. As far as the Congress and privatization go, let us not forget that the party initiated the first PPP airport projects in India in 2006, in Mumbai and Delhi. Their success is evident for all to see and led the UPA to involve private operators in many other airports. Would the entry of a private player affect customs like ‘arattu’ procession of Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple through the runway? As the people’s representative of Thiruvananthapuram, I am committed to ensuring that our social and cultural conventions are respected and allowed to continue, irrespective of which entity takes over the airport’s management. I am sure any operator that takes over the airport will recognize and respect the importance of sacrosanct functions like the ‘arattu’ procession and they will not disrupt such conventions for it will alienate the very people they are hoping to cater to.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/to-cry-foul-after-having-lost-is-not-fair-tharoor/articleshow/77708632.cms||B Sreejan
August 24, 2020||Hubballi||KIMS to procure advanced equipment to treat Covid patients||Hubballi: The Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences(KIMS) Hospital has been earning laurels for its outstanding work in treating Covid-19 patients. The lifeline of North Karnataka has put one step forward in treating critically-ill patients by initiating the process to buy advanced equipment for treating Covid-19 patients. KIMS will be procuring mobile ventilators and ECHO machine, pulse oximeters and vital-sign monitors. It has received Rs 50 lakh CSR funds from Indian Oil Corporation Ltd based on the recommendation of Pralhad Joshi, Union minister for coal, mines and parliamentary affairs. It has also got another Rs 21 lakh CSR funds from another source. The aforesaid equipment will be purchased using these grants,” said KIMS director Dr Ramalingappa Antartani. Dr Ramalingappa said IOCL, impressed with the work of KIMS, contributed Rs 50 lakh from its CSR funds. “KIMS is mulling to add 100 more beds to treat Covid patients as their number has increased not only from Dharwad district, but also from the surrounding districts. Patients and their relatives prefer KIMS because of the treatment facilities, manpower, expertise and experience in treating Covid patients,” he said. The hospital recently added 250 beds, complete with oxygen supply, for treating Covid patients exclusively. Though KIMS has 100 ventilators, it has felt the need for mobile ventilators as they are small and portable. This apart, KIMS is also procuring 20 pulse oximeters and an ECHO machine (which performs an echocardiogram, an ultrasound examination of the heart). As many Covid patients have cardiac-related problems, the machine will come in handy, said Dr Ramalingappa. Meanwhile, district in-charge secretary Gaurav Gupta paid a visit to KIMS on Saturday and got details from doctors about the treatment being given to Covid patients there. He also visited the oxygen plant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kims-to-procure-advanced-equipment-to-treat-covid-patients/articleshow/77708617.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
August 24, 2020||Amritsar||50 deaths, 1,136 cases reported in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Covid-19 death count continues to rise in Punjab as 50 more people succumbed to the coronavirus infection, while 1,136 were tested positive on Sunday. Of 21,210 people tested by the health department across the state, 5.35% were found to be Covid-19 positive. Overall state tally stands at 41,779, while the pandemic has claimed 1,086 lives so far. A total of 10 cases belonging to other states have been removed from the tally. In all, 19 people died in Patiala and nine in Ludhiana on Sunday. Seven people died in Jalandhar and six in Gurdaspur. Two deaths each were reported in Hoshiarpur and Ferozepur, while one death each was reported in Tarn Taran, Sangrur, Muktsar, Kapurthala, and Fazilka. The trend of high mortality rate is expected to continue as 46 people in critical condition are on ventilator, of which eight were added on Sunday, and 374 on oxygen support. Ludhiana contributed the highest of 242 cases, followed by Patiala district which added 188 fresh cases to the state’s tally. In Jalandhar, 107 people were tested positive, 68 in Amritsar, 60 in Moga, 58 in Kapurthala, 51 each in Sangrur and Hoshiarpur. Test report of 41 people in Faridkot came out positive, 37 in Ferozepur, 35 in Pathankot, 34 in Mohali, 32 in Nawanshahr, 21 each in Bathinda and Fatehgarh Sahib, 20 in Gurdaspur, 19 in Fazilka, 17 in Ropar, 16 in Tarn Taran, 14 in Muktsar and four in Mansa. A total of 2,226 people were discharged after recovering, taking the tally of patients discharged to 26,528. Of them 118 were discharged in Ludhiana, 49 in Jalandhar, 289 in Patiala, 150 in Amritsar, 47 in Sangrur, 115 in Bathinda, 224 in Gurdaspur, four in Ferozepur, five in Moga, 54 in Hoshiarpur, 21 Pathankot, eight in Barnala, 20 in Kapurthala, 19 in Fazilka, seven in Nawanshahr, 14 in Muktsar and 17 in Mansa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/50-deaths-1136-cases-reported-in-punjab/articleshow/77718917.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Ludhiana||50 deaths, 1,136 cases reported in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Covid-19 death count continues to rise in Punjab as 50 more people succumbed to the coronavirus infection, while 1,136 were tested positive on Sunday. Of 21,210 people tested by the health department across the state, 5.35% were found to be Covid-19 positive. Overall state tally stands at 41,779, while the pandemic has claimed 1,086 lives so far. A total of 10 cases belonging to other states have been removed from the tally. In all, 19 people died in Patiala and nine in Ludhiana on Sunday. Seven people died in Jalandhar and six in Gurdaspur. Two deaths each were reported in Hoshiarpur and Ferozepur, while one death each was reported in Tarn Taran, Sangrur, Muktsar, Kapurthala, and Fazilka. The trend of high mortality rate is expected to continue as 46 people in critical condition are on ventilator, of which eight were added on Sunday, and 374 on oxygen support. Ludhiana contributed the highest of 242 cases, followed by Patiala district which added 188 fresh cases to the state’s tally. In Jalandhar, 107 people were tested positive, 68 in Amritsar, 60 in Moga, 58 in Kapurthala, 51 each in Sangrur and Hoshiarpur. Test report of 41 people in Faridkot came out positive, 37 in Ferozepur, 35 in Pathankot, 34 in Mohali, 32 in Nawanshahr, 21 each in Bathinda and Fatehgarh Sahib, 20 in Gurdaspur, 19 in Fazilka, 17 in Ropar, 16 in Tarn Taran, 14 in Muktsar and four in Mansa. A total of 2,226 people were discharged after recovering, taking the tally of patients discharged to 26,528. Of them 118 were discharged in Ludhiana, 49 in Jalandhar, 289 in Patiala, 150 in Amritsar, 47 in Sangrur, 115 in Bathinda, 224 in Gurdaspur, four in Ferozepur, five in Moga, 54 in Hoshiarpur, 21 Pathankot, eight in Barnala, 20 in Kapurthala, 19 in Fazilka, seven in Nawanshahr, 14 in Muktsar and 17 in Mansa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/50-deaths-1136-cases-reported-in-punjab/articleshow/77718914.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Goa||Forest officials rescue male gaur trapped in rope snare at Khandola||Ponda: The forest department staff attached to North Goa forest division succeeded in rescuing a seven-year-old full grown male gaur from a rope snare at Tamsuli-Khandola in Ponda. The wild animal was trapped in the snare in the intervening night of Friday and Saturday and was rescued on Sunday afternoon after continuous efforts. “The gaur, trapped in a thick rope snare near a property owned by Ulhas Gaonkar, could have entered inside the cultivable area in search of food,” Ponda sub divisional forest officer (SDFO) Anand Jadhav said. The special forest protection squad of North Goa forest division, led by Ponda range forest officer (RFO) Deepak Betquekar, along with a team from the Bondla Wildlife Sanctuary conducted the rescue operation. The wild animal had a forelimb injury and was rescued after being tranquillised. “The animal has been placed under medication and observation at Bondla Zoo due to the trauma he had developed during the rescue operation,” Jadhav said, adding that the gaur will be released into its natural habitat after his recovery. “Despite being trapped in the snare for a long time, the animal was fully conscious and did not get sedated even after two darts of tranquillisers. We managed to finally tranquillise him on Sunday,” Jadhav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/forest-officials-rescue-male-gaur-trapped-in-rope-snare-at-khandola/articleshow/77711228.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||RBI’s move on one-time loan restructuring leaves Telangana high & dry||HYDERABAD: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI)’s decision to not give state governments the benefit of the recently announced one-time loan restructuring scheme has left Telangana high and dry. The state government had its fingers crossed that restructuring would be allowed for guarantees worth Rs 15,000 crore (including interest and principal) that it had taken for various state corporations from banking and non-banking entities. But the recent RBI announcement has made it clear that the restructuring scheme would not be applicable to loans taken by state governments. This is expected to impose an additional burden on the finances of the state government at a time when its monthly revenues have dropped due to the Covid-19 pandemic but has to cough up Rs 3,000 crore as loan repayments every month. Data obtained by TOI shows that the total loan burden of Telangana for financial year 2020-21 stands at Rs 2.5 lakh crore, out of which market borrowings and guarantees account for Rs 35,000 crore. This Rs 35,000 crore includes a principal amount of Rs 6,000 crore by way of open market borrowings and another Rs 14,000 crore as interest on them. When contacted, state planning board vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar said The rural economy is picking up and we may not need to go for more loans. If things improve, the state will make stronger comeback than other regions.” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rbis-move-on-one-time-loan-restructuring-leaves-t-high-dry/articleshow/77709494.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 24, 2020||Chandigarh||50 deaths, 1,136 cases reported in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Covid-19 death count continues to rise in Punjab as 50 more people succumbed to the coronavirus infection, while 1,136 were tested positive on Sunday. Of 21,210 people tested by the health department across the state, 5.35% were found to be Covid-19 positive. Overall state tally stands at 41,779, while the pandemic has claimed 1,086 lives so far. A total of 10 cases belonging to other states have been removed from the tally. In all, 19 people died in Patiala and nine in Ludhiana on Sunday. Seven people died in Jalandhar and six in Gurdaspur. Two deaths each were reported in Hoshiarpur and Ferozepur, while one death each was reported in Tarn Taran, Sangrur, Muktsar, Kapurthala, and Fazilka. The trend of high mortality rate is expected to continue as 46 people in critical condition are on ventilator, of which eight were added on Sunday, and 374 on oxygen support. Ludhiana contributed the highest of 242 cases, followed by Patiala district which added 188 fresh cases to the state’s tally. In Jalandhar, 107 people were tested positive, 68 in Amritsar, 60 in Moga, 58 in Kapurthala, 51 each in Sangrur and Hoshiarpur. Test report of 41 people in Faridkot came out positive, 37 in Ferozepur, 35 in Pathankot, 34 in Mohali, 32 in Nawanshahr, 21 each in Bathinda and Fatehgarh Sahib, 20 in Gurdaspur, 19 in Fazilka, 17 in Ropar, 16 in Tarn Taran, 14 in Muktsar and four in Mansa. A total of 2,226 people were discharged after recovering, taking the tally of patients discharged to 26,528. Of them 118 were discharged in Ludhiana, 49 in Jalandhar, 289 in Patiala, 150 in Amritsar, 47 in Sangrur, 115 in Bathinda, 224 in Gurdaspur, four in Ferozepur, five in Moga, 54 in Hoshiarpur, 21 Pathankot, eight in Barnala, 20 in Kapurthala, 19 in Fazilka, seven in Nawanshahr, 14 in Muktsar and 17 in Mansa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/50-deaths-1136-cases-reported-in-punjab/articleshow/77711067.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Dehradun||Edu officers to report on schools imposing non-NCERT books||Dehradun: The state education department has asked all block-level officers to report on schools who are imposing costlier non-NCERT books. The department has asked to submit the report on these private schools within a week. The department took this step after receiving complaints from parents whose children go to private schools, alleging that the institutions are forcing them to buy costlier reference books along with NCERT books. As per an Uttarakhand high court order, schools can recommend other reference books, but their price should be equal or less than their NCERT counterparts. Meanwhile, the district education department has penalised two schools in Haridwar for violating the department’s order regarding fee collection. The schools have been ordered to collect only tuition fees, which should be same as the one in the previous academic year, but the two institutions were found guilty of charging more than the tuition fee. The two schools have been asked to pay a fine of Rs 1 lakh each. Fifteen other schools have been served notices and have been asked to reply to the department regarding fee violation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/edu-officers-to-report-on-schools-imposing-non-ncert-books/articleshow/77708636.cms||Mohammad Anab
August 24, 2020||Madurai||HC asks collector to remove encroachments in six irrigation tanks||Madurai: Observing that the state government is expected to take all sincere efforts to protect water bodies, Madras high court directed the Madurai district collector to inspect and take immediate steps to remove encroachments if any in six irrigation tanks in the district.The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by M Senthil, a resident of Senthamangalam village in the district. The petitioner sought removal of encroachment from Ayyanarkulam, Bonthukampatti, Hanthaikulam, Kanjanayakkan, Alagammal and Alangulam irrigation tanks in the district. His counsel submitted that on account of planting of trees, there is blockade in the waterways due to which the water bodies are slowly drying up. Though the full bench judgment of this court had given comprehensive guidelines and directions, the authorities are not maintaining the water bodies.A division bench of Justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam observed that despite many pronouncements, no concrete steps have been taken by the concerned officials so far in this regard. This was so because officials are emboldened by the inaction of their superior officials as well as departmental heads in this regard.The judges directed the collector to inspect the tanks and if there are any encroachments, immediate and necessary action be taken to remove them by following due process of law. The judges said that if the collector comes across any kind of infraction on the part of officials, he is at liberty to initiate departmental action as well as criminal prosecution against them. Disposing of the petition, the judges directed to complete the exercise within 10 weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-asks-collector-to-remove-encroachments-in-six-irrigation-tanks/articleshow/77711305.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Hubballi||Doctor commits suicide||Haveri: A 47-year-old doctor allegedly committed suicide by hanging at his house in Basaveshwar Nagar here on Sunday. The deceased is Dr Jagadish Goddemi, an ENT specialist. He was said to be suffering from depression. According to family sources, the doctor slept on Saturday night after having dinner with the family members. As he did not come out from the bedroom on Sunday morning, his family members checked the room, and found it latched from inside around 11am. Dr Jagadish and his gynaecologist wife were running a private hospital in Haveri for the last several years. His father, also a doctor, is practising in a separate hospital. Circle police inspector (Haveri town) Prabhavati Sethasanadi said that a case of unnatural death has been registered at Haveri town station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/doctor-commits-suicide/articleshow/77708655.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: Cansaulim PHC, with enhanced infra, to be ready in 2 months||VASCO: Upgradation and expansion work of the primary health centre (PHC) at Cansaulim, which commenced in 2015, is finally nearing completion. The facility, a long-pending demand of the villagers of Cansaulim, Velsao, Utorda, Seraulim, Majorda, Benaulim, Cana-Benaulim, Colva and Betalbatim, is slated to be ready for inauguration in two months and will be equipped with better infrastructure and enhanced medical facilities. “The new construction has come up at the same place where the old PHC existed, near the railway station in Cansaulim. This 42-bedded health centre will be one of the finest PHCs in the state, and will provide diverse medical facilities to the villagers,” Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha told TOI. “Sufficient number of doctors, nurses and paramedical staff will be available to attend to the residents of the nine villages,” Saldanha said. The ground floor of the new PHC will house the casualty section, six OPDs - general, dental, ophthalmology, gynaecology, paediatrics and orthopaedics, along with a plaster room, the pharmacy, Ayurvedic clinic, laboratory, dialysis facility and X-ray room. The female ward, mother and child ward (post-natal), paediatrics ward, labour room, waiting area, operation theatre, ICU, doctors’ station, nurses’ station and the janitor’s room will be located on the first floor. The male ward, rest room, PHC office, conference hall, canteen and store room will be housed on the second floor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cansaulim-phc-with-enhanced-infra-to-be-ready-in-2-months/articleshow/77710650.cms||Ruvina Khan
August 24, 2020||Ranchi||Now, Ranchi residents can check their Covid reports online||RANCHI: In order to facilitate hassle-free reporting of Covid-19 tests undertaken by over 10,000 individuals during Rapid Antigen Testing (RAT) drive conducted on August 18, the Ranchi district administration has issued a link on its district website where individuals can check their reports. Talking to TOI, Ranchi DC Chhavi Ranjan said: “A total of 10,101 samples were collected and tested from 20 centres across the district during a special RAT drive conducted on August 18. In order to provide the results to the people, we have decided to launch an online link on our district’s NIC website as it will be convenient to all and the citizens will also not need to go to a centre to obtain their reports.” The decision to host an online link was also taken in order to maintain social distancing at healthcare facilities as it has been witnessed that people used to throng Ranchi sadar hospital for their reports. For checking the reports online, any individual can log-on to https://ranchi.nic.in/notice/rapid-antigen-test-camp-18-08-2020/* and they will then have to provide their credentials issued by the health authorities. Ranchi DPRO Prabhat Shankar said: “A total of 248 patients have tested positive and 9,853 tested negative during the RAT drive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/now-city-residents-can-check-their-covid-reports-online/articleshow/77710942.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Ranchi||BIT Sindri staff members and students oppose autonomy bid||SINDRI: Staff members and students of BIT Sindri, the only government engineering college of the state, said they will oppose the institute’s proposal to get administrative and financial autonomy. While both teaching and non-teaching staff feared that the move will affect their career progression, the students said granting financial autonomy to the institute would translate into increased fees and ending the dreams of backward and tribal community youths to pursue technical education. The staff also claimed that the institute sent the proposal without consulting the stakeholders. Mitigating their fears, the institute director, D K Singh said, “Teachers and non-teaching employees should not worry as their service conditions will remain the same.” He also said autonomy is the pre-condition to get aid under the Technical Education Quality Improvement Program (TEQIP) of the World Bank. “The proposal was sent after approval from the Board of Governance of BIT Sindri, comprising two teacher representatives,” Singh added. The staff members, however, said the proposal, which was sent in May to the state department of higher and technical education, came to their knowledge only after the under-secretary of the department sought some clarifications and asked the institute to submit a draft proposal in both English and Hindi to pursue the matter further. They further claimed that autonomy would amount to centralization of power with the institutional head. Talking to TOI, a senior teacher of the institute, said, “The move will destroy the future of BIT Sindri as students would be made to hefty amounts as fees. If the fees are high, students will naturally opt for private colleges where they would be offered better placements.” A tribal student in his BE final year said, “We are paying just Rs 15,000 per annum which will not be possible in private colleges. Besides, local students from backward classes will not be able to compete for admissions in the national entrance examinations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bit-sindri-staff-members-and-students-oppose-autonomy-bid/articleshow/77709935.cms||Anil Ashutosh
August 24, 2020||Ranchi||Covid-positive criminal drinks in Jharkhand hospital||SINDRI: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Sunday ordered a probe into the viral photographs of a Covid-19 positive criminal, who was seen consuming liquor at a hospital in the district designated for treatment of the disease. The photographs which went viral on social media showed Santu Gupta, who was arrested by Katras police on Friday, drinking alcohol despite being handcuffed and enjoying a sumptuous meal lined up on a table. Moreover, two more handcuffs were seen hanging on the saline stand, indicating that there were other arrested criminals in the close vicinity. SSP (Dhanbad) in-charge R Ramkumar said, “The sub-deputy magistrate and the DSP (law and order) have been entrusted to inquire into the matter and submit a detailed report. Stern action will be taken against those found guilty.” SDM Raj Maheshwaram said the viral pictures are from the BCCL Central Hospital in Dhanbad. He said cases will be slapped against the criminal under various sections of the IPC, the Epidemic Act, the IT act and the jail manual. “A probe is also on to identify the erring officials to fix accountability and to take action,” Maheshwaram added. Commenting on the photographs, a district official said, “It seems the criminal got himself photographed in different angles just to show his influence but he has made a mockery of the entire district administration.” Santu was arrested along with four others on charges of assaulting a businessman, identified as Rajan Gupta for failing to pay extortion money, and his mother. Rajan’s mother was also assaulted when she tried to intervene. Police said the Santu was found positive when he and accomplices were taken for Covid-19 testing before forwarding them to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/covid-positive-criminal-drinks-in-jharkhand-hospital/articleshow/77709787.cms||Anil Ashutosh
August 24, 2020||Ranchi||35 railway staff, dependants tested positive in Ranchi so far||RANCHI: A senior officer of the Ranchi railway division of South Eastern Railways (SER) tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday morning, sending the division’s administrative brass into a tizzy. The infected officer, who hails from the Indian Railways Traffic Service (IRTS), is symptomatic and was placed in home quarantine, the division said. He had last attended office on Friday and met several railway officials, employees from various departments and took part in important meetings. Avnish Kumar, the senior divisional commercial manager, said, “As per protocol, contact tracing is being done to identify those who came in contact with the infected officer. A sanitization drive of the DRM office complex is also underway.” Sources said the DRM office will remain closed for 48 hours for sanitization. With the officer getting infected, the number of Covid-19 cases in the division rose to 35. In between May and August, as many as 25 railway police personnel, a few of their family members and two loco pilots have been detected with the deadly virus, medical officers of the division told TOI. Earlier in between May and July, several railway employees, who were at the forefront of handling the arrival of Shramik special trains, had claimed that they were not provided adequate protective gear and equipment while on duty. As many as 264 Shramik Specials had arrived in Jharkhand from across the country in between May 1 and July 19, ferrying approximately 3.33 lakh migrant workers. Of them, more than 60 arrived at Ranchi and Hatia railway stations, railway officials here said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/35-rly-staff-dependants-tested-positive-in-ranchi-so-far/articleshow/77709736.cms||Dhritiman Ray
August 24, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Speech-impaired teen gang raped, killed||DUMKA: A 14-year-old speech and hearing-impaired girl was killed after she was allegedly gang raped by unidentified criminals, Godda police said on Sunday. Villagers found the battered body of the girl on the verandah of a government middle school at Simanpur village under Balbadda police station of Godda district on Sunday morning. The agitated villagers, who had gathered in large numbers to protest the murder and against the police for negligence, said a few of them first noticed the body when they went to fetch water from a handpump located on the premises of the school. The girl had reportedly gone to the same pump on Saturday evening but did not return after which her family members informed the police. DSP (headquarters) K K Singh, who rushed to the spot with his team, pacified the protesters after assuring them of stringent action against the culprits. Officer-in-charge of Balbadda police station, Deep Narayan Singh, said, “An FIR has been lodged against the unknown culprits based on the statement given by the girl’s father. Prima facie it looks she was sexually abused and then beaten to death.” In another development, Koderma police lodged an FIR against three men under Pocso Act for allegedly raping a 15-year-old girl. While the crime took place on July 20 at Piprahi village, the FIR was only filed on Saturday night with Chandwara police station. Police said the girl, a Class IX student, had gone to attend to nature’s call in the field near her house when she was raped. The complaint told police that she was dragged into the field by three persons and took turns to rape her. She further said the culprits threatened to make the video of the crime viral if she tells anyone. Shahid Raja, officer-in-charge Chandwara police station said, “The culprits and the girl were from the same village. The village panchayat had also convened a meeting to resolve the matter but in vain and finally the girl’s family approached us. The medical examination of the girl has been conducted and an investigation is under process.” Koderma SP Ehtesham Waquarib, said, “The case is being investigated on priority basis to ensure justice to the minor girl.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/speech-impaired-teen-gang-raped-killed/articleshow/77710893.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 967 new Covid cases, 8 deaths||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Sunday reported 967 new cases of Covid-19, including state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh. In between Saturday night and Sunday afternoon, 108 fresh cases were also reported. The state’s cumulative caseload reached 30,178 on Sunday night while 754 patients have recovered. The total number of recovered patients in the state has now touched 20,136 which included 196 in the past 24 hours. Eight people have also succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative death toll in the state to 318. Of the eight deaths, six were reported from East Singhbhum while one death each was reported from Dhanbad and Hazaribag. Currently, the state’ positivity ratio stood at 8.5% and the number of cases is growing 3.74% every week. Cases in Jharkhand are also doubling every 18 days, whereas the national figure stands at 30 days. On Sunday, Ranchi reported the higest number of new infections at 257 cases followed by East Singhbhum at 146. Giridih also reported 83 new cases followed by Deoghar (64) and Bokaro (62). Palamu and West Singhbhum reported 45 and 41 cases respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-reports-967-new-cases-8-deaths/articleshow/77710885.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 24, 2020||Jamshedpur||Barber kills self in Jamshedpur, owners demand opening of salons||JAMSHEDPUR: A barber in his mid-30s hanged himself from the ceiling fan of his shop in Gudri Bazar under Sonari police station area in the early hours of Sunday. Although Shyam Thakur did not leave behind any suicide note, police said he was under financial strain since his salon was shut for the past five months because of the restrictions imposed by the state government in the wake of Covid-19. His body has been sent for an autopsy and an investigation in the case is on, Sonari police said. Thakur’s death sparked resentment among the barbers in Steel City, who said they are unable to understand the government’s logic in not allowing the salons to open when other business establishments like footwear stores and garment shops are currently operational. “I don’t understand why salons cannot operate during the pandemic when we have assured that we will abide by all safety norms. The government has failed to give us any explanation in this regard,” said Rahul Kumar, a barber from Kadma market area. Jamshedpur Nai Sangh functionary Ramji Thakur said, “Two months ago, we had submitted a memorandum to chief minister Hemant Soren in which we sought permission for reopening of the salons and mentioned that we will abide by the safety protocols while on the job. Till date, we have not received a reply.” Salon owner Dilip Thakur said the death of Shyam Thakur is unfortunate and termed it as a sad instance of the hardships that barbers faced for the past few months. Though some provide home service to their customers, an overwhelming majority of them is sitting idle, hoping for the permission to open comes soon, he added. “There are over 500 salons in the city and the financial condition of all the owners and their staff is extremely poor at the moment,” said Sundar Sharma, another barber. Some barbers claimed that they gave representations to state ministers Banna Gupta and Champai Soren, MP Bidyut Baran Mahato and Jamshedpur (West) MLA Saryu Rai, requesting for their help on the matter but to no avail. A few months back, some barbers’ associations even wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his intervention on the matter. Parmeshwar, a Kagalnagar market-based salon owner, said they had also asked for a financial package from the central government. Meanwhile, all shops in Gudri Bazaar remained closed on Sunday to show solidarity with Thakur’s family. In another case, a couple living at Haludbani on the city outskirts tried to end their lives by consuming poison after they lost their jobs as daily wage labourers. Samir and Shanti Pasari are currently admitted to MGM hospital and their condition is reportedly critical. The couple’s son Raja said his father had also tried to commit suicide earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/barber-kills-self-in-steel-city-owners-demand-opening-of-salons/articleshow/77709812.cms||B Sridhar
August 24, 2020||Ranchi||Ex-Union minister Subodh Kant Sahay bats for Rahul Gandhi as Congress president||Ranchi: Ahead of the Congress Working Committee meeting on Monday over the party’s leadership issue, former Union minister and veteran Congressman Subodh Kant Sahay on Sunday suggested that Rahul Gandhi should take up the job but keep mature advisers and teams to sail the party through the turbulent times to take on the mighty BJP in the days ahead. “In my opinion, Rahul should lead the party without any hesitation. He has all the qualities to be our captain having the temperament of a brave morally upright soldier; he is a relentless fighter and has age on his side. With a mature team under the leadership of Rahul Gandhi, Congress will fulfill the task of saving the nation and the Constitution,” Sahay said. He added, “Who is going to be the Congress president has now captured the nation's attention and it is being discussed countrywide. The people are expectantly looking at the Congress to save them in these extremely difficult times. It is beyond doubt that Sonia Gandhi’s ability, capability and visionary leadership stands unparalleled but if her current health does not allow her to take the responsibilities of leading the party, then Rahul Gandhi should take over the reins.” He further said that Rahul has been fighting tooth-and-nail against the ‘disastrous’ Narendra Modi-led government and he is the only one in the country who has taken it upon himself to expose and challenge Modi. “Under the given circumstances, Rahul Gandhi's only difficulty is that his team is not mature enough to fight this unprecedented political war since the BJP, like any totalitarian outfit, has taken it to the level of a battle. We have our work cut out to take with us other like-minded parties and the intellectual class to cement a united and an ethically strong opposition that can take up the gauntlet and take the battle to the doorstep of this totalitarian government,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ex-union-min-bats-for-rahul-as-cong-prez/articleshow/77710924.cms||ASRP Mukesh
August 24, 2020||Ranchi||Discounts on railway freight attract more companies||RANCHI: The Chakradharpur railway division of the South Eastern Railways (SER) on Sunday said it is finding takers for the Indian Railways’ new plans to offer freight movement to local manufacturers and entrepreneurs at discounted rates. The division’s officials said it has already managed to convince several mineral-based companies in the Kolhan division to choose railways for their freight movement over road transport. Manish Kumar Pathak, the senior divisional commercial manager of the division, said they have held deliberations with the chambers of commerce in Kolhan and several companies to seal deals for their freight movement. “So far, we are on the verge of making operational three loading sidings within our jurisdiction. We have secured deals for fly ash loading at Tatanagar railway station, quartzite loading from Birarajpur, short lead traffic from Rourkela Steel Plant and Tata Steel Long Products in Gamharia. Besides that, talks are underway with stone chip manufacturers and others simultaneously,” Pathak told TOI. In a statement, the SER also claimed that its BDU programme is finding takers across all its divisions — Ranchi, Chakradharpur, Adra and Kharagpur. Chakradharpur earned a revenue to the tune of Rs 10,000 crore in the last financial year. “In the last fiscal, our freight loading went up by 11.5%. This year, we hope to improve upon it,” Pathak said. The Adra division earlier said it has already received half a dozen business proposals, of which a few have materialized. However, the Ranchi railway division, which is aiming to tap in micro, small and medium enterprises, agriculture products and lac, has been dragging its feet to find takers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/discounts-on-railway-freight-attract-more-companies/articleshow/77709793.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Ranchi||Simdega tops per-million testing rate among all districts in Jharkhand||GUMLA: Simdega has the highest Covid-19 tests per million (TPM) rate in the state, figures released by the administration has revealed. The district, which has a total population of 6.90 lakh, currently has a testing rate of 25,635 per million. Other districts followed by Simdega are Latehar, East Singhbhum, Lohardaga and Ranchi. Simdega is also among the top in the state when it comes to recovery rate. Of the total 876 Covid-19 cases in the district since the outbreak of the pandemic, 184 are currently active while four deaths have been reported. The remaining patients have recovered from the disease. The district nodal officer for Covid, S Parwaj, said that they are doing tests through RT-PCR, TrueNat and rapid antigen kits. “Currently, we have four functional TrueNat machines, while two more will be commissioned soon. For RT-PCR tests, we send samples to Ranchi,” he said. He added that when Truenat machines were introduced in June, they were initially doing 50-60 tests per day which gradually got increased to 100. “Currently, we are doing 170 tests per day,” he said. On the recovery rate, he said that besides taking proper care of patients, they are conducting repeat tests on patients every three to four days till they recover. “Around 95% of Covid positive cases in the district are asymptomatic ones,” he said. Simdega DC Sushant Gaurav said, “Everyone is fighting Covid-19 as a team, which is helping them maintain proper coordination and take timely action to beat the virus. Our strategy now is to quickly take corrective steps. We are also holding testing camps at vulnerable pockets.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/simdega-tops-per-million-testing-rate-among-all-districts-in-state/articleshow/77710897.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Goa||Make workplace safe or will strike, says bank employee body||Panaji: Demanding a safe working environment during the pandemic, the Goa bank employees’ association (GBEA) has threatened to launch a state-wide agitation on September 1. The union said that authorities, particularly the state level bankers committee (SLBC), have failed to put in place steps such as reduced working hours and social distancing at banks which can reduce the risk of Covid infection for bank staffers. “The number of infected employees in Goa and in the banks is going up significantly,” said general secretary AM Pereira. “On account of the total negligence by SLBC in the matter of providing safe working environment, the bank employees under the banner of Goa bank employees’ association has decided to go on agitation which may also culminate into strike action if the authorities concerned continue to ignore the legitimate and justified demands of the bank staff.” GBEA had written to the SLBC, which is headed by the State Bank of India (SBI), on three separate dates on June 28, July 19 and July 27 asking for measures to make bank branches Covid-safe. Among several other demands raised by the union, GBEA had urged all banks to put in place steps to control overcrowding at branches and to ensure social distancing among staff members and customers. Given the inadequate public transport, containment measures and travel restrictions that were in place earlier, GBEA had also recommended that staff be allowed to work at branches or bank offices closest to their homes. GBEA also said that banks in Goa are not implementing the standard operating procedures (SOP) issued by the Centre for workplaces where Covid-19 cases were detected. Employees are not provided with protective gear nor do banks conduct regular sanitization at branches. Even vulnerable staffers such as pregnant women, employees with disabilities and staffers with co-morbidities remain exposed to the risk, GBEA stated. Guidelines issued by the Centre and the ministry of home affairs are either ignored or totally diluted with each bank following different practices, Pereira said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/make-workplace-safe-or-will-strike-says-bank-employee-body/articleshow/77710665.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Goa||Goan startup helps biggies open doors without touch||PANAJI: A contactless system development by Goa-based startup Spintly is helping large companies like Oyo and L&T Realty to open doors and operate lifts through smartphones during the pandemic. Since the coronavirus pandemic broke out, contactless and touchless systems have garnered huge demand as companies look to reduce the number of surfaces through which the novel coronavirus could spread. Spintly, started by childhood friends Rohin Parkar and Malcolm D’Souza, has seen demand for its product jump during the pandemic, and the startup plans to expand to South India and the US. The startup has already raised two rounds of funding from the US, and is now looking for fresh investors in a bid to accelerate its growth. It also received a seed grant of $13,100 from the Goa government in 2017. “Spintly launched its products in 2019, but we have seen some quick growth in the last two to three months because of Covid. There is bigger adoption happening around the globe because of the pandemic,” said chief executive officer Parkar. He said that the startup already has three customers in the US and is in talks with lock manufactures both in India and abroad to integrate their products with smart locks. Parkar and D’Souza studied at Goa Engineering College, and then worked together at TCS in Goa and Motorola in Chicago. The two also worked with Nokia, and given their expertise in Bluetooth and wireless technology, decided to start their own venture in Goa. “The ecosystem is missing here,” said Parkar. “Students need to get into product development right from college. In the US, most engineers are Indians, so why can’t Indians make the same things back home?” Spintly currently has three offices and employs 32 individuals. While the head office in Fatorda serves as the R&D centre, the office at Bengaluru takes care of sales, marketing and customer relations. In a short span of time, the startup has expanded to Mumbai, Delhi, and Bengaluru, and tied up with over 70 clients including Oyo, L&T, P&G, MyGate, Simply-guest, Nordic Intent and co-working space Smartworks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goan-startup-helps-biggies-open-doors-without-touch/articleshow/77710667.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Goa||Mapusa gets pond for Ganesh visarjan||Saligao: An artificial makeshift pond located next to the Bodgeshwar temple in Mapusa will be used as an immersion spot for Ganesh idols in order to avoid crowding at other water bodies in Mapusa. “The idea of the first-of-its kind pond was conceptualised by the Mapusa municipality in order to avoid crowding at the Tar river. It has has been constructed by the municipality in collaboration with the Rotary Club of Mapusa,” chairperson of the Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC), Ryan Braganza, told TOI. Braganza said the 20x7m and four feet deep pond will be able to accommodate around 700 Ganesh idols. The MMC chief has appealed to people to coordinate with their respective ward councillors for the immersion of idols. The municipality has allowed a matoli bazaar next to the temple and has also permitted the sale the items at other four other locations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-gets-pond-for-ganesh-visarjan/articleshow/77710671.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Goa||Govt gets notice for discriminating against Vasco man||Panaji: The Goa Human Rights Commission has sought a report from joint civil cum sub registrar, Tiswadi and chief secretary on a complaint of discrimination filed by a resident residing outside the containment and buffer zone in Vasco. The complainant said he was not permitted act as a witness for signing a public will. The commission headed by justice U V Bakre and members Desmond D’Costa and Pramod Kamat took cognisance on a complaint filed by Savio Correia, a resident of Mangor Hill. The report should be submitted before September 2. The communication from the office in Patto, requesting to change the witnesses as they are from Mangor Hill, Vasco, as a precautionary measure “stereotyped all residents of Mangor Hill and Vasco da Gama”, Correia stated in his complaint He added that the area at Mangor Hill under containment zone was within congested settlements, falling partly within wards 16 and 17, where residents were prohibited from entering or leaving since June 1. His ward, Ward 19 did not even fall within the buffer area, he said Alleging that the communication exacerbates stigmatisation and demonisation of Vasco inhabitants and that such actions are bound to lead people to conceal symptoms and hesitate to seek medical care, Correia said that the communication stereotypes all residents of Mangor Hill and Vasco da Gama as carriers of the disease. The communication refusing to permit him to intervene in the notarial act as a witness on the ground that he is resident in an alleged Covid-19 infested locality is “an open discrimination against me and all residents of Vasco da Gama”. The complainant has sought guidelines from the government for prevention of discrimination and stigamatisation against inhabitants of Mangor Hill, Vasco, or any other location where high number of cases are reported. The lawyer, who has also served various positions in government, semi government and professional organisations and who is presently an expert member on the Goa coastal zone management authority appointed by the ministry of environment forest climate change, stated that he filed the complaint in public interest on behalf of residents of Mangor Hill locality in Vasco Town. Attaching TOI’s article ‘Vasco residents grapple with stigma, shame’ dated June 11, he stated that despite efforts of the media to create awareness the human rights abuse and social exclusion continues unabated. Correia is also seeking disciplinary proceedings and a compensation of Rs 1 lakh for mental stress and humiliation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-gets-notice-for-discriminating-against-vasco-man/articleshow/77710675.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt sets the ball rolling for reorganisation of districts||Amaravati: The state government has constituted separate committees to look into various issues involved in the formation of new districts. A dedicated secretariat (office) has been set up to assist the State Level Committee (SLC) headed by chief secretary. Four state level sub-committees have been constituted to handle legal, geographical, economical and staff relocation issues. The government has also constituted district level committees to provide feedback to the SLC. “The creation of new districts is a substantive exercise involving assessment and analysis of geographical boundaries and spatial data, GSDP and other various economic indicators at district and mandal levels, plan for redeployment of human resources at various territorial and functional levels, assets and physical infrastructure currently available, requires close coordination with multiple departments, HoDs and district level offices for data collection, analysis, reporting, documentation and presentation. Keeping in view the importance and magnitude of the task, government has decided to establish the separate wings to handle different works,” said chief secretary Nilam Sawhney. While a dedicated secretariat will be created to assist the SLC, the sub-committees will handle different tasks. Sub-committee-I headed by chief commissioner land administration will look into district boundaries, regulatory and legal matters. Secretary (Law department) will also be made a member to look into the legal and regulatory aspects. Sub-committee-II chaired by secretary (GAD-Services) is tasked with looking into structural and personnel reorganization). Sub-committee-III will be headed by R&B principal secretary and look into assets and infrastructure). Similarly, sub-committee-IV chaired by IT secretary will look into information technology issues. Representatives from the finance department shall be members in all the sub-committees and the chairmen concerned can co-opt other members as required. The chief secretary directed the sub-committees to ensure optimal use of HR and infrastructure, duly keeping the expenditure (one-time and recurring) at minimum while finalizing their recommendations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-sets-the-ball-rolling-for-reorganisation-of-districts/articleshow/77708787.cms||Samdani MN
August 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Meet to resolve inter-state water disputes postponed||Amaravati: The meeting of the apex council on inter-state water disputes slated to have been held on Tuesday was postponed as the council chairman and Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat tested positive for Covid-19. Two days ago, Shekhawat had announced that he had tested Covid-19 positive. The ministry, in a communication to chief ministers of AP and Telangana on Sunday, said that the meeting was put off in view of the minister’s health condition. Both AP and Telangana were gearing up for a face-off at the meeting as Telangana is opposing AP’s proposed Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project (RLIP) to draw water from Srisailam at 800ft height. AP is, however, determined to go ahead with the project as it was designed to draw only its quota of water from Srisailam. AP had been contending there was nothing wrong in taking up the RLIP was it was planned to feed water to the drought-hit Rayalaseema region from its own quota in Krishna waters. AP had raised objection at the failure of KRMB and the apex council in stalling Telangana’s projects on Krishna basin. The apex council meeting was scheduled for the first week of August but was posted to August 25 following a request from the Telangana government. With the second meeting having been postponed, the differences on water sharing between the two Telugu states are likely to continue for a few more weeks even as water from Godavari and Krishna is flowing into sea unutilized following heavy floods in the rivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/meet-to-resolve-inter-state-water-disputes-postponed/articleshow/77708799.cms||Samdani MN
August 24, 2020||India||LS refuses to answer queries on Covid-19, but RS obliges||HYDERABAD: In a curious case of interpretation of the RTI Act, the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha, gave contrasting answers on money spent for Covid-19 treatment on members by both houses, to an identical query to both the houses by a RTI activist. The questions were posted by Hyderabad-based RTI activist, Jalagam Sudheer, who wanted to know how many MPs were infected by the virus and sought details of funds spent from the central exchequer, from both the houses of Parliament, separately. While the Lok Sabha secretariat refused to furnish the information of funds spent from the exchequer for the treatment of MPs who were infected, the Rajya Sabha secretariat responded, saying that Rs 15 lakh was given for disinfection. It also gave out details that 19 officials were infected with Covid- 19, but, that, no Rajya Sabha member was infected. The RS got Rs 15 lakh allocation for disinfection of the house premises. The reply also said that MPs and employees of the RS come under the Central government health scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ls-refuses-to-answer-queries-on-covid-19-but-rs-obliges/articleshow/77711465.cms||Sribaala Vadlapatla
August 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams to issue online tickets on Monday||TIRUPATI: The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) will release online quota for special entry darshan tickets (Rs 300) for September on Monday. People can reserve the tickets from 11 am on Tuesday. But in view of the Srivari annual Brahmotsavams slated to be celebrated from September 18 till 27, the TTD has suspended issuance of special entry darshan tickets online quota during the the annual festival. The Rs 300 darshan tickets will also remain suspended on September 15 in view of Koil Alwar Tirumanjanam fete to be held on the day. The TTD has appealed to devotees to take note of the changes and plan their pilgrimage to the temple city accordingly. Meanwhile, arrangements are going on in full swing for the nine-day Tirumala Brahmotsavams. Though the TTD trust board will decide on what scale the annual Brahmotsavams are to be carried out this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak, the Union ministry of home affairs guidelines on relaxation of lockdown and travel restrictions is expected to revive pilgrim footfall to the temple from September 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-to-issue-online-tickets-on-monday/articleshow/77708812.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
August 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Police seize 400kg ganja||Eluru: Eluru rural police arrested six persons and seized 400 kgs of ganja worth of Rs 32 lakh on Sunday. As per West Godavari SP K Narayan Nayak, police intercepted two cars at Ashram Junction that were coming from Visakhapatnam. Police found the ganja packed in 16 bags. Upon questioning, one of the accused, Harpul Jat of Rajasthan, he said the ganja was purchased in Naripatnam in Visakhapatnam district and were on their way to transport it to Vissanna Peta and other areas in the state. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/police-seize-400kg-ganja/articleshow/77708820.cms||Samson Raj
August 24, 2020||Vijayawada||MUF demands more minority residential schools in state||Vijayawada: Members of Muslim United Front (MUF) met deputy chief minister Amzad Basha, who is also the minister for minority welfare, and requested him to set up new minority residential schools and a separate minority residential schools society in the state. Habeebur Rahman, MUF president, said, “Minorities have been fighting for a separate minority residential schools society and setting up of new minority residential schools in every Muslim dominated assembly constituency for a long time.” MUF requested the minister to ensure employment for Muslim teachers in the new minority schools. The minister assured to look into the issue and ensure that children from minority communities get a quality education. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/muf-demands-more-minority-residential-schools-in-state/articleshow/77708830.cms||---
August 24, 2020||World||Thousands evacuate as dueling storms take aim at US Gulf Coast||HOUSTON: Hurricane Marco and Tropical Storm Laura tore through the Caribbean and Gulf of Mexico on Sunday, forcing thousands of coastal residents in Louisiana and Cuba to evacuate and flooding roads in Haiti's capital, with damage across the region expected to worsen this week. Marco, which strengthened into a hurricane on Sunday with sustained winds of 75 mph (120 kph), is forecast to make landfall along the Louisiana coast on Monday. Laura, which hit the Dominican Republic and Haiti earlier on Sunday before striking Cuba on Sunday evening, is forecast to strengthen into a hurricane on Wednesday before making landfall in Texas or Louisiana on Thursday. US President Donald Trump issued a disaster declaration on Sunday for Louisiana ahead of the storms. He had issued a similar declaration on Saturday for Puerto Rico, which suffered extensive rains from Laura. In New Orleans, Billy Wright spent his Sunday buying bottled water, non-perishable food and an attic ax, which can be used to chop through a roof if floodwaters block doors and windows. The 33-year-old attorney and his fiancée live in a one-story house mere blocks away from a canal that failed during 2005's Hurricane Katrina. "You'd rather have it and not need it than be stuck in your attic with rising floodwaters," said Wright. "Getting two storms back to back is a big concern." Louisiana Governor John Bel Edwards warned the state's residents that tropical storm-force winds would arrive by Monday morning and they should be ready to ride out both Marco and Laura if they don't leave by Sunday night. Laura could strengthen into a Category 2 or 3 hurricane on the 5-step Saffir-Simpson scale for measuring hurricane intensity and move west, closer to Houston, the fourth-largest American city, said Chris Kerr, a meteorologist at DTN, an energy, agriculture and weather data provider. Category 2 storms have sustained winds of at least 96 mph (155 kph). The threshold for Category 3 storms is 111 mph (178 kph). In the Dominican Republic, at least three people died, including a mother and her 7-year-old son, due to collapsing walls. Laura left more than a million in the country without electricity, forced more than a thousand to evacuate and caused several homes along the Isabela River to collapse, authorities said. In Port-au-Prince, videos on social media showed people wading waist-deep in muddy water in some of the worst flooding the Haitian capital has seen in years. Haitian authorities reported five deaths so far, including at least two people swept away in flooding and a ten-year old girl crushed when a tree fell on her home. In Cuba, many residents in the eastern city of Baracoa were evacuating homes on Sunday and heading to shelters or safer buildings on higher ground. PREPARATIONS Back-to-back hurricanes arriving at the US coast within days could result in a prolonged period of hazardous weather, the National Hurricane Center said on Sunday. The Federal Emergency Management Agency has sent teams to operations centers in Louisiana and Texas, said spokesman Earl Armstrong. The agency is prepared to handle back-to-back storms, he said, pointing to 2004 when four hurricanes took aim at Florida in a six-week period. Officials in Louisiana's coastal Lafourche Parish ordered a mandatory evacuation for residents of low-lying areas at noon on Sunday. The U.S. Coast Guard also raised its warning for the Port of New Orleans, calling for ships to make plans to evacuate some areas. "If either storm turns into a Category 3, we're out of here," said Jude Brunet, 33, who works in information technology for a New Orleans hospital. The potential for flooding and evacuations added to worries about the spread of COVID-19. Tulane University, the largest private employer in New Orleans, said it will close its testing center on Monday due to potential flooding and power outages. In Grand Isle, at Louisiana's southern tip, authorities were placing sandbags to bolster its protective levy while energy companies continued to pull workers from offshore platforms and shut down oil production. Equinor has finished evacuating its Titan oil-production platform in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and shut-in oil production at the facility, a spokesman said on Sunday. BHP Group Plc also shut and evacuated its Shenzi and Neptune oil platforms, a spokeswoman said. Oil producers, including BP Plc, Chevron Corp and Royal Dutch Shell Plc, had shut 58% of the Gulf's offshore oil production and 45% of natural gas production on Sunday. The region accounts for 17% of total U.S. oil production and 5% of U.S. natural gas output.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/thousands-evacuate-as-dueling-storms-take-aim-at-us-gulf-coast/articleshow/77711480.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Goa||With congenital heart condition, Anwar Ali willing to risk everything to play football again||PANAJI: Anwar Ali has told Mohammedan Sporting Club that he doesn’t mind the high risk that could see him suffer a cardiac arrest on the field, should he start playing competitive football again. The India U-17 World Cup 2017 star has been out of action since he was diagnosed with a ‘congenital heart condition’ last year. The results prompted him to mutually agree a termination with Mumbai City FC, since the club kept him away from training sessions. “I am willing to sign a waiver or any such legal document to free the club from any liability in case of any untoward incident or accident resulting from my pre-existing heart condition during training or matches,” Anwar wrote in his letter on January 30, 2020. Mumbai clearly weren’t ready to take the risk after three cardiologists gave their opinion. The All India Football Federation (AIFF) too was convinced that it’s too much of a risk. Anwar, 19, was then sent to Rennes in France where a team of experts – the best in the business – examined him. The medical report from Dr Francois Carre, chief of the medical department of sports medicine at the University Hospital of Rennes, left nobody in doubt. After consultations with members of the French football commission of cardiologists, Dr Carre told AIFF that the “practice of a competitive sport in competition presented an excessively high risk of serious cardiac accident.” The expert said he was sorry for this “bad and disappointing news” but protection of the player’s health was a priority. With hopes of playing competitive football and a promising career up in smoke, Anwar, son of a dairy farmer from Punjab, was understandably shattered. He went back home in Adampur, played small-sided games in his village, and has now resurfaced with another medical report that certifies him fit. “Anwar Ali seems totally physically fit. He is doing all routine strenuous activities. His echo shows apical atrophy which needs to be followed actively. He can continue his activities as he has no pressure gradient and he is asymptomatic,” a Jalandhar-based doctor wrote in his report. Mohammedan Sporting, battling for a place in this season’s I-League, were pleased to welcome a player of Anwar’s quality. His signing was officially announced on Saturday, but the club too is leaving nothing to chance. “We have a medical test report with us, but we cannot rely on that alone. As a club, we will do our own examination of Anwar at one of the finest places (in Kolkata),” club secretary Wasim Akram told TOI on Sunday. Interestingly, Mohammedan’s football secretary, Dipendu Biswas, was also diagnosed with a heart problem during his playing days at Mahindra United in 2005-06. The now-defunct club stopped him from playing, but the striker continued with his career that saw him score close to 250 goals in domestic football. Even if doctors appointed by Mohammedan Sporting give Anwar the all clear, AIFF will need a second opinion. That will come from another team of doctors, possibly the best in the country. “For Anwar to play, doctors have to certify that he can play competitive football. That should be written clearly in the report. Football is not an easy sport. It’s high-pressure,” said a senior AIFF official. Anwar must be wondering why life is so cruel. He had everything going for him when he played every minute of India’s campaign at the U-17 World Cup and later signed an impressive contract with Mumbai City. National coach Igor Stimac liked what he saw of the tenacious centre-back and named him in the list of probables for the King’s Cup. Then came the test results and his dreams came crashing down. In the past, Anwar has fought several obstacles. He grew up grazing cattle in a small dairy farm that his father owns. He was dropped from the India under-17 probable team, yet fought his way back when Nicolai Adam was replaced by Luis Norton de Matos, just nine months prior to the tournament. Anwar now has another huge battle to resurrect his career. This time, not everything is in his hands||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-congenital-heart-condition-anwar-ali-willing-to-risk-everything-to-play-football-again/articleshow/77711488.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha take contrasting stand on MPs' Covid expense||HYDERABAD: In a curious case of replying to the same query filed under the RTI Act differently, the two arms of Parliament - Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha - gave contrasting answers on money spent for Covid-19 treatment on lawmakers by both houses. When Hyderabad-based RTI activist Jalagam Sudheer asked how many MPs were infected and sought details of funds spent from the central exchequer, little did he know that the contrasting answers would leave him and former Indian Information commissioners stumped. While LS secretariat refused to furnish the information on funds spent, the RS secretariat responded, saying that Rs 15 lakh was given for disinfection. It also gave details that 19 officials were infected with Covid-19, however, no RS members were infected by the virus. LS officials refuse to disclose info soughtThe reply also said that MPs and employees of RS come under Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) On the other hand, LS officials refused to give information saying that the information sought in the RTI comes under section 81 (A) (J) which provides exceptions to provide information sought in any application. “The personal information does not involve any public interest. The application does not disclose any larger public interest to outweigh the disclosure of personal and confidential information of an individual available...,” the Lok Sabha Secretariat said, adding that for Covid-19 containment no funds were given from the Secretariat budget. Sudheer, who filed both queries, said there cannot be different stands by both arms of Parliament and knowing the expenditure details was public’s right. “In fact, they should provide the monthly expenditure for MPs on their treatment,” he said, adding: “How can one house give an excuse under exception of RTI and other house furnishes information under it.” Former information commissioner of India, Madabhushi Sridhar, observed that what Rajya Sabha officials did was correct. “There is no sensitive information under RTI and the information sought under this particular RTI does not really come under exceptions,” he said. “They could have given the number of MPs infected, if not names,” he added. Former information commissioner of united Andhra Pradesh, P Vijay Babu, said if information relating to health is considered sensitive, then the money spent on their treatment is of public interest. “It cannot be denied based on not having any public interest. Expenditure details are definitely of public interest,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-lok-sabha-rajya-sabha-take-contrasting-stand-on-mps-covid-expense/articleshow/77711505.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana gets aggressive on testing, checks 83,000+ samples in two days||HYDERABAD: Telangana has tested 83,761 coronavirus samples in the last two days, throwing up nearly 5,000 positive cases as authorities firm up strategy to make testing mandatory for auto drivers, maids and grocers across the state. Facing flak from several quarters for poor testing, the government carried out the highest-ever single day numbers of 43,095 samples on Saturday and followed it with 40,666 samples analysed on Sunday. Health authorities said they have set aggressive daily testing targets for rural areas now as they foresee a spike in numbers due to lot of movement for Vinayaka Chaturthi. Analysing the cases, experts said the severity of Covid-19 virus has decreased and even patients with comorbid conditions are being managed better than before. The positivity rate (percentage of people who test positive among the total people tested) in the state has been on a constant decline going from nearly 39% a month back to 5.7% now. "Our positivity rate was 39% on June 28 when total testing was around 2,500, which decreased to 12% when the total testing was increased by 10 times to 25,000 over 40 days," Kiran Madala, in-charge head of the department of critical care, Nizamabad government college, told TOI. Many may be avoiding tests: DoctorsPositivity rate has further decreased to 5.7 when testing was doubled to 40,000 now,” Madala said. Decrease in the overall cases of respiratory illnesses reported at hospitals and to individual doctors may also be an indication of reduction in the severity of Covid-19 virus, health officials said. “As far as outpatients are concerned, the number of patients coming with respiratory illness has come down in recent days. Also, fevers of unknown origin which could be Covid-19 cases is on the decline,” said Dr Manabendra Ghosh, a general physician from Gudimalkapur in the city which had previously seen many respiratory illnesses and Covid-19 cases. Doctors, however, caution that many patients might be avoiding the Covid-19 tests early enough. “In many cases, patients with coronavirus symptoms are getting better in 4-5 days and therefore avoiding tests. So, there is a chance that a lot of asymptomatic cases are being missed out,” Ghosh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-gets-aggressive-on-testing-checks-83000-samples-in-two-days/articleshow/77711509.cms||Amrita Didyala
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad driving out to live on farm plots as greenery beats corona & crowds||HYDERABAD: Move over multi-crore apartments and plush villas. Hyderabadis are now driving away from the bustling city centre to own homes on agricultural lands dotting the capital's periphery. Hottest locations are Shankarpally, Mominpet and Vikarabad - each about 60 to 90 minutes' drive from Banjara Hills. Complete with organic gardens and ready-to-move-in cottages in some cases, these pocket-friendly farm plots - priced anywhere between Rs 3,500 and Rs 4,500 per square yard (on an average) -- are witnessing a steady rise in demand, say developers, especially post the pandemic due to growing desire among people to shift out of crowded communities. "Having lived in an apartment in Himayathnagar for very long, we wanted to own a piece of farm plot that would allow us to grow our own food and be close to nature. While we have been thinking about investing in such a property for a while, the Covid-19 outbreak sealed the deal for us," said salon owner Sriveda Bollam whose family recently bought an acre at Urban Retreat at Shankarpally. It is also a great investment, said Tollywood actor Teja Sajja who has bought two acres at two different sites despite a sprawling home in Manikonda. "Appreciation of property prices within the city isn't as high as it is in the outskirts. Soon after I bought the first acre, I found a buyer who was willing to pay double the price. Also, such plots are usually free of any legal issues (in terms of title or boundaries)," said Teja. Not surprising then, multiple real estate players are now launching farm plot projects. Among them is T Nishanth Rao, partner, MySpace Realty, who is on to his second project - Urban Valley - spread over 70 acres. Farms a sought-after investment optionHis clientele is varied: From salaried employees and entrepreneurs to bureaucrats and NRIs. “We are marketing it as a work-from-farm (or valley) concept, which is particularly relevant in today’s times when most people are working out of their drawing rooms. The USPs of these plots: the greenery, security and proximity to the city,” Rao said. Also turning to farm plots is Ashwin Rao of Manbhum Constructions who has already been inundated with requests from prospective buyers. “Owning a farm plot with organic plantation managed by professional developers has become a soughtafter investment option. And the pandemic has only further pushed investors into looking at healthy eating along with stress-free living,” he said. Agreed Ch Venkat Rao who owns a sizable farm land in Mominpet and is now scouting for more. An exhibitor in the film industry, he said the investment serves two purposes for him: A peaceful retirement home and means of reconnecting with his roots. “I have a keen interest in farming and also come from an agricultural background. I want to do something of my own on my land,” he said. It is to help buyers realise this dream that Kavitha and Ravi Mantha of Sage Organics are joining hands with city developers in this business. Their job is to grow and manage farm gardens. “Apart from a mixed fruit orchard we will also develop vegetable gardens for those buying these plots. It will be maintained by us so that buyers do not need to bother about its upkeep. We are basically taking away the pain of farming while allowing people to enjoy the pleasure of their own food,” said Ravi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-driving-out-to-live-on-farm-plots-as-greenery-beats-corona-crowds/articleshow/77711518.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
August 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Dues pile up, hospitals ask Karnataka govt to make advance payment||BENGALURU: As an increasing number of private hospitals struggle with dwindling cash flows with the government not clearing bills for treating Covid-19 patients, the clamour for an advance for treating those referred by the government is growing louder. They argue that government not clearing bills has not just affected their cash flow, but is hampering their ability to treat patients as their vendors do not supply consumables if bills are unpaid. Dr D Ramesh of Ramaiah Medical College said there have been 900 patients under the Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust (SAST) scheme and treatment worth Rs 3.5 crore has been provided. Of this, claims of over Rs 1.2 crore has been raised. “(A sum of) Rs 40 lakh has been approved but it’s yet to reach us. Apart from this there are another 100 cases under the Arogya Bhagya scheme for police. While we are using all our resources to battle the pandemic, it’s unfair that the government is not paying even the grossly subsidised amount they had agreed to,” he said. On August 13, the government said SAST, through which it pays private hospital bills, is addressing queries related to pending bills. On August 14, SAST executive director NT Abroo, on being asked to elaborate on the details of pending bills, had told TOI: “Why should I give you any information?” On Sunday, Abroo said: “Who told you we’re not paying?” She did not elaborate how much has been cleared so far. “Why are you bothered about these issues?” she said before disconnecting the call. Govt must release lumpsum amounts at once: Pvt hospsDr Prasanna HM, president-elect, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association, said as per SAST portal, there are dues worth Rs 400 crore. In a recent meeting, the department informed PHANA that Rs 1.5 crore has been reimbursed, which he called a pittance. “Moreover, the portal is not user friendly and has technical problems. Submission of claims is a cumbersome process. The government should release lumpsum amounts at once instead of small sums without which it will be difficult for hospitals to survive,” he added. Private hospitals said officials have been citing delay in bill submission and other technicalities for non-payment of bills. Dr S Gaekwad, immediate past president, PHANA, said there has been a growing concern and hospitals are struggling to cope with the problem as a significant amount remains pending. Dr Govindaiah Yatheesh, honorary secretary, PHANA, said: “While the government is now proactive and we’ve been told that bills will be cleared, we have urged them to pay hospitals an advance, as was agreed upon earlier...”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/dues-pile-up-hospitals-ask-karnataka-govt-to-make-advance-payment/articleshow/77711511.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
August 24, 2020||Mumbai||71-year-old from Matunga 10th doctor claimed by coronavirus in MMR||MUMBAI: A 71-year-old physician and popular medical teacher from Matunga died of Covid-19 on Friday, a little over 48 hours after hospitalisation. Dr Ajit Chikhalikar, a gold medallist in MD medicine from KEM in Parel, had spent 25 years teaching in his institute before taking up private consultation. He is believed to be the tenth medical practitioner to have succumbed to the infection from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. The death figure among doctors is over 20 in the state. The doctor died within two and a half days of admission at SL Raheja Hospital in Mahim, where he also consulted. His elder brother, Dr Pratap Chikhalikar, said he received a call from him around 6.30am on August 19. Ajit was breathless. Dr Pratap said he rushed Dr Ajit to the hospital in Mahim, where he progressed from oxygen and ventilatory support in a matter of hours. “But nothing worked and he passed away on Friday around 5.30 pm,” Pratap said. Condolences and messages started pouring from classmates and students the world over. Besides depth of his subject, he had one of the neatest handwritings, said colleagues. A sample of his case paper notes from October 1991 circulated among groups over the weekend, said a doctor. “He was an extremely popular teacher and a brilliant clinician,” Dr Hiren Ambegaonkar, CEO of Raheja Hospital, said. He said the doctor went on ventilator within hours of admission. “He came in a very critical condition and we could not do much. His co-morbid conditions could have exacerbated the disease progression,” he said. Dr Chikhlikar used to consult at Raheja and Wadia Hospital in Parel. His brother said he was consulting over video calls. Dr Ambegaonkar said since their OPDs were not fully functional, he had not visited much lately. Dr Ajit is survived by two daughters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/71-year-old-from-matunga-10th-doctor-claimed-by-coronavirus-in-mmr/articleshow/77711529.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Mysuru||On Karnataka CM’s assurance, govt doctors in 3 districts resume work on Monday||MYSURU: Hundreds of government doctors and health personnel in three districts of south Karnataka decided to resume work on Monday after chief minister BS Yediyurappa assured them their demands — ease pressure on them to increase Covid tests, among others — will be considered at a meeting on Monday. The trigger of the protest was the suicide by Nanjangud taluk health officer Dr SR Nagendra, 42, at his residence in that town on Thursday. He was asked allegedly by Mysuru zilla panchayat chief executive officer Prashanth Kumar Mishra to ramp up Covid tests. Nanjangud was one of the early clusters with scores of employees of a pharmaceutical company testing positive for Covid-19. ZP officer Mishra has been transferred without a posting. Mysuru deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar has been given his responsibility. Minister: Next week’s meeting will discuss doctors’ problemsPolice named Mishra in their FIR under IPC Section 306 (abetment to suicide) following a complaint by Ramakrishna, father of the deceased. After the CM’s assurance, doctors and health warriors from Mysuru, Chamarajanagar and Kodagu districts will return to work with a black band from Monday. They were on strike since Thursday. Dr GA Shrinivas, president, Karnataka Government Medical Officers’ Association, said the government has promised to look into all demands, including appointing health department officers as Covid-19 nodal officers and scrapping the daily test targets. Medical education minister Dr K Sudhakar said the government was seized of the issues raised by them. Health minister B Sriramulu said a meeting will be convened next week to discuss the challenges faced by the doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/on-karnataka-cms-assurance-govt-doctors-in-3-districts-resume-work-on-monday/articleshow/77711535.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Business||India among top whistleblower tip providers to US market regulator||BENGALURU: India is among the top five countries outside the US where individuals have submitted whistleblower tips to the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) between 2011 and 2019 fiscal years. The tips relate to companies listed in the US. Whistleblower tips have been submitted by individuals in 114 countries outside the US during this period. The top five were the UK, Canada, China, Australia, and India (see graphic). The US tops with 29,338 whistleblower tips. The commission said it received over 5,200 whistleblower tips in the 2019 fiscal, which is a 74% increase since the beginning of the programme in 2011. Some 27 of these were from India. The SEC rewards whistleblowers who voluntarily provide it with original, timely, and credible information that leads to a successful enforcement action. In 2018, two whistleblowers shared a nearly $50-million award and a third whistleblower received more than $33 million. The previous high was a $30-million award in 2014. In 2019, there was a $37-million award. Since the programme began in 2011, the SEC has awarded more than $500 million to whistleblowers and enforcement actions from the tips received have resulted in more than $2 billion in financial remedies. Whistleblower awards can range from 10% to 30% of the money collected when the monetary sanctions exceed $1 million. The types of securities violations reported by whistleblowers have remained generally consistent over the last eight years. Corporate disclosures and financials, offering fraud, and manipulation have consistently ranked as the three highest allegation types reported by whistleblowers. “Cryptocurrency was added to the TCR (tips, complaints and referrals) system as an allegation type in the fourth quarter of FY18. The commission received nearly 300 tips (6%), the fourth highest allegation type, relating to cryptocurrencies in FY19,” the report said. Details of tips from India are not available in the report. But last year, some anonymous whistleblowers had sent a letter to the SEC alleging that the Infosys CEO had compelled the finance and sales teams to dress up their books to show better revenue and profit numbers. The SEC investigation found no merit in the charge. Watch India among top whistleblower tip providers to US Securities and Exchange Commission||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-among-top-whistleblower-tip-providers-to-us-market-regulator/articleshow/77711537.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
August 24, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra cautions districts against wasting tests and money||MUMBAI: The state’s public health department has cautioned against indiscriminate testing of asymptomatic people which could strain resources and add to financial burden. It has also advised regions against subjecting any and every person entering their jurisdiction to a test unless they have symptoms. The department released a testing algorithm on August 21 spelling out use of three methods—RT-PCR, rapid antigen and TrueNat/CBNAAT— for different categories of patients and population. It said patients coming to hospitals with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) or influenza-likeillnesses (ILI) and in need of immediate hospitalisation should be tested with the rapid antigen test that gives an outcome in 30 minutes. And if the result comes negative, an RTPCR should be carried out next. High-risk contacts and low risk symptomatic contacts of positive person, elderly, new mothers, malnourished children, symptomatic healthcare workers should all be tested with antigen first, it said. In this group, a negative test in a symptomatic person should be followed with an RT-PCR. The RT-PCR, considered the gold standard for diagnosing Covid-19, will continue to be the primary method of testing for symptomatic interstate or international travellers. The protocol said TrueNat/ CBNAAT tests, widely used for diagnosis of tuberculosis before Covid-19, can be used before emergency and elective surgeries, or before delivering a pregnant woman from a containment zone. Hospitals that don't have access to these tests can use rapid antigen. Public health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said where immediate results are needed to decide on isolation and other measures, a rapid antigen test is preferred, otherwise SARI and ILI case would deteriorate in 24 to 48 hours. Testing in Maharashtra picked up in July when rapid antigen tests were introduced. Rapid tests now constitute 50% of the tests carried out in the state daily, which is in the range of 70,000-75000. Dr Vyas said RT-PCR was, however, the primary test in Maharashtra and that efforts were being made for use of installed capacity. The state as on Sunday carried out 36,16,704 tests; Tamil Nadu and UP have carried out over 42lakh and 45 lakh tests respectively. A senior official concurred that testing has been languishing in the state and use of RT-PCR labs is far from optimal. In some districts, for instance Aurangabad, which is conducting the highest tests per million, it is rapid antigen testing which is largely used, mostly at entry points. The circular on testing has said traders or random asymptomatic visitors should not be tested. Further, it highlighted that in several zillas, one patient was being tested twice of thrice, which was increasing the load on government facilities and increasing expenses. Also for admission to a mental health institution, it advised a 7-day quarantine followed by antigen testing, based on which it will be decided to shift them to a ward or a Covid facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-maharashtra-cautions-districts-against-wasting-tests-and-money/articleshow/77711541.cms||Sumitra Debroy
August 24, 2020||Goa||Awareness keeps Saligao dengue-free||Saligao: A weekly video by the Candolim primary health centre (PHC) reminding citizens to spare 12 minutes at 12 noon for 12 weeks to ensure no water is accumulated in flower pots, barrels or coconut shells, appears to have been effective in curtailing the spread of dengue in Saligao, which falls under its jurisdiction. In fact, the village has not reported a single case of the vector-borne disease so far, Candolim PHC medical officer Dr Roshan Nazareth, said. Apart from a slew of awareness videos shared on YouTube, the PHC has also implemented anti-larval measures and has roped in the village panchayat to monitor the situation frequently. “Saligao’s health sanitation and nutrition committee, which comprises 15 members, also urges people to help curb the spread of dengue,” Nazareth said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/awareness-keeps-saligao-dengue-free/articleshow/77710644.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Goa||Over 60% of Goa’s Covid fatalities occured this month||PANAJI: The state saw 90 Covid mortalities reported in the first three weeks of August. Forty of these deaths occurred in the third week of the month alone. Vasco continued to lead with 25% of the fatalities being reported from the port town. Margao accounted for 20% and Ponda 10% of the mortalities. Not a single day in the month has gone by without a death reported. In fact some days this month have had as many as nine mortalities reported with some positives declared brought dead. Others were declared positive for the virus following post mortem reports. Dean Goa medical college Dr S Bandekar attributed the Covid deaths to patients reporting very late. “There is something called missing the bus. If you can treat someone with Covid pneumonia with Remdesivir and plasma in the first week you can readily conquer the disease in no time. The same thing happened with the VIP (Shripad Naik). Most people dying are reaching the hospital very late. Some have come after ten days,” he told reporters. He added that the recovery rate in the state is very good at 79 percent and stated that Goa’s death rate is less than one percent. Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Friday told reporters that the government will be making three wards in GMC fully operational by Monday to treat high risk and critical cases that cannot be accommodated in the state’s 220-bed hospital in Margao. Citing the shortage of ICU nurses he said the government would be recruiting more to manage ICU patients. The plan, he said, is to have one nurse for three to four patients. Despite getting staff on board, the government is still short as nurses are getting infected and others are put on rotation. Rane said the state has met the requirement of ventilators. “For 14 lakh population there should be 200 ventilators. We have 270,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-60-of-states-covid-fatalities-occured-this-mnth/articleshow/77710642.cms||Lisa Monteiro
August 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Veggie prices likely to rise in Hyderabad as rains destroy crops||HYDERABAD: Prices of essential vegetables will most likely skyrocket in Hyderabad as continuous rains lashing the state have inundated and damaged the quality of vegetable crops. The state capital receives its major chunk of vegetable supplies from the neighbouring districts of Rangareddy, Medchal-Malkajgiri, Nagarkurnool, Mahbubnagar, Siddipet, Nalgonda, Vikarabad, Sangareddy, Medak, Suryapet and Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri. The incessant rains have submerged the vegetable crops in these districts as a result of which the quality of tomato, brinjal, cabbage, ladies finger, onion, beans, and leafy vegetables have been badly affected. Sowing operations for vegetable crops are taken up every month as Greater Hyderabad and other parts of the state receive daily supplies. For August, vegetable sowing was taken up in over 70,000 acres in the state. The total annual production of the vegetables in the state is over 30 lakh metric tonnes, which is less than the consumption. The state overcomes the deficit with supplies from Maharashtra, Karnataka and other states, particularly potato, onions, capsicum among others. Officials of the Horticulture department told TOI that as of August 20, tomato cultivation had been taken up in 6,344 acres in Rangareddy, 2,397 acres in Sangareddy, 1,715 acres in Siddipet, 1,746 acres in Vikarabad, 854 acres in Medchal-Malkajgiri, 277 acres in Mahbubnagar, 312 acres in Medak and 408 acres in Yadadri. Likewise, the area under cultivation for leafy vegetables as of August 30 was 1,300 acres in Rangareddy, 200 acres in Medchal-Malkajgiri, 300 acres in Sangareddy, 200 acres in Siddipet, 160 acres in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri and 100 acres in Nagarkurnool. "While the exact extent of the damage in terms of acreage is yet to be assessed, the vegetables rot if they remain underwater for longer duration, which happened to many varieties of vegetables in the last one week," said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/veggie-prices-likely-to-rise-in-hyderabad-as-rains-destroy-crops/articleshow/77711551.cms||Roushan Ali
August 24, 2020||Kolkata||AC sales reel from the pandemic punch in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Demand for air-conditioners has come down to a trickle in Kolkata because of various factors: financial and health concerns, Covid-induced restrictions and fears hampering distribution and installation, coupled with this year’s milder summer. From the customers’ point of view, the most obvious problem seems to be finances. With layoffs in multiple industries, the actual number of people who can afford an AC has fallen, feel industry insiders. Again, a large number of customers who can afford an AC are shying away because its installation requires the presence of at least three-four men in the house. Add to this the fact that this summer was unusually mild, compared with the past several years, and that made an AC more of a luxury, not a necessity. According to the Met office, the mercury did not cross 38 °C even once in south Bengal this summer. “I wanted to buy an AC,” said Abhishek Banerjee, a Jadavpur resident who works in a private firm. “But a pay cut has forced me to keep the plan on hold. I am not in a position to spend on an appliance that would cost Rs 7,000 to merely install.” Those who do not have this problem have found the logistics too difficult. Most housing complexes and home-owners have restricted the entry of outsiders to contain the spread of Covid. Migrant labourers, who used to work in service centres and install the machines at home, have returned to their native places. All this together has caused a demand plunge,say AC manufacturers. Leading companies manufacturing electrical appliances say sales have slumped by 50% to 55%, with many stores remaining shut since the lockdown was introduced in Bengal. The market in north India is relatively better owing to the scorching summer in May and early June, they said. Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation (CESC) recorded a slump in requests for AC installations this summer. Avijit Ghosh, vice-president (distribution), CESC, told TOI, “The lockdown started before peak summer this year. Markets were closed and online purchase was also suspended. With AC sales having fallen because of the lockdown, we have also received very few applications from consumers installing ACs at home.” Santosh Salian, the product group head, AC, Godrej Appliances, agreed. “Around 55% of the annual AC sales happens between March and May,” he said. “This year, the industry has lost the sell-out point. Besides, the temperature in Bengal was not as harsh as last year’s.” Despite a small spike in demand triggered by work from home, installation difficulties in containment and buffer zones and residential areas came in the way of sales. “The market in Kolkata has been impacted due to multiple reasons, especially the pandemic, lockdown and early monsoon in Bengal. We hope the sales pick up some pace in the festive season,” said Gaurav Sah, business head, AC, Panasonic India. Businessman Mohd Riyaz, a resident of Beniapukur Road, said: “I had planned to buy an AC for my parents this summer. But many of my friends warned that air conditioning increased the risk of Covid. So, I discarded the idea.” Doctors, however, dispelled the fear. “It is better to avoid air-conditioning in public places or transport, but there is no problem in using it at home,” said Indranil Dhar of School of Tropical Medicine. “It is better to keep the between 28 °C and 30 °C and use the fan in humid weather. Whether it is Covid or not, it is not advisable to set the AC temperature very low.” People have several misconceptions about the pandemic, felt Debasis Basu, a consultant in internal medicine and president of Diabetes Awareness and You. “There should not be any fear in using air-conditioning at home and it does not put people at any added risk of contracting the virus. Air-conditioning ought to be used properly and it is often necessary for some people, including patients,” he said. Various offers and schemes planned by manufacturers during the lockdown included subsidized installation charges, no-cost EMIs and special discounts. Now, manufacturers are waiting for a sales uptick during or after Durga Puja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-ac-sales-reel-from-the-pandemic-punch/articleshow/77710936.cms||Sarthak.G
August 24, 2020||Kolkata||From politics to golf course, Dilip 2.0 preps for 2021||Kolkata: Very rarely would a politician from Bengal take to the golf course, let alone be photographed taking a swing. So, when state BJP president Dilip Ghosh chose to do so, the photograph didn’t go unnoticed even within his own party. Former Meghalaya governor Tathagata Roy took to Twitter and captioned the photographs: “Fore! Dilip Ghosh, the versatile BJP President of West Bengal, tries a mighty whack with his golf club!” Roy’s post drew some comments. One, by party leader Sishir Bajoria, said: “He is very ‘sporty’.” Roy responded: “As I said, from a Sangh pracharak to an avid golfer! And in proper gear, down to footwear. That is really, really admirable, isn't it?” To observers, however, Ghosh playing golf can be part of a concerted effort by BJP to “mainstream” Dilip Ghosh 2.0 as he leads the party to the Bengal assembly polls in 2021. Known to be brazen and outspoken, Ghosh also appears to have scaled down the rhetoric, which had led to controversies in the past. “I am not from a political background. Yes, there are a few things that I should not have said. But we needed to take the fight to the Trinamool Congress camp. It is not just a party we are pitted against, it is also the administration, police. “I needed to bolster the morale of my partymen. Political niceties cannot motivate party workers, who have lost someone or have been imprisoned. But now we have a firm foothold in Bengal. From mobilising, we have now consolidated our supporters,” Ghosh said in an interview, indicating why he has rarely deviated from the political script of late. Whether trying his hand at golf is also a part of this exercise, Ghosh wouldn’t answer directly. “The place where I grew up, people didn’t know about golf. I swim, taught martial arts,” he said. “During the pandemic, I often went to Eco Park for a morning jog. Someone suggested I try my hand at golf. I did. But didn’t get to do it twice, because they closed it down,” Ghosh continued. “My request for a golf membership was also turned down.” “I love sports and believe there is a lot to be done,” the BJP leader said. “During my Sangh days, when I came to Salt Lake for work, I used to watch Limba Ram in the SAI sports complex. There is something about their dedication, patience. When footballer Kalyan Choubey joined BJP, I had requested him to talk to all stakeholders and prepare a roadmap.” The golf swing isn’t a one-off event, if sources are to be believed. Ghosh is likely to be seen frequently in other sporting activities, including rowing. Responding to the Sangh pracharak parallel, Ghosh said: “Physical well-being is integral to national well-being. And the pandemic has only reinforced this. Sports will remain integral to our policies and plans.” On questions and murmurs around his leadership, Ghosh said: “In our party, everyone has been tasked with a specific role. I have mine. On the flipside, such talk is good. It shows the party has grown (in Bengal).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/from-politics-to-golf-course-dilip-2-0-preps-for-2021/articleshow/77711034.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Kolkata||Rape survivor, child rescued in Malda||Malda: Police in Malda on Sunday rescued a young woman from Manipur who was allegedly kept confined for four months and repeatedly raped. The woman’s child, who was with her, has also been rescued. No one has yet been arrested. The rape survivor and her child had accompanied her brother — a silk trader — from Imphal to Kaliachak in Malda prior to the lockdown. The latter’s business partner, one Ariul Sheikh lived in Shersahi under Kaliachak police station, and he would visit him now and again. However, the partners fell out over money. Thereafter, the man left for Imphal but his sister and her two-year-old daughter were kept confined by Ariul and his associates. For four months, she was sexually assaulted. Finally on Friday, she managed to escape from the house. Locals noticed her roaming aimlessly with her child and took her to the police station where she narrated her ordeal. Police superintendent Aloke Rajoria said, “We have registered a case The man who had kept her confined forcefully has been identified. We are on the lookout for him. The woman has complained she was sexually assaulted. We have arranged for her medical examination.” Manipur director general of police LM Khaute said he had spoken to his Bengal counterpart and requested him to monitor the case. “All concerned officers will be informed to cull more details on the reported rape survivor,” the DGP added. The incident triggered an uproar in political circles with the opposition lashing out at the ruling party over the law and order situation in Bengal. “This is another example of how women in this state are being tortured. Now a woman of another state has been the victim and police are trying to shield the accused,” alleged BJP leader Ajoy Ganguly. TMC MLA Sabina Yeasmin said, “Police will take action. Offenders will be punished. There is no need to play dirty politics over it.” Muslim Council Manipur (MCM), however, said it had no information about the incident. “We will try to track down the particulars of the survivor and her family. We will also talk to West Bengal police to take up necessary legal action against the culprits,” MCM president Haji Arafat Ali said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rape-survivor-child-rescued-in-malda/articleshow/77710424.cms||Subhro Maitra
August 24, 2020||Kolkata||TMC inducts 10k youths into party||Kolkata: Trinamool Congress on Sunday inducted 10,000 youths into the party across 14 Bengal districts, including Kolkata, in the first phase of ‘Interaction and Joining’ sessions. TMC and Prashant Kishor-led I-Pac will collaborate to induct over 3 lakh youths in Bengal — in the 18-35 age group — into the party fold. I-Pac has been spearheading an online campaign called Youth in Politics (YIP) in which 40% of the 10-lakh-odd applicants were from Bengal, and 80% of them expressed interest to join TMC. Senior TMC leaders welcomed the joining. Party secretary-general Partha Chatterjee said, “Inspired by the leadership of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, the youth across Bengal are joining the party today. I welcome each one of you and hope that we will collectively work towards fulfilling our vision of a prosperous Bengal.” KMC Board of Administrators chairperson Firhad Hakim said, “Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has inspired the young generation through her work and owing to her constant support, today young adults across Bengal have come together to join the party. Together, we will work for our beloved state.” MP Mahua Moitra told the inductees, “Impossible is nothing.” Due to the ongoing pandemic, the ‘Interaction and Joining’ sessions are being organised in a phased manner to ensure compliance of social-distancing norms. On Sunday, the youths who had expressed interest in starting their political journey with TMC met and interacted with senior leaders like MP Sisir Adhikari, state ministers Jyotipriya Mullick and Laxmi Ratan Shukla and joined the party in their presence. A party leader said TMC is “committed to nurturing next-generation leaders and believes this will provide a platform to new faces” who registered through YIP — a first-of-its-kind, pan-India platform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-inducts-10k-youths-into-party/articleshow/77710378.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Kolkata||3 die as car rams tree in Howrah||Howrah: Three youths were killed at Howrah’s Joypur around 1.30am on Sunday when the car they were in skidded off the road. They were identified as Lokenath Mukherjee (24), Sayan Bhandari (22) and Priyobroto Bose (22). Police said the three friends were at a party at Priyobroto’s house till past midnight. They then decided to go on a drive in a hatchback car one of them owned. After Saturday’s downpour, the road was slippery. As the car reached Joypur’s Siyaguri at high speed, it skidded off the road and rammed into a tree. Local residents rushed out on hearing the crash and pulled the trio out of the car. Doctors declared them “ dead on arrival”. A police officer said: “The car will be examined by forensic experts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-die-as-car-rams-tree-in-howrah/articleshow/77710468.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Kolkata||DVC releases 23,000 cusecs of water, allays flood fears||Asansol/Mukutmanipur/Digha/Behrampore/Midnapore: Authorities of Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) on Sunday allayed fears of floods in West Bengal after it released 23,000 cusecs of water from its Maithon and Panchet dams on Saturday night. Officials and panchayat functionaries in Howrah had on Saturday expressed fear that waterlogging in some areas would worsen into a flood-like situation if DVC were to release water. DVC chief engineer Satyabrata Banerjee said: “These are not flood waters that we have released. There is no chance of flooding. We have resorted to normal release of water, which can be treated and supplied as drinking water. It can also be used as industrial water. We are trying to keep the water level down as heavy rain has been forecast from August 25. We informed the state government before releasing water from the two dams.” In Bankura, people are worried after 10,000 cusecs of water were released from Mukutmanipur dam. Low-lying areas of Simlapal, Sarenga and Taldangra fear they could be inundated by this water. Some huts were damaged at Gangajalghati. Rivers Dwarakeshwar,Gandheswari and Shilabati are rising every day. In West Midnapore, people in Gopiballavpur were fearing imminent flooding after 88,000 cusecs of water were released from the Galudi dam in neighbouring Jharkhand. The district administration placed authorities of four gram panchayat areas in Gopiballavpur on alert. If water levels rise, residents will be shifted to flood shelters, officials said. Heavy rain led to damage of some bamboo bridges in Ghatal. In Murshidabad, around 50 familes found themselves marooned after heavy rain left the Bhagawangola rail colony waterlogged since Saturday. They are angry as the administration is yet to provide them help. The deer park in Farakka is under 3-4 feet of water. Resentment is also brewing in villages around Digha in East Midnapore after tidal waves that lashed the shores of Digha and Sankarpur last week left a vast stretch of embankments damaged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dvc-releases-23000-cusecs-of-water-allays-flood-fears/articleshow/77710370.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19: Among 6 cities with 1 lakh cases, Bengaluru toll lowest||BENGALURU: Among the six cities with more than 1 lakh Covid-19 cases, Bengaluru has bucked the trend and kept the fatalities well below 2,000, despite instances of patients struggling to find ambulances and beds in the last week of June and July. Mumbai has more than 5,000 deaths, Delhi 3,000-plus, and Chennai, Pune and Thane have reported between 2,000 and 3,000 deaths each when they crossed the 1-lakh mark. Bengaluru has reported 1,635 deaths as of Aug 21. Experts said the advantage of peaking late — which allowed the administration to learn from other cities — early detection and a proactive treatment protocol are key reasons for a low death rate in Bengaluru. As of Saturday, Bengaluru’s case fatality rate (CFR) stood at 1.6% compared to 5.5% in Mumbai, 3% in Thane, 2.5% in Pune and 2% in Chennai. Proactive approach has helped: ExpertsBengaluru has managed to keep Covid-19 deaths below 2,000 compared to six cities with over 1 lakh infections. Dr S Sacchidanand, who heads the Covid-19 death audit committee, said: “Early detection has been the biggest factor in preventing deaths as it helped in timely clinical intervention. Also, a good follow-up system, which provided us with regular updates on the condition of positive patients, and good infrastructure have helped us save more lives.” Other cities compare poorly with Bengaluru in deaths-per-million ratio too. Going by the 2011 population, Bengaluru has 166 deaths per million, while the statistic stands at 401, 1,224, 1,965 and 320 for Mumbai, Pune, Thane and Chennai, respectively. While these comparisons are based on the latest numbers, the city recorded fewer number of fatalities on the day (Friday) it breached the 1-lakh mark. Dr C Nagaraj, director, RGCID and member state Covid-19 expert committee, said: “Some of those cities didn’t have the advantage of using the latest treatment protocols like us. Whether it’s being proactive in introducing the right kind of antivirals or being quick to understand the virus and introducing thinners to prevent clots, we’ve been on the top of things.” Nagaraj and Sacchidanand urged people to not ignore symptoms and present themselves at a hospital as early as possible. “In many cases, we (doctors) are not given enough time to treat patients as they come in at the last moment. If people reach hospitals early, we can save more lives,” Sacchidananda said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-19-among-6-cities-with-1-lakh-cases-bengaluru-toll-lowest/articleshow/77711549.cms||Chethan Kumar
August 24, 2020||Mumbai||E-pass to stay, can’t risk rural spread: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh||PUNE/MUMBAi: A day after the Union home ministry wrote to all states stating that there should be no restrictions on inter-state and intrastate movement of persons and goods, the state government on Sunday said it would stick to the e-pass requirement for inter-state and interdistrict travel in private vehicles considering the rising Covid-19 cases in rural areas. Making the intentions of the state clear, state home minister Anil Deshmukh said there would be a review after a fortnight. The Union home ministry on Saturday told states to ensure unhindered movement between and within states in accordance with the ‘Unlock 3’ guidelines issued by it on July 29 and applicable countrywide till August 31. Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla in the letter said that continuing with restrictions amounted to a violation of the MHA guidelines and it was impacting supply chains, resulting in a disruption of economic activity and employment. Deshmukh said he spoke to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, and it was decided that the current restrictions should continue in the state. “In our situation, we cannot allow such free movement as the state is already leading in Covid-19 cases,” he said. “There is a considerable rise in the rural areas, and unless there are restrictions on free movement, there may be a further increase.” A state gover nment official said the state the state is likely to take a decision only after the Ganpati festival. “The movement in the festive season will be huge (if restrictions are lifted) and smaller cities or villages may not be able to handle the surge in cases if infection spreads,” the official said. Dy CM Pawar, who was in Pune, said the Centre issued guidelines keeping in mind the situation in the country while the state had to evaluate its situation independently before taking a decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/e-pass-to-stay-cant-risk-rural-spread-anil-deshmukh/articleshow/77711556.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 24, 2020||India||Refused Cong’s offer of Dy CM post: Scindia||BHOPAL: On the second day of BJP’s membership drive in Gwalior, Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia said that he was offered the post of deputy CM in the previous Congress government but he rejected it as he was “wary of Congress leaders’ wrongdoings”. “I am a public servant. If I had been a servant of the ‘chair’, I would have accepted the proposal of deputy CM given by Kamal Nath ji and Digvijaya Singh ji. But I knew that people sitting in the government would destroy the state and I didn’t want to be part of them. I followed my sixth sense and refused the offer,” Scindia said before a large gathering of BJP workers on Sunday. BJP says more than 35,000 Congress workers from Gwalior-Chambal region have taken party membership in the last two days. The membership drive continued on Sunday despite chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announcing statewide lockdown on on August 7 in view of the rising Covid numbers. “Fake promises and breach of trust led to the fall of the Congress government. I have been blamed for the murder of democracy but it was Congress that was involved in corruption during its 15-month rule,” alleged Scindia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/refused-congs-offer-of-dy-cm-post-scindia/articleshow/77711558.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa to conduct aerial survey of flood-hit districts||BENGALURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa will tour flood-affected districts in North Karnataka on Tuesday, conducting aerial surveys to assess the scale of damage to crops and property. He is scheduled to visit Belagavi, Dharwad, Vijayapura, Bagalkot and Gadag. Yediyurappa will also visit Almatti Dam to check water levels before returning to Bengaluru that day. This will be his first major public appearance after he recovered from Covid-19. And it comes amid a slugfest between BJP and Congress over the government’s handling of the floods. DK Shivakumar, president of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC), had stolen a march over Yediyurappa by announcing a visit to North Karnataka first. But he cancelled the plan because of a bad back, for which he has been advised some days’ rest. “The chief minister woke up only after our party president said he would attend to the problems of the people in flood-hit districts. It’s unfortunate that the ruling party sees it as some sort of race,” said KPCC working president Satish Jarkiholi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-to-conduct-aerial-survey-of-flood-hit-districts/articleshow/77711596.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees slight dip in Covid cases after three days, fatalities cross 22,000||MUMBAI: After reporting over 14,000 cases for three days, Maharashtra on Sunday reported a marginal dip to 10,411, taking the total tally to 6,82,383. The state also reported a decline in the daily Covid-19 death toll. With the addition of 258, fatalities in the state have crossed the 22,000 mark to touch 22,253. A day earlier, the state recorded 14,492 cases, equalling the highest single-day jump it recorded on August 20. The state also logged 297 deaths on Saturday. Barring six days in August, the state has reported over 10,000 cases daily the entire month. So far in August, the state has added 2.6 lakh cases and 7,259 deaths, of which 24,137 cases and 1,069 deaths are from Mumbai. The city reported below 1,000 cases on Sunday, lowest in the last four days. The addition was 991, taking the count in the city to 1,36,353. The weekend had a silver lining though: the city added 34 cases on Saturday, second lowest in 87 days, and deaths were at 32, lowest in 86 days. The BMC on Sunday also reached the milestone of 7lakh tests since the coronavirus outbreak. Pune division added the highest number of cases and deaths on Sunday. A total of 3,105 were added by Pune division and 80 deaths reported. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray virtually inaugurated a Covid hospital in Shivajinagar in Pune and directed the administration to ensure that steps are taken to avoid a second wave. Mumbai Metropolitan Region, excluding Mumbai city, added 1,679 cases and 28 deaths. Cases in the rest of MMR have now reached 1,72,655, way ahead of Mumbai’s. In terms of deaths though, Mumbai continues to have more. Compared to 7,422 deaths in Mumbai, the rest of MMR has 4,797 deaths. A senior state official said one of the reasons for higher deaths in Mumbai was the element of surprise. “Mumbai saw Covid cases and a peak before it reached MMR. And when MMR saw its peak, Mumbai not only helped with technical expertise but also with Covid beds and overall treatment infrastructure,” said the official, who however added that Mumbai’s fatality rate continued to be one of the highest in the country and a cause for concern. Within MMR, Panvel Municipal Corporation surpassed the 10,000-mark on Saturday. Total positives stands at 10,434 and deaths at 254. There were allegations that Covid patients were being discharged without being tested, but given discharge cards asking them to test elsewhere later. Also, testing kits were allegedly unavailable at public health centres. PCMC data shows Kamothe has the highest (2,164) cases, Kharghar has 1,975, New Panvel recorded 1,881 cases, Kalamboli 1,782, Panvel 1,730 and Taloja 571 cases. Of the 254 deaths reported so far, Kamothe accounts for the highest: 63.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-sees-slight-dip-in-covid-cases-after-three-days-fatalities-cross-22000/articleshow/77711599.cms||Bhavika Jain
August 24, 2020||Business||To curb misleading ads, Centre studying codes of NZ, UK, US||NEW DELHI: The advertisers making claims such as ‘largest selling’, ‘most popular’ and ‘most effective’ will soon have to substantiate their claims, particularly in the case of health products. The consumer affairs ministry will come out with an advertising code of dos and don’ts, which will help it identify misleading advertisements. Sources said the ministry is looking into the best advertising codes of many countries such as New Zealand, United Kingdom and United States. “A draft discussion paper will be uploaded on our website for stakeholder consultation. There is a need to have a code for the benefit of consumers and also to help identify quickly which fall under misleading categories, otherwise there will be a sea of complaints about misleading advertisements,” said an official. Currently, the Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI), a self-regulatory voluntary organisation of the advertising industry has a Code for Self-Regulation in Advertising, which is not binding. The need for a code by the government has become essential after the centre notified the central consumer protection Authority (CCPA), which has the mandate to act against misleading advertisements. “There is a need to bring the proposed under regulation for their effective compliance. Simple guidelines won’t have the desired impact,” a source said. For celebrity endorsers, the Consumer Protection Act specifies that the companies engaging endorsers must fully disclose to them the content and claims in the advertisements and they need to carry out due diligence. Countries which have a strong consumer protection regime specify that the focus of such codes is to ensure that every advertisement is responsible, legal, decent and truthful. For example, the code of New Zealand specifies that content controlled, directly or indirectly, by the advertiser must not be disguised as something other than an advertisement. It also specifies that advertisers must hold evidence to substantiate all claims made in an advertisement and the tests used to support a claim must be conducted or verified by an independent and objective body using industry-accepted methodology so there is no doubt as to the veracity of the test. “Claims must not overstate the significance of any results,” the code says. The code of United Kingdom also specifies that advertisements must not mislead by omitting the identity of the advertiser. “The broadcasters must hold documentary evidence to prove claims that the audience is likely to regard as objective and that are capable of objective substantiation. The Advertising Standards Authority may regard claims as misleading in the absence of adequate substantiation.” The advertising code of the United States also specifies that under the law, claims in advertisements must be truthful, cannot be deceptive or unfair, and must be evidence-based. Watch To curb misleading ads, Centre studying codes of NZ, UK, US||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/to-curb-misleading-ads-centre-studying-codes-of-nz-uk-us/articleshow/77711611.cms||Dipak K Dash
August 24, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: If negative on 2nd day, arrivals from abroad may now home-isolate||MUMBAI: The BMC has amended its standard operating procedure (SOP) for people arriving in the city from abroad, making it permissible for them to take the RT-PCR test for Covid-19 on the second day of their arrival and home-isolate if the report is negative. The new rule is applicable from Saturday. While the isolation requirement is 14 days, the rule was that seven of those days would have to be spent in institutional quarantine and seven at home. The BMC converted several star hotels into institutional quarantine facilities for those arriving from abroad. New arrivals have to pay the charges for the duration of the stay and the Covid-19 test costs from their own pocket. The changes in the SOP shall bring savings in hotel stay costs to many. The BMC introduced the change in SOP a day after the state government issued revised guidelines on Friday for international travellers arriving in the state. The state guideline is based on an order issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on August 2. BMC officials said those who got themselves tested within 96 hours of their boarding a plane abroad and were negative could go for home isolation. They have to submit details on the website https:// www.newdelhiairport.in/along with the test report to get exemption. Others must undergo institutional quarantine. In exceptional case like human distress, pregnancy, death in the family, serious illness and parents with children below 10 years, the BMC grants exemption from institutional quarantine. Such persons need to communicate about it through the website 72 hours before their boarding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-if-negative-on-2nd-day-arrivals-from-abroad-may-now-home-isolate/articleshow/77711608.cms||Vijay V Singh
August 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat gets one-fifth of seasonal rainfall in a week, achieves 95%||AHMEDABAD: Amid Covid-19 pandemic gloom, good rains offer a glimmer of hope. The state has till August 23 received 95% rainfall which is the highest ever in the past five years, as per Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) data. In fact, monsoon in Gujarat is playing Twenty20 innings. Till August 14, the state recorded 620 mm rainfall, which was 74.5% of average seasonal rain. A week later, till August 23, the state’s seasonal rain gauge reached 786 mm, which is 94.5% — giving 20% of the seasonal rainfall in seven days flat. Bucking the trend, this year Saurashtra and Kutch region have recorded more than average rainfall. Sunday also witnessed widespread rainfall – till 6 pm, four of the talukas had recorded more than 200 mm rainfall. Kadi and Becharaji in Mehsana recorded 290 mm and 224 mm rainfall, Umarpada in Surat (216 mm), and Saraswati in Patan (207 mm). Eighteen 18 talukas in Mehsana, Patan, Gir Somnath, Sabarkantha, Junagadh, Gandhinagar, Ahmedabad, Banaskantha, Morbi and Aravalli recorded 100 to 199 mm rainfall. As on Sunday evening, only two districts – Dahod and Dang – have received less than average seasonal rainfall. Jayanta Sarkar, regional director, IMD, Gujarat, told TOI, “We have been getting good rainfall since August 4, which is likely to continue till August 26. After heavy to very heavy rainfall on August 24 in some regions, the system is likely to weaken.” ‘Systems in Bay of Bengal aided rain in Guj’Jayanta Sarkar, regional director, IMD, Gujarat, told TOI, “We have been getting good rainfall since August 4, which is likely to continue till August 26. After heavy to very heavy rainfall on August 24 in some regions, the system is likely to weaken.” Sarkar said that phenomenon could be attributed to the systems active on the Bay of Bengal. “This year, we have witnessed one system after another approaching the region, bringing rain from eastern direction after it got formed on the upper Bay of Bengal. It was supported by the favourable conditions in form of other local systems,” he said. Sardar Sarovar Dam is at 60% of capacity as 68 dams in the state are at 100% of its capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-gets-one-fifth-of-seasonal-rainfall-in-a-week-achieves-95/articleshow/77711604.cms||Parth Shastri
August 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘85% in Gujarat don’t have health cover’||AHMEDABAD: The National Statistics Office (NSO) report ‘Health in India’ based on 75th round of National Sample Survey (NSS) in 2017-18 revealed that 85.3% in urban areas of Gujarat and 87.3% in rural areas had no health cover. In the wake of the pandemic, healthcare and expenditure on hospitalization has again come under sharp focus, especially in cities like Ahmedabad and Surat where a high number of patients are also getting admitted in private hospitals. In urban areas, 4.1% of the patients availed government-sponsored schemes, whereas 3.5% had employerprovided health cover. Only 7.1% got health policy from insurance companies. In rural Gujarat, 11.2% availed government schemes, 0.7% got covered by employers and only 0.8% got policy. The figures are important in the light of the fact that 70.3% respondents in urban and 53.6% in rural areas mentioned that they got hospitalized in private facilities. The share of hospitalization in government-run facilities was 21.3% and 40.1% respectively in urban and rural areas. The rest of the patients went to charity/ institution-run subsidized hospitals. Gujarat’s share of 70.3% of private hospitalization in urban areas was fifth highest among states in India and much higher than the national average of 61.4%. Cumulatively, 62% patients went to private hospitals, 31.1% in government hospitals and 7.3% in charity/trust-run hospitals in Gujarat. The survey mentioned that 22.2% of total respondents mentioned received free medical treatment. The average hospitalization expenditure in private set-ups in rural and urban areas was Rs 25,027 and Rs 29,281. ‘No rise in numbers of insured’Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), said that the share of insured patients has not increased substantially in the past five years. “We often see the health cover as a way to save taxes in March, but an insurance cover is preferred with specialized procedures costing more,” he said. “I believe that the rise in hospitalization in private setups is partially due to schemes such as MA and PMJAY where the cost of hospitalization is borne by the government. The findings however should encourage the public-sector hospitals to compete for the patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/85-in-gujarat-dont-have-health-cover/articleshow/77711612.cms||Parth Shastri
August 24, 2020||World||Kim ‘in coma’, power passing to sister: S Korea’s former prez’s aide||North Korean leader Kim Jong-un is claimed to be in a coma which “could spell disaster for the country”. A former aide to South Korea’s late president Kim Dae-jung made the claim about the leader days after Kim handed over some powers to his younger sister. Chang Song-min said: “I assess him to be in a coma, but his life has not ended. A complete succession structure has not been formed, so Kim Yo-jong is being brought to the fore as the vacuum can’t be maintained for a prolonged period.” A few days ago South Korea’s National Intelligence Service had said Kim will still “exert absolute power” but he will gradually transfer his authority to Kim Yo-jong “to ease stress”. He has only been seen a few times this year which had fuelled speculation that he could have died. But those rumours were quashed when he was seen touring a fertiliser factory. Chris Mikul, who wrote ‘My Favourite Dictators’ last year, said Kim was “westernised” while studying in Switzerland and has shown “some concern for welfare”. Mikul told Express.co.uk this year: “If Kim actually died… it’s not necessarily going to be a good thing for the world.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/kim-in-coma-power-passing-to-sister-s-koreas-former-prezs-aide/articleshow/77711627.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: More than 31,000 Ganpati idol immersions on day 1||MUMBAI: The Covid-induced lockdown accomplished what years of persuasion by environmental activists and government agencies had failed to do. As the first immersion of Ganeshotsav 2020 took place Sunday, all idols were less than 4ft in height, made of water soluble clay, and were immersed in artificial ponds rather than the Arabian Sea. Civic officials confirmed that fewer immersions took place along beaches as the wide availability of artificial ponds ensured that people found immersion facilities nearer home. The BMC also converted several trucks into mobile immersion ponds. Till 9pm, 31,255 idols were immersed and more than half the number—17,764—were into artificial ponds. These included not only household moortis , but also a few idols of mandals that had cut short festivities from the customary 10 days—like Shivdicha Raja and Navi Mumbaicha Raja. (Clockwise from top) Mandal members immerse Navi Mumbaicha Raja in a tank in Turbhe; idol immersion at an artificial tank in Shivaji Park; a woman prays to Ganpati before visarjanCM Uddhav Thackeray visited BMC’s visarjan facilities including a mobile immersion pond near Mahalaxmi temple, an idol collection booth near Priyadarshani Park and an eco-friendly immersion site in Vile Parle. The Lalbaugcha Raja mandal on Saturday donated Rs 1 lakh each to nine families of policemen who lost their lives to Covid-19, and kick-started a 10-day plasma donation camp. “We had felicitated seven widows and children of policemen on August 13 and will continue to do so until August 31,” said president Balasaheb Kamble. Meanwhile, on Sunday, Suparibaug Lane in Parel was renamed after Parelcha Raja of Nare Park. The crowded processions led by dhol tasha, lezim, bands and DJ music were absent. Ankush Vaiti, president of Navi Mumbaicha Raja mandal said, “Our immersion this year was certainly low key as our small moorti was immersed in an artificial pond in Turbhe, but the emotions were deep and sincere...as the mandal members prayed for early riddance from Covid-19 and a grand golden jubilee celebration of our Ganeshotsav next year, which was to be celebrated in 2020.” Vijay Indulkar, chief advisor of Shivdicha Raja mandal, said that just five members participated in Sunday’s visarjan as against the usual 200. At Laxmibai School in Mulund, the eco-friendly idol and decorations were immersed in an artificial tank within the premises. Almost 500-600 students “attended” by logging in from home computers or mobile phones. An LED screen resounded with students praying to God to relieve the world from the coronavirus, said chairman Prasad Kulkarni. Thane saw a total of 6,094 public immersions with most families choosing to perform visarjan at home or in their societies. In Navi Mumbai, 6,358 idols were immersed till 11pm. Besides the 23 natural ponds, as many as 35 small ponds were created for visarjan. After the success of its “immersion at doorstep” campaign last year to reduce traffic, Kalyan- Dombivli Municipal Corporation on Sunday deployed decorated trucks with water tank facilities of 3,000 litres for people to perform mobile visarjan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-more-than-31000-ganpati-idol-immersions-on-day-1/articleshow/77711630.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19 test positivity rate in Chennai up from 7% to 10.7% in 15 days||CHENNAI: The Covid-19 test positivity rate (TPR) in Chennai has once again breached 10%, rising from the 7% to 8% mark with the influx of people as travel curbs were eased last week. TPR is the percentage of samples taken that test positive and the World Health Organisation and the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) recommend increase in testing if the TPR is above 10%. Data shows that Chennai’s TPR was 7% for August 8-12 period, but rose thereafter to touch 10.7% on August 22. On August 8, the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) tested 14,027 samples. However, this number is now hovering around the 12,000 mark. On August 21, the samples taken numbered 12,982. So tests have declined as TPR rises, which goes against WHO and ICMR recommendations So does this mean that infection is spreading faster across Chennai once again? A number of officials TOI spoke to sought to allay such fears. Spike in TPR coincides with relaxations in issuing e-passGreater Chennai Corporation commissioner G Prakash said there was nothing to worry. “The increase in TPR (test positivity rate) is because we have widened the testing. We had anticipated this,” he said, asserting that things were under control. The increase in test positivity rate coincides with the influx of people into Chennai from other parts of the state, even as the regulations to give e-pass to people has been made less stringent. A zonal level civic officer said in many zones the floating population entering the city could be up to 30%, which means that positive cases would invariably go up. “The numbers will decrease within a few weeks,” he said. An epidemiologist with the civic body told TOI that testing conducted by the civic body was adequate. “However, there cases in the Central region (Zones 6-10) which may be because the city is now open,” he said. The zonal official said the number of contacts, of a positive person, being tested has increased. “We are testing even the milkman, newspaper delivery boy and other people who may have come in contact with a positive case, apart from the family members,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-19-test-positivity-rate-in-chennai-up-from-7-to-10-7-in-15-days/articleshow/77711670.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
August 24, 2020||Madurai||Be loyal to party, not individuals: OPS to cadres||MADURAI: AIADMK coordinator and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam on Sunday asserted that loyalty to the party was more important than loyalty to any individual in the party. Against the backdrop of a group of 14 ministers holding back-to-back discussions with EPS and OPS over what was widely believed to be about AIADMK’s CM candidate choice for the assembly poll to be held in 2021, Panneerselvam said that he had never sought the loyalty of party workers to himself, and functionaries and workers should be faithful only to the party and no one else. “Let bygones be bygones. Let the things to come be good,” he said. Addressing a meeting of party union secretaries and block secretaries held in Theni on Sunday to discuss membership enrollment and preparations for next year’s assembly election, Panneerselvam said the only goal should be to return to power and continue to run the government in the state. “We should put aside our past differences and work towards the future. Our next goal should be victory in the assembly elections and continuing our government in the state,” he told party workers in the presence of Theni MP P Ravindranath Kumar, MLA Jakkaiyan and members of Ilam Pengal Paasarai, IT wing, Puratchi Thalaivar Peravai and Jayalalithaa Peravai. No one should speak ill of party: OPSPanneerselvam said nobody should speak ill of other members of the party and must always strive to maintain integrity. Theni district always had a special place in AIADMK as both its great leaders, MGR and J Jayalalithaa, had contested from here. “Now I am the party’s coordinator and I am from Theni,’’ he said adding that members from the district could achieve great heights in the party if they strive for it. Meanwhile, minister for revenue, disaster management and IT R B Udayakumar, told reporters that he would continue to work for making Madurai the second capital of Tamil Nadu. He said he would always choose the development of southern Tamil Nadu over his post as minister if the chief minister or deputy chief minister asked him which was more important.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/be-loyal-to-party-not-individuals-ops-to-cadres/articleshow/77711695.cms||---
August 24, 2020||World||Who is speaking at the Republican National Convention, and why||This week's Republican National Convention will be a four-day celebration of President Donald Trump, featuring a younger generation that may be hoping for a shot at the White House in 2024, as well as a St. Louis couple who brandished guns at anti-racism protesters. Here is a look at speakers featured in a mix of live and virtual programming that will start on Monday and run from 8:30 p.m. until 11 p.m EDT every night. TRUMP AND FAMILY The theme of the nominating convention will be "Honoring the Great American Story," and will culminate in a live acceptance speech by Trump on Thursday night from the South Lawn of the White House. The president, who trails Democratic nominee Joe Biden in opinion polls ahead of the Nov. 3 election, will be the central focus and will speak each night, according to campaign sources, including one event when he will honor doctors, nurses and other workers on the front line of the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Trump's children, including Ivanka Trump, Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump, will also get prominent speaking roles. Some government ethics experts have expressed concern over the use of federal properties as stages for partisan political speeches, but a law prohibiting the use of federal funds for campaign appearances excludes the president and vice president. In 1940, Democratic President Franklin D. Roosevelt accepted his party's nomination from the White House via radio. Republicans are looking to strike a more optimistic vision for the country, seeking a contrast with what they saw as the Democrats' more ominous perspective laid out at their convention last week. On Monday, the convention theme will be the "Land of Promise," Tuesday's will be the "Land of Opportunity," Wednesday will focus on the "Land of Heroes" and events will conclude on Thursday with the "Land of Greatness." TRUMP CHANGED MY LIFE Trump has been criticized for his response to the coronavirus pandemic, which has killed more than 170,000 Americans and triggered a severe economic downturn, as well as his reaction to nationwide protests over racial injustice and police brutality against Black Americans. To counter that criticism, the convention will feature everyday Americans who will say that Trump changed their lives in positive ways, according to a member of Trump's campaign. They will also sound the alarm over the dangers of a Biden victory in November. Among them will be Mark and Patricia McCloskey, a St. Louis couple who drew guns in front of Black Lives Matter protesters who marched through their gated community in July. They were charged with felony weapons offenses, which Trump has called a "disgrace." Their attorney, Joel Schwartz, said their appearance had been confirmed by Republican organizers. Other citizen speakers will include police Sergeant Ann Dorn, whose husband, retired police Captain David Dorn, was killed during violent protests in St. Louis in June; Tanya Weinreis, who will say her Montana coffee shop and employees' livelihoods were saved by a loan from the federal coronavirus relief Paycheck Protection Program, and the parents of Kayla Mueller, a humanitarian worker murdered by the Islamic State militant group. Andrew Pollack, whose daughter Meadow was killed in the 2018 Parkland, Florida, school massacre, will also speak. He is an advocate for enhanced school safety measures, including armed guards. 2024 HOPEFULS The convention will also feature Republicans considered prospective 2024 presidential hopefuls. Vice President Mike Pence will be the main speaker on Wednesday. He will deliver his remarks from Baltimore's Fort McHenry, made famous in the War of 1812 when it was successfully defended against an attack by the British navy, inspiring the poem that became the lyrics for the U.S. national anthem, "The Star-Spangled Banner." Other speakers include Nikki Haley, Trump's former ambassador to the United Nations; South Dakota Governor Kristi Noem; Senator Tim Scott of South Carolina; Secretary of State Mike Pompeo; and Donald Trump Jr., who some party members want to see continue the Trump legacy. The Trump campaign also gave speaking roles to members of the Senate and House of Representatives facing tough re-election battles, including Senator Joni Ernst of Iowa, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky and Representative Jeff Van Drew of New Jersey, who defected from the Democratic Party. Some Republican incumbents facing tough re-election challenges are noticeably absent from prominent speaking roles, however, including Senators Cory Gardner of Colorado and Martha McSally of Arizona. The Republican lineup will feature fewer women and diverse voices than the Democratic convention. While more than 20 women are scheduled to speak this week, Democratic women dominated last week's proceedings, with the first three evenings ending with addresses by former first lady Michelle Obama, Jill Biden and vice presidential nominee Kamala Harris.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/who-is-speaking-at-the-republican-national-convention-and-why/articleshow/77711701.cms||---
August 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Doctors at YCMH fume over appointment delay||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Contractual doctors appointed at the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH) said that many medicos are looking at an alternative job after the process of permanent appointment was stalled once again in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) general body meeting on Friday. Over 100 doctors are awaiting a formal appointment letter from the PCMC after their selection was completed in February this year. The nod from the general body is awaited as some corporators have objected to the appointment. A doctor, who is waiting for his formal appointment, said, “The contracts of many doctors will end in a few months and now they are not in any state of mind to continue. The doctors have already started searching elsewhere. There is no dearth of jobs for medical experts, who are willing to work for the society.” He added that around 80 doctors work at YCMH on a contract basis and 15-20 doctors are already in talks with other hospitals in Pune for a job. Mayor Usha Dhore told TOI that the situation got out of hand at the general body meeting held on Friday. Dhore stated that the meeting has now been adjourned until August 26. “We are going to discuss the matter with all the corporators and will make sure to give the required nod on August 26. We are not opposed to the plan,” she said. Additional municipal commissioner Santosh Patil also said that they are hopeful of getting a formal approval from the general body on August 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-doctors-at-ycmh-fume-over-appointment-delay/articleshow/77711716.cms||Piyush Bhusari
August 24, 2020||Chennai||Gold worth Rs 78.4 lakh seized at Chennai airport||CHENNAI: Customs officials at Chennai international airport seized 1.45 kg gold worth Rs 78.4 lakh from a passenger last week, an official release said. The arrested passenger had lost his job in Dubai due to the pandemic and was returning to his native in Kallakurichi. The gold was disguised in the form of foils, and was wrapped around in a carbon paper placed between two layers of a cardboard sheet. This sheet was in turn wrapped with a bedspread, the video showed. The bedspread was packed in carton boxes. This effort was put in to evade Customs, officials said. Customs officials said the passenger had arrived from Dubai earlier last week and had come for clearance of his personal household goods which had arrived by in a separate flight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gold-worth-rs-78-4-lakh-seized-at-chennai-airport/articleshow/77711734.cms||---
