August 25, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu reluctant to do away with e-pass; CM EPS to take final call||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government is reluctant to enforce the Centre’s directive to all states to abolish e-pass system for inter-state and intra-state travel, said highly placed sources in the government. Tamil Nadu feels e-pass system is helpful in contact tracing of Covid-19 positive cases. Both the political executive and the top bureaucracy are in favour of continuation of the e-pass system, sources said. The state government has eased travel within the state by making issuing of e-pass an automatic process. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is scheduled to hold a video conference with district collectors on August 29, following which he is expected to take a final call on e-passes. A few district collectors who attended a review meeting chaired by chief secretary K Shanmugam on Monday raised concerns about the spurt in cases due to introduction of an automated system on August 17 to issue instant e-passes for all applicants. Officials in Greater Chennai Corporation said some five lakh people had arrived in the city after the relaxation of norms for obtaining e-passes. From 1,177 new cases recorded on August 20, the cases increased to 1,282 to 1,294 to 1,298 and 1,278 on subsequent days. Palaniswami is believed to have expressed his frustration over the Centre’s directive to do away with e-passes. All the efforts taken to control the pandemic would go waste, he feels. He had remained firm when the opposition demanded that the e-pass system be withdrawn. Health minister C Vijayabaskar said, “Relaxation of e-pass is a challenge to the health department. I would also say the spread of coronavirus is not due to travel. People should wear masks, wash hands and maintain social distancing norms. Unnecessary travel must be avoided, and vulnerable groups should definitely avoid travel.” “It was the Centre that told the states to restrict movement and now it tells the states to lift all restrictions. There will be serious repercussions in the event of abolishing e-pass. Neither can we control the disease nor trace the contacts. There will be free movement and free spread of virus,” said a top bureaucrat. With the Centre seeking to open up activities that would boost the economy, the state is in a fix not knowing whether to control the disease or promote livelihood activities. To control the spread of virus, the district collectors were told to adopt strategies like focused testing, holding fever camps and reducing death rate by critically auditing the cases. Districts like Cuddalore, Ariyalur, Tiruvarur, Thiruvannamalai, Nagapattinam, Krishnagiri, Chengalpet, Ranipet and Perambalur that have recorded positivity rate of 10% and above were told to step up testing. Districts that were reporting the same numbers in the recent past were directed to do more tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-reluctant-to-do-away-with-e-pass-cm-to-take-final-call/articleshow/77729388.cms||---
August 25, 2020||India||Jaish-ISI meeting puts Indian intel on high alert||NEW DELHI: The Indian intelligence establishment is on high alert after being tipped about a meeting between Jaish-e-Mohammed’s de-facto ‘emir’ Maulana Abdul Rauf Ashgar and two top rank ISI officials at Rawalpindi on August 20. Ashgar’s brother Maulana Ammar was also present at that meeting, says a confidential intelligence note. After the Balakot strikes, Ammar had released an audio criticizing Pakistani prime minister Imran Khan for releasing IAF braveheart Abhinandan Varthmaan and vowing revenge for IAF targeting Jaish’s Taaleem-Ul-Quran Madrassa. A senior intelligence officer said the Rawalpindi meeting was preceded by a congregation at the JeM Markaz in Islamabad where Jaish’s operational commander Mufti Ashgar Khan Kashmiri and Qari Zarrar met to discuss endstage intricacies of their plan to intensify attacks on India. This is significant because a similar meeting of the same set of people was held a month before Pulwama happened last year, a security establishment source said. Asghar Kashmiri, a former Guerrilla commander, is an ex-member of Majlis-e-Shura, Harkatul Mujahideen, who later joined JeM along with his team of Mujahideens. Zarrar, a launching commander, was behind the Nagrota army cantonment attack of 2016. Maulana Abdul Rauf Ashgar, aka MARA, has been at the forefront of handling Mujahideens since his brother Maulana Masood Azhar has been diagnosed with a life threatening ailment. MARA has also been on the top five list of terror outfit leadership which Indian agencies are keeping their eyes on. The intelligence officials TOI spoke to confirmed that JeM had been making desperate attempts to carry out a big strike as the outfit has been furious and rattled with the intensified action against its terrorists in the valley. Two weeks ago, the intelligence establishment was alerted about an impending strike by a three-member death squad of JeM. Read this story in BengaliWatch Jaish-e-Mohammed-ISI meeting puts Indian intelligence establishment on high alert||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jaish-isi-meeting-puts-indian-intel-on-high-alert/articleshow/77729590.cms||Rajshekhar Jha
August 25, 2020||India||Military options are open if China talks fail, says Rawat||NEW DELHI: India is keeping its "military options" open if the ongoing diplomatic and military talks with China do not lead to a breakthrough in the stalled troop disengagement and de-escalation in eastern Ladakh. In a clear signal of intent to China, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat said the Indian armed forces "remain prepared for military actions" if "peaceful efforts" through talks did not succeed in restoring the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) as it existed in April. The statement appears aimed at conveying that a prolonged stand-off with Chinese troops camping in certain areas like Pangong and Depsang will not be acceptable. "Military options to deal with transgressions by the Chinese army in Ladakh are there, but they will be exercised only if talks at the military and the diplomatic level fail," Gen Rawat told a news agency on Monday. The military confrontation in Ladakh is in its fourth month now, with China refusing to complete the proposed troop disengagement in Pangong Tso and Gogra as well as de-escalate the military build-up in the strategically-located Depsang Plains-Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) sector. TOI had reported on June 19 that the Indian defence establishment had presented a range of options for 'limited' military action in the aftermath of the bloody clashes in Galwan Valley, which left 20 Indian soldiers and an unspecified number of Chinese troops dead. The options range from forcible eviction of Chinese soldiers from Indian territory to a calibrated and localised conflict in conjunction with political, diplomatic and economic measures. But the political leadership will have to take the final decision. A 'counter-incursion' by Indian forces into Chinese territory in some other sector in order to gain some leverage in negotiations remains a more feasible option. "Our forces can also go across the LAC and sit on China's territory somewhere else as a bargaining chip," a senior official said. The focus, however, is on dialogue as of now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/military-options-are-open-if-china-talks-fail-says-rawat/articleshow/77730433.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Goa||Koeman wants Hyderabad FC coach Albert Roca at Barcelona||PANAJI: Ronald Koeman has reached out to Hyderabad FC coach Albert Roca and asked him if he is willing to be part of the coaching staff at FC Barcelona. Koeman left his job as Netherlands boss last week to sign a two-year deal at Camp Nou. He replaced the axed Quique Setien just days after Barcelona’s humiliating 8-2 defeat against Bayern Munich. The former Netherlands coach has been tasked with overhauling the team and, besides having Alfred Schreuder and Henrik Larsson by his side, wants Roca as part of the senior team coaching staff. Roca worked at Barcelona for five seasons between 2003-08 and then followed Dutch manager Frank Rijkaard for spells at Turkish club Galatasaray and Saudi Arabia. “Yes, there is an offer (from Barcelona), but we are waiting for more clarity. This is in the early stages and we expect to know more about this on Tuesday. We don’t know how to react to this. “Obviously, it’s a big opportunity for Roca to go to Barcelona, but Hyderabad FC have to look at their own interest too. The club depends a lot on Roca,” a senior club official told TOI. Hyderabad FC finished at the bottom of the Indian Super League (ISL) standings last season, winning just two of their 18 league matches. The debutants then put their faith in Roca, who gave a wonderful account of himself during his time at Bengaluru FC when he steered the side to the AFC Cup final. Roca has a two-year contract with Hyderabad that ends in May 2022. With Barcelona calling, it may be tough for him to turn down the opportunity, and given Roca’s stature, it might be difficult for Hyderabad to keep him at the club against his wishes. “This is not an easy decision. We are hoping we can find an amicable solution,” said the official. Barcelona have made news for all the wrong reasons this season. Besides the humiliating loss in the UEFA Champions League quarterfinal, they have also surrendered their La Liga title to bitter rivals Real Madrid and have been left with nothing this season. Koeman has some tough decisions to take with several big-name players’ future at stake. Far away from the club in Hyderabad, there is another big decision to make as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/koeman-wants-hyderabad-fc-coach-albert-roca-at-barcelona/articleshow/77729936.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
August 25, 2020||India||CWC meet: Leaks, tweets, resignation offer add to drama||NEW DELHI: An almost blow-by-blow account of the goings-on in a 'members only' meeting of the Congress Working Committee on Monday led to some finger-pointing in the already fraught exchanges between party members as various tweets, some only to be withdrawn, were posted detailing comments by participants in the deliberations. With the coronavirus pandemic forcing the usual closed-door, no-phones-allowed CWC discussions to go virtual, proceedings appeared to have turned particularly leaky, with a steady flow of information being "live tweeted" and aired on TV with the tit-bits being lapped up with gusto and leading to more online conversations. Read AlsoCWC meet: Outnumbered and isolated, dissenters now a small factionThe dissenters who wrote to Sonia Gandhi calling for the appointment of a fully functional and effective party chief found themselves isolated and at the receiving end of the official camp's fire on Monday. The day's developments, with none of their demands being met, left them with few options andThe developments led to concerns being raised by senior members like organisation general secretary K C Venugopal and Ahmed Patel who referred to photographs and information about proceedings being reported live. A visibly angry Patel, sources said, even said the leaks will be probed and action taken as TV screens had shots of Sonia Gandhi in the web platform. With the dissenters' letter to Congress brass leaked just a day before, even Ghulam Nabi Azad, among the signatories, referred to the minute-by-minute news reports of the proceedings. This was read as an attempt, some said, to argue that information about the letter was not all that was compromised. Read AlsoDid he say it or did he not - Rahul Gandhi's remarks on letter writers create flutterNEW DELHI: Did Rahul Gandhi say it or did he not? This was the question on everyone's mind after his purported remarks on a letter written by over 20 party leaders seeking urgent organisational reforms created a flutter. High drama played out at the nearly seven-hour Congress Working CommitteeThings came to a head, however, when reports of Rahul Gandhi accusing the dissenters of "colluding with BJP" surfaced and were followed by another alleging that Azad had offered to resign if Gandhi could "prove his involvement with BJP". Senior member Kapil Sibal, who is not a member of the CWC, withdrew an angry tweet saying he had been misinformed. Azad said, "Let me make it very clear that Rahul Gandhi at no point of time has said, either outside or in the CWC meeting, that the letter was written at the instance, or at the behest or in collusion with the BJP... Some Cong persons wrote yesterday that we are doing this at the behest of BJP. It is in that reference that I said that it is most unfortunate that some of our colleagues outside the CWC had gone to extent of saying that the letter was sent at the behest of BJP... In the meeting I said those people who are outside the CWC who are making these allegations should prove it and I will resign if they prove it. Rahul Gandhi at no point said the letter was sent at the behest of BJP." While Twitterati had a field day at the expense of Congress's warring, sources said fingers were pointed at a former MP for sharing the screen shot of the virtual meeting, and another senior functionary with close links with the media, for 'leaking' information. A section of social media, however, also trained guns at the dissenting leaders, alleging that the leaks were their handiwork. Former social media head of the Congress Divya Spandana, who has resurfaced recently, said, "Not only did they leak the letter to the media, they continue to feed/leak minute-to-minute conversations of the CWC meeting that's going on right now to the media. Amazing!" The sanctity of CWC getting compromised, however, left many leaders saying that this was a small but telling sign of the disarray in which Congress has plunged in recent years. Watch Congress Working Committee meet: Leaks, tweets, resignation offer add to drama||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cwc-meet-leaks-tweets-resignation-offer-add-to-drama/articleshow/77731101.cms||Swati Mathur
August 25, 2020||India||Metro services may resume from Sept 1 with strict checks||NEW DELHI: Metro rail services, suspended for over five months now due to Covid-19, may resume from September 1, with the home ministry contemplating excluding these from the list of prohibited activities under Unlock 4. However, schools and colleges are likely to remain shut in view of fears that these may end up as potential clusters for Covid-19 transmission, according to government sources. Bars too may be allowed to sell liquor over the counter for take-away, though there are still reservations against allowing public consumption of liquor. National Guidelines on Covid-19 Management, last updated by the home ministry on July 29, prohibit public consumption of liquor and tobacco products. Times ViewIn Metro, social distancing is near-impossible. Due to air-conditioned travel, the health risk is higher. On the other hand, schools and colleges are less prone to these hazards. The government’s decision, therefore, throws up a puzzling dichotomy. While any move towards normalcy is a step forward, there must be some logical consistency in determining what can open and what can’t.Sources said while there are no immediate plans to reopen schools and colleges, deliberations are underway on whether professional courses at higher educational institutions like IITs and IIMs can be resumed. "No decision has been taken on this as yet," said an officer. Cinema halls and multiplexes may also have to wait for longer as there is a general assessment that film-makers or cinema hall owners may not find it commercially viable to operate following strict social distancing. The resumption of Metro services in Delhi had been sought by the Arvind Kejriwal government prior to the release of Unlock 3 guidelines, citing the improved Covid-19 situation in the city. However, even though both DMRC and CISF, which handles security at metro stations, were told by the home ministry at the beginning of this month to be prepared for restart of Metro, no decision in this regard was announced. A senior CISF functionary said its precautionary drill for safe re-opening of Metro services is in place and only a direction from the home ministry is needed to operationalise the same. The announcement would spell relief for both the commuters as well as DMRC that has been suffering huge losses due to protracted Metro shutdown. In all likelihood, Metro services will be resumed in phased manner and require strict adherence to social distancing norms both in the coaches as well as at the stations. An interesting thing to look for in Unlock 4 guidelines is whether the home ministry allows public gatherings, particularly for political purposes, in view of Election Commission’s broad guidelines for Bihar polls and other impending bye-elections, okaying holding of campaign rallies and public meetings, subject to extant MHA guidelines and adherence to social distancing norms. The elections in Bihar may be announced sometime next month and with the political climate warming up, parties and candidates would be keen to kick off their campaign by holding public rallies and meetings as soon as possible. Watch Delhi: Metro services may resume in national capital from Sept 1 with strict checks||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/metro-services-may-resume-from-sept-1-with-strict-checks/articleshow/77731707.cms||Bharti Jain
August 25, 2020||India||EC defends allowing Delhi Police to access database for riots probe||NEW DELHI: Election Commission on Monday dismissed allegations on social media that it had gone against own norms by allowing Delhi Police to access photos from its electoral rolls database for facial recognition of persons captured by CCTV cameras while rioting in February 2020, saying that it had not deviated from either its original guidelines issued in this regard in 2008 or the clarificatory orders of 2020. A senior EC functionary told TOI that the Commission, as per the guidelines, is competent to share information from its voter ID database, including photos from the electoral rolls, if required and where there is a written request for the same from any government department or a law enforcement agency. As EC clarified in a press release on Monday, the request for and sharing of such information with the enforcement agencies is as per the latter’s extant Acts and rules, and can be challenged in a court of law. Sources said the extant laws in the case of the relevant request from Delhi Police was CrPC and IPC. “EC does not exist on an island. It works with a whole lot of agencies including the police to conduct elections. If a law enforcement agency approaches us for information on a suspected rioter with evidence of his involvement, who are we to say no,” an EC officer pointed out. Incidentally, the Delhi chief electoral officer was advised by EC in March 2020 – based on a written request from the Delhi Police – to let the police investigators scan the photo electoral rolls for North-East parliamentary constituency, in his office only. “It is hereby clarified in view of the anecdotal reports which are not based on empirical facts, that the Commission has not in any way deviated from the original guidelines of 2008 and clarificatory orders of 2020 in any manner,” said EC. EC said its superintendence and control over the police machinery is limited to the period when the model code of conduct is in force. During this period, the EC has repeatedly acted against senior police officials whose continuance has the potential of disturbing the electoral process. Even during the run up to Delhi polls in February this year, EC had transferred out DCP of South-East Delhi- where Shaheen Bagh, the site of a major anti-CAA dharna, is located -- following adverse reports from its observers and Delhi CEO alleging ‘favouritism’ on the officer’s part.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ec-defends-allowing-delhi-police-to-access-database-for-riots-probe/articleshow/77731798.cms||Bharti Jain
August 25, 2020||India||Rahul obsessed with us, ‘dissenters’ more committed to Cong: BJP||NEW DELHI: BJP on Monday hit out at Congress MP Rahul Gandhi over his purported remarks that the letter by nearly two dozen senior Congress members seeking changes in the organisation will help the ruling party, saying that he is "obsessed" with the saffron outfit. "So obsessed is Rahul Gandhi with BJP that he is beginning to see Congress' veteran leaders as those working in 'collusion' with BJP. Someone rightly said when one's destruction is near, one stops using his own mind," BJP general secretary Bhupender Yadav said. Yadav made the remarks even as Congress denied that Gandhi had accused any party leader of "colluding" with BJP during the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on Monday. Senior Congress member Kapil Sibal, not a member of the CWC, had referred to the purported remarks in a tweet. The former Union minister, however, withdrew it later saying Gandhi had told him "personally" that he had never made such comments. BJP's Tom Vadakkan, who was in Congress for decades and was considered close to the Gandhi family before he joined the saffron party last year, said, "The mirror has cracked. When a mirror cracks, there is no way to put it together. You have to throw it out." Vadakkan also said the commitment of signatories to the letter, which include veterans like Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Ghulam Nabi Azad, to Congress is "definitely much more" than Rahul Gandhi's. "They are not born in the party. They have lived in the party. They have only suggested a course correction and free and fair elections and a leader who is available to lead the party round the clock," he said. Vadakkan claimed denial by Congress that Rahul Gandhi made any statement linking the letter's signatories to BJP was an "afterthought". "He (Rahul) believes if you are not with him, then you are with BJP, not even Trinamool Congress or any other party," he said. MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan said "sycophants" are more effective in Congress whereas Uma Bharti suggested that Congress rope in "actual Gandhis".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rahul-obsessed-with-us-dissenters-more-committed-to-cong-bjp/articleshow/77731901.cms||---
August 25, 2020||India||PM-CARES to finance two hospitals in Covid-hit Bihar||NEW DELHI: PM CARES Fund will finance two 500-bed Covid-19 makeshift hospitals in Bihar, the Prime Minister's Office said on Monday, asserting that this will go a long way in improving Covid care in the state. Announcing the decision, the PMO tweeted: "PM-CARES Fund Trust has decided to allocate funds for fight against Covid-19 by way of establishment of 500-bed Covid-19 makeshift hospitals at Patna and Muzaffarpur, Bihar by DRDO." In a series of tweets, the PMO also said while the 500-bed hospital at Bihta (Patna) will be inaugurated on Monday, the 500-bed hospital at Muzaffarpur will be inaugurated very soon. PM-CARES Fund Trust has decided to allocate funds for fight against COVID-19 by way of establishment of 500-bed COV… https://t.co/ZCFvEO1I87— PMO India (@PMOIndia) 1598249771000These hospitals have 125 ICU beds with ventilators and 375 normal beds each, it said, adding that each bed also has oxygen supply. Doctors and paramedical staff for the hospitals will be provided by the Armed Forces Medical Services, it added. Bihar, which is headed for assembly polls in a few months, is among the states with large numbers of Covid cases. In a review meeting on August 11, PM Modi had noted that 10 states, including Bihar, account for over 80 per cent of country's active Covid-19 cases, and asserted if the virus is defeated in these states, the country will emerge victorious in its fight against the pandemic. Ever since the fund was created in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis, Congress has launched a campaign questioning its relevance when funds like PM National Relief Fund and NDRF were already functional. However, the government has defended the decision strongly saying it has been created with sole purpose to fight the Corona crisis. The Supreme Court recently rejected a plea to transfer PM CARES Fund to NDRF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-cares-to-finance-two-hospitals-in-covid-hit-bihar/articleshow/77731946.cms||---
August 25, 2020||India||CWC meet: Outnumbered and isolated, dissenters now a small faction||NEW DELHI: The dissenters who wrote to Sonia Gandhi calling for the appointment of a fully functional and effective party chief found themselves isolated and at the receiving end of the official camp's fire on Monday. The day's developments, with none of their demands being met, left them with few options and a realisation that Congress managers had used the time between submission of the letter on August 7 and the CWC meeting a little over two weeks later to plan a comprehensive counter-attack. Read AlsoCWC meet: Gandhi loyalists view G-23 letter as revolt, crush call for changeThe seven-hour marathon meeting saw the dissenters, with only four of them in the CWC, being pushed on the back foot. They were charged with being inconsiderate in the timing of the letter and reminded that they had all enjoyed important posts with the confidence of the party leadership. MemberDissenting functionaries later said that while they were attacked through a scripted plan at the CWC, there were no answers to the germane questions they raised about their grievances about organisational decline and need for change of strategy and party structure to take on the BJP. They said the issue has just begun and they will take stock of the correctives that the party takes which were promised at the CWC. It is learned that former minister Kapil Sibal had a few strong words to say when Rahul Gandhi called him to say that he had not accused them of being in cahoots with BJP. Delhi: Congress leaders Kapil Sibal, Shashi Tharoor, Manish Tewari and Mukul Wasnik leave from the residence of Ghu… https://t.co/wI4g7cN0xI— ANI (@ANI) 1598282789000Responding to criticism that they had acted at a time when Sonia was unwell, leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad told NDTV that he had called her private secretary twice before sending the letter. "I was told that she is in hospital for a routine check-up. Still, we waited till she was back home before sending the letter," he said. He said he had called her later and she expressed her inability to respond due to ill health. "I told Soniaji, your health is paramount, all else can wait," Azad said. He claimed that Rahul Gandhi heard him out and was "satisfied" with the response. Read AlsoCWC meet: Leaks, tweets, resignation offer add to dramaSources said fingers were pointed at a former MP for sharing the screen shot of the virtual meeting, and another senior functionary with close links with the media, for 'leaking' information. A section of social media, however, also trained guns at the dissenting leaders, alleging that the leaksAt the CWC meeting, it was made clear that the party's next course of action will very much be decided by the Gandhis even though the dissenters claimed that the lack of a deadline to decide the next party president indicated Rahul's indecision. While the dissenters argued that the leadership was hesitant to appoint even a "dummy", their demands were summarily rejected. Read AlsoRahul obsessed with us, ‘dissenters’ more committed to Cong: BJP"So obsessed is Rahul Gandhi with BJP that he is beginning to see Congress' veteran leaders as those working in 'collusion' with BJP. Someone rightly said when one's destruction is near, one stops using his own mind," BJP general secretary Bhupender Yadav said. He made the remarks even as CongressHeavily outnumbered in the CWC, the dissenters found themselves reduced to a small faction. The signatories held discussions after the CWC meeting but there is no clarity yet on their course of action. Sticking together in the face of a massive "loyalist" counter-attack could be a challenge as the dissenting functionaries have differing agendas. Watch Congress Working Committee meet: Outnumbered and isolated, dissenters now a small faction||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/outnumbered-and-isolated-dissenters-now-a-small-faction/articleshow/77732037.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Business||Private banks slap fees on use of UPI over 20x a month||MUMBAI: All the large private banks have introduced charges, ranging from Rs 2.5 to Rs 5, on person-to-person payments using the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) beyond 20 times a month. Although the government has said that payments using UPI would be free, bankers say that the charges have been introduced to prevent frivolous transactions from putting a load on the system. According to a report published by Ashish Das by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Bombay, banks are interpreting the law to suit them to conclude that, while ‘payments’ are free, transfers can be charged. The report highlights this as an anomaly as such an interpretation would mean that if a user decides to use UPI to split a restaurant bill, the transfers from friends would not count as among the free transactions. The report calls for doing away the difference with the government and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) compensating banks as UPI is the simplest alternative to cash. Private banks have introduced charges (beyond 20 transactions) on UPI at a time when its use is growing nearly 8% month on month during the lockdown. Monthly volumes, which were 80 crores in April 2019, are set to hit 160 crores in August 2020. Part of the reason for the explosion in numbers is the push by fintechs Google Pay, PhonePe and Paytm, which account for the bulk of UPI handles. Google Pay encourages users to make a one-rupee remittance whenever a contact joins the platform. These companies have also been incentivising transfers through rewards and other benefits. Banks say that there is a ‘misuse’ by accountholders sending money back and forth, which increases the load on the system. The IIT report quotes Section 10A of the Payment and Settlement Systems (PSS) Act, 2007, which says that “... no bank or system provider shall impose, whether directly or indirectly, any charge upon a person making or receiving payment by using the electronic modes of payment prescribed under section 269SU of the Income Tax Act, 1961”. According to Das, payments are not distinct from transfers. “Returning a small person-to-person loan amount is a payment. Similarly, giving gift money is also payment. A small roadside cobbler receiving payments or a student making a payment to a tuition teacher can all be done using UPI, where the law does not make it mandatory for the beneficiary to become a merchant (in the UPI sense) to receive such a payment,” he said. Although the RBI is the payments system regulator, the UPI platform is provided by the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI). Banks say the decision to limit free transactions to 20 was taken at a meeting of banks with NPCI on February 14, 2020, where the UPI Steering Committee of NPCI agreed to limit free P2P fund transfer transactions to 20 per month. “NPCI does not explicitly indicate in the said minutes that the banks charge beyond 20 P2P transactions in a month. Therefore, the decision to charge for UPI transactions is that of banks and not of NPCI,” said Das. Watch Private banks levy charges for more than 20 P2P UPI payments per month||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pvt-banks-slap-fees-on-use-of-upi-over-20x-a-month/articleshow/77730232.cms||Mayur Shetty
August 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vjayan’s 4-hour-long reply tests opposition’s patience||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vjayan tested the patience of opposition members in the House by giving nearly a four-hour reply to the debate on the no-confidence motion against his government. The chief minister who began his speech at 5.30pm – and concluded it at 9.15pm – went on to list out the progress report of each department over the last four-and-a-half years. This irked opposition members – mute spectators for almost three hours – who trooped into the well of the House shouting slogans. They alleged that the chief minister was running away from the allegations levelled against his government. However, the speaker said he cannot intervene since the head of the assembly and opposition leader have special privileges while speaking in the House. Unleashing a scathing attack on the leadership vacuum in the All-India Congress Committee, Vijayan said senior leaders of the party are at loggerheads over the choice of leadership. “Rahul Gandhi himself has come out against a bunch of senior leaders alleging that they are acting at the behest of the BJP. It is a fact that there are leaders who are ready to switch if the BJP comes out with good offers. How can people of this state trust such a party?’’ he said. The UDF’s constituents have lost trust in the Congress and this is reflected in the assembly today. The people of the state have lost the trust in the UDF, which became evident in the byelections held to Vattiyoorkavu, Konni and Pala assembly seats. The LDF which came to power with 91 seats increased its strength to 93 over its last four-year rule, the CM said. Vijayan briefly touched on allegations over gold-smuggling case and Life Mission project. He said there is no basis for the accusations linking his office to the gold-smuggling case. NIA has not approached my office or the government secretariat. They have only sent a letter to the general administration department,’’ the CM said. The government had requested the Centre to order a comprehensive inquiry. “We are open to any inquiry and have only supported the NIA investigation,” he said. The CM also defended his cabinet colleague K T Jaleel, who he said had not done anything out of the way while dealing with the UAE consulate. Vijayan said his government will not go back on the Life Mission project. The CM claimed that people of the state have confidence in his government as they aware of the work it has done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cms-4-hour-long-reply-tests-oppns-patience/articleshow/77729326.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Business||At $0.09/GB, India's data plans cheapest||CHENNAI: India continues its run as the market with the cheapest mobile data services worldwide. Moreover, India has also lowered the average cost of 1GB of data by about 65% since November 2018, as operators offer large-sized plans. At Rs 6.7 ($0.09) per gigabyte (GB), the average cost of mobile data in India is cheapest in the world, according to the Worldwide Mobile Data Pricing report for 2020 by UK-based price comparison firm Cable.co.uk. This is also about 65% cheaper compared to Rs 18.5 ($0.3) per GB, which was the cost of data in India in 2018, according to the study. Meanwhile, 1GB of data costs $0.09 in India compared to an average $8 in the US and $1.4 in the UK. The global average cost of data stood at just over $5 per GB. The dip in cost is despite the recent hike in tariffs by telecom operators to combat financial stress as the data packages offered by Indian telcos are larger compared to global benchmarks. India, for instance, is offering plans with caps in the hundreds of gigabytes, or even completely unlimited, the study said. “Generally, providers (in India) are offering larger data packages than they were the time before (when we last measured),” Cable.co.uk consumer telecoms analyst Dan Howdle told TOI. “More data for the same or similar cost means a cheaper 1GB.” “As a country whose young population has a particularly high technological awareness, India offers a vibrant smartphone market, with strong adoption and many competitors. Data, therefore, is quite staggeringly cheap,” he adds. Cable.co.uk analysed data from 5,554 mobile data plans in 228 countries between February 3 and February 25 (prior to the pandemic). The most expensive place in the world to buy mobile data is the island of Saint Helena, where the average cost of 1GB is $52.5 — 583 times as much as in India. Asian nations make up a third of the top 20 cheapest countries for mobile data, with Sri Lanka ($0.5) and Vietnam ($0.6) also in the top 10. Data prices in India have been lower than global benchmarks for a few years now given the entry of Reliance Jio, a fierce price war between telcos, and a large base of smartphone users. However, industry trackers say current mobile data tariffs may be economical for consumers but are not sustainable for the stressed sector. “The declining price trend is unhealthy for the industry. There is a need to have stable pricing so that operators have adequate cash flows to keep the operations up and running,” consulting firm techArc’s founder Faisal Kawoosa said. Earlier this year, the Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) wrote to the sector regulator Trai, batting for a floor price on data tariffs till the industry’s financial stress eases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/at-0-09/gb-indias-data-plans-cheapest/articleshow/77728709.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
August 25, 2020||Patna||Health department plans sero survey in Patna district||PATNA: As the number of Covid cases is inching towards 20,000-mark in Patna, the state health department is likely to conduct serological survey to ascertain the extent of virus spread in both rural and urban areas of the district. A sero survey helps assess the population exposed to SARS-CoV-2 infection using IgG Elisa Test (antibody test). It detects the presence of specific antibodies against the virus. Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRI) at Patna will volunteer the exercise, from collecting blood samples from people to IgG Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) test to estimate the proportion of population exposed to the virus. The institute has recently installed the CLEA machine for the analysis of IgG antibody in blood samples. RMRI director Dr Pradeep Das told this newspaper on Monday that the machine was installed on Saturday and the trial run was conducted on 30 blood samples collected. “The IgG antibody were found raised in nine samples while there was no change in the IgG level in the other 21 samples,” he said. “With the help of this machine, the team will be able to conduct testing of 100 blood samples at a time. It takes only one hour to test 100 samples,” he said. Dr Das said the state government was planning to conduct the sero survey in Patna, but it had yet to decide how many people would be covered in the survey. In addition, the blood samples of 6,000 health workers would also be collected for the sero survey in Patna. For the exercise, the RMRI-Patna and the IGIMS will volunteer. According to sources, the IGIMS team will test around 1,600 samples while 4,400 samples will be tested by the RMRI. The IGIMS has also recently installed the machine to check the IgG antibody in blood samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/health-department-plans-sero-survey-in-patna-district/articleshow/77728055.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 25, 2020||Business||‘Digital health mission will make medical cover efficient’||MUMBAI: The government’s digital health mission has the potential to make medical insurance more efficient by reducing disputes between insurers and policyholders and ending the need for repeat pre-acceptance tests, according to ICICI Lombard General Insurance MD & CEO Bhargav Dasgupta. A health ID, as envisaged by the mission, will maintain a digital copy of all health records of an individual like diagnostics reports, which will be uploaded directly by the healthcare provider. It has also proposed norms for telemedicine and digitisation. “One of the biggest positives out of this would be that disputes at the time of claims would come down. When we are underwriting policies, you do not have to do unnecessary tests and there is no scope for dispute that you have not disclosed something. The whole journey with customers can get streamlined and we could eliminate a very large number of disputes in insurance,” said Dasgupta. However, there could be challenges in the implementation of the mission, launched by PM Narendra Modi on August 15, as this would require the cooperation of the states. “There is a need for centre-state coordination on this, as some of this is in the domain of the states. It is in the interest of everyone if you can bring discipline there will be huge healthcare gains,” he said. Speaking to TOI on the decision to acquire Bharati Axa General Insurance in an all-stock deal, Dasgupta said the deal enables the company to grow without any need for additional capital. “Bharti Axa is roughly 20% of our size. We are paying 7.29% of the equity of the shared entity in shares, so our solvency ratio continues to remain high,” he said. Bharti Axa promoters — telecom czar Sunil Mittal and French insurer Axa — decided to sell out to ICICI Lombard, the third-largest insurer, as their company (ranked 18 as of July 2020) had not managed to scale up. Explaining the rationale, He said that there was operating leverage that would allow ICICI Lombard to generate more profits from the business than Bharti Axa. “They have a loss ratio (claims/total premium) of 78% and the combined ratio of 120% (claims management expenses/premium). That’s a high operating expense which is largely to do with scale,” said Dasgupta. “We liked the company in terms of governance, people and culture and those are important considerations which iron out a lot of issues,” said Dasgupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/digital-health-mission-will-make-medical-cover-efficient/articleshow/77730300.cms||Mayur Shetty
August 25, 2020||Patna||Over 200 ANMs stage protest outside health minister’s home||PATNA: Around 200 contractual auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) from East Champaran district staged protest outside state health minister Mangal Pandey’s residence here on Monday in support of their long-pending demand for pay parity and regularisation of service. The ANMs, who have been boycotting work in Easy Champaran since July 21, shouted slogans against the state government and health minister. The protesting ANMs said they have been working on contract for the past 13 years. “The state health department had promised in 2017 that all the contractual health workers will be regularised as per their working experience. However, nothing has been done yet,” said Raj Bala Verma, an ANM at a primary health centre (PHC) in Ram Nagar. Ruby Kumari, another ANM deputed at Narkatiyaganj PHC, said despite having 10 years of experience, she is still working on contract basis. “We are the frontline workers as far as Covid care is concerned. The state government should revise our salary and grant equal pay for equal work,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-200-anms-stage-protest-outside-health-ministers-home/articleshow/77727996.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 25, 2020||Mysuru||Civic workers to lauch indefinite protest||Mysuru: Members of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Permanent and Contract Pourakarmika Association have decided to stop cleaning work across the city from Thursday and launch an indefinite protest. Their demands include payment of salary directly into their bank accounts. Association state president M Narayana said on Monday that MCC had passed a resolution after seeking the council’s approval to deposit the salaries and wages of permanent and some selected pourakarmikas directly to their bank accounts on March 27. “Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar had issued an order in this regard, but the negligent MCC is still dilly dallying to pay salaries to our bank accounts even after five months of the order being iissued,” he charged. As per the resolution, the MCC must deposit salaries to 1,563 pourakarmikas. He also urged the MCC to seek the council’s approval to deposit the salaries directly to the bank accounts of 231 other civic workers engaged in underground drainage work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/civic-workers-to-lauch-indefinite-protest/articleshow/77728594.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Mysuru||Tourists flock Jog falls, throw caution to the wind||Shivamogga: Large numbers of people flocked popular Jog Falls during the weekend throwing all Covid norms to the wind. Photographs of the crowded falls with maskless tourists have gone viral on social media platforms. Jog authority and the district administration did not enforce Covid guidelines at the tourist spot despite being aware that the popular destination in the Malnad region attracts over thousands of tourists on weekends. According to Jog authority, more than 12 thousand people arrived at the falls on Sunday. There were serpentine queues of both people as well as vehicles parked on the road about 1-km from the entrance gate of the falls. Villagers claimed that the tourists did not follow social distancing norms or wear masks, and no staff was deputed to control the crowd. They expressed resentment at the apathy of Jog authority. Speaking to TOI, Sagar taluk assistant commissioner Dr Nagarj L who also heads the Jog Development Authority said, “The police force is not sufficient to control the mob at the Jog falls. People rushed to Jog on Sunday due to holidays due to Ganesh Chaturthi. We did not expect the numbers and the Jog authority can not do anything about the people outside the gates. People must be made aware of the precautions to be taken.” Deputy commissioner KB Sivakumar conducted a virtual meeting in this regard with Jog officials on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tourists-flock-jog-falls-throw-caution-to-the-wind/articleshow/77728877.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Mangaluru||ARIIA-2020 indicates innovation taking deep root in Tier-II cities||Mangaluru: While educational institutions in metropolitan cities have been known to promote innovations, the culture is now taking deep roots in Tier-II cities. What makes it more interesting is that the innovations coming out of private or non-government funded institutions and not the public varsities. The recently announced Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) stands testament to the fact that innovations are making an inroad into Tier-II cities. In a first, four private institutions from Udupi and Dakshina Kannada — Manipal Academy of Higher Education, NMAM Institute of Technology, Nitte, Yenepoya (Deemed to be University), Sahyadri College of Engineering have figured in ARIIA-2020. MAHE and Yenepoya (Deemed to be University) have featured in ‘Band A ‘(Rank Between 6th – 25th)under the private or self-financed universitycategory, while Sahyadri has been listed as ‘Band A’ institution in private or self-financed college category. Yenepoya Abdulla Kunhi, chancellor, Yenepoya (Deemed to be University) said the university has been consistently performing well both in national and international rankings. Explaining how innovation is given significance at the campus, he said the institution has created an ecosystem that facilitates research and innovation. “The Yenepoya Technology Incubation and Yenepoya Research Centre helps create an ecosystem which has facilities for cutting edge research, rapid prototyping and Medtech designing and early translator accelerator,” he said. At Sahyadri, the students are given a conductive environment to set up start-ups. In a short span of time, several start-ups with unique innovation have rolled out of the institution. The Centre for Social Innovation (CSI) at the campus thrives for the development of local communities through inclusive innovation, specifically the coastal region. Speaking to TOI, NMAMIT principal Niranjan Chiplunkar said, “We have set up separate incubation centres for faculty and students. We have recently moved launched an initiative to promote inter-disciplinary innovations where medical, dental and engineering departments from the university come together.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ariia-2020-indicates-innovation-taking-deep-root-in-tier-ii-cities/articleshow/77729376.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
August 25, 2020||Hubballi||Neersagar will be developed on the lines of Brindavan Gardens: Shettar||Hubballi: Industries minister Jagdish Shettar has said that Neersagar Lake has all the potential to become a major tourist spot of the district, and plans have been chalked out to develop the reservoir on the lines of Brindavan Gardens near Mysuru. Speaking to reporters after offering bagina to the reservoir here on Monday, Shettar said the 300acre land in front of the reservoir an be developed as Brindavan Gardens. Directing the officials to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) in this regard, Shettar said Neersagar was filled to its brim last year, and completely dried up later. “We are happy to see it filled again,” he said. Shettar also responded positively to the request of villagers who submitted a memorandum to him, seeking drinking water to 12 villages located near the reservoir. He also informed that a project of providing drinking water to all the villages of Dharwad district is on cards and a DPR is being prepared. Commenting on the row over non-Hindi-speaking yoga teachers being made to go out of the webinar of the Ayush ministry, Shettar said Centre is not imposing Hindi on anyone. MLAs Arvind Bellad and Prasad Abbayya, MLC SV Sankanur, KUIDFC chairman Shankar Patil Munenkoppa, KUWDSB chairman Raju Gowda, DC Nitesh Patil, HDMC commissioner Suresh Itnal and others were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/neersagar-will-be-developed-on-the-lines-of-brindavan-gardens-shettar/articleshow/77730124.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Trichy||PWD floats tender for phase II of Trichy Elcot IT park||Trichy: After a brief delay, the Public Works Department has floated a tender to take up the Rs 42.26-crore project to expand Elcot IT park at Navalpattu near Trichy city. For the first time, PWD’s building maintenance and construction wing was asked to execute and oversee the project.The 60,000-square feet office space of the existing phase I of Trichy IT park has been occupied completely for the past few years. As there was demand for more office space from Chennai, Bengaluru and Trichy-based IT and ITES companies, Elcot finalised a proposal in July 2018 to expand the IT park on the Navalpattu campus. After a slow beginning, Elcot management in February informed that PWD will execute the proposed phase II of the park. As a follow-up, PWD building maintenance and construction wing has floated a tender inviting class I PWD contractors for the expansion project. Official sources said that the proposed phase II will have five floors, including the ground floor, which will have 1.13 lakh square feet floor area.Barring the common area, reception and restrooms, the park will have 62,000 square feet office space. The floor space and number of floors were evolved by the chief architect of PWD based on the requirements furnished by Elcot, for which PWD will identify an eligible contractor before September 2020, sources said. “We will commence the civil work by December 2020. The overall duration of the project is 18 months,” a senior official with PWD told TOI. It may be recalled that the detailed project report (DPR) was prepared in December 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pwd-floats-tender-for-phase-ii-of-trichy-elcot-it-park/articleshow/77730560.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 25, 2020||Patna||ECR staff lay stress on role of staying fit||PATNA: The officials and employees of the East Central Railway (ECR) along with their family members took part in the ‘Fit India Freedom Run’ on Sunday. As part of the event, which was flagged off by AGM Ashok Kumar, the ECR staff marched through the streets of Digha with banners and placards to highlight the importance of physical fitness. ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar told this newspaper on Monday that the ‘Fit India Freedom Run’, which had begun on August 15, would continue till October 2 in all divisions. “It will encourage people to stay fit and live a stress-free life amid the Covid-19 pandemic,” Kumar said and added that the event was organized keeping in mind all social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-staff-lay-stress-on-role-of-staying-fit/articleshow/77728375.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Mysuru||Senior citizen gets 10 years jail for raping minor||Mandya: A Pocso court convicted a 75-year-old man for raping a minor girl on Monday. Kengabalaih, a resident of Hosabudanur village was sentenced to 10 years imprisonment and has to pay a fine of Rs 7,000. According to police, Kengabaiah had raped a minor girl in Hosabudanur village in 2015. Judge Rajeshwari Heggade held Kengabaial guilty of the crime, and he was accordingly sentenced. Due to Kengabaiah being a senior citizen, the court ordered the police to subject him to a medical test and provide him all necessary medical assistance. Woman bludgeoned to death in HassanA destitute woman, who was aged around 40, was bludgeoned to death with a cement brick on Monday night at NR Circle in Hassan city. The CCTV footage collected by the investigators has revealed that a miscreant used the brick to smash her head. The incident took place around 12 am. The police learned about the incident at 7.30 am. They retrieved a torn vanity bag with a steel utensil and a box to carry betel leaves, that belonged to the deceased, from the spot. A tall man aged around 30 was captured attacking the woman in the CCTV footage of the cooperative bank, where the incident took place. The police are on the lookout for the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/senior-citizen-gets-10-years-jail-for-raping-minor/articleshow/77748033.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Patna||Patna: FIR lodged against 4 in murder case||PATNA: Four persons have been named as accused in an FIR lodged in connection with the killing of property dealer Tuntun Yadav’s deed writer Rajesh Kumar and injuring four others under Beur police station area in Patna on Sunday. The named accused included notorious gangster Dina Gope, his relative Akash Kumar and a realtor Sanjay Kumar. SHO Phuldev Chaudhary said the FIR was lodged on the statement of Tuntun, who was an eyewitness of the incident. “No one has been arrested so far,” he said. The CCTV footage shows shooters brandishing two carbines on the crime scene. Six criminals were involved in the incident. Police suspect Tuntun was the target of Dina, a resident of Karorichak under Phulwarisharif police station, for being a witness in the killing of RJD leader Dina Yadav with an AK-47 assault rifle near Anisabad Mor on May 12, 2018. Reliable sources said a dispute over a plot of land on a prime location in Patna was the reason behind the Sunday firing. IG (central range) Sanjay Singh has constituted a special investigation team headed by City SP (West) Ashok Mishra to crack the case at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fir-lodged-against-4-in-murder-case/articleshow/77728283.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Patna||EC: Voter list should have migrants’ names||PATNA: State chief electoral officer (CEO) H R Srinivasa on Monday asked all the district magistrates-cum-district election officers to ensure inclusion of names of migrant workers in voters’ list. These migrant workers had returned to the state from different parts of the country and abroad due to Covid-19 pandemic. The CEO issued the directive at a meeting with all the DMs, deputy returning officers and other senior officials of the state election department in the run-up to the state assembly polls scheduled to be held in October-November this year. “This was the first meeting after the Election Commission issued detailed guidelines for the upcoming assembly polls,” additional chief electoral officer (ACEO) Baijunath Prasad said. The ACEO said the DMs were told to launch a campaign to include the names of migrant workers in the electoral roll. “Though the names of the majority of the workers were included, some were left out due to one reason or another,” he said. The ACEO added, “The idea is to ensure maximum participation of migrant workers in the democratic process. Nobody should be devoid of their rights to exercise franchise.” According to a rough estimate, over 30 lakh migrant workers have returned to the state from different parts of the country and abroad. It was also decided at the meeting to deploy women personnel at the polling booths and counting centres. The number of polling booths, counting halls and counting centres has been increased in order to maintain social distancing norms. “The counting halls and the counting centres will be spacious,” the ACEO said. The ACEO added guidelines would be issued at three levels – state, district and constituency – for the coming elections to be held in a completely changed scenario. “The DMs have been asked to work out plans at their level,” he said. Sources said around 34,000 additional polling booths would be set up in the state this time. There will also be proper arrangements of sanitiser, face masks and gloves for the polling personnel at each polling booth and counting centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ec-voter-list-should-have-migrants-names/articleshow/77728086.cms||Ramashankar
August 25, 2020||Patna||Bhagalpur ward councillors stage protest against civic body chief||BHAGALPUR: A large number of Bhagalpur Municipal Corporation (BMC) ward councillors led by mayor Seema Saha and deputy mayor Rajesh Verma staged a daylong dharna against municipal commissioner J Priyadarshani on Monday. They accused him of not implementing and delaying various developmental projects in the city. The ward councillors threatened to resign and intensify their stir against the commissioner and sought CM Nitish Kumar’s attention towards their plight. Sources said 35-40 ward councillors out of the total 51 were present in the dharna. They were also upset over Bhagalpur getting a humiliating 4th dirtiest city with less than 10 lakh population in the country. The Swachh Survekshan results were declared recently. They blamed the commissioner’s apathetic approach to the city’s development as the reason behind such a tag. The mayor alleged that the commissioner seldom visits office and administers through subordinates whereas the ward councillors are neglected. “Jo bhi vikas ki yojana board meeting mein pass hoti hai uska bhi kaam nahi hota hai (even developmental projects approved in the BMC board meeting are not implemented),” alleged the deputy mayor. He cited the example of garbage dumping ground project pending since more than a year. He also alleged that several expenditures and purchases were made without the approval of BMC Standing Committee. Later, the BMC commissioner reached the dharna site and expressed her desire to mend the functioning style besides accepting the demands of the demonstrating councillors, deputy mayor Rajesh Verma said. The commissioner also sought the cooperation of the ward councillors, added Verma, saying we would watch her reconciliation gesture before intensifying the protests. Priyadarshani told this newspaper that there were minor issues with the demonstrating ward councillors and had been resolved. “We will work in cooperation with everyone for the betterment of the city,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhagalpur-ward-councillors-stage-protest-against-civic-body-chief/articleshow/77728118.cms||Kumar Rajesh
August 25, 2020||Patna||Lockdown triggers breeding, enhances green cover at zoo||PATNA: The Covid-19 lockdown, which was imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus, has proved to be a blessing in disguise for the inmates and plants at the Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park, popularly known as the Patna Zoo. According to director Amit Kumar, nearly 17,000 saplings were planted on the premises of the zoo from March to August. Besides, 74 trees were shifted from the Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport and transplanted at the zoo, of which 70 survived. “We have also barricaded the green areas to promote seed regeneration. This has significantly enhanced the biodiversity and provided a lush green environment to the zoo inmates,” Amit told this newspaper. The absence of visitors also gave the much-needed privacy to the inmates for breeding which increased manifold during the lockdown. “Mallards laid more than 30 eggs, which is a rare occurrence. Others like peafowl and silver pheasant laid seven and three eggs, respectively, while golden pheasant, white peafowl and sulphur-crested cockatoo gave one egg each. A hyena also gave birth to six cubs amid the lockdown,” Amit said. The zoo authorities claimed that the lockdown gave them an opportunity to take additional care of the inmates. Amit pointed out, “Health check-ups were conducted and the animals given natural protein supplements. Some of them were also shifted to other enclosures to promote mating with new partners.” He added, “Earlier, we used to trim the trees around the enclosures so that visitors could have a better view of the inmates. However, during the lockdown, we have stopped doing so in order to provide more privacy and a forest-like environment to the animals.” However, while the absence of visitors has come as a welcome break for solitary animals like tigers, sociable primates such as monkeys are missing human company. “Monkeys are fun-loving and enjoy the company of visitors. Hence, our staff gather around their enclosures regularly to play with them. This cheers them up,” said Amit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-triggers-breeding-enhances-green-cover-at-zoo/articleshow/77728069.cms||Arunima Lal
August 25, 2020||Dehradun||412 fresh cases surface, 7 deaths recorded in U’khand||Dehradun: Uttarakhand recorded 412 new Covid-19 patients, including chief minister’s officer on special duty (OSD) and chief priest of city’s renowned Tapkeshwar temple, taking the state’s coronavirus tally to 15,529 on Monday. The state also reported seven fresh fatalities, pushing the toll of the virus to 207. Darshan Rawat, another OSD to the CM, confirmed that Alok Bhatt, OSD to CM (financial advisor), tested Covid-19 positive on Monday. District administration officials also informed that Tapkeshwar temple was sealed for 48 hours immediately after its chief priest was found infected. As a precautionary measure, a sanitisation drive would be conducted both in the secretariat and the temple premises, said officials. On the day, Haridwar reported the maximum of 131 Covid-19 cases, followed by 124 cases from Udham Singh Nagar, 66 from Nainital, 27 from Dehradun, 25 from Tehri Garhwal, 22 from Uttarkashi, three from Chamoli, two from Champwat, and one case each in Bageshwar and Rudraprayag districts. Among those found infected in Tehri Garhwal were three cops attached with the deputy superintendent of police of the district. Notably, Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar districts, which touch neighbouring states, have been reporting the maximum number of cases in the state for several days now. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, informed that among the seven deaths reported on Monday, three each were reported from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Rishikesh and Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani. “Yet another death was reported from Government Doon Medical College and Hospital. All the patients suffered from comorbidities along with coronavirus infection,” added Tripathi. Meanwhile, the state also reported 432 recoveries of Covid-19 patients. With this, the tally of cured cases in the state reached 10,912.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/412-fresh-cases-surface-7-deaths-recorded-in-ukhand/articleshow/77727911.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 25, 2020||Mysuru||Residents solve problem of waste management by themselves||Mysuru: Residents of a locality on the outskirts of Mysuru city, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Police Layout II Stage, near Lalitha Mahal Palace, have decided to to stop blaming civic agencies and have come up with a solution themselves for the efficient disposal and management of waste. The locality falls under the ambit of the Alanahally gram panchayat, and its upkeep is the remit of the Mysore Urban Development Authority (Muda). However, the apathetic attitude of both the administrative and the civic bodies to take up disposal of waste in their locality prompted the residents to take the matter, quite literally, into their own hands. The residents got together to start ‘Samana Manaskara Vedike’ in order to oversee the collection and disposal of solid waste. As part of the initiative, the outfit collected Rs 50 per household per month, and with the money collected, an auto-tipper was arranged to collect the waste generated in the locality. The waste was subsequently dispatched to the nearest solid waste management (SWM) unit. Thomas CM, the vedike president, said that the lack of any concern from either the GP or Muda compelled them to find a solution to the problem. “There are a thousand households in our layout. The tipper collects garbage from all the house every alternate day,” said Thomas, a civil contractor. He admitted that there was some resistance from a section of residents to the proposed solution initially. “But all of them gradually came around to it and started to pay the sum. A few residents are still refusing to pay the money, but we ensure that waste is collected from their houses too. A retired man has been tasked with the task of collecting money from all the households, and he is given a salary of Rs 6,000. There is no dustbin in our area but residents are aware enough not to dump waste on the roads,” Thomas added. Leela Shivakumar, a resident in the locality, said that the setup worked in such a way that, should there be a mass gathering or ceremony of any kind in one house, that household, by dint of generation of more waste, paid more for collection of garbage. Leela urged residents of all areas to take management of waste in their respective localities into their hands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/residents-solve-problem-of-waste-management-by-themselves/articleshow/77728450.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
August 25, 2020||Hubballi||Wedding industry keeps its fingers crossed for an upswing in Karthika, Mrugashira months||Hubballi: The Covid-19 crisis turned this year’s summer into a protracted lean spell for the wedding industry, which suffered enormous losses owing with most such occasions either being pared down to spartan events or being deferred. However, the traditional ‘Big Fat’ Indian weddings might probably make a return in the coming Karthika and Mrugashira months in the Hindu calendar. The two months are considered auspicious for the holding of important ceremonies such as a wedding. However, since the number of ‘muhurthas’ - auspicious hours – available in the ensuing months are only 23, and most families are keen on having weddings held in the propitious hour, wedding planners are rushing to book halls. GV Hiremath, manager of Sri Rambhapuri Veera Gangadhar Samuday Bhavan in Hubballi, said that there was a huge demand for booking the convention centre in the month of Karthika. “But we are not confirming any requests owing to the possibility of the government imposing restrictions on such events. We will confirm booking of the hall only in October or November. We are also appealing to parties to ensure adherence to the norms prescribed by the government,” said Hiremath. Subhas Koti, who is consulted for the finalising the muhurtha, admitted to being flooded with people seeking him out for his expertise. He said that the fear of the Covid-19 infection had reduced considerably among the people since most of them understood the necessity to take precautions to stay safe. “People in North Karnataka are also hoping for a vaccination for Covid-19 to be rolled out by November or December,” Koti added. Sources in the industry said that halls and convention centres had been booked for most of the muhurthas in the Karthika and Mrugashira months. Caterers, photographers and videographers who have also been affected owing to the prolonged lull in activity are hoping for an upswing. Proprietor of Vinayak Photography Vinayak Pujari said that, he had been contacted by a few prospective customers hoping to engage his services for weddings. “We are hoping that this will, to some extent, offset the lossess we have suffered owing to the pandemic,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/wedding-industry-keeps-its-fingers-crossed-for-an-upswing-in-karthika-mrugashira-months/articleshow/77729232.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
August 25, 2020||Hubballi||Crowded weekly markets a cause of concern||Hubballi: Weekly shandies with high footfalls have become a major cause of concern among city residents, as the chances of coronavirus spreading here are high. In Hubballi, weekly shandies are held at residential areas on various days and people of surrounding areas visit these markets to buy vegetables, fish and other products. Most vendors violate social distancing and set up their shops without a safe gap and buyers who frequent these markets have expressed their concern about it. There were instances in which people who visited such a market caught the infection. Hence, a few days ago the district administration launched random testing using rapid antigen testing kits. During the drive, many shop owners and vendors tested positive. Recently, a 60-year-old lady who visited Durgad Bail Market before Raksha Bandhan tested positive. However, it is not still clear whether she caught the infection after visiting the market as she had no travel history. Dr DD Bant, head of community medicine department at KIMS told TOI that people should avoid crowded places and the chances of them getting infected by close contact is high. It is better if they don’t go to crowded places at all, he said. Dr VB Nitali, a physician from Hubballi said, “In crowded markets, the viral load will be high. People should not spend more than 20 minutes in the market. They should always wear a mask and maintain social distance.” HDMC commissioner Suresh Itnal said all safety measures have been taken in the weekly markets and health inspectors would also inspect them regularly. If anyone is found without a mask or not following Covid-19 protocols, action would be taken against them, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/crowded-weekly-markets-a-cause-of-concern/articleshow/77729861.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
August 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Vendors protest Mangaluru City Corporation’s eviction drive in city||Mangaluru: Fish sellers and other vendors staged a protest on Monday when the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) officials conducted an eviction drive at Kavoor in the city on Monday. Dozens of vendors, including women were evicted from Kavoor junction. The MCC carried out the eviction drive based on complaints from public, including the local MLA. In the meantime, vendors, in association with trade union leaders, held a protest opposing the drive and demanded that they be allowed to conduct business. MCC’s Town Vending Committee (TVC) member B K Imthiyaz told TOI that vendors have been selling fish, vegetables and fruits at the junction for many years. “They were not conducting business on the footpaths. There is sufficient space and MCC should not have evicted them from the place. Vendors were informed orally to vacate the place and no official communication was made in this regard. Meanwhile, the rent at the alternative place suggested by the city corporation was not affordable to most of the vendors. The city corporation should have discussed the issue at the TVC meet before carrying out the eviction drive. Vendors are already in distress due to the pandemic and lockdown. This move on part of the city corporation was uncalled for since majority of the vendors earn less than Rs 300 per day,” Imthiyaz said. Many vendors, who have street vendors’ identity cards issued by the city corporation, also have been evicted. Most of the vendors have availed loans under government schemes to conduct business. They are not in a position to afford the deposit and rent at the alternative place, he added. Speaking to TOI, MCC commissioner Dinesh Kumar said, “Street vendors are supposed to conduct business only in notified areas. We have already notified an area as street vending place in Kavoor. We have received many complaints from public regarding vendors. We also received a complaint from the local MLA. Hence, we carried out a drive.” Photo Caption: Mangaluru City Corproration officials conduct an eviction drive at Kavoor in Mangaluru on Monday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/vendors-protest-mangaluru-city-corporations-eviction-drive-in-city/articleshow/77729671.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vjayan’s 4-hour-long reply tests opposition’s patience||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vjayan tested the patience of opposition members in the House by giving nearly a four-hour reply to the debate on the no-confidence motion against his government. The chief minister who began his speech at 5.30pm – and concluded it at 9.15pm – went on to list out the progress report of each department over the last four-and-a-half years. This irked opposition members – mute spectators for almost three hours – who trooped into the well of the House shouting slogans. They alleged that the chief minister was running away from the allegations levelled against his government. However, the speaker said he cannot intervene since the head of the assembly and opposition leader have special privileges while speaking in the House. Unleashing a scathing attack on the leadership vacuum in the All-India Congress Committee, Vijayan said senior leaders of the party are at loggerheads over the choice of leadership. “Rahul Gandhi himself has come out against a bunch of senior leaders alleging that they are acting at the behest of the BJP. It is a fact that there are leaders who are ready to switch if the BJP comes out with good offers. How can people of this state trust such a party?’’ he said. The UDF’s constituents have lost trust in the Congress and this is reflected in the assembly today. The people of the state have lost the trust in the UDF, which became evident in the byelections held to Vattiyoorkavu, Konni and Pala assembly seats. The LDF which came to power with 91 seats increased its strength to 93 over its last four-year rule, the CM said. Vijayan briefly touched on allegations over gold-smuggling case and Life Mission project. He said there is no basis for the accusations linking his office to the gold-smuggling case. NIA has not approached my office or the government secretariat. They have only sent a letter to the general administration department,’’ the CM said. The government had requested the Centre to order a comprehensive inquiry. “We are open to any inquiry and have only supported the NIA investigation,” he said. The CM also defended his cabinet colleague K T Jaleel, who he said had not done anything out of the way while dealing with the UAE consulate. Vijayan said his government will not go back on the Life Mission project. The CM claimed that people of the state have confidence in his government as they aware of the work it has done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cms-4-hour-long-reply-tests-oppns-patience/articleshow/77736952.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Kochi||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vjayan’s 4-hour-long reply tests opposition’s patience||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vjayan tested the patience of opposition members in the House by giving nearly a four-hour reply to the debate on the no-confidence motion against his government. The chief minister who began his speech at 5.30pm – and concluded it at 9.15pm – went on to list out the progress report of each department over the last four-and-a-half years. This irked opposition members – mute spectators for almost three hours – who trooped into the well of the House shouting slogans. They alleged that the chief minister was running away from the allegations levelled against his government. However, the speaker said he cannot intervene since the head of the assembly and opposition leader have special privileges while speaking in the House. Unleashing a scathing attack on the leadership vacuum in the All-India Congress Committee, Vijayan said senior leaders of the party are at loggerheads over the choice of leadership. “Rahul Gandhi himself has come out against a bunch of senior leaders alleging that they are acting at the behest of the BJP. It is a fact that there are leaders who are ready to switch if the BJP comes out with good offers. How can people of this state trust such a party?’’ he said. The UDF’s constituents have lost trust in the Congress and this is reflected in the assembly today. The people of the state have lost the trust in the UDF, which became evident in the byelections held to Vattiyoorkavu, Konni and Pala assembly seats. The LDF which came to power with 91 seats increased its strength to 93 over its last four-year rule, the CM said. Vijayan briefly touched on allegations over gold-smuggling case and Life Mission project. He said there is no basis for the accusations linking his office to the gold-smuggling case. NIA has not approached my office or the government secretariat. They have only sent a letter to the general administration department,’’ the CM said. The government had requested the Centre to order a comprehensive inquiry. “We are open to any inquiry and have only supported the NIA investigation,” he said. The CM also defended his cabinet colleague K T Jaleel, who he said had not done anything out of the way while dealing with the UAE consulate. Vijayan said his government will not go back on the Life Mission project. The CM claimed that people of the state have confidence in his government as they aware of the work it has done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cms-4-hour-long-reply-tests-oppns-patience/articleshow/77736953.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Patna||Flood situation still grim in Bihar, 83.62 lakh hit||PATNA/KHAGARIA: The flood situation remained grim in Bihar where 83.62 lakh people across 16 districts are affected. However, floodwaters did not spread to any fresh area in the past 48 hours, the state disaster management department said on Monday. The number of flood victims and affected areas remained the same since Saturday as 83,62,451 people in 1,333 panchayats are reeling from its impact. However, the Ganga continued to flow above the danger mark at Gandhi Ghat and Hathidah in Patna and Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur district, the water resources department said. The river was flowing 18cm above the danger level at Gandhi Ghat, over 35cm above it at Hathidah and more than 36cm above the red mark at Kahalgaon, it said. In Khagaria, the situation remained grim with major rivers like Kosi, Bagmati and Ganga flowing above the danger mark. Over 1.5 lakh people in 135 villages were still struggling with the flood onslaught. Hundreds of families of Alouli, Beldaur, Chautham and Parbatta blocks have taken shelter either on the embankments, higher places or rooftops of the community halls and schools. The situation worsened in Rahimpur Uttari, Rahimpur Dakshini and Rahimpur Madhya under Khagaria block as the Ganga inundated fresh areas, including Baba Tola, Morani, Kuchhery Tola, Nanhku Mandal Tola, Durgapur and Kallar Tola. Khagaria BDO Rajesh Kumar Rajan on Monday visited the flood-affected areas of Rahimpur panchayat. He will submit a detailed report to DM Alok Ranjan Ghosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/flood-situation-still-grim-83-62-lakh-hit/articleshow/77728058.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Mysuru||Police investigation reveals ‘no attack on forest staff’||Mysuru: Two forest staff had lost their lives after drowning in Kabini backwaters when the coracle, in which they were sitting, capsised in Gundre forest range coming under Bandipur Tiger Reserve in April. The forest authorities had claimed that fishermen, who were illegally fishing in the river, had tried to attack the department staff who were patrolling in the boat when the tragic incident took place. However according to police investigation, the foresters allegedly had forced the staff to tell the made-up story to hide the truth. After the tragic incident, the officers had said that they, after receiving the information of illegal fishing in the area on April 24 night, went to the place at 11pm for inspection. During the search, they found fishing nets on the backwaters, but not any person there. Mahadeva, Mahesh, Shivakumar and Bomma took a coracle to remove the nets laid to catch fishes in the waters. While being on the coracle, they saw a miscreant’s torchlight beaming from the other side of the river. As the torchlight neared, one of the staff fired in the air. In the melee, they lost balance and the coracle overturned, leaving them in deep waters. Shivakumar and Mahesh drowned, while the other two escaped. A day after the incident, forest minister Anand Singh visited the spot and met the victims’ family members. Beechanahalli police registered a case and started the investigation. On condition of anonymity, a senior police officer who is privy to the investigation, told TOI that during the investigation it was revealed that the four staff ventured into the river to catch fish allegedly on the direction of the foresters. “Neither was there any fisherman who tried to attack the staff nor was there any murder attempt. It is a case of boat capsise ending in the loss of two lives,” the officer added. The police officer said that after the tragic incident, the foresters cooked up a story, charging the fishermen, who were involved in the illegal fishing in the river, with attacking the staff, leading to the accident. “Investigation is still on, and the truth will be revealed,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/police-investigation-reveals-no-attack-on-forest-staff/articleshow/77728012.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
August 25, 2020||Patna||Delhi mushroom farm owner books air tickets for workers||PATNA: At a time when many people are losing their job and facing pay cuts amid Covid pandemic, a Delhi-based mushroom cultivator, Pappan Singh Gahlot, has sent air tickets to his employees in Samastipur so that they can return to the national capital and resume work. The mushroom cultivation season will commence from next month.The workers will fly from Patna airport to Delhi in a GoAir flight on August 27. Gahlot has booked air tickets worth Rs 1.04 lakh for his 20 workers, who have been working in his farm for the last two decades. Besides, Gahlot will also bear other expenses, including taxi fares, of his employees.Earlier, Gahlot had sent of his 10 workers, all from Samastipur, home by a flight on May 28. These workers were stuck in the national capital after the enforcement of countrywide lockdown by the government to contain the spread of Covid-19.“Since 10 of my workers had already experienced the joy of air travel, I thought it was no fair on my part to leave others. For me, all my employees are equal. Hence, instead of booking train tickets for them, I bought air tickets,” Gahlot told this newspaper over the phone, adding all the workers will undergo health check-up after reaching Delhi.Gahlot said the mushroom cultivation season would begin from September 1. “The crop will be ready for harvest in November. The work, however, will continue till the first week of March. The workers will also prepare the structure (shade) for mushroom and compost,” he said.For Navin Kumar (25), one of Gahlot’s workers, it would be his second flight journey experience. “We will work hard for our ‘maalik (boss)’ who has been very kind to us. He has also provided financial assistance to our families during the pandemic,” he said.Lakhinder Ram, another worker of Gahlot and a resident of Khanpur block in Samastipur, said he was quite nervous while returning home by a flight for the first time. “I am quite confident now. Flight journey is really a thrilling experience,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/delhi-mushroom-farm-owner-books-air-tickets-for-workers/articleshow/77728016.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 25, 2020||Hubballi||NWKRTC’s finances stay in the rut even after lifting of lockdown||Hubballi: The lifting of the lockdown, along with the easing of restrictions in inter-district and inter-state travel, has done little to lift the North West Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) out of the slump that the Covid-19 crisis plunged it into right at the start of the current fiscal year. Persistent fears among the public of the transmission of the novel coronavirus has kept ridership on NWKRTC buses dismally low resulting in the state-run corporation incurring enormous losses. That on August 21 – the eve of Ganesha Chaturthi – NWKRTC's rural division operated a meagre 190 buses, against the 418 that the wing had on the roads on any given day prior to March 24, illustrates the magnitude of its problem. Sources in NWKRTC said that they had deployed more buses hoping to see a spurt in ridership in the run-up to and during the Gowri-Ganesha festive season last week. However, most of the additional buses returned to their respective depots after passengers after waiting for a few hours failed to turn up at the terminals. NWKRTC’s Hubballi rural division controller H Ramanagoudar told TOI, “Last year, we had to operate 80 more buses to accommodate the crowd during the festive season. This year, what we got was nothing but disappointment.” He said that the division’s daily income had plummeted from an average Rs 52-55 lakh to Rs 15.5 lakh. “Where 1.35 lakh passengers travelled by our buses before, now it is only around 35,000,” said Ramanagoudar, who however expressed hope of an upswing in fortunes soon. A senior NWKRTC officer said that, overall, the state-run transport agency earned roughly Rs 5 crore per day before the Covid-19 crisis, whereas the corresponding figure had dropped to Rs 1.5 crore now. “Against 4,660 buses per day, we are operating only 2,680 now,” he said. NWKRTC managing director Krishna Bajpai was not available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/nwkrtcs-finances-stay-in-the-rut-even-after-lifting-of-lockdown/articleshow/77729939.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
August 25, 2020||Patna||6 universities likely to get new VCs soon||PATNA: Altogether six new vice-chancellors (VCs) and eight pro-VCs are likely to be appointed in different universities of the state soon. The Raj Bhavan has expedited the process of selecting the suitable applicants for their interaction with the search committees constituted by the chancellor. The universities, which do not have full-time VCs for the past several months, include Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU), Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University (TMBU), Jai Prakash University (JPU), Patna University (PU), Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga Sanskrit University (KSDSU) and Bhupendra Narayan Mandal University (BNMU). Besides, the offices of pro-VCs in Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar Bihar University, Maulana Mazharul Haque Arabic and Persian University, LNMU, TMBU, JPU, PU, KSDSU and BNMU are also lying vacant. All these posts were advertised more than six months ago and the last date for online submission of applications ended long back. An interview for the appointment of LNMU VC was also held by a three-member search committee in the last week of June. Sources claimed that the screening of applicants for the posts of VCs and pro-VCs of PU, JPU and TMBU was done by a committee headed by A P J Abdul Kalam Technical University (Lucknow) VC Vinay Kumar Pathak via videoconferencing a couple of days back. An online screening of applicants for the posts of pro-VCs of the remaining universities was done on August 16 and 17 by a panel headed by Mahatma Gandhi Gramodaya Vishwavidyalaya VC Naresh Chandra Gautam. Screening for the posts of VCs of BNMU and KSDSU is likely to be held shortly. The Raj Bhavan has already started seeking confidential reports from the authorities concerned about the shortlisted applicants. After receipt of favourable reports, their interaction with search committees will be arranged online. Later, the chancellor will consult the chief minister (CM) for making the final appointment of the new incumbents. Both the chancellor and the CM want to finalize the appointment of VCs and pro-VCs in different universities well before the announcement of the dates of assembly elections and declaration of the code of conduct.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/6-universities-likely-to-get-new-vcs-soon/articleshow/77728315.cms||B K Mishra
August 25, 2020||Business||IPO: Kalyan Jewellers to raise Rs 1,750cr||Chennai: Private equity firm Warburg Pincus-backed Kalyan Jewellers filed its draft red herring prospectus (DRHP) with markets regulator Sebi on Monday to raise nearly Rs 1,750 crore through an initial public offer (IPO). A combination of primary and secondary sale of shares are planned. While a fresh issue of Rs 1,000 crore-worth shares is being proposed, an offer for sale of Rs 750 crore is part of the document. T S Kalyanaraman and his family, who own 76% stake in the jewellery chain, will offload Rs 250-crore worth shares, and Warburg Pincus has proposed to sell shares worth Rs 500 crore. The funds raised would be utilised for working capital requirements. In fiscal year 2020, the company witnessed a 3% increase in revenues at Rs 10,101 crore and a 487% increase in net profit at Rs 145 crore. As of June 30, Kalyan Jewellers had 107 showrooms in India and 30 in the Middle East.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ipo-kalyan-jewellers-to-raise-rs-1750cr/articleshow/77729162.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
August 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Man suspected of killing father||Mangaluru: A car driver died after a youth allegedly attacked him with a sword in Belthangady police limits on Monday. The deceased is Vasu Sapalya, 52. According to police, the youth attacked Vasu near the Junior College Road, when the latter was on his morning walk. Police suspect Vasu was attacked by his son Dayananda, since the relationship between the two had turned sour and they used to pick fights often. Vasu was allegedly worried about his son not finding a job. Vasu, who sustained critical injuries, was rushed to a hospital in Mangaluru, where he succumbed to injuries. Police have seized the weapon used for the crime and investigation is under progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/man-suspected-of-killing-father/articleshow/77729446.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Patna||82% of Covid deceased in Bihar are men||PATNA: The coronavirus cases and the number of casualties due to the virus are much more among men than women, according to the state health department statistics. Majority of the men who died due to Covid-19 were in the 50-70 years age bracket. Men constituted about 82.82% of Covid deaths compared to 17.18% women in the state. The infection rate was also higher among men with 75.56% against only 24.44% women among the total samples tested till August 21. As per the health department data, altogether 1,19,909 people had tested positive and 588 of them died due to the Covid infection in the state in Bihar by August 21. Of the positive cases, 90,598 were men and 29,311 women. As far as the death toll is concerned, 487 of them were men and 101 women. Among the deceased, 71.3% had been in the 51 to 60+ age group and around 76% of the total were men. Health experts attributed biological and hormonal factors as well as comorbidity as the reasons behind the huge difference in Covid infection rate and death toll among men and women. RMRI director Dr Pradeep Das told this newspaper on Monday that the comorbid conditions like hypertension, heart ailments and diabetes are comparatively lower among women than in men. “Secondly, men are more prone to the diseases after 60 while women have gynaecological problems. Chances of heart ailments and hypertension are also there among women because they work hard,” he said. AIIMS-Patna, where more than 1,600 underwent treatment for Covid 19, also reported 249 Covid deaths till then. Only 45 (18.07%) of them were women and the remaining 204 (81.92%) were men. AIIMS-Patna nodal officer for Covid, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said initially, only 9-10% women had been infected. “Even after six months, the proportion of infection rate among women is still 24-32% and death rate was 17-20%. This is only statistic but not scientifically proved why there is a huge gender gap in Covid positive cases and deaths,” he said. “There are several theories behind this gap, including hormonal and biological factors. After pre-menopausal, chances of heart stroke is low among women but the elderly among them are vulnerable to the disease. Secondly, as the virus affects the lungs and respiratory system, men are more vulnerable because of comorbid conditions like asthma, emphysema and interstitial lung disease due to smoking, compared to women,” Dr Kumar said. He added: “All these theories are indirect evidences. There is no valid reason behind the gender gap as far as Covid infection is concerned. The same is the case across the globe.” NMCH superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh said the infection rate in women was low, when compared to men, because physically they are more resistant to the virus. “The double X-chromosomes in women bestow an immune advantage and help resist the foreign virus. It could be the reason behind gender gap in Covid cases,” he said. Of the 133 Covid deaths at NMCH, 107 were men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/82-of-covid-deceased-in-bihar-are-men/articleshow/77727910.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 25, 2020||Allahabad||Ganga, Yamuna in spate; people move out of low-lying localities||Prayagraj: With Betwa and Chambal in spate due to heavy rainfall in Madhya Pradesh, the water level of Ganga and Yamuna continued to rise on Monday, forcing many residents living in flood-prone areas to shift to safer locations in Prayagraj. Although both Ganga and Yamuna are still below the danger mark of 84.73mt, the water being released from barrages in Kanpur and Matatila in Lalitpur has the district administration alert. The barrage in Kanpur is built over Ganga, while the one in Lalitpur is constructed over Betwa. The twin rivers have been rising since the past five days and their pace has increased over the past 24 hours. On Monday, riverwater started inundating low-lying areas in Phaphamau, Salori, Daraganj and Jhunsi. Ganga’s water level at Phaphamau increased by 19cm as compared to Sunday. At 8am, the level was recorded as 79.42mt. At Chhatnag, which is around two kilometres downstream of Sangam, Ganga has risen by 38cm and its water level was recorded as 77.08mt. Officials said that Yamuna’s water level has been increasing at the rate of 35cm over the past 24 hours. At Naini, water level of Yamuna on Monday was 77.60mt. Execrative engineer of flood control unit Brijesh Kumar Verma said, “At 4pm, the water level of Ganga at Phaphamau was recorded as 79.45mt. At Chhatnag, the level was recorded as 77.23mt. At Naini, Yamuna’s water level was recorded as 77.80mt at 4pm.” . “The huge volume of water discharged into Ganga from Kanpur barrage and from Betwa in Lalitpur would be reaching the district over the next 24 hours. The water level of both the rivers is expected to increase further,” said Verma. National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams have been visiting localities situated near river banks to review the situation. They are also helping residents shift to safer places in the wake of the swelling rivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/ganga-yamuna-in-spate-people-move-out-of-low-lying-localities/articleshow/77725854.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Bhopal||Testing rises, but Madhya Pradesh still far behind other states||BHOPAL: The claims of state government notwithstanding, Madhya Pradesh is still lagging in Covid-19 testing with barely 14,000 odd tests per million compared to other states. This, despite the state increasing its testing capacity and undertaking 1.9 lakh tests in the last nine days averaging more than 21,000 tests per. The state still is not only lowest in terms of having less positive cases—but it is also lowest of those 15 states to conduct tests. As per the figures available from the state government, in the first month of Covid-19 infection March and April on an average only 1,158 tests were done daily and it increased to 4,067 tests a day in May and 6,588 tests per day in June. MP is worse when it comes to tests per million compared to states like West Bengal, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Approximately 14,161 tests per million have been conducted in MP where so far 12 lakh tests have been done, more than 24 lakh tests have been done by Bihar with 20,872 tests per million population while more than 46 lakh tests have been done in Uttar Pradesh so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/test/articleshow/77730576.cms||Amarjeet Singh
August 25, 2020||Patna||All buses to ply in Bihar from Tuesday||PATNA: Government and private buses will start plying across the state from Tuesday onwards. A decision in this regard was taken in the crisis management group meeting of the government headed by state chief secretary Deepak Kumar on Monday. State transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said interdistrict, intradistrict and interstate movement of buses would be allowed from Tuesday. However, it will be mandatory for passengers, drivers and conductors to wear masks. “The number of passengers, under any circumstances, should not exceed the number of seats,” he added. Though buses were earlier allowed to ply from July 1 onwards, all public transport services, except rail and air travel, were once again stopped on July 16 after the enforcement of fresh lockdown in the state. Autorickshaws, cabs and taxis were, however, allowed to ply. Agarwal, however, said buses would not be allowed to ply in containment zones. “The officials concerned have been asked to ensure that the bus owners sanitize and clean their vehicles after each trip. The drivers and conductors should wear clean clothes, masks and gloves. Bus owners will also have to provide sanitiser to the passengers. Those violating the instructions will face action,” he added. Agarwal also asked the officials to make it sure that social distancing is maintained by people while boarding or de-boarding the buses. The districts have been asked to deploy magistrates and cops in sufficient number at bus and taxi stands to maintain social distancing. Shop timings revised: The government on Monday revised timings for sale of vegetables, meat and fish in all the district, divisional and block headquarters in the state. As per the fresh order, sale of these eatables will be allowed from 6am to 11am and 4pm to 6.30pm. A notification in this regard was issued by additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/all-buses-to-ply-in-state-from-today/articleshow/77727933.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Minister opens 500-bed Covid hospital at Bihta||PATNA: A 500-bed Covid care hospital, constructed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) at Bihta in Patna and funded under the PM-CARES, was inaugurated by Union minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai on Monday. A similar makeshift hospital will become functional at Muzaffarpur in a week. “PM-CARES Fund Trust has decided to allocate funds for the fight against Covid-19 by way of establishment of 500-bed makeshift hospitals at Patna and Muzaffarpur by DRDO. This will go a long way in improving Covid care in Bihar,” the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) tweeted on Monday. Rai appreciated the efforts put in by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to tackle Covid-19 in Bihar and said, “People do not need to worry because they will get free treatment at the hospital.” The Bihta hospital has 125 ICU beds with ventilators and 375 normal ones with oxygen supply. While doctors and paramedical staff for the hospital will be provided by the Armed Forces Medical Services, the state government will ensure free provision of 2 lakh litres of water every day, 6 MVA power, security and fire tenders. Welcoming the decision, Patna civil surgeon Dr R K Chaudhary told TOI that the Bihta hospital would strengthen the health infrastructure of the state. “In Patna district alone, there are over 3,000 beds for Covid patients — 437 at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, 100 at Patna Medical College and Hospital, 400 at All India Institute of Medical Sciences and 100 at Patliputra Sports Complex. Apart from these, 30 private hospitals have been allowed to treat corona patients,” Dr Chaudhary said and added that over 2,000 people had opted for home isolation. Patna district has registered 19,112 Covid-19 cases so far. With 16,073 recoveries and 124 deaths, there are 2,915 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/minister-opens-500-bed-covid-hospital-at-bihta/articleshow/77727961.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 25, 2020||Delhi||Drain brain: How bio-parks in Delhi are taking care of waterlogging||NEW DELHI: There are some spots in the capital where waterlogging is no longer a problem. The accumulated water, a big civic problem earlier, is now directed towards biodiversity parks, where channels have been designed to take the rainwater to end up either at a recharge pit or in a waterbody. Not only is waterlogging managed in this manner, but groundwater is replenished and ponds that dry up during the summer are also revived. Waterlogged roads near Kashmere Gate and Civil Lines used to be a big problem. Now, the water is directed to north Delhi’s Kamala Nehru Biodiversity Park to eventually restore the waterbodies there. The dried, old ponds have been rejuvenated, among them a serpentine lake. Park officials said the landscaping has been carried out in such a way as to ensures no major pathways in the park are affected by the water. Boulders and logs used to stop silt from flowing into the waterbodies. “Instead of flowing out of the park as earlier, rainwater naturally enters the depression through diversions created for the purpose,” explained Harmeet Singh, park official. “The Khooni Jheel, located in the middle of the biodiversity park sees the water level rise 5-6 feet during this time of the year, while a dried-up waterbody — we call it the Serpentine Lake — has filled up part of the way.” Singh also said that the waterflow diversions are strengthened each week by adding stones and sand. A similar strategy has been adopted at the Tughlaqabad Biodiversity Park in south Delhi, which due to its natural slope earlier either channelled rainwater into the drainage system or to accumulate on Ma Anandmayee Marg running adjacent to the park. Park officials said earthen check dams were erected to solve the problems, with boulders being used to raise the height of the ground surface to prevent the water from flowing out of the park. “We created check dams with pits and elevated height at spot where the water would exit the park,” informed Vivek Choudhary, scientist in charge of the biodiversity park. “Water now accumulates in these depressions and they become mini reservoirs. After a few days, you notice the water level has reduced, which is natural and indicated that the water has seeped below the surface. This naturally recharges the groundwater aquifers. We also use the collected water for irrigation and water. The waterlogging is no longer a problem.” Faiyaz Khudsar, scientist in charge of Yamuna Biodiversity Park, explained that creating earthen check dams in most cases takes only a few hours. But they allow several thousand litres of water to be collected and utilised. “At the Yamuna Biodiversity Park, any water that gets accumulated is diverted through a natural slope that has been designed to channel the water either to the lake in the park or to take it to the river,” said Khudsar. “Such waterbodies are able to sustain themselves through this method of rainwater diversion and can recharge the groundwater substantially over time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/drain-brain-how-bio-parks-are-taking-care-of-waterlogging/articleshow/77730653.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 25, 2020||Dehradun||Minor reshuffle in bureaucracy||Dehradun: In a minor bureaucratic reshuffle on Monday, the state government gave the charge of additional chief secretary of externally aided project (EAP) to senior IAS officer Manisha Panwar. The charge of principal secretary of EAP was withdrawn from Anand Bardhan. Besides, the charge of project director of EAP was withdrawn from Shailesh Bagauli and given to SA Murugesan. Also, Alok Shekhar Tiwari was given charge of additional secretary of education. Anshul Singh was shifted from the post of deputy collector of Pauri and given charge of the deputy collector of Haridwar, which till now was held by Prateek Jain. Meanwhile, Jain has been made the new deputy collector of Nainital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/minor-reshuffle-in-bureaucracy/articleshow/77727937.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 25, 2020||Bhopal||Tech glitches, ‘wrong timing’ mar first day of RGPV’s open-book online exams||Bhopal: The very first day of the online open book exams for the engineering and other technical courses was marred with technical glitches on Monday. Even basics like logging consumed more than 45 minutes of the exam duration, students said. The number of complaints pouring in was so large that the RGPV had to made it clear within hours that students who faced the technical problems and therefore could not complete their paper will be given another opportunity. Of the total 34,667 students who registered, 30,609 appeared for the exam. First paper was completed in four shifts. Highest number of students (10,600) appeared in the second shift, while the lowest number of students (5,123) appeared in the first shift of the exam organised in the morning. Exam was supposed to start at 8.45 am. As per the schedule, the students sat in front of their laptops and mobile phones. However, students were surprised when they could not login for almost 45 minutes. “It was a very tense situation for everyone. I had to ring my friends and they were too said they were facing the same problem,” said a student without quoting his name. Another student said that even the time chosen for the exam was wrong. “When I logged in, the timer displayed that I was ahead of the time. As it was ahead as per the time I stopped moving further,” said another student. Even after login several students have complained that they paper was submitted before they could complete the exam. “I am worried about my result as the exam completed before I could attempt other questions,” said a student. When contacted, RGPV’s PRO Shashi Ranjan Akela said, “The exam was deliberately delayed by 45 minutes so that students could set themselves properly. It was noticed during the mock test that several students were not able to login as per the given time,” said Akela. About students who could not complete the exam, Akela said, “Students who faced problems in completing the exams due to some technical glitch will get another opportunity. Dates will be announced soon.” Students of final year of different technical courses including engineering and pharmacy are to appear in the first ever complete online open book exams. Question papers have only multiple-choice questions. In all, there are 48,765 students of the final year who are to appear in the exam. RGPV received registration of 44,930 students. RGPV had conducted a couple of mock tests also before conducting final exams. In all, 40,944 students had appeared in the mock test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/tech-glitches-wrong-timing-mar-first-day-of-rgpvs-open-book-online-exams/articleshow/77730600.cms||Ramendra Singh
August 25, 2020||Bareilly||25-year-old man drowns in river, body fished out||Pilibhit: A 25-year-old man Ravindra Singh of Rajeev Colony under Sungarhi police station drowned in Devha river on Sunday evening while he was fishing in nearby Rooppur Kamalu village. His body was recovered by villagers from the river around 11pm, after which it was sent for autopsy by the police on Monday morning. According to Krishna Pal, the father of the deceased, his son used to take cattle for grazing to Rooppur Kamalu village where he used to spend time fishing. “On Sunday evening, as he stepped into the river, he got into a whirlpool and was drifted by the river discharge up to around 5 kilometers. After a four-hour-long rescue operation, his body was fished out by villagers,” Pal said. Station house officer (SHO) Atar Singh said that police were waiting for the autopsy report to see if there was anything indicating the involvement of a criminal activity relating to Ravindra Singh’s death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/25-year-old-man-drowns-in-river-body-fished-out/articleshow/77725514.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Trichy||Vande Bharat flight from Kuwait to reach on August 29||Trichy: After a long wait, a Vande Bharat mission flight from Kuwait carrying people who were stranded in Kuwait due to the lockdown will arrive at Trichy on August 29.The Centre has scheduled the flight after repeated appeals made by the stranded people. More than 20,000 Tamils are stranded in Kuwait, particularly those hailing from the central region.Trichy International airport had so far handled 139 services to bring 23,205 citizens, mostly Tamils stranded in several countries. But, no flights were operated from Kuwait so far under the mission. Thousands of Tamils who were stranded in the country expect more rescue flights to Trichy.It may be noted that both Air India Express and IndiGo are operating 12 services to Indian cities including Chennai, Delhi, Vijayawada, Bhubaneshwar, Jaipur, Bengaluru, and Hyderabad from Kuwait. Meanwhile, 2,719 stranded Tamils had flown to Trichy by 19 chartered flights so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/vande-bharat-flight-from-kuwait-to-reach-on-august-29/articleshow/77730562.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Trichy||Four of family and two pets found dead in Thanjavur||Thanjavur: A 50-year-old woman, her daughter and two granddaughters were found dead in their home near Pattukottai in Thanjavur district on Sunday night. The deceased have been identified as R Shanthi, her daughter R Tulasi, 24, and Tulasi's two daughters aged four years old and eight months old. All four of them lived in a rented house in Valavanpuram. The two kids were found lying dead and the women were found hanging in the house. Two pet dogs owned by the family were also lying dead near the children. On Sunday, till 10pm none of them from the house came out. Following this, neighbours informed the village administrative officer (VAO) Sumathi, who in turn informed the Pattukottai police. A team headed by inspector Periyasamy reached there at 11pm on Sunday. Preliminary investigations revealed that the family shifted to the house in January from Mannargudi in Tiruvarur district. Shanthi had moved to Pattukottai along with Tulasi and her two granddaughters after her husband, Rajagopal, died a year ago. Tulasi and her husband were not together. Since Tulasi did not have a job, her siblings, who worked abroad, had offered financial help. However, due to issues within the family, Tulasi stopped getting help, according to police. Police retrieved the bodies and sent them to Pattukottai government hospital for postmortem. The carcasses of the two pet dogs were sent to a veterinary hospital in Pattukottai. A case was registered, and investigations were on to ascertain the cause of death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/four-of-family-and-two-pets-found-dead-in-thanjavur/articleshow/77730573.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Goa||Outrage over sexual abuse of special child||PANAJI: A day after Goa Police arrested 30-year-old Varun Nayyar, belonging to a prominent restaurateur family, on charges of sexually abusing a special child, there was outrage on social media over the case. Posts relating to the case went viral, being shared by hundreds of social media users. Meanwhile, police remand for Nayyar was extended to five days, from the initial three days. Avelino de Sa of Disability Rights Association of Goa raised an alarm in his social media post over the case being the second such incident reported in the state within a week where the survivor was a child with special needs. “Goa reported its second case of sexual assault of special needs child in one week. No offence registered under Section 92 of the Rights of Persons with Disability Act, 2016, in both cases. Implement #RPWDAct 2016,” de Sa said in his post. Members of Popular Front of India-Goa demanded police protection for the girl in the latest sexual abuse case. “Popular Front of India-Goa request the law enforcing authorities to give full protection to the victim girl and not allow any influential politicians to interfere in the case,” the organisation said. Activist Sudeep Dalvi was among the first to express outrage at the incident reported on Sunday. “Goa! Say No to paedophilia! If you can’t, history won’t ever forgive you,” Dalvi wrote on Facebook, his posts on the subject getting hundreds of reactions from netizens. On Sunday, police officials said that Varun Nayyar was arrested based on a complaint filed by parents of the 13-year-old girl, who is suffering from dyslexia. The incident took place on August 17, when the accused allegedly took the teenager to an isolated place near Panaji in his car and molested and sexually abused her. Nayyar was booked under Section 8 of the Goa Children’s Act and arrested soon after. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/outrage-over-sexual-abuse-of-special-child/articleshow/77731459.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Varanasi||Covid patient jumps off 4thfloor of BHU hospital, dies||Varanasi: A 21-year-old Covid-19 patient jumped off the fourth floor of Sir Sunderlal hospital, Banaras Hindu University, late Sunday night and was rushed to the emergency ward where doctors declared him dead. SS hospital’s medical superintendent Prof. S K Mathur said, “The deceased Ankit Pathak (21) of Kaitholi village in Phoolpur police station area was brought to the emergency wing of hospital on August 16. He was suffering from psychosis. He was admitted and kept in the holding area as per Covid protocol. When his corona test was conducted, he tested positive and was shifted to Covid ward.” “He had tried to jump off at 11am also, but his attempt was foiled. The staff took him back to his bed and a counselling session was conducted. We had called Ankit’s family and advised them to take him home as it would benefit his mental health. But, the family refused to take him home and asked us to continue his treatment at the hospital,” he added. SP City Vikas Chandra Tripathi said the patient’s body was handed over to the family after post-mortem and was cremated. The family has not given any complaint so far, he added. Inspector Lanka Mahesh Pandey said, “BHU chief proctor informed us that a patient had jumped off the hospital’s fourth floor. He was rushed to the trauma centre but he could not be saved. The body was sent for postmortem examination after which it was handed over to the family.” Ankit’s sister Priti Mishra and brother-in-law Kishan Mishra said, “The hospital administration informed us that he died after jumping off the fourth floor of hospital.” His mother Madhuri alleged that she lost her son due to laxity of the hospital, but the family did not file any complaint in this regard. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma has sought details of the incident from the hospital and asked BHU administration to conduct an internal probe into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/covid-patient-jumps-off-4thfloor-of-bhu-hospital-dies/articleshow/77727126.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Dehradun||Waste polluting Rispana catchment areas, locals concerned||Dehradun: The catchment areas of Rispana river near IT park in Dehradun are gradually turning into garbage dump sites as the waste flowing along with the river gets collected in these basins. The garbage drained in these areas range from domestic to bio-medical wastes. Recently, the catchment areas of the river, which runs through the state capital, were cleaned by volunteers of a social organisation but rain spells brought heaps of garbage in the area once again, say residents. City locals have expressed concern regarding excessive garbage that flows into the river. They say that the waste piles get stuck around bridge pillars, making it difficult to be removed. Yashveer Arya, a resident of the city’s Canal Road said, “The waste dumped at various sources in the river is getting collected in the catchment area near the IT Park. The waste collected here includes household goods, muck, sewage sludge, and what not. The garbage must be removed from the catchment areas or else it will keep flowing in the river.” Another resident Rajvir Singh said “Apart from carrying out cleaning drives, the civic bodies must create awareness among the people living along the rivers as a lot of waste is thrown by people in the water and children can be seen defecating along the river. It’s high time we stop polluting our water bodies and start preserving them.” When queried on the issue, city mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama told TOI, “The matter will be brought to the notice of the irrigation department, which will carry out a drive to get the garbage removed from the river.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/waste-polluting-rispana-catchment-areas-locals-concerned/articleshow/77727947.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Kolhapur||‘Provide transport for students’||Kolhapur: Congress MLA Ruturaj Patil on Monday demanded that the state government should provide transport facility to the students appearing for the JEE and NEET, to be held on September 1 and September 13, respectively. “Now it is clear that the exams will be held as per the schedule despite demands to postpone them owing to Covid-19 pandemic. The students, however, will face inconvenience due to transportation issues. Hence, I have demanded the state government to make transportation available and appoint officials at district-level for proper coordination,” Patil said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/provide-transport-for-students/articleshow/77858451.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Pune||Entries invited for Times Green Ganesha||Pune: The Times Group has announced Times Green Ganesha (TGG) in association with the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board on the theme of taking a pledge to protect the environment. TGG makes an appeal to people to avoid using Plaster-of-Paris, plastic and thermocol and all non-bio-degradable materials for idols and decoration. Over the last 12 years, this campaign has built awareness about eco-friendly efforts of several homes, societies and Sarvajanik Ganesh mandals. Times Green Ganesha Awards is instituted to encourage environment friendly thinking and instil a sense of responsibility amongst citizens. This award recognizes and rewards eco-friendly measures undertaken by households, societies and public Ganesh mandals on various parameters. The four main parameters are eco-friendly Ganesh moorty, decoration and immersion. Winners will be felicitated at the grand finale in Mumbai. To participate in TGG 2019, log on to website www.mtganeshutsav.com . Upload images of your eco-friendly Ganapatis under Times Green Ganesha Tab or just email your details to timesgreenganesha@gmail.com before September 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/entries-invited-for-times-green-ganesha/articleshow/77730623.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Pune||Demand for modaks made at home rises in Pune amid pandemic||PUNE: City-based entrepreneur Asmita Khot, who sells “ukdiche modak” during Ganeshotsav, is swamped with orders this year. Compared to orders for around 150 pieces of ukdiche modaks across the 10-day-long festival, she is now making over 100 modaks each day since the festival began. “We delivered over 200 pieces of modak on Ganesh Chaturthi and more than 100 pieces on the subsequent days. Fresh orders are coming in every day. Many customers told us they have opted for homemade modaks because of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and concern about hygiene standards,” her son Ajay Khare-Khot said. Asmita is the only one who touches the modaks. “She washes her hands thoroughly with soap and water before she starts working. She is the only one who touches the modaks. She also wears a mask while she is at work. To ensure safe delivery, we check the address of the delivery boys to ensure they aren’t from containment zones,” the mother-son duo said. It is similar for many other home cooks and home-based delivery kitchens, who are receiving regular orders for modaks, puranpoli and other sweets. Many stated fear of Covid-19 had led more customers to approach home cooks for sweetmeats instead of purchasing packaged products. Jayesh Paranjpe, owner of a city-based home kitchen Pangat, Marathi Home Kitchen, said, “We received orders for around 350 pieces on Chaturthi, which we delivered personally. Around 10% orders were picked up by customers. We had two women to make the modaks, who wore masks and followed safety protocols.” Madhavi Ghodke of Madhavi’s Kichenette, said, “New orders continue to pour in. Customers have said they feel safer ordering from a home kitchen because of the Covid-19 pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/demand-for-modaks-made-at-home-rises-amid-pandemic/articleshow/77730622.cms||Rujuta Parekh
August 25, 2020||Pune||Police cuff two, recover five firearms||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch on Monday claimed to have seized five county-made pistols with the arrest of two criminals earlier this month. Assistant inspector (crime branch) Ambarish Deshmukh said, “ We arrested Santosh Rathod (23) a murder suspect from Pune rural on August 10. Rathod was recently released on bail. We seized one country-made pistol and two cartridges from him.” Probe also revealed the name of Somnath Chavan (30), a sand mafia from Karad in Satara district. “We took him into custody from Satara jail on August 17. “We recovered four pistols and two cartridges from Chavan. He has 18 cases registration against him with the Satara, Pimpri Chinchwad and Thane police.” The action by the crime branch comes as an extension of the investigation into the recovery of 36 firearms in July following the arrest of an arms peddler from Madhya Pradesh and other criminals from different parts of Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-cuff-two-recover-five-firearms/articleshow/77730656.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Pune||Criminal held in robbery, assault case||Pune: The Yerawada police on Monday arrested a criminal on record and booked his accomplice on the charge of assaulting a grocer with a sickle and robbing Rs2,500 from his store in Yashwantnagar on Sunday. Police have identified the arrested suspect as Nilesh Salve, while his brother, Nikhil from Yashwantnagar, is on the run. Senior inspector Yunus Shaikh from Yerawada police said, “The duo, armed with sickles, visited Bhavani supermarket brandished a sickle and demanded money. When Chaudhary refused, they attacked him with a sickle and robbed the cash.” Shaikh said, “Our probe revealed that the suspects would frequently take goods from Chaudhary’s shop without paying for them. The suspects also terrorized the other residents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/criminal-held-in-robbery-assault-case/articleshow/77730662.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Dehradun||Squatters at landing zone of Mussoorie-Doon ropeway asked to vacate by Sept 10||Mussoorie: Those living in illegal dwellings on Mussoorie Municipal Council (MMC) land at Chifankot near Gandhi Chowk were asked to vacate the premises by September 10 and about 15 shacks were demolished by the administration on Monday morning. The move triggered high-voltage drama as residents of the illegal colony along with political representatives reached the site in a bid to stop the demolition of their houses by the administration. Mussoorie MLA Ganesh Joshi even met the state chief minister on Monday morning to grant some time to these families for removing their belongings. “The chief minister gave these families time till September 10 to vacate the site. I will also make all possible efforts to help these families resettle at another site,” Joshi assured. Additional district magistrate Arvind Pandey told TOI that around 60 squatters had signed a declaration to vacate the premises on their own by September 10 and their houses were not demolished. Sources told TOI that a few families who were out of town have also promised to sign the affidavit. However, about 15 shacks were demolished by the administration on Monday. Meanwhile, police have been deployed in large numbers at the site to maintain law and order. “There was a heavy deployment of police force at the site and no untoward incident took place,” said superintendent of police Shweta Choubey. It must be mentioned that the landing zone of Doon-Mussoorie ropeway is proposed at Chifankot and therefore, more than 80 illegal dwellers are being asked to vacate the site. Earlier, the High Court had stayed the administration from vacating the premises till August 17. The ropeway project, worth Rs 300 crores, would connect Purkul village in Dehradun to Gandhi Chowk in Mussoorie.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/squatters-at-landing-zone-of-mussoorie-doon-ropeway-asked-to-vacate-by-sept-10/articleshow/77727972.cms||Anmol Jain
August 25, 2020||Nagpur||Covaxin trials Phase-II commences in city today||Nagpur: Tuesday will mark the beginning of the most important Phase-II of the human trials of Covaxin, a made-in-India vaccine for Covid-19. The trials under way at Dr Gillurkar Hospital and Research Centre in city will see 55 participants begin their the 28th day blood tests. First three patients, who were administered the first dose of vaccine on July 27 and second dose on August 11, will report for 28th day blood test on Tuesday. If they have developed enough antibodies against the Covid-19, it will confirm the effectivity of the vaccine. As no one has developed any symptoms/reactions, its safety is already proven, experts say. Dr Chandrashekhar Gillurkar, director of the institute, told TOI all 55 participants who have been given first as well as second shot of Covaxin were doing well. “With 55 participants, Nagpur is second trial site in country when it comes to the number of participants. From Tuesday onwards, we will start collecting blood samples of all 55 participants on their respective 28th day. These will be sent for testing to centralized lab in Delhi,” he said. According to him, all participants have been administered two doses of Covaxin in the last 28 days. Now, the tests will be done to know the exact amount of antibodies developed in their bodies. After the first dose too blood samples were collected from all participants but their reports have not been made public. The researchers will declare the reports after 28th day test of all. While many things regarding the vaccine are still confidential, researchers told TOI the results were promising. Research institutes were closely monitoring the vital parameters of the participants for the last 28 days. First phase results are expected in the first week of September. After that, ICMR and all 12 trial sites in India will start working on second phase. Second phase trials will be held on 750 individuals. One of the participants, a college student, who is going to visit the institute on Tuesday, told TOI he never experienced any problem in last 28 days. “Right from Day Zero, we are constantly in touch with the institute authorities. I followed my daily routine, followed Covid distancing norms, was wearing mask and following hand hygiene etc. Hopefully, we are now immune to Covid-19,” he said.All the participants will also report on Day 42, Day 56, and Day 70. In fact, this long-term monitoring is to test how many days the developed antibodies remain in human bodies. Decider phase - All 55 participants will start reporting on their respective 28th day of trial - As no one has experienced any health problems in last 28 days, safety of vaccine is proven- Blood test will be done to know amount of antibodies generated to prove efficacy- Repeat blood tests will be done on 42nd, 56th, and 70th day to know longevity of antibodies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covaxin-trials-phase-ii-commences-in-city-today/articleshow/77729348.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 25, 2020||Pune||Duo in net for attack on beat marshal||Pune: The Bundgarden police on Monday arrested two persons on the charge of attacking a beat marshal outside the Tadiwala police chowkey around 10pm on Sunday. Police have identified the arrested men as Prashant Bhalerao (32), and his brother-in-law Sachin Gaikwad (34). Assistant inspector Amol Kale from the Bundgarden police said, “Prashant’s father had called the police control room saying that his son was misbehaving with him and his wife. Beat marshal Ashok Jagtap and his colleague rushed to the spot.” The officer said Bhalerao and Gaikwad, both present at the spot, verbally abused Jagtap when the duo were told to visit the chowkey. “After the disputed parties were brought to the chowkey, Bhalerao caught hold of Jagtap’s collar, slapped and shoved him. Gaikwad abused the policeman,” Kale said. The duo were taken into custody, officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-in-net-for-attack-on-beat-marshal/articleshow/77730643.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Dehradun||HC notice to state govt, Uttarkashi DM on plea to shift garbage dump||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court has issued a notice to the state government, pollution control board and the Uttarkashi district magistrate on Monday seeking their reply within four weeks on a PIL which has sought the shifting of a waste yard located near the Varunavat mountain as it was polluting the Bhagirathi river. The PIL filed by Rajbeer Singh Bisht, vice-president of the Uttarakhand Bar Association, and American Puri, an Uttarkashi resident, claimed that waste is being dumped at the site for the last two years, against which locals have been protesting for long. It said, “The garbage dump is just above the Bhagirathi river and waste is spilling into it. Due to this, the river is being polluted and the towns of Devprayag, Uttarkashi and New Tehri which are dependent on the waterbody are facing inconvenience.” Petitioners’ counsel Nalin Saun said that they have asked the court to shift the garbage dump to another location where the waste can be treated scientifically. “The court has now given the respondents four weeks’ time and listed the case for further hearing on September 21,” he added. The Bhagirathi river is one of the two headstreams of river Ganga. Over the last few years, there has been much focus on keeping it clean as it passes through several Himalayan towns and provides drinking water to a major part of the state. The river merges with Alaknanda at Devprayag to form the Ganga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-notice-to-state-govt-uttarkashi-dm-on-plea-to-shift-garbage-dump/articleshow/77727968.cms||Prashant Jha
August 25, 2020||Patna||Plus two school now in all 8,386 panchayats in Bihar||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Monday launched Class IX teaching in one upgraded school in each of the remaining 3,304 panchayats which so far did not have a higher secondary school through videoconferencing. With this, all 8,386 panchayats in the state now have at least one higher secondary school which will impart education up to Class XII to boys as well as girls. Most of the 3,304 higher secondary schools were opened by upgrading one middle school in each panchayat as part of the CM’s dream project to have at least one higher secondary school in each panchayat. In 2012, the CM had announced to open at least one higher secondary school in each panchayat in order to educate all children, especially girls, up to Class XII to maintain the state’s fertility rate at a certain level. The CM on Monday said the idea to open a higher secondary school in each panchayat came to his mind after a national survey revealed that if the woman member among a married couple is 10th pass, the national fertility rate is 2 and if the wife is 12th pass, the national fertility rate is 1.7. “In Bihar, if the wife is 12th pass, the state fertility rate was 1.6, below the national average of 2. After these findings, we decided to educate all our children, especially girls, at least up to Class XII to maintain the state’s fertility rate at a certain level,” the CM said. “A sum of Rs 477 crore was spent on upgrading these schools and providing necessary infrastructure to start Class IX teaching,” said R K Mahajan, additional chief secretary of education department. The CM added, “Besides the necessary infrastructure like additional classrooms, benches and chairs, an inverter and a TV screen have also been provided to each school. These schools will automatically start Class X teaching in the next academic session and Class XI teaching a year later.” The CM asked the education officials to get necessary funds sanctioned for better infrastructure in these schools. Speaking on the occasion, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said, “Today is a historic day for Bihar as all panchayats in the state now have a higher secondary school.” Education minister K N P Verma recounted the steps taken by Nitish to improve education sector in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-school-now-in-all-8386-panchayats-in-bihar/articleshow/77729368.cms||Madan Kumar
August 25, 2020||Pune||Job security needs drive big demand for ITI seats in state||Pune: The state Directorate of Vocational Education (DVET) has received nearly two applications for one seat for the Industrial Training Institute (ITI) courses in Maharashtra. The demand for ITI courses mainly for traditional skills such as electrician, mechanic among others is still very high.Officials at the DVET said the reason for the popularity and demand for ITI courses was because the candidates had a high rate of job opportunities open after completion of the courses and the fees were less. The duration of the courses also varied from one to three years. With at least another week remaining to confirm the application for the courses through the centralized admission process, the DVET has received around 2,86,782 applications for intake capacity of 1,45,632. There has been an increase of nearly 4,000 seats in ITIs across Maharashtra this year. The last date for application is August 31.For the first time this year the DVET has also launched a mobile application for admissions to the ITI courses across Maharashtra for ease of students. They will have to fill up their seat number and all the details will automatically load on the app. The students will have to select the preference of colleges and branches. Yogesh Patil, director of DVET, said, “For the last four to five years, the trend has been high demand for ITI courses for various reasons including immediate job opportunities and duration of courses. Apart from this, the department has introduced many courses based on the changing trends, which include robotics, agriculture and others which is also seen in high demand.”Courses in motor mechanic, electrician, tool and dye maker, refrigeration are in very high demand. The trend is noticeable since the seats for engineering courses have not found many takers, he said. Many government Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) have been sought-after and the cut-off has been above 90 at the end of first round of the merit list. Patil said the quality of education imparted is also commendable, which has also been attracting the students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/job-security-needs-drive-big-demand-for-iti-seats-in-state/articleshow/77730684.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
August 25, 2020||Vadodara||Positive cases peak along with testing||Vadodara: Covid-19 testing in the city reached nearly 2,300 samples since Sunday evening. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) and the district administration had set a target of testing 2,000 samples last week. The testing has gone up significantly due to rapid antigen tests being used by health officials. Of the 2,298 samples tested since Sunday evening, 118 Covid-19 cases were detected. While the number is the highest in a day so far, officials say it is not alarming as the positivity rate has remained low. Even after testing was doubled, there has been no drastic rise in the number of cases. Sources said that the number of bodies of Covid-19 patients being handed by hospitals has stabilised or reduced marginally. These bodies include suspected Covid-19 deaths where patients died before tests were conducted as well as deaths of infected persons with or without co-morbid conditions. With the 118 new cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases went up to 7,221. The new cases included 85 from the city, 32 from areas of Vadodara district outside the city limits as well as one outsider. The VMC also declared one more person dead taking the death toll to 131. As many as 55 persons were discharged from hospitals or home isolation taking the total number of persons discharged so far to 5,644. This leaves 1,446 persons under treatment including 60 on ventilators or BIPAP machines and 157 on oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/positive-cases-peak-along-with-testing/articleshow/77727997.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Bhopal||Did Corona warriors get ‘low quality’ PPE? EOW probes charge in Rewa||Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh EOW has initiated a probe into alleged corruption in Covid-19 funds and supply of “substandard” PPE kits to Corona warriors.EOW has begun its investigation from Rewa, where documents pertaining to supply of kits and procurements have been confiscated, an official told TOI. “Rewa is the tip of the iceberg. An inquiry has been initiated into a complaint alleging misappropriation of funds by a section of health employees in Rewa district. Cognizance has been taken on the basis of a ‘source report’,” the officer said.Some senior officials of the health department in the district are under the scanner, say sources. Officials said there are reports that many doctors and medical staff may have been put at risk due to faulty and inferior quality kits.The state government has adopted a centralised purchase system, but a close-knit syndicate allegedly had its way in a part of the process.EOW SP Virendra Jain could not be contacted for his version but J Vijay Kumar, MD of Madhya Pradesh Public Health Services Corp Ltd, told TOI that the government has prepared a list of 23 items for centralised purchase, which includes 16 pieces of equipment. “In March, we had complaints from Indore. But later we supplied only GOI HLL procured PPE kits,” said the IAS officer, adding that district-level officers cannot make direct purchases in any of the 23 items. Asked about quality check of PPE kits, Kumar said certification of SITRA, NITRA, DRDO and some other labs are mandatory.Another IAS officer said that during the initial phase of pandemic, chief medical and health officers (CMHOs) had made direct purchases, and there were complaints from some districts due to which a centralised purchase system was adopted. Congress has sought an indepth inquiry. “We don’t want to introduce politics when we are facing a pandemic. But after analysing the whole system, I personally feel that those involved in supply of substandard kits should be booked for murderous attempts. It’s a matter of shame that politicians and bureaucrats are thinking of making money at this hour while jeopardising the lives of health workers,” alleged K K Mishra, Congress spokesperson. “Not only PPE kits, I have got calls from my doctor friends claiming that ventilators that were available in the market for Rs 8,000 have been procured for Rs 25,000 or more,” said Mishra, that he is “collecting evidence” against those involved.Many doctors are angry too. “Who will listen? I got infected working in PPE kits. Junior doctors are scared too. Most often we find that kits are incomplete. It doesn’t contain shoe covers, N95 masks or headgears and even gloves. They get torn easily. Quality shouldn’t be compromised. The companies involved should be taken to task after a proper audit,” said senior doctor at MGM Medical College in Indore, requesting not to be named.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/did-corona-warriors-get-low-quality-ppe-eow-probes-charge-in-rewa/articleshow/77730693.cms||P Naveen
August 25, 2020||Varanasi||BHU faces litmus test as lapses dent image amid Covid-19 battle||Varanasi: The death of Covid patient who jumped off the fourth floor of SSL hospital in Banaras Hindu University on Sunday night is the fourth controversial incident that dents the image of the institute that has been leading the Covid battle in east UP. On Sunday, hours before the death of Ankit Pathak, another Covid patient had managed to escape from the hospital, which is already the lens of National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) for the alleged death of a patient due to delay in treatment. Another probe is on for the swapping of bodies of two Covid patients. BHU spokesman Rajesh Singh told TOI, “One Ajay of Dhaphi area was admitted in the Covid ward. His condition had improved and his sample for a repeat test had been sent to the laboratory, but he escaped before the arrival of his report. The proctorial board has filed a complaint at Lanka police station in this regard.” Earlier, NHRC had taken note of a complaint by a social activist alleging that a Covid-19 patient Ajay Shukla died at SS hospital on July 20 due to alleged medical negligence. NHRC had asked DM Varanasi to initiate necessary action in the case. DM Kaushal Raj Sharma told TOI on Monday, “ADM, finance and revenue, has completed investigation as per NHRC order and the report would be submitted in a day or two.” In another shocking incident, the bodies of two Covid patients were swapped on August 11. Additional chief medical officer (ACMO) Jung Bahadur Singh had died of Covid-19 but his family was handed over the body of another patient from Ghazipur in a goof up. The medical superintendent of SS hospital Prof. S K Mathur had constituted a committee to probe the lapse. BHU had initially invited criticism for closing all outdoor patient departments of SS hospital with lockdown in March even though a huge population of east UP and neighbouring states flocks to it for healthcare. BHU provided teleconsultancy service till the OPDs were opened on August 10 when CM Yogi Adityanath asked authorities to start maximum services in the interest of patients. Last week, BHU was rocked by protests over VC Prof. Rakesh Bhatnagar’s remarks which students alleged were disparaging for the BHU founder after an audio of VC’s conversation with a student leader, who was demanding resumption of health card facility for students, went viral. The university then restored the free OPD registration facility for students||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-faces-litmus-test-as-lapses-dent-image-amid-covid-19-battle/articleshow/77727146.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
August 25, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand to reform policies to provide sporting opportunities||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand sports department is planning to make amendments in the state’s sports policy for the greater good of the sportspersons and sporting culture. State sports minister Arvind Pandey will hold a meeting on August 25 with various sportspersons, sports associations, state Olympic association, and others to discuss the possible changes to develop a reformed sports policy for Uttarakhand. According to sources, there have been demands from sportspersons to create more state government jobs under sports quota as presently, sportspersons claim that there is job scarcity under sports quota. Also, discussions will take place on how to stop migration of talented sportspersons from the state who generally migrate in search of greener pastures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-to-reform-policies-to-provide-sporting-opportunities/articleshow/77727994.cms||Mohammad Anab
August 25, 2020||Pune||Transporters threaten to surrender their vehicles||Pune: Private bus and truck operators, in addition to those running cabs and autorickshaws, in the city have threatened to surrender their vehicles at the Regional Transport Office here on September 2 as a part of a statewide agitation for financial relief from the government to offset their losses suffered on account of Covid-induced lockdown. The operators, led by the Maharashtra Rajya Vaahan Chalak Maalak Pratinidhi Sanghatana and Pune Bus Owners Association, said it mattered little whether the state government would allow them to resume services as they have suffered on account of vehicles going off the road for almost five months. The operators are miffed with the government for allowing the MSRTC to ply buses and giving Rs550 crore aid to it. They said that the state ought to provide them relief like exemption from road tax. “The buses are lying idle for months and Rs20,000 to Rs 50,000 needs to spent on each bus to make them road worthy,” an official of the Pune Bus Owners’ Association, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/transporters-threaten-to-surrender-their-vehicles/articleshow/77730706.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 25, 2020||Pune||Cops arrange plasma, save lives of 23 nCoV patients||Pune: Police have helped 23 Covid-19 patients from the city and rural areas getting treated by providing them with plasma of those who have recovered from the infection. The city police had started a plasma donation drive on July 30 and have since then successfully provided plasma to 23 patients by acting as bridge between the donors and those in need. The initiative, which entered its 23rd day last week, recently received appreciation from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham and former divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar heralded the drive by starting a dedicated webpage – https://puneplasma.in. They had requested the recovered patients to donate their plasma, and the initiative has been turning out be a successful life saving effort. Deputy commissioner of police (special branch) Mitesh Ghatte and assistant inspector Preeti Shintre are coordinating the drive. “Those in need of plasma or want to donate can contact Shintre on her WhatsApp number, 9960530321, by specifying their detailed requests,” Ghatte said. The police said the online platform would ensure that all the plasma donors were registered and a database was maintained. The police said in the past 23 days, they had received 40 applications requesting plasma for Covid-19 patients. “Many applications were from areas outside Pune. As many as 23 requests were from Pune city and its neighbouring areas. We arranged the plasma donors for these patients. They were provided with plasma within a few hours,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-arrange-plasma-save-lives-of-23-ncov-patients/articleshow/77730694.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Dehradun||BJP differentiates between its MLAs & common man: Cong||Dehradun: Launching an attack on the BJP for taking back Kunwar Pranav Singh ‘Champion’ back in its fold, the Congress said that “the ruling party has different set of rules for the common man and its elected representatives”. Last year, Champion was expelled from the saffron party for six years after a video of him dancing and brandishing guns surfaced. “The decision taken on Monday shows that the action taken against the MLA 13 months back was an eye-wash exercise. It was a mere formality and after the issue subsided, he has been given an entry in the party,” Congress vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana said. The Congress leaders also raised the issue of Dwarahat BJP MLA Mahesh Negi, who has been accused of rape. “On one end, the BJP government claims to provide safety to women and at the same time, the party is reluctant to act against its own MLA, who has been accused by a woman of rape,” added Dhasmana. In a similar vein, Congress spokesperson Garima Dasauni, said, “Besides, holding liquor glass and brandishing guns, Champion used bad words for state locals. It is shocking that the BJP has taken him back. With this, it has become evident that the BJP follows two sets of rules — one for party members and another for the common man.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-differentiates-between-its-mlas-common-man-cong/articleshow/77728019.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 25, 2020||Dehradun||CM launches e-meeting software||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Monday inaugurated the e-meeting software in the secretariat. The e-meeting software is a smart meeting management system, through which the decisions taken in the meetings of the CM office and the secretariat can be implemented in a better way. Using the software, the officials will send the agenda to CM two days before the meeting and after the consent is received from the CM, the meeting will take place. CM Rawat said that it was an important step while moving ahead in the direction of Digital India. “The e-meeting system will further speed up the functioning of officers. It is an effort by the state government to ensure that the benefits of the schemes reach even those living in the remotest of areas,” added the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-launches-e-meeting-software/articleshow/77728009.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 25, 2020||Nagpur||As banks played truant, borrowers walked into traps of loan sharks||Nagpur: The pandemic seemed to have played havoc in the lives of gullible borrowers who had to turn to moneylenders as many banks and financial institutions refused loans for the fear of them turning into non-performing assets (NPA) in the lockdown-driven economic slump.City police have registered offences against two licence-holding moneylenders, including one on August 22, for allegedly torturing borrowers to settle loans by paying monthly interest at a rate higher than the permissible legal limit. Last month, city police under CP BK Upadhyay had cracked down on bar-owner-cum-moneylender Tapan Jaiswal after several victims came forward to lodge complaints of torture and harassment by his gang. The crime branch, under DCP Gajanan Rajmane and Addl CP Nilesh Bharne, now holding the charge of Joint CP, had registered more than half a dozen cases against Jaiswal, including illegally extorting hefty sums on the pretext of collecting interest on the sums borrowed. Offences were registered against moneylenders in other parts of the city as well. Rural police, too, have registered a case of abetment to suicide against two moneylenders after a borrower committed suicide some time ago unable to bear the harassment meted out to him by the accused duo for coughing up an unreasonably high rate of interest. In the latest case, moneylender Preeti Raipure, arrested by crime branch following a TOI report on August 22, had threatened a 23-year-old woman borrower of dire consequences. In an audio-recording, she can be heard threatening the woman borrower of getting her engaged in flesh trade to extort hefty interest.Joint CP Nilesh Bharne said borrowers had no other option but to approach moneylenders as banks were refusing loans to meet various emergency situations during the lockdown period. “Banking and financial sectors were hit by the lockdown to such an extent that they were sceptical to extend loans fearing that they would turn NPAs. The moneylenders and their gangs had started taking advantage of the situation. City police had already cracked down on some moneylenders and more are under our scanner,” he said.According to a source, some notorious moneylenders are operating in some of the pockets across the city, including the IT park locality, Itwari market, Khamla, Medical chowk, Mate chowk, Manewada and Sadar. These moneylenders have gangs of women and musclemen, including goons, with serious crime records, who threaten borrowers, create a ruckus at their apartments and even illegally seize their belongings and vehicles.Addl CP Bharne said the victims of such moneylenders should approach police stations or crime branch to lodge complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/as-banks-played-truant-borrowers-walked-into-traps-of-loan-sharks/articleshow/77729373.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 25, 2020||Patna||Covid-19: 1,227 new +ve cases, 17 more deaths in Bihar||PATNA: The number of Covid-19 cases as well as the samples testing dropped by half in Bihar on Monday compared to the daily figures till recently. Only 1,227 people were found infected while 62,215 samples had been tested for the virus in the past 24 hours. Altogether 17 more patients with Covid symptoms died on Monday. Since August 13, the state registered over one lakh samples testing per day, except 67,212 on August 16. The new cases took the tally to 1,23,383. However, with 1,01,362 recoveries and 627 deaths, the active cases stand at 21,392 in Bihar. Also, the number of recoveries in past 24 hours was more than double compared to the fresh positive cases registered. As per the health department, 2908 people recovered from the virus infection in the past 24 hours, taking the recovery rate to 82.15%, which is 7% more than the national average. IPRD secretary Anupam Kumar said the health department had been instructed to ramp up testing in diara and flood-affected areas. He said instruction had also been given to focus on early detection of virus in vulnerable section (people above 65 years, children, pregnant women and those suffering from other medical problems) and prepare a strategy in this regard. As per the health department figures, 8 more Covid patients from Patna died, taking the district toll to 124. Two persons from Siwan also died, which took the district toll to 24. Aurangabad, Bhojpur, Katihar, Madhepura, Nalanda, Nawada and Rohtas reported one death each. AIIMS-Patna reported five deaths on Monday, including two residents of the state capital. While one was a 75-year-old men of Ramlakhan Path in Ashok Nagar, another was a 76-year-old man from Kankarbagh area. AIIMS-Patna Covid-19 in charge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 22 patients were discharged, including four from the ICU. He further said AIIMS-P would help other hospitals in plasma therapy. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital reported one death on Monday. The deceased was a 48-year-old woman from Kurtha in Arwal district. With fresh 225 Covid-19 cases in Patna, the district tally mounted up to 19,112. However, with 16,073 recoveries and 124 deaths, there were 2,915 active cases in the district. Other districts with maximum fresh cases were Muzaffarpur (75), East Champaran (68), Saharsa (65), Gaya (54), West Champaran (51), Bhojpur (49), Rohtas (44) and Bhagalpur (42).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1227-new-ve-cases-17-more-deaths-in-bihar/articleshow/77729406.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 25, 2020||Bhopal||Congressmen who raise voice are dubbed traitors: Chouhan||Bhopal: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan attacked the Congress party saying anyone who raised voice against leadership in the party would be shown the doors and Sonia Gandhi-led Congress cannot save be able to save the slide of the party anymore. Referring to the leadership crisis in the Congress, Chouhan while addressing the BJP’s membership drive in Gwalior-Chambal region on Monday said that even senior Congress leaders were being accused of colluding with the BJP and dubbed as traitors— this happened with senior leader Jyotiraditya Scindia."Senior Congress leaders had demanded the party president Sonia Gandhi a full-time president. But their voice was crushed and they were accused of colluding with the BJP. Rahul too came down heavily on leaders who wrote the letter and dubbed them as traitors. Those who try to show reality in the party are dubbed traitors and those who flatter, are loyal to Gandhi family," said Chouhan.Making a scathing attack on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Chouhan said that no person with self-respect would like to remain in the Congress after this incident. "Same thing happened with Jyotiraditya Scindia ji who was not after power. When he asked Kamal Nath to cease corruption and fulfill promises made to the public, he was asked to take to the streets. Scindia ji had fought and took Congress where it is in MP, but he was denied his due share when chief minister was elected. This is Congress," said Chouhan."Scindia was not distressed by the treatment meted out to him, but pained by the failure of promises made to the public. He decided to quit that led to the fall of the Congress government. I thank Scindia ji and his colleagues for the bold step and welcome all the new members to the BJP," said Chouhan.The chief minister also recalled the incident when previous Congress president Sitaram Kesri was dethroned. "Kesri ji was thrown out of the Congress office after he was toppled. The treatment meted out with former Prime Minister PV Narsimha Rao, when his last rites were not allowed to be performed in Delhi because he did not belong to the Gandhi family, is for everyone to see," he said.Scindia though, did not mention the crisis in the Congress party but attacked former chief minister Kamal Nath for corruption and illegalities. "During 15 months of its rule, the Kamal Nath government cried only for money. Congress had pledged to cease illegal mining and corruption but failed. Instead the government patronised the corruption. The Vallabh Bhavan (secretariat) turned out to be the den of corrupts while the transport and liquor mafia flourished," alleged Scindia.The BJP Rajya Sabha member said that Shivraj Singh Chouhan government has already announced drinking water schemes worth Rs 110 crore and Rs 25 crore for irrigation facilities. "Every member who has joined the BJP has resolved to raise the party flag against misdeeds of the Congress. The BJP has also promised to protect the honour of the workers," said Scindia.BJP state president VD Sharma, union minister Narendra Singh Tomar, national vice-president Prabhat Jha and several leaders of Gwalior-Chambal region were present during the drive.During the three-day membership campaign, the BJP has claimed to have added more than 40,000 members to the party, said party officials. On Monday, former mayor Samiksha Gupta joined the BJP with her husband and supporters. Gupta had quit BJP in 2018 after she was denied a party ticket during assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/congressmen-who-raise-voice-are-dubbed-traitors-chouhan/articleshow/77729425.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Kanpur||Bodies of two boys found hanging from tree in Etawah||Kanpur: Bodies of two boys were found hanging from a tree in a village under Usrahar police station area in Etawah district on Monday morning. According to their kin, the boys went out to purchase ‘samosa’ on a bicycle around Sunday evening and did not return, police said. The police identified the two as Akash (16) and Ankul (15) of Mahua Patiyat village under the limits of Usrahar police station. While Akash was a student of intermediate, Ankul was a high school student. “Serious injury marks were found on the bodies of the two friends. Investigation is on to ascertain the exact reason,” said the police. ASP Rural Omveer Singh said, “Police are waiting for the post-mortem report. Thei family members have been questioned and we have also seized their mobile phones and scanning call detail records of both, besides also questioning their friends to zero-in on the perpetrators of crime if any,” he added. Ankul’s sister Kalpana said they left for the ‘samosa ‘shop on a bicycle in the evening hours on Sunday. “When they did not return till late evening, the family began searching for them. A group of locals found their bodies hanging from the branch of a mango tree located in the outskirts of their village on Monday morning,” she said. The police questioned the family members and relatives if there could be any kind of foul play in the case, but could not get any clue so far. Akash’s father Rakesh Kamal said the family was in shock. “My son and Ankul were very good friends. They seemed fine when they left their respective homes on a bicycle to purchase ‘samosa’. We hope the police will find leads soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bodies-of-two-boys-found-hanging-from-tree-in-etawah/articleshow/77729390.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
August 25, 2020||Varanasi||Traders’ leader records CM’scall, served notice, faces action||Varanasi: The city president of Akhil Bharatiya Udyog Vyapar Mandal, Rakesh Jain has landed himself in trouble for recording his telephonic conversation with chief minister Yogi Adityanath and posting it on social media. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma issued a show cause notice to Jain on Sunday and sought a reply within three days for recording the conversation without permission and posting it as an audio clip on social media, failing which legal action would be initiated against him. The action impacts the dignity of constitutional office and privacy of conversation was also breached, the notice reads. Jain talked to the chief minister on August 22 and recorded the call and later posted the audio clip on social media. In the audio, Jain is heard complaining about private hospitals overcharging Covid patients for treatment and is told that cost for treatment has been fixed and cannot be exceeded and is assured that officials will look into the matter. Jain also complained that the district magistrate does not respond to queries on the portal and has curbed market timings even though the state government has allowed opening of markets from 9am to 9pm. Sharma told TOI on Monday, “The chief minister’s office took serious note of this act and directed the district administration to take necessary action against Jain. A show cause notice was issued to Jain on Sunday.” Sharma said apart from serving show cause notice to Jain, the state president of Akhil Bharatiya Udyog Vyapar Mandal has also been asked to initiate necessary action against him for this act. Regarding grievances of Jain, Sharma said the district administration has no objection over the complaints made against it in the capacity of a traders’ union leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/traders-leader-records-cmscall-served-notice-faces-action/articleshow/77728799.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Goa||Seabird sooty tern found in Nanuz||Keri: An injured migratory pelagic bird sooty tern that spend most of its time wandering the tropical oceans was found in Nanuz, Sattari. The bird, however, died despite being given medical aid. “The bird’s shoulders were damaged. We gave treatment to it and it was feeding well, but it was wounded and might have died of shock,” wildlifer Ramesh Zarmekar told TOI. Another wildlifer from Valpoi, Pradeep Goundalkar had received a call from the Patil farm in Nanuz informing about an injured bird. Goundalkar brought the bird to Valpoi where he administered it medical treatment with the help of Zarmekar. But the bird did not live long. The sooty tern feeds on sea fish and rarely comes on land, except for breeding. As the bird’s feathers lack oil, it cannot float and spends its entire time on the wind. These birds are generally found inland only after severe storms. Zarmekar said that possibly the cyclonic winds of the past days might have caused the bird to come to the Western Ghat area. “In Goa, the bird is found mostly along the coastal belt and has been recorded till the Chorao island in Tiswadi,” Zarmekar said. The sooty tern has never been found in the Western Ghat areas of Sattari, Goundalkar said. “We have never seen this bird in our area. It is surprising how this pelagic bird came to Nanuz, which is situated on the bank of the Mhadei.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seabird-sooty-tern-found-in-nanuz/articleshow/77731510.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
August 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fastest 100% rainfall for Gujarat in past five years||Ahmedabad: Torrential rainfall in several spots in Saurashtra, north and south Gujarat in 24 hours ending 6am on Monday recorded 67.8mm rains, which is 8% of seasonal rainfall for the state. With the heavy rain, the state crossed 100% mark in 69 days of the season. In 2019 and 2017, the state had recorded more than 100% seasonal rainfall – in 2019, it completed 100% on September 5, whereas in 2017, it was August 30. In 2018 and 2016, the total seasonal rainfall till October 31 was 76.7% and 91% respectively. The 23 days of August however recorded 59% of seasonal rainfall at 503mm till 6am on Monday. The heavy rains continued on Monday as till 8pm, the state had received 30 mm rainfall. As on Monday morning, 109 out of 251 talukas of Gujarat have received 100% or more seasonal rainfall. India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday mentioned that the low-pressure area over southwest Rajasthan and neighbourhood and a cyclonic circulation over northwest Arabian Sea persisted. The two systems are likely to give rainfall to the region. Moreover, the experts have kept their eye on the new system getting developed in the Bay of Bengal, which would move westwards and can bring more rainfall to Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fastest-100-rainfall-for-gujarat-in-past-five-years/articleshow/77731849.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Vadodara||8,000-odd students appear for GUJCET in Vadodara||Vadodara: Just when she had finished her board exams, she was diagnosed with cancer. But amidst scare of the coronavirus, this did not deter her from appearing for the Gujarat Common Entrance Test (GUJCET) on Monday. As nearly 8,000 students appeared for GUJCET 2020 after a long anxious wait, courage of this city-based girl student caught everybody’s attention. The girl student was feeling feeble when she had reached her exam centre at Sama – Navrachana Vidyani, Sama. “She had reached before time following all the safety guidelines and advice of the doctor who is treating her. We had assigned her a separate block and only one supervisor,” said education inspector Shivangi Shastri from Vadodara district education office (DEO). “When it seemed that she was weak, we asked her if she wanted any kind of assistance or medical help from our side. But she was brave enough to sit through her exams,” said Shastri. GUJCET which is organised by the Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board was held at 38 buildings in which overcrowding was avoided. “We had made appropriate arrangements to maintain safe distance between the students appearing for the exams. Also, all safety measures were followed,” she said. Sources said that while 4,522 students appeared in mathematics, 3,561 appeared in biology while 8,047 students appeared in physics/chemistry during the day. There were reports of a student who had tested positive of Covid-19 appearing in the exam at a school in Tandalja area of the city. Sources in DEO office however said that there was some confusion as although permission was sought to appear for the exam, it was not granted by them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/8000-odd-students-appear-for-gujcet-in-vadodara/articleshow/77727958.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Goa||AAP deploys ‘Oximitras’ in villages||Panaji: The Goa unit of the Aam Aadmi Party on Monday launched the ‘Oximitra’ drive through which volunteers armed with pulse oximeters will be deployed across villages and towns of Goa. These volunteers will check the oxygen levels of people in need as well as provide one to Covid patients who cannot get one. Former medical officer with Goa government Mariano Godinho said that the common man was not getting the desired attention in an already overstretched medical system that the Pramod Sawant government had failed to strengthen. The oximeters provided to the people came in handy in ascertaining oxygen levels in people which put them in a better position to decide whether to get hospitalised or not. He said that AAP volunteers designated as ‘Oximitras’ will be deployed in every village and town to help the people who were prone to panic on the slightest pretext. Godinho, who launched the drive by testing the oximeter on convenor Elvis Gomes, demonstrated the procedure which involved sanitisation of the finger before and after use, the use of gloves as well as face shield so as to minimise risk to the volunteer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aap-deploys-oximitras-in-villages/articleshow/77730724.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Kanpur||Jail inmate ends life in Etawah||Kanpur:An undertrial inmate committed suicide by hanging self in Etawah district jail on late Sunday night. Jail officials said Pankaj Kumar was brought to jail on August 10 on charges of eloping with girl. Jail officials said that probe was initiated into the matter. Pankaj, a resident of Kukurkat village under the limits of Erwakatra police station in Auraiya district was found hanging from the hook outside his barrack. He was noticed by jail staff, who alerted senior jail officials. His family members have been informed, police said. According to jail authorities, the inmate used hi scarf as rope for hanging himself. “Pankaj was under depression and used to remain aloof,” said a jail superintendent Rajkishore Singh, who added the matter is being investigated. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/jail-inmate-ends-life-in-etawah/articleshow/77729562.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Kolkata||CM concerned over corona, dengue spread in North 24 Parganas||KOLKATA: Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is miffed with the North 24 Parganas administration over the spread of the novel coronavirus as well as dengue, particularly in Dum Dum, Barrackpore and Bidhannagar. North 24 Parganas has recorded the highest Covid positivity rate (20.6%) among the four south Bengal districts of North 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and South 24 Parganas. The district’s discharge rate has, however, been an impressive 77%. “Why is the district administration unable to check the upward surge? Why is there a recurrence of dengue in the district every year? I understand Dum Dum and Barrackpore are congested areas. But that does not apply to Bidhannagar. Have we started a household survey in these areas? The district administration should make a coordinated effort to scale up testing, tracing and tracking in the areas,” the CM said at the administrative meeting held for the four districts at Nabanna on Monday. She also asked the police brass in the four districts to enfore the rule of wearing masks . “The state will observe Police Day for the first time on September 1. Ensure people wear masks on and from that day,” Banerjee said. The CM wanted the North 24 Parganas administration to revisit the dengue route map . “Keep a watch on the dengue-prone zones along the Indo-Bangla border — Asokenagar, Habra. It usually spreads from there,” Banerjee said. She also enquired about the dengue-prone zones in Bongaon subdivision, namely Bongaon and Gaighata. North 24 Parganas district magistrate Chaitali Chakrabarti told the CM that dengue prevalence was lower in Bongaon subdivision. “After our awareness programme, residents have been trying to prevent accumulation of water in neighbourhoods. We have also cleaned ponds,” Chakrabarti said. Canals maintained by municipalities were, however, still a bother. The CM asked the urban development department to clean the canals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cm-concerned-over-corona-dengue-spread-in-n-24-pgns/articleshow/77729532.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata colleges see rise in number of applications||KOLKATA: St Xavier’s College (autonomous) Kolkata has received 10% more applications in 18 undergraduate programs for 2020-2021. The number has increased by over 31% from last year in 11 PG courses. The trend indicates that more and more students this year have opted to stay back in the state due to the pandemic when relocation has emerged as a problem. “Though every year our numbers keep increasing, in the current academic session, the jump in the number of applicants has been high. The college is also planning to be the first among colleges in the state to begin the first semester UG courses from September,” said an official. Several other prominent colleges like Maulana Azad College, Bethune College, Rammohan College, Women’s College Bagbazar and North City College have also witnessed a significant increase in applicants in UG courses. At Maulana Azad College, the number this year is 28,831, compared to 16,015 last year. Similarly, in Bethune College, last year there were 11,487 applications that has increased to 17,088. While in Rammohan College, the number has increased from 3,924 in 2019-2020 to 5,229 this session, North City College has received 20,399 applications compared to 17,000 last session. “In Women’s College at Bagbazar, the number has gone up from 3,815 to 4791,” said a source. Principal of St. Xavier’s College, Fr. Dominic Savio, said, “We will start UG first semester program online on and from September 20. The first merit list will be published on September 1 at 5 pm. Students will have to take admissions over the next three days. Now, teachers are communicating with students to find out who have difficulties in accessing the internet.” On Monday, teachers proposed to donate Rs 5,000 from their salary. “Along with the St. Xavier’s College Calcutta Alumni Association (SXCCAA) and teachers, we should be able to buy around 100 smartphones which can be distributed among the new entrants who need them. A decision on this will be taken soon,” added Fr. Savio. At St. Xavier’s College (autonomous) Kolkata, another highlight is spike in number of science applicants. “In UG application count, the overall increase is about 10%. In commerce, the hike is by 3%, political science by 5%, physics 15%, chemistry 18%, statistics 6%, computer science 18%, multimedia and animation 9%, microbiology 83% and biotechnology by 54%,” said Fr. Savio. He added, “In PG application count, there is an overall increase of 31% in which accounting and finance has recorded 23% increase, marketing 8%, computer science applications 13% and English 39% over 2019-2020.” This year, the total number of UG applicants is 24,663, which was 22,123 in 2019. The reason pointed out by academicians for high number of students securing more marks in science and thus meeting the criteria to apply is due to suspended HS papers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/spike-in-college-applications-as-students-refuse-to-leave-state-amid-pandemic/articleshow/77731508.cms||Somdatta Basu
August 25, 2020||Bareilly||Seven BoB customers find money missing from their savings accounts in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: Seven customers of the Bank of Baroda’s Station Road branch in Pilibhit discovered to their horror that money had been withdrawn from their savings accounts between July 7 and August 10 without their knowledge. They discovered the loss when they approached the bank for updating their pass books.A sum totalling Rs 40,000 was found to be missing. The highest amount, Rs 20,000, was withdrawn from the account of one Jyoti Singh and the minimum of Rs 800 from that of Vikky Rathaur. The case has been referred to the cyber crime cell.Bank manager Munendra Kumar suspects private franchisees for the fraud, “It is not possible to withdraw money unless the account-holder puts his thumb upon the panel of a digital transaction device. Under the present banking system, many private franchisees have been authorized under by the Reserve Bank of India to carry out banking transactions. The present case is feared to be an outcome of fraudulent activity of such persons," he said.Such frauds had also become easy to commit when money is transferred through the Aadhaar Enabled Payment System (AePS), he added.Kumar said he would refer the matter to bank’s AePS cell for a review if the victims approach him.Atar Singh, SHO of Sungarhi police station, said the complaints had been referred to the cyber crime cell for a probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/seven-bob-customers-find-money-missing-from-their-savings-accounts-in-pilibhit/articleshow/77725651.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Kanpur||Ex-SP MLA dies at SGPGI||Kanpur:Former Samajwadi Party MLA Yogendra Pal died at SGPGI in Lucknow on Monday following prolonged illness. He was 83. Considered close to SP founder Mulayam Singh Yadav, the legislator was not keeping well for a long time and breathed his last on Monday afternoon, party sources said. Pal, who represented the Bhognipur Vidhan Sabha seat of Kanpur Dehat from 2012-2017, had also been MLC from Janata Dal. He also served as a Pramukh of Amraudha block. District Samajwadi President Pramod Yadav recalled his services to the party. “He was a true socialist leader, who always served for humanity and mankind.” Several Samajwadi Party leaders including SP MLA Irfan Solanki expressed grief over the demise of Yogendra Pal. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ex-sp-mla-dies-at-sgpgi/articleshow/77729546.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Ranchi||Woman dies after C-section at pvt clinic, FIR filed against doc||JAMSHEDPUR: A 26-year-old pregnant woman died after allegedly undergoing a C-section at Durga Nursing Home in Chota Govindpur on Sunday but her baby is alive and currently stable. On Monday, noted orthopaedic surgeon and functionary of the Indian Medical Association here, Dr Saurabh Chaudhury, said an FIR has been lodged at Chota Govindpur police station against the doctor who performed the surgery (Dr P K Gupta) based on the statement given by the deceased’s husband’s, Shiv Shankar Singh. Singh has cried foul and said that his wife, Kanchan Devi, died of negligence, sources said. Dr Saurabh raised doubts on the qualifications of the doctor and said the administration should look into the matter to find out if Dr Gupta is a quack. The incident led to the relatives of the deceased and the locals blocking the road near the nursing home for hours, demanding justice for Kanchan. The blockade was lifted only after the police assured the protesters that a thorough inquiry will be conducted and the guilty will be punished. On Monday, Singh said that he had admitted his pregnant wife at the nursing home on August 21 as per Dr Gupta’s advice. The next day the doctor informed him that if it is a normal delivery, the charges would be Rs 5,000 and for C-section it would be Rs 30,000. Later in the evening, he was informed that Kanchan has to undergo a C-section and the amount has to be deposited before the operation is performed. However, soon after the operation, Kanchan’s condition started deteriorating, Singh said. He tried contacting the doctor but Dr Gupta was allegedly not present in the hospital. He had to take her to Tata Main Hospital but upon reaching there, the doctors declared she was brought dead. He went back to the nursing home with her body and as soon as news spread, the locals blocked the area and vandalised the nursing home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/woman-dies-after-c-section-at-pvt-clinic-fir-filed-against-doc/articleshow/77729436.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
August 25, 2020||Nagpur||With indl demand for oxygen down, makers meeting hospitals’ need||Nagpur: The impact of the pandemic on industrial activity has brought some breather for oxygen makers in the city. They are now able to cater to the demand of medical oxygen, which has shot up on account of Covid-19.However, if the number of patients continue to rise, it may be tough to entirely meet the demand of hospitals too, said sources in the business. Units engaged in bottling of medical oxygen are already apprehending a shortage of cylinders and have started procurement in bulk.Covid-19 has led to a sharp increase in the demand for medical oxygen. The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) alone is consuming its earlier two months of quota in a day. There are three major oxygen manufacturers in the city who supply the gas to hospitals as well as industries. Industries engaged in iron and steel, fabrication and other manufacturing units also use oxygen as an input.As the industrial demand is down, oxygen makers are able to maintain the balance and meet hospitals’ needs, said sources. However, the future is uncertain, said industry players.There are units which directly make oxygen out of gas even as some larger units make liquid oxygen and sell it to the bottlers. Due to rise in demand, the units are also making oxygen out of air and buying it in liquid form from larger players, said sources.Temporary closure of the in-house oxygen making unit of a major industry in Jharkhand has also increased the pressure on independent manufacturers. The industry, which is a major consumer, is also buying gas from the market. This has also left its impact on the overall supply of oxygen, said a source requesting anonymity.A representative of Bhartia Medicare Services that makes medical oxygen and nitrous oxide said they are buying over 300 new cylinders apprehending a shortage in the coming days. “Hospitals prefer to keep extra cylinders to meet any eventuality, which has in turn impacted the availability with bottlers,” he said. The company is able to meet the demand at present though, he said.Ishaan Goel of M/s Aditya Gases at Butibori said there is no hassle in supply at present, mainly because the industrial demand is low. There is enough scope to expand also in times of need as the units can procure as much as liquid oxygen if needed. As there is higher consumption, the cycle of hospitals returning cylinder for a refill has also become faster.TOI contacted three major hospitals — Wockhardt, Alexis and Orange City — where the officials confirmed that there was no shortage of oxygen.Atul Pandey, former president of Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA), said the industrial usage has gone down. In his own unit, the consumption may have reduced by 40%, he said.“People have also begun buying small oxygen kits which can be kept at home, apprehending any emergency due to Covid-19 even if there are no patients in the house,” said Dipen Agrawal, citing his own example.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-indl-demand-for-oxygen-down-makers-meeting-hospitals-need/articleshow/77729444.cms||Shishir Arya
August 25, 2020||Nagpur||NU’s new Covid testing lab to test 50 samples a day||Nagpur: Nagpur University on Monday opened Covid-19 testing laboratory at its campus on Amravati Road. This is 11th such lab in the city including three private ones. It was inaugurated by Amravati University VC Murlidhar Chandekar while new NU VC Subhash Chaudhary presided over the programme. The former had taken a lead to establish this facility when he was given additional charge of NU from April 8. According to NU coordinator Shyam Dhond, the facility was approved by ICMR and could test 50 samples per day which would be supplied by the IGGMC. “The laboratory has been established in four rooms of Commerce Department, dedicated exclusively for the purpose. This is an entirely new set up, complete with all the necessary instruments and equipment, including Biosafety Cabinet Level 2 (BSL-2), RT-PCR machine, -80 and -20 deep freezers and cooling centrifuge among others,” he said.Four technicians, two data entry operators and one medical microbiologist have been recruited by office of civil surgeon and district nodal officer for Covid-19 in the city. All the technicians, medical microbiologist and nodal officer have undergone training at AIIMS Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nus-new-covid-testing-lab-to-test-50-samples-a-day/articleshow/77729439.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Surat||Tapi riverfront submerged as river swells||Surat: The riverfront on Tapi embankment was submerged in flood waters with the river flowing bank to bank following heavy discharge of water from the Ukai reservoir on Monday. Heavy water logging was witnessed near the Sarita Sagar Sankul in Adajan while the walkway from Nanpura to Athwalines was also under water. Tapi water level swelled on Monday with release of 1.30 lakh cusecs water from the Ukai reservoir and Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) had to close some flood gates in Rander zone to prevent flood waters from entering the city through the drainage system. This resulted in the drain waters flooding low-lying areas in Rander including Jehangirpura, Palanpur Patia and Mora Bhaghal for sometime.The water level at the dam was recorded at 333.33 feet against the rule level of 335 feet, said HR Mahakal, superintending engineer of Ukai reservoir.Meanwhile, the water level at Mithi Khadi also swelled due to the heavy rain in its catchment areas and was flowing at 8.25 m. However, there is no shifting or rescue of people from the affected areas||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/tapi-riverfront-submerged-as-river-swells/articleshow/77728065.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Surat||Surat’s braveheart doctor battling for life||Surat: A Covid-19 positive doctor who risked his life to save another patient with timely intubation is fighting battle for life on the hospital bed. Dr Sanket Mehta, 37, an anaesthetist has been put on ECMO (extracorporeal membrane oxygenation) machine as last resort to save him of the deadly coronavirus infection. Despite being on the high-flow oxygen support, Dr Mehta had helped a the critically-ill patient, Dinesh Purani, 71, with urgent intubation for the ventilator support at BAPS hospital in Adajan on August 9. However, the elderly patient succumbed to the deadly coronavirus on August 12. From the next day, Dr Mehta’s health deteriorated and he was under the semi-critical condition with the increase in his oxygen requirement to eight litres per minute. Hospital authorities stated that Dr Mehta was put on the ECMO machine since late Saturday night due to serious respiratory and low-level of oxygen in the blood. Dr Hiral Shah, vice president of Surat Anaesthetists Association (SAA) told TOI, “Our entire fraternity is praying for Dr Mehta’s speedy recovery. We are providing all kind of support to the family members of Dr Mehta and continuously monitoring his health in the hospital. We all know that the almighty will save Dr Mehta who risked his life to save others.” President of SAA, Dr Jayesh Thakrar said, “We have sent the prayer requests to all our doctors’ fraternity in Surat and Gujarat for Dr Mehta’s speedy recovery.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surats-braveheart-doctor-battling-for-life/articleshow/77728108.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Nagpur||Mayor forms four panels to review Covid situation||Nagpur: Mayor Sandip Joshi on Monday attributed the rise in Covid-19 cases in the city to poor management by the civic administration. He formed four different committees to review the Covid-19 situation for private hospitals, government hospitals, Covid Care Centres and Covid test centres. The committees will also draw up a plan to contain and bring down Covid cases.“The cases of coronavirus in Nagpur city are increasing rapidly with the death toll reaching 500. Citizens are alleging that there are no beds available in private and government hospitals for Covid patients. Patients are not sent to Covid Care Centres and this has led to the rise in cases,” said the mayor during a review meeting of the 21-member panel formed by the General Body on August 21 to monitor Covid-19 treatment and facilities in the city. The mayor also dismissed the administration’s claims regarding adequate availability of beds for Covid patients.Deputy mayor Manisha Kothe will head the committee formed for private hospitals, while senior BJP corporator Dayashankar Tiwari will lead the panel meant to monitor government hospitals. Senior BJP corporator Varsha Thakre has been entrusted with the responsibility of the team that will keep a tab on Covid test centres. Standing panel chief Vijay Zalke will be in charge of the body formed to monitor city hotels where asymptomatic patients have been put up. The committees will review the situation and submit their report at a meeting to be held on August 25 at 4pm.NMC’s chief medical officer Dr Yogendra Sawai said that beds are available in private and government hospitals. In terms of figures, 1,876 beds have been provided to 24 private hospitals with 575 still available for patients. Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) have 600 beds each. At GMCH, 340 beds are occupied while the count at IGGMCH is 295. The Covid testing centre is being run by the corporation.Regarding Covid Care Centres, additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said that 2,800 beds have been provided for patients at MLA Hostel, Pachpaoli Police Quarters, VNIT Hostel, Symbiosis Hostel and Vanamati. An additional 4,730 beds have also been made available. NMC plans to make a further provision for 3,356 beds for Covid-19 patients in the near future. Covid Care Centres are also allowed in hotels.Mayor Joshi said there’s a big difference between the claims of the administration and the current situation. “The committees will bring the real situation to the fore,” said Joshi. MLC and former mayor Pravin Datke, senior corporators Praful Gudadhe, Sanjay Mahakalkar and additional municipal commissioners Sanjay Nipane and Jalaj Sharma were among those who attended the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mayor-forms-four-panels-to-review-covid-situation/articleshow/77729460.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Nagpur||60% patients died when admitted after 6-9 or more days of symptoms||Nagpur: Analysis by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) of all 495 Covid-19 deaths in city has revealed 60.61% were admitted in Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH) after six to nine or more days of symptoms. The civic body also indicated the number of active cases in a single day is more than total recovered cases from August 5, which is considered a sign of epidemic outbreak.Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI, “82% of the 495 deceased had comorbidities. Still, 181 (36.57%) deceased were admitted in DCHs after 6-9 days of symptoms, while 119 (24.04%) deceased reported to DCHs after symptoms over 9 days.”Experts feel the patients did not report their symptoms or ignored them, or indulged in self-medication and reported to DCHs once symptoms got worse. This is a major worry for the city.“We have undertaken many measures to test persons with comorbidities since April. All such persons need to get tested immediately if they or their family members have symptoms, and get treated,” Mundhe said.As per the analysis of deaths, only 39 (7.88%) patients died after reporting to DCHs within 0-2 days of symptoms. Also, 156 (31.52%) deceased were admitted in DCHs after 3-5 days of symptoms.Of total 495 deceased, 189 (38.2%) patients died within 0-2 days of hospitalization. “It is interpreted that these cases were critical and reported very late for treatment. All have to take care of their health and report in case of symptoms. People can find out when and where to get tested by calling NMC Control Room,” Mundhe said.The data shows 123 (24.8%) patients died after hospitalization of 3-5 days, followed by 114 (23%) in 6-9 days. Only 69 (13.9%) patients died after treatment of more than nine days in DCHs.Deputy medical superintendent of IGGMCH Dr Sagar Pandey said, “Around 3% of positive patients have died in the city. People are not following guidelines. So, the comorbid are getting infected. It depends upon a person’s immunity, but patients with comorbidities reporting late are difficult to save.”Dr Pande added, “Home deaths have reduced by 50% and turned into hospital deaths. After the pandemic, it is seen that people in very critical condition, who would otherwise be home deaths, are brought to DCHs. This is also one of the reasons for increase in Covid deaths.”The NMC’s analysis also indicates epidemic outbreak in city. There were 17,768 cases as on August 22, with 8,994 active cases and total 8,183 recovered cases. First crossover (where active cases on any day were more than total recovered cases till that day) occurred on May 15, and the second on August 5.“Epidemiologists say that epidemic outbreak is indicated, along with more deaths, after the second crossover. Similar trend is also evident in the city after crossover. Some 12,914 cases and 440 deaths were registered between August 5 and August 22,” NMC’s report said.Mundhe said, “NMC has adopted 3-T strategy — early tracking, testing and treatment to tackle outbreak. NMC has traced 1.17 lakh contacts against 12,437 index cases. Some 99,312 tests have been done as on August 22. Testing has been increased from 500 per day to 3,600 per day. NMC’s testing centres are registering 2,600 tests per day and target is to increase it to 4,000 per day soon and later up to 5,000.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/60-patients-died-when-admitted-after-6-9-or-more-days-of-symptoms/articleshow/77729560.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 25, 2020||Kolkata||Woman kills son, hangs self||Kolkata: A 41-year-old homemaker killed her physically disabled teenage son and later hung herself to death, hours after attending the funeral of her husband — a Covid patient — at a village in Howrah on Monday evening.The incident happened at Raghudevpur village under Rajapur police station, around 45km from Kolkata. Police said, according to relatives and neighbours, the woman seemed devastated after the death of her husband, Debnath Dey, who was admitted at a Howrah hospital on Saturday and died early on Monday. The Covid-positive report came a few hours after his death.The woman had returned home in the afternoon. When the neighbours found the house dark till late evening, they knocked on the doors. When no one responded, they called cops, who broke open the door to find the two dead inside the first-floor bedroom. While the woman, Anushree Dey, was found hanging from the ceiling fan, her 19-year-old son, Pritam, was found hanging from the railing of a window.“The woman had reportedly told relatives at the hospital that after her husband’s death that she had no option but to end her own life and that of her son’s ,” said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/woman-kills-son-hangs-self/articleshow/77731535.cms||Rupak Banerjee
August 25, 2020||Kolkata||CM on roads and Kol rain||Kolkata: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee ticked off the Hooghly River Bridge Commissioners (HRBC) for poor maintenance of roads under its jurisdiction. The CM took exception to the HRBC’s claim of Rs 200 crore to the state for undertaking road repairs when the authority has been collecting toll from commuters. “Few days ago on my way to Nabanna, I spotted a road on the Howrah side. The black top has withered. Later, I came to know that HRBC wants Rs 200 crore for repairs. Isn’t it collecting toll from the public?” the CM said at the administrative meeting at Nabanna. She then referred to another stretch on Kona Expressway. Kolkata, meanwhile, may receive heavy rain between second half of Tuesday and Wednesday afternoon under the impact of a low-pressure area that has formed over north Bay of Bengal. The Met office has predicted ‘at least one intense spell’ that could be interspersed by several short spells of drizzles. The rain, though, may lose intensity by the latter half of Wednesday when the low-pressure is set to move westward towards Jharkhand. Kolkata could receive 60-80 mm rain between Tuesday and Wednesday. The CM also directed urban development department to reach out to Howrah town wards and arrange for steps to clear waterlogging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cm-on-roads-and-kol-rain/articleshow/77731519.cms||---
August 25, 2020||World||Countries peddling fake news about vaccine for ‘strategic gains’: Report||NEW DELHI: As the world's focus moves from the initial response to the coronavirus crisis to the race for a vaccine, information is being manipulated for "strategic gain" by some countries. With geopolitical adversaries adept at cyber-mischief like China and Pakistan, India has to be alert to thwart such theories and campaigns which can easily be replicated in the local context. A new report by the Australian Strategic Policy Institute shows state and non-state players in major countries injecting disinformation to influence public opinion on the vaccine. For instance, the report says, on July 17, news reports originating in Luhansk Peoples Republic (LPR) - a self-declared state in eastern Ukraine formed by pro-Russia militias - declared in press releases that trials of Covid vaccine by "US scientists" in Ukraine had led to the deaths of five volunteers, including four Ukrainian soldiers. Such a trial never actually took place. And the press statements in English and Russian also read differently. "From the beginning, this was a deeply political narrative, as the initial disinformation from the LPR was published the day after Russia announced plans to mass-produce its own vaccine in a matter of weeks. The likely goal of this effort was to smear both the US and Ukrainian governments by suggesting that they didn't care about the lives of Ukrainian soldiers. This initial focus was swiftly augmented by Russian-language media to add a focus on Moderna and to undermine confidence in Moderna's mRNA-1273 vaccine candidate," the report said. The story was amplified on Twitter, and in media outlets from Crimea. The report said that between 17 July and 11 August, the narrative began to spread in multiple languages. The study looks at a second instance, where pro-Chinese state and non-state actors are targeting US audiences to highlight US mismanagement of the Covid pandemic, amplifying the current debate, but with the ultimate political goal of targeting the Trump administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/countries-peddling-fake-news-about-vaccine-for-strategic-gains-report/articleshow/77732059.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar: No question of withdrawing resignation, says Raghuvansh Prasad Singh||PATNA: The crisis in RJD deepened on Monday with former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh refusing to withdraw his resignation from the post of national vice-president of the party. “The question of withdrawal of my resignation from the party post doesn’t arise. I have never compromised with my ideology and will not do so in future too. I had then made the party’s top bosses aware of my concerns,” Singh told this newspaper. Singh’s stand assumes significance in the wake of defection of six RJD MLAs to JD(U) recently. Singh, a former MP from Vaishali, comes from socialist background. He had lost the last two Lok Sabha elections from Vaishali seat. On June 23, Singh had resigned from the post of the party’s national vice-president and also sent his resignation letter to incarcerated RJD national president Lalu Prasad. The RJD chief had, however, turned down his resignation. Singh, however, refused to disclose his future plans. “I am at present taking rest at my native village in Vaishali after recovering from coronavirus,” he added. Singh admitted that leader of opposition in state assembly and Lalu’s younger son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav had called him to enquire about his health when he was admitted to AIIMS-Patna. “It was nothing but a courtesy call. Moreover, I was not in a condition to talk more then,” he said. Sources, however, said Tejashwi had tried to persuade Singh to withdraw his resignation, which the latter simply refused. Singh had got angry with the top leadership of the party ever since Rama Kishore Singh alias Rama Singh, a former LJP MP from Vaishali, met Tejashwi and expressed his desire to join the party. He was denied a ticket by the LJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha election. Meanwhile, Jai Kumar Singh, a senior JD(U) functionary and minister in Nitish Kumar cabinet, said doors for a senior socialist leader like Raghuvansh Babu were always open in the party. “Only JD(U) can accord due respect to leaders of such stature,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/raghuvansh-no-question-of-withdrawing-resignation/articleshow/77729556.cms||Ramashankar
August 25, 2020||Kanpur||Missing boy’s body found with throat slit in Unnao||Kanpur: A nine-year-old boy, who had gone missing while playing from his house in Bihar area of Unnao on Saturday evening, was found murdered in the vicinity on Monday morning, police said. The boy’s body, with his slit throat, was found at an under-construction site. The boy, Arun along with his mother Bisuna ,had come to his maternal grandparents' place in Dubaai village to celebrate Rakshabandhan on August 3. The boy had left his home to play with other children in the vicinity in the evening hours on Sunday but did not return home. His mother and other family members noticed him missing and launched a search in the neighbourhood, but in vain. The boy’s body was spotted in an under-construction site close to his maternal grandparents home by locals on Monday morning. Subsequently, police were informed. “At the first look, there didn’t seem to be any injuries on the body. But a closer look showed that the boy’s throat had been slit,” said police. The police have not ruled out the possibility that the boy was killed elsewhere else and his body dumped near his home. The officer said that the boy’s clothes were found to be intact, suggesting he wasn’t sexually assaulted. But the police will await the autopsy report before concluding that. SP Unnao Rohan P Kanay said multiple teams had been formed to solve the murder. “Investigators are speaking to the boy’s parents and other relatives to know if they were involved in any quarrel or enmity in the recent past that may have led to the killing,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/missing-boys-body-found-with-throat-slit-in-unnao/articleshow/77729418.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Kanpur||Finance firm owner hacked to death in Govind Nagar||Kanpur: An owner of a finance company was hacked to death in his office in Govind Nagar area of the city on late Monday evening. Police suspect the incident to be a fallout of a dispute over financial dealings and have launched a manhunt on the basis of CCTV footages procured from the area. Police have identified the deceased as Jai Gopal Puri who used to run a finance company in Govind Nagar area. Police said they received a call from locals of the area that a person was being brutally attacked. A police team rushed to the spot and found a man lying in a pool of blood, with multiple stab injuries. He was rushed to Lala Lajpat Rai hospital where he was declared dead by the doctors. The death of finance company owner sent shock waves throughout the area. SP South Deepak Bhukar said that Puri along with a female staff was sitting inside his office, when a group of unidentified men armed with sharp-edged weapons barged there and attacked him till he fell unconscious and slumped on the floor. The female staff thereafter raised alarm and alerted nearby people. “It is suspected that he might have been killed because of business rivalry. However, the exact motive behind the murder is yet to be ascertained. An investigation has been started,” said SP further and added, “Forensic experts visited the spot and collected evidence from the office. At present, we are scanning CCTV footages, besides questioning female staff to ascertain the identity of assailants.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/finance-firm-owner-hacked-to-death-in-govind-nagar/articleshow/77729479.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Delhi||NDMC builds wall to arrest stench||NEW DELHI: New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has barricaded its organic waste converter plant at Sector-4 of the Gole Market area with fibre sheets. It also plans to install exhaust fans to check the foul smell coming from the plant. Following complaints from the residents, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had on August 9 directed NDMC officials to fix the problem of stench emanating from the plant immediately. Kejriwal had given a deadline of 10 days to the civic body officials and said the plant would be shut down if the problem of foul smell was not addressed by August 20. A senior NDMC official said, “We have barricaded the plant with fibre sheets and are installing carbon filters and exhaust systems. Now, you won’t experience any foul smell in and around the area.” When TOI visited the place on Monday, work for installing fibre sheets was done but exhausts and carbon filters were yet to be installed. However, the stench had reduced considerably and staff at the plant said that once exhausts are placed, no smell would come at all.  Officials said that due to rain, the compost might have got wet and that’s why residents started facing problems. “We have planted saplings in and around the complex, while the compost is now dumped in pits directly,” added the official. Residents, however, claimed that the plant was not fully operational and hence, the smell had subsided. “They might have taken some measures recently, but I don’t believe the place will ever become 100% smell-free. The plant was established without our consensus and we want this to be shifted to another place,” said Satish Rai, RWA president of Sector 4, Gole Market. Meanwhile, the civic agency aims to develop 11 more organic waste composting plants to speed up the process for treating biodegradable waste generated from the area. “We have decided to introduce new technology of drum composting or to install machines underground so that foul smell won’t be released,” said the NDMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ndmc-builds-wall-to-arrest-stench/articleshow/77729591.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 25, 2020||Surat||Surat Covid-19 death toll one short of 600||Surat: Surat city reported 159 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday taking the total number of positive cases to 15,255 in the city. The death toll rose to 599 as three persons succumbed to the virus. City’s posh Athwa zone reported highest daily Covid-19 cases with 27, followed by 24 in Katargam, 22 in Rander, 21 in Udhna, 20 in Limbayat, 19 in Central, and 13 each in Varachha (A) and Varachha (B) zones. About 116 Covid-19 patients got discharged on Monday taking the total number of discharged patients to 12,739 in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-covid-19-death-toll-one-short-of-600/articleshow/77728146.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Goa||Number of new Covid cases tapers over Ganesh weekend||Panaji: At 139, Goa recorded its lowest number of new positive cases on Monday. The number dipped over the Ganesh weekend. While Thursday recorded 424 new cases, the numbers fell to 385, 306 and 209 on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, respectively. Health officials attributed the fall to some OPDs being shut, fewer persons showing up for testing, and some labs not functioning to full capacity during what is one of the biggest festivals in the state. Positive cases in Margao continued to rise with active one crossing the 500 mark. The Vasco health centre that reported the highest active positive cases for weeks together now has only half as many as Margao. The capital city’s cases are also on the rise with the Panaji urban health centre reporting the third highest active positive cases at 172. The Ponda urban health centre as well as Porvorim reported close to 170 active positive cases. Health officials said cases are spreading faster in towns as people live in closed apartments as opposed to villages where they live in houses that are larger and more ventilated. “Once a family member tests positive in the city/town the entire family tests positive,” an official said. Four deaths, all males, were reported in the last 24 hours taking the cumulative Covid death toll to 148. A 50-year-old from Monte Hill, Margao, who was declared brought dead at the South Goa district hospital, was found positive post mortem. A 67-year-old from Vasco and a 50-year-old from Bali died at the Covid hospital in Margao. A 55-year-old from Fatorda died at GMC with comorbid conditions.  August has seen an average of 300-plus positive cases each day with the figure touching 570 on a single day. The month has also reported over 90 Covid mortalities and up to nine on a single day. Doctors cautioned against venturing out into public spaces for the next two weeks. “It’s risky. People should not let their guard down when interacting with relatives and close friends. Giving friends and colleagues lifts is also not advisable because you’re all travelling in a closed box where it’s easier for Covid to travel,” a doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/number-of-new-covid-cases-tapers-over-ganesh-weekend/articleshow/77730794.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Jaipur||Raj House passes bill allowing foreign travel reimbursements for MLAs||Jaipur: The assembly on Monday passed a Bill allowing legislators travel allowance reimbursement up to Rs 3 lakh including foreign trips.This is the first time foreign travel allowances have been allowed to the MLAs for reimbursement under the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly (Officers and Members Emoluments and Pension) (Amendment) Act, 2020.Deputy chief which Mahendra Chaudhary said, “following the amendment, former MLAs would also receive a maximum Rs 1 lakh travel allowance in a year.” Under this amendment, each member is entitled to receive reimbursement of actual fare of any journey undertaken by him subject to a maximum limit of Rs 3 lakh in a year.“If the total amount of reimbursement received in a financial year is less than Rs 3 lakh, the extra amount shall be carried forward in the next financial year or years and the member shall be entitled to utilise it at any time before expiry of his term as member,” said the amendment.If a member entitled to receive travelling allowance under Section 8 of the Act chooses to travel by air, ship or steamer, he is entitled to surrender such part of the facility provided by sub-section (1) as is equivalent to the difference between the air, ship or steamer fare actually paid by him and the railway fare to which he is entitled under that section and receive the cash equivalent of the facility so surrendered.The minimum family pension of a member has been revised from Rs 12,500 to 17,500 or equal to fifty percent of the last drawn pension by such member whichever is higher(in case of death). Under the new amendment, ‘family’ of former members has been revised to include sons and unmarried daughters and parents of deceased ex-members mainly dependent on him or her at the time of his or her death eligible for pension. Similarly allowance of deputy chief whip has been made equal to chief whip. Both will be eligible for a sumptuary allowance of Rs 80,000 per month. Earlier, deputy chief whip’s allowance was Rs 70,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-house-passes-bill-allowing-foreign-travel-reimbursements-for-mlas/articleshow/77730792.cms||Joychen Joseph
August 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Cop held as woman files rape plaint||AURANGABAD: The city cyber police on Monday arrested a constable as a woman, a college student, has accused him of raping her on multiple occasions after promising to marry her and filming the first act. The woman had lodged a complaint against the policeman, Ravindra Dabhade (32), on August 1 but the arrest was delayed because he was isolated in care centre as he had come in contact with a Covid-19 patient, said police. Police have booked him under the rape charge and also under different sections of Information and Technology Act. He will be produced in court on Tuesday. Cyber inspector Geeta Bagwade is investigating the case. The woman has alleged in her complaint that she came in touch with the suspect in 2015 while she was in a junior college. The cop allewedly offered to marry her and won her trust before raping her and filming the act. Using the video, he allegedly blackmailed her and raped her on multiple occasions. The woman has stated that she got engaged to someone else, but Dabhade allegedly shared the video with her fiance, following which the marriage was called off. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cop-held-as-woman-files-rape-plaint/articleshow/77728140.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 25, 2020||Nagpur||My father’s body was kept on bed for 4 hrs, then ward boy asked me to help shift it||Nagpur: At 8pm on August 20, my 67-year-old father complained of sudden breathlessness. He was not tested for Covid as our family doctor didn't advise it when I took him for a check-up two days back at a popular hospital in Sadar.This time, the doctor immediately asked us to take him to Mayo Hospital (IGGMCH). We wanted to treat him at a private hospital. The first private DCH hospital I called up said there was no bed.Previous night, I had visited a private hospital near LIC Square to check if they had started their Covid centre. Staff there too said they may not be able admit my father.I enquired at another big hospital on station road which said it was yet to start Covid treatment and hence couldn’t take risk in case my dad tested positive after admission.His blood oxygen level had dropped below 50 by the time we gave up searching a private bed and proceeded to Mayo at 2pm on August 21. He was administered oxygen and rushed to SARI Ward No 41 where he eventually passed away around 5.30pm.They packed the body in a bag and left it on another bed. Around 9.30pm, a lone ward boy in PPE asked me to help him shift the body to mortuary saying it was 'quite heavy' for him.During my entire stay in the DCH, I had no PPE kit on yet I was asked to assist paramedics as well while they injected IV needle into my father’s veins. I held his hand and could see tears welled up probably due to the pain.I wanted to change his clothes as we were drenched in the rain on way to Surgical Complex (DCH) from Covid OPD, a distance of barely 100 metres. We had no umbrella so I shielded his face from rain drops with the admission file. Doctors gave an injection which marginally improved the SPO2 level. Being a professional, I pointed out that the oxygen cable was loose. Same oximeter and oxygen masks were used on all patients without sanitizing them. Blood was spilt on floor which looked as if it had been swept ages ago.Other bodies too were lying on some beds and body freezers, creating fear among patients and relatives.The horror continued at the mortuary the next day. Fortunately, I had clicked the picture of box number (A5) in which we placed my father’s body. Yet, doctors said his body was in A3 as per their register but it turned out to be tagged as “unknown’. There were mistakes in spelling of name too, adding to the confusion.Since body swab result was pending, I had to complete police formalities in Sadar police station till 2am. On Monday, me, my brother, and our wives got tested at NMC’s KT Nagar centre. All are negative while I tested positive.(As told to Sarfaraz Ahmed)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/my-fathers-body-was-kept-on-bed-for-4-hrs-then-ward-boy-asked-me-to-help-shift-it/articleshow/77729577.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Jaipur||Suspected double agent spying for Pak detained by ATS in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: A suspected double agent, who allegedly had access to the Indian Army's border posts in Rajasthan while spying for Pakistan, has been detained on the basis of a report by the state Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS). Mushtaq Ali Khan, a 40-year-old resident of Barmer, has been identified as the son of a man arrested there recently for possession of fake Indian currency. Police sources said the "sent" folder of Mushtaq's Gmail account contains mails with sensitive information, including a detailed video of a prohibited Army area along the international border. The ATS had him on its radar since last year after receiving a tip-off from a central intelligence agency, they added. He will be questioned by multiple agencies at a joint interrogation centre in Barmer from Tuesday. ADG (intelligence) Umesh Mishra said, “We had received some inputs about the accused person and had sought permission to interrogate him. We will question him with the information that we have received.” Mushtaq operated five Facebook accounts, which he allegedly used to befriend Pakistan nationals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/suspected-double-agent-spying-for-pak-detained-by-ats-in-state/articleshow/77730831.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Forcibly married off, bride stages abduction||ROHTAK: Married off against her wishes, a bride staged her kidnapping when she was heading to her husband’s home in Bhiwani for the first time. But the police foiled her plan and rescued her within an hour of the crime. Police found the bride, a resident of Mokhra village in Rohtak, from Sonipat. The woman told the police that she was forcibly married to a man from Tosham in Bhiwani and claimed that it was her who called five boys who waylaid their vehicle at gunpoint in Kalanaur area of the district and escaped in the car. Later, police traced the bride in Sonipat district police’s jurisdiction, but the boys couldn’t be arrested till filing of this report. Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma said a case has been registered against the accused who blocked the groom’s vehicle and ran away with the bride. Police said that it was the bride who scripted her abduction as a mark of protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/married-off-against-wishes-bride-stages-her-abduction/articleshow/77730835.cms||Sat Singh
August 25, 2020||Dehradun||Ban on non-woven bags pending state govt nod: Pollution control board to HC||Non-woven bags are used widely by retailers and the public as an alternative to single-use plasticNainital: The Uttarakhand Environment Protection and Pollution Control Board (UEPPCB) on Monday informed the Uttarakhand high court (HC) that it has sent a proposal to the state government for implementing a ban on non-woven polypropylene bags, which is pending approval. Non-woven bags are used widely by retailers and the public as an alternative to single-use plastic. However, the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016, have classified polypropylene under plastic. The submission was made before a bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice NS Dhanik while it was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking a ban on the use of non-woven bags as well as action against the industries producing them. The UEPPCB affidavit, a copy of which is available with TOI, stated that the pollution watchdog had forwarded a proposal to the state government in November last year for the implementation of a ban on sale, manufacturing and storage of single-use plastic and non-woven polypropylene bags, adding that it is still pending approval. “It is hereby submitted that various state governments have clearly issued directions prohibiting the use of non-woven bags, especially those made of polypropylene. However, Uttarakhand has not yet issued any such government order in this regard,” the affidavit said. The court has now given all the 13 district magistrates three weeks’ time to file their counter-affidavits detailing the status of compliance to the HC and NGT orders banning plastic use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ban-on-non-woven-bags-pending-state-govt-nod-pollution-control-board-to-hc/articleshow/77725777.cms||Prashant Jha
August 25, 2020||Goa||Margao fish mkt to reopen tomorrow||Margao: The wholesale fish market at Madel, Margao will open on August 26 without fish cutters. “Fish cutters will not be permitted inside the premises, violators will be strictly dealt with,” South Goa Planning and Development Authority (SGPDA) member secretary Vertika Dagur stated in a notice issued on Monday. Dagur issued directions to close the market with immediate effect until August 24. SGPDA chairman Wilfred D’Sa said three fish cutters and two fish sellers tested positive for Covid. Earlier in the week, Dagur issued a showcause notice to the South Goa Wholesale Fish Traders’ Association for violating conditions set out by it for the reopening the wholesale fish market last month. the notice stated that fish sellers failed to maintain social distancing and added that no provisions were made for use of sanitisers. Dagur had asked the association to showcause why action shouldn’t be taken against it for the violations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/margao-fish-mkt-to-reopen-tomorrow/articleshow/77730818.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Medicos’ plea against Covid duty dismissed||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Monday rejected the petition filed by the third-year MBBS students of AMC-run colleges against the mandatory Covid-19 duty as ‘Corona sahayaks’. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala observed that there is no violation of the fundamental rights of the students in the pandemic situation. The court said that even if the executive order is illegal in the absence of any law in the field, it is in the larger public interest. Hence, the court said, the fundamental rights of the students cannot be said to have been violated. The high court advised the students to join the duty and said that this is a historic opportunity for them. It said by filing the petition, the students have conveyed that they are frightened. The HC said, “Are the writ-applicants before us frightened to render their services or do they want to shirk their responsibility to perform the duties in the public interest?” The HC went on to say: “They have established that whatever may happen to society at large, they would like to remain safe.” Justifying the orders to students to join the Covid duty issued by NHL Medical College and LG Medical College, the HC said that in the absence of any legislation, the government is entitled to pass such directions. The HC said that directions of this nature can be issued as long as the government does not go against the provisions of the Constitution. The width and amplitude of the government’s executive power cannot be circumscribed, the court said. It further said that if it is restrained, the administration would come to a standstill. The HC also said that these students will complete their medical studies soon. “Therefore, it hardly makes any difference whether as on date they are full-fledged doctors or final-year MBBS students,” the court said. “We understand this much that being the final-year MBBS students, they are now well trained in all faculties of medicine. They cannot say that they would not do a particular type of work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/make-mbbs-medics-bound-by-service-to-all-hc/articleshow/77729746.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 77,000 patients defeated Covid-19 at home||NEW DELHI: Home isolation has turned out to be an effective means of fighting the novel coronavirus with 77,571 patients not requiring admission to a hospital or Covid care centre. The government permitted home isolation at the end of April. Since then, it has played a major role in Delhi’s fight against the virus. Currently, there are 11,626 active Covid-19 cases of which 6,143 are under home isolation. Virender Kumar Yadav, a 52-year-old diabetic, was among the first patients to defeat Covid. He said home isolation made it easy for him to keep at bay the fear and anxiety associated with the disease. “The fight was easy because I remained in the comfort of my home. In the 17 days of my treatment, I didn’t realise that I was fighting a disease. I used to get calls twice daily from government officials to monitor my health,” he added. Doctors believe that home isolation ensures emotional well-being of patients and provides them psycho-social support, which speeds up recovery and helps in easing anxiety and panic associated with the disease. Dr Neeraj Roy, district surveillance officer for West district, said, “Patients under home isolation feel protected. They have more options to get the food of their choice. At hospitals, no personal attendant is allowed.” A health official said many patients broke down while boarding an ambulance on the way to a treatment facility. In densely populated colonies, neighbours would peep out of their windows or come onto the balcony to see a Covid patient being taken away. This would take a toll on the confidence of patients and even make their family members emotional. At the treatment facility, patients would get scared on seeing another get serious or die because of the disease. Sajid Nadeem, a 40-year-old man who recovered in May, said regular monitoring made home isolation a different kind of hospitalisation. “I would suggest that people strictly follow the guidelines, which include maintaining a fever chart. Staying positive helps in recovery,” he added. The number of people under home isolation has remained low and largely static in the past three weeks of August. On August 1, 5,660 patients were under home isolation. This number dropped to 5,224 on August 6, but increased to 5,762 on August 13. It further increased to 6,143 on August 24. Those who find difficulty in breathing, have persistent pain or pressure in the chest, mental confusion or bluish colour of lips are shifted to hospitals. Watch Delhi: 77,000 patients defeated Covid-19 at home||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/77k-patients-defeated-covid-at-home/articleshow/77729658.cms||AlokKNMishra
August 25, 2020||Chandigarh||UT writes to Tricity, Patiala DCs to be prepared for opening of floodgates again||Chandigarh: Expecting a rise in the water level again in the Sukhna Lake due to chances of rains in Himachal Pradesh and adjoining areas of the city in the coming days, Chandigarh administration on Monday has written to deputy commissioners of Chandigarh, Mohali, Panchkula and Patiala to take the required precautionary measures, as there are possibilities to open the floodgates of the lake again. Moreover, the multiple teams of the engineering department have been deployed round the clock at the Sukhna Lake for keeping an eye on the situation. “We have been monitoring the water level of the Sukhna Lake regularly. On Monday, the water level of the lake was 1152.5 feet and therefore we have written to the deputy commissioners of tri-city and Patiala by mentioning the level in the letter. It is quite sure that if it rains in coming days in Himachal Pradesh and adjoining areas, we will have to open the floodgates again to release the water, because the Monday’s water level is just 10 feet below than the danger mark and we can’t wait for the water to reach danger level, we may have to open the floodgates before that,” a senior official of the UT said. Sources in the engineering department also said the department will also inform all the officers concerned an hour before the opening of the floodgates, so that traffic movement can be stopped at the required places. “Before opening the floodgates, we give sufficient time to the authorities to take all required measures,” an official revealed. According to information, engineering department has formulated three teams, which will deployed for eight hours each so that the lake is monitored round the clock. These teams have engineers, technical staff, operation staff and labourers. On Sunday, the engineering department released water from Sukhna Lake, as water had touched the danger level. Due to this, Baltana area of Mohali district almost submerged in water. Before this, the floodgates were opened in 2018 by the engineering department on September 24. The floodgates were also opened in 2008 and 2003 previosuly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-writes-to-tricity-patiala-dcs-to-be-prepared-for-opening-of-floodgates-again/articleshow/77729633.cms||Deepak Yadav
August 25, 2020||Jaipur||15 govt school teachers among 21 test Covid positive in Baran||KOTA: In a setback to efforts at reopening schools, 15 teachers posted in various government schools in Kotdi-Kadiyavan gram panchayat in Chabda block of Baran district, two ASHA workers and four of their family members tested Covid positive on Monday. Baran city is under six days of lockdown from August 22 to 27. A medical camp was organised three days ago in Kotdi, where the random sampling in government schools and Anganwadi centres operational in Kotdi- Kadiyavan was carried out, Baran CMHO Sampat Nagar said. The report of samples received on Monday showed 15 teachers, two anganwadi workers and four of their family members tested positive. Across the district, 77 people tested positive on Monday taking the cumulative count to 545 and total casualties to 20 so far, he said. Of the 21 who tested positive, 20 have been quarantined in a Covid centre in Chabda while one is undergoing home quarantine, Hariom Goyal, in-charge, CHC, Chabda said. All the 20 patients are asymptomatic, stable and medical treatment to them has been initiated accordingly, he added. Taking a serious note at rising number of cases, Baran collector Indra Singh Rao on Friday issued order for six days lockdown in periphery of Baran municipal council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/15-govt-schoolteachers-among-21-test-ve-in-baran/articleshow/77730814.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Jungle king menu: Cattle catching up with faster food||AHMEDABAD: A study has revealed that the humble cattle constitute a major part of the royal feasts of Gir lions. According to the study, cattle form 47% of the lion diet in protected areas. Outside those areas, cattle seem to become the main course for the lions, representing 76% of the intake. The study says that easy availability of livestock within and outside the protected areas has made the lions develop high dependency on domestic cattle. These findings were presented in a study titled “Implications of diet composition of Asiatic lions for their conservation”. The study, released recently, states: “Owing to the greater availability of livestock, particularly cattle, in the peripheral areas as compared with resident livestock, a clear-cut difference in lion diet was evident within and outside protected areas.” The study goes on to say: “Within the protected areas also, including the national park, livestock formed a significant part of the lion’s diet.” For the study, the scat of 310 lions was analyzed and 12 prey species were identified. The study was carried out by Meena Venkataraman of Carnivore Conservation and Research and Y V Jhala of the Wildlife Institute of India (WII). In all, 258 kills were analyzed. Livestock accounted for 53% of the total kills and wild prey 47%. Cattle were 31% of the total kills; chital, 28%; buffalo, 16%; sambar, 10%; nilgai, 3%; wild pig, 6%; goat, 3%; camel, 2%; peafowl and chousingha (a small antelope) 1%. The proportion of the wild kills in summer was 67%, in monsoon it was 35%, and in winter it was 38%. Livestock was part of the diet in all zones of the protected areas. Livestock made up 38% of the kills in the 258 sq km national park; 50% in Gir West; and 76% in the peripheral areas. A lion expert said that a central government team from the ministry of forests had concluded that the national park’s area should be expanded. He said the national park should then be made the sole preserve of wildlife and should remain free from any human inference. As of now, the fact that 38% of the kills is made up of livestock shows a considerable degree of human interference. Principal chief conservator of forests Shyamal Tikadar said: “The scat analysis may have revealed this fact but no cattle is allowed inside the national park.” Tikadar went on to say: “Lions may have ventured out of the park and killed livestock during their forays.” Venkataraman said: “Whatever is easily available is being killed by the lions.” Ungulates are hard to come by in the Gir periphery, Venkataraman said. “Hence the lions depend on domestic cattle,” she said. Jhala reiterated that domestic cattle are easy pickings. “Lion cubs grow up scavenging and therefore lack the hunting skills,” Jhala said. “Hence as adults some of them are no longer the lions nature intended them to be.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/jungle-king-menu-cattle-catching-up-with-faster-food/articleshow/77730839.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
August 25, 2020||Jaipur||‘RIICO flouted land use rules to aid firm’||JAIPUR: The CAG has picked holes in the way RIICO has approved the Change in Land Use (CLU) norms for a company in Neemrana industrial park that not only violated the rules of the central government, but also did not adhere to the directions of its board of directors. RIICO’s decision extended an undue advantage of Rs 3.55 crore to M/s. Naveen Gaur and Harish Gaur. Neemrana Phase-1 was notified under Industrial Park Scheme-2002 (IPS 2002) and any approval of land conversion should be done with the consent from the central government. Even though the board of directors of RIICO in 2018 had allowed the chairman to raise the ceiling on commercial use in general industrial areas from 15% to 20% on a case to case basis, it excluded units in IPS 2002. RIICO not only increased the ceiling of non-industrial use for Neemrana Phase-1, but also did so in a way that saved M/s. Naveen Gaur and Harish Gaur Rs 3.55 crore. Industrial units pay CLU charges at twice the rate of prevailing industrial rates. The CAG said, “Audit further observed that allotment rate for this industrial area was revised from Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,500 per sq-mtr with the approval (July 23, 2018) of the competent committee. However, office order effecting the revision of rates was issued belatedly on August 24, 2018. The unit head, Neemrana, participated in the July meeting for revision in allotment rates and thus, he was well aware of the revision in allotment rate of the area. Despite this, the unit office raised on August 8, 2018 demand for conversion charges on pre-revised rate which led to extension of undue advantage of Rs 3.55 crore to the allottee firm.” Earlier, the application of the company for CLU was rejected, following which it had approached the court. “Besides, the company (RIICO) suo motu granted in principle permission for CLU of the plot in favour of the allottee firm without ensuring withdrawal of the writ petition filed by it,” the CAG observed. It said the reply of the government was in contradiction of its earlier reply and was not acceptable. “The limit of 10% (non-industrial use of the total industrial land) prescribed in IPS 2002 was the maximum limit and the Company (RIICO) could exceed the earmarked 3.11% for commercial use only after obtaining approval from the government of India,” it remarked. After the CAG’s query, RIICO subsequently raised a demand on the company to pay the differential amount in July 2019. As M/s. Naveen Gaur and Harish Gaur failed to pay the money, RIICO withdrew the permission for CLU. M/s. Naveen Gaur and Harish Gaur has filed a civil suit against RIICO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/riico-flouted-land-use-rules-to-aid-firm/articleshow/77730821.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Jaipur||Lack of political will affecting tiger reintroduction plan in Mukundra||JAIPUR: The step-motherly treatment meted out to Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR), the state’s third tiger reserve, has hit the tiger reintroduction programme, allegedly following regime change in the state. In 2018, a tiger reintroduction programme was carried out during the Vasundhara Raje-led government for the third time in the country. But the tigers and monitoring staff at MHTR had only limited resources after the Raje govt was voted out. Recently, two big cats (MT-2 and MT-3) had died in the reserve. Experts believe sloppy planning, negligence of top forest officials and the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) have sabotaged the tiger reintroduction programme. Congress MLA from Sangod, Bharat Singh, who is keen on wildlife issues, says, “Rajasthan minister for forest and environment Sukhram Bishnoi has not even visited MHTR once. The strength of MHTR staff has been reduced to half. Despite the issue being raised in the assembly, nothing has been done in this regard. Union minister for forests Prakash Javadekar, NTCA officials are also equally responsible for tiger deaths at MHTR as they did not complete the tiger reintroduction process. Senior forest officials of the state are also responsible for the negligence and have adopted a lackadaisical approach in completing the programme.” After the deaths of two big cats (MT-2 and MT-3) in MHTR, two IFS-ranked officials were put on awaiting posted orders (APO) in a face-saving exercise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lack-of-political-will-affecting-tiger-reintroduction-plan-in-mukundra/articleshow/77730844.cms||Ajay Singh
August 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Screening of vulnerable groups being streamlined||JAIPUR: Under mission ‘Life Saving’ (LiSa), the state health department has found that the teams deployed for medical examinations in some areas have not worked sincerely and merely carried out formalities in screening of people belonging to the vulnerable category. In some areas, it has also been found that they only interact verbally and complete the formalities quickly. Expressing concern over it, the health department has written to all the chief medical health officers to implement the mission effectively to save lives from Covid-19 by proper screening of vulnerable groups. Mission LiSa has been designed for early identification of suspected Covid-19 patients requiring immediate medical attention. Under mission LiSa, the health department conducts examination of people belonging to vulnerable groups such as people above 60 years, children below 10 years, patients with co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and pregnant women in containment and hotspot areas. In August, over 281 people have died and majority of the deaths have been reported from the vulnerable category. “We have issued a notification on the issue mentioning that the healthcare workers and teams conducting screening of vulnerable groups should conduct screening properly. There were reports from some areas that the teams are just talking verbally without conducting any proper screening,” said a health department official, who further said that Mission LiSa has been modified for more intense screening and for better transportation facilities of patient. The health department has equipped its teams with thermal scanners and pulse oximeters for proper screening. The teams have been directed to record the temperature of the people along with measuring oxygen saturation for early identification of patients with complications. The health department has now made training compulsory for the teams conducting screening of vulnerable groups. The health department has clarified that during screening if a person’s oxygen level is found below normal or having influenza-like illness and other medical ailment, he should be immediately be referred to the hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/conduct-proper-screening-of-vulnerable-covid-19-groups-health-teams-told/articleshow/77730838.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
August 25, 2020||Surat||Ex-MLA’s son, 11 others threaten Surat realtor||Surat: Eleven persons, including son of a former MLA and prime accused in a cryptocurrency case were booked for threatening a Surat-based real estate developer following a financial dispute on Monday. Police have arrested four of the 11 accused with four country-made pistols, 13 cartridges and two knives, worth Rs 45,200 from Siddhi Vinayak Green, a under-construction residential project being developed by Raju Ravi Desai, in Laskana village in outskirts of the city. The accused Salim Theba, Hanif Darzada, Umar Patni, all from Junagadh and Sajit Theba of Rajkot were arrested based on a complaint by Desai, who had accused them of encroaching upon his property since February this year. The accused were booked for trespassing and under Arms Act. During the investigation it was revealed that the four arrested accused were acting allegedly on behalf of cryptocurrency case accused Shailesh Bhatt, from whom Desai had borrowed Rs 4 crore in 2015 at 1.5% monthly rate of interest. Desai claimed that he repaid around Rs 6 crore with interest, but Bhatt was demanding more money which had led to the dispute. “Desai had informed police that some people had encroached on his project after which police checked at the spot and nabbed the accused,” said Ajay Tomar, city police commissioner. Based on the details that surfaced during Desai’s questioning, police registered separate offence against Bhatt, his son Nikunj Bhatt, Vijay Khokhariya, Dharmesh Patel, Aniruddhsinh Jadeja, Shabbir, Salim Theba, Sajit Theba, Hanif Darzada and Umar Patni. They all were booked for rioting, unlawful assembly intimidation, criminal conspiracy and criminal trespass under Indian Penal Code. They were also booked under Gujarat Money Lenders Act. According to Tomar, Bhatt had taken help of Aniruddhsinh Jadeja, son of former MLA Mahipatsinh Jadeja of Ribda in Rajkot, to recover the money from Desai. The case has now been transferred to Surat city crime branch. Police investigation also revealed that Desai and Bhatt had dealt in cryptocurrency in the past and both are facing investigation different cryptocurrency cases. They had developed disputes during cryptocurrency business as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ex-mlas-son-11-others-threaten-surat-realtor/articleshow/77728174.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Chandigarh||MC to coordinate with UT admin to clean Patiala Ki Rao||Chandigarh: The finance and contract committee (F&CC) of the municipal corporation (MC), Chandigarh on Monday decided to coordinate with the Chandigarh administration for proper maintenance and cleaning of Patiala Ki Rao. They also decided to have a joint inspection with the engineers of administration to avoid any kind of situation of water accumulation near the houses of Khudda Lahora Colony. Moreover, the committee passed various agenda items, mainly to increase their revenue resources. Significantly, due to increased water flow in the Patiala Ki Rao, water entered the houses of the Khuda Lahora on Sunday. The situation was quite drastic, as water entered the bedrooms, waking people up in the middle of the night. “Due to huge amount of silt in the Patiala Ki Rao, water level has increased. There is a dire need to clean the Patiala Ki Rao, to prevent water from entering Khuda Lahora’s residential areas. As the area falls in the jurisdiction of the UT administration, they need to do the work. We can definitely coordinate with them,” sources in the MC revealed. The F&CC has accorded approval to licensing the office space at III floor, new over bridge, Sector 17 in Chandigarh and also gave the approval to the remaining nursery sites at Mauli Jagran village through auction. The members have also accorded approval for selling pruned or pollard branches (fuel wood) on ‘as is, where is’ basis. The members also asked the officers concerned to dispose-off the waste material and items lying in the community centres, stores and offices that fall under the jurisdiction of MC on priority bases till December and monthly report regarding the disposal to be tabled before the F&CC every month. The committee accorded approval to increase the monthly rent of sheds situated at Rehri market in Sector 23C, Chandigarh at Rs. 17000 (plus 18% GST) and annual increase of license fee from Rs 100 to Rs 500 and increase late fee from Rs 50 to Rs 100 per day. The members also decided that the rent and license fee will be reviewed after three years. The committee also accorded approval to call expression of interest for multi-level parking at Manimajra near Rana Ki Haveli. The members asked the officers concerned to explore possibility to levy entry tax on private water tankers into Chandigarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-to-coordinate-with-ut-admin-to-clean-patiala-ki-rao/articleshow/77729659.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Nagpur||‘Refused bed, declared asymptomatic, my relative died in two days’||The local politicians and administrative officials are constantly reassuring Nagpurians sufficient beds are available for Covid-19 patients. But the reality seems otherwise.I came to realize this on August 19, when a close relative of mine tested positive for corona in a private hospital on North Ambazari Road. The hospital refused to admit him, claiming it had no spare beds.The patient, who had been suffering from high fever for last three-to-four days, was semi-conscious when he was refused admission. A private hospital on Koradi Road also did not admit him, citing shortage of beds.It was late evening by then and after getting no response from private hospitals, my family members rang up a prominent government hospital on Central Avenue. “Bring the patient tomorrow morning at 11 am as senior doctors have gone home,” was the response.At a time when 30-40 people are dying in the city due to Covid everyday, it was shocking that doctors were not on duty at one of the city’s oldest and biggest government hospital. It is beyond imagination how hospital staffers could not realize anything could happen in these 16 hours.Completely at loss, I contacted a colleague who sought help from a top politician who rang up the dean of the hospital and apprised him of the problem. My relatives then went to the Covid OPD of the hospital.The doctors on-duty refused to entertain him until the dean told them to. While the patient was sitting in a corner, family members were hurriedly calling up their acquaintances seeking advice.My colleague again called up the politician seeking intervention. After a lot of chaos and approval from the dean, the doctors finally examined my relative. After checking his body temperature and oxygen levels, they declared him asymptomatic and advised home isolation.The dean also called up the family and told them it would be better if the patient was home quarantined as he would face inconvenience in the hospital. Going by his word, relatives took the patient home. This was probably a blunder.In the wee hours, his condition deteriorated and he started feeling drowsy and developed high fever. In the morning when the family members bought an oximeter and his oxygen levels came at 80% against the required 95%.They frantically tried to find a bed in the local hospitals and finally next day, found one at a private hospital outside the city limits. As the patient was unconscious and lost his phone, there was no way for the family members to know his condition.The hospital is run by a top politician. Once again, I and my colleague contacted the owner and requested him to get us in touch with the doctor concerned.Upon calling up the doctor, I was informed his condition was serious but not critical. After getting treatment for two days during which my relative was put on a ventilator, he passed away in the early hours of August 23.A man, who died within two days of hospitalization, was declared asymptomatic and fit for home isolation by the government doctors. In a critical condition, he was made to do hospital hopping, all in vain.Being journalists, at least we could pull some strings and get him treatment. I shudder to think what might be happening to the people who have no influence.The patient, who tested positive and had been suffering from high fever for last three-to-four days, was semi-conscious when he was refused admission. A private hospital on Koradi Road also did not admit him, citing shortage of beds for Covid patients||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/refused-bed-declared-asymptomatic-my-relative-died-in-two-days/articleshow/77729650.cms||Manka Behl
August 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||State adds 1,067 Covid cases, 13 deaths in 24 hours||Ahmedabad: In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Monday, Gujarat reported 1,067 new Covid-19 cases, taking its case total to 87,846. This was the lowest one-day tally of cases for the state for a week. The new cases include 229 from Surat, 165 from Ahmedabad, 120 from Vadodara, and 98 from Rajkot. The total number of cases in these districts rose to 30,447, 18,765, 7,316, and 4,049, respectively. Jamnagar recorded 86 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 1,964. The state also recorded 13 Covid deaths, 11 from the urban areas, taking the death toll to 2,910. It was the lowest number of deaths in a day for 39 days. Five deaths were reported from Surat, three from Ahmedabad, two from Rajkot and Vadodara each, and one from Bhavnagar. The death tolls in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot are 1,688, 596, 121, and 78. The four districts account for 85.3% of all Covid deaths in Gujarat. The state also saw 1,021 patients being discharged, taking the number of those who have recovered from Covid to 70,250. The discharges on Monday included 182 from Surat, 164 from Ahmedabad, 124 from Panchmahal, and 53 each in Vadodara and Rajkot 53. The number of active patients in Gujarat is now 14,686, or 16.7% of cumulative cases. The share of discharged and deceased patients in Gujarat was 80% and 3.3%, respectively. The state carried out 63,065 tests in these 24 hours, taking its total to 18.19 lakh. The state health department claimed this represents 970 tests per day per million people. As on Monday evening, the state has 4.73 lakh persons under quarantine, of which 515 are in institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-adds-1067-covid-cases-13-deaths-in-24-hours/articleshow/77729828.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur’s Covid tally crosses 9,000 mark||JAIPUR: The city’s journey from 6,000 to 9,000 Covid-19 cases took just 20 days indicating that the virus has spread alarmingly in the state capital. Among 1,346 new infections reported from different parts of the state on Monday, Jaipur contributed 251 cases, which accounted for more than 18% cases the state reported. Jaipur’s Covid count reached 9,018. However, there is something to cheer about as for the first time after June, the active cases ratio has gone down below 20% as the recovery ratio rose to just above 78%. The state’s tally reached at 71,955 while the death toll stood at 967 with 12 more persons succumbing to the ailment in different parts of the state. A health department official said, “We have modified Mission LiSa with more focus on saving lives by immediate referral of the patient to hospital.” In the last 24 hours, three persons died in Jaipur taking its toll to 257. Elsewhere in the state, three persons died in Kota taking it count to 63. Similarly, Udaipur reported its 23rd death, Sikar (16th) Ajmer (65th), Pratapgarh (5th), Pali (42nd) and Bhlwara reported its 13th fatality. Active cases in Jaipur rose to 2,881, followed by Jodhpur (2,153), Alwar (1,362), Kota (1,314), Bhilwara (665) and Bikaner (607). Across the state, 14,388 Covid patients are either under home isolation or are undergoing treatment in covid care centres and hospitals. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (255), Jaipur (251), Bhilwara (106), Alwar (85), Bikaner (65), Ajmer (61), Pali (60), Kota (40), Churu (35), Bharatpur (33), Udaipur (31), Barmer (27), Sirohi (27), Pratapgarh (25), Jhalawar (23), Rajsamand (21), Banswara (20), Baran (19), Sikar (18), Hanumangarh (17), Jhunjhunu (16), Sawai Madhopur (13), Dholpur (12), Sriganganagar (12), Nagaur (11), Karauli (11), Dausa (11), Chittorgarh (11), Dungarpur (10), Bundi (9), Tonk (8) and Jalore (3). In Jaipur, 57 different areas reported 251 new infections including 19 from Jhotwara, Malviya Nagar (15), Vidhyadhar Nagar (15), Adarsh Nagar (12), Sanganer (12), Shastri Nagar (11), Sodala (11), Mansarovar (11) and Tonk Road (10).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipurs-covid-tally-crosses-9000-mark/articleshow/77730830.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Nagpur||Submit list of Covid-19 patients in all hospitals since March: HC||Nagpur: Expressing serious concern over increasing complaints of bed shortage in hospitals treating Covid-19 patients, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Monday directed Maharashtra government to provide a list of patients admitted in city’s Government Medical Colleges and Hospitals (GMCHs) along with private hospitals from March.A division bench comprising justices Zaka Haq and Anil Kilor also took suo motu cognisance of a TOI report titled ‘Hard to get beds in DCH despite 46% occupancy’ and turned it into a PIL. Censuring Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), the bench appointed Shreerang Bhandarkar as amicus curiae to draft the PIL.While asking NMC to assist the government in preparing list of patients, the judges directed them to submit it before September 2. This directive came while hearing a PIL by social worker Satyavrat Datta through counsel C Chandurkar. The petitioner had prayed for directives to respondents to set up two 500-bedded hospitals dedicated entirely to Covid-19 patients in the city.Before adjourning hearing in both cases till next week, the judges asked respondents, including civic body and government, not to consider them as “adversarial litigations”.NMC in its reply through counsel Sudhir Puranik clarified that persistent efforts were made by municipal commissioner in this regard and there’s no shortage of beds as sufficient number of them are available at GMCH and IGGMC.Quoting the TOI report, the judges said various citizens expressed grievances that whenever they approached hospitals with coronavirus patients, their response was “no beds available”. “Though efforts taken by respondents in handling the situation can’t be disputed and need to be applauded, we feel that directives are needed to file a detailed list of patients admitted into all hospitals date wise from March.”Earlier, the judges cited deaths of patients due to medicine shortage, that also included a lawyer. “Several complaints are being received about the bed shortage. Even ventilators weren’t made available, as senior doctor then needs to attend patients. A judge’s personal secretary was admitted in a leading private hospital where it was found that seven persons were kept in a single room without any social distancing.”The judges further noted that private hospitals were asking non-Covid patients, even senior citizens, to shift as they were told by the civic body to accommodate more Covid-19 patients.“The nodal officers are harassing private hospitals by asking for details of non-Covid patients. What’s their authority to do so? The policies are not being implemented properly. Why were patients not given their reports and why such secrecy is being maintained? Why can’t they send reports to doctors in whom they’ve faith?” the judges orally said, adding that TOI report compelled them to direct registration of PIL.Bhandarkar pointed out that the overall condition of Covid-19 patients is pathetic, as relatives weren’t allowed access to dead bodies. “The doctors and staff at hospitals were reluctant to treat the patients due to threat of getting infected,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/submit-list-of-covid-19-patients-in-all-hospitals-since-march-hc/articleshow/77730840.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 25, 2020||Delhi||US following Delhi model of plasma therapy, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: With the US government announcing that it had adopted convalescent plasma therapy for the treatment of critical Covid-19 patients, Delhi government on Monday said that they had taken the cue from the capital’s model of battling the virus. The US Food and Drug Administration has authorised the use of convalescent plasma in an emergency. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: “They used to say, back in the day — what America does today, India would do tomorrow. Delhi has changed it. Now, what Delhi did yesterday, America does today. Congratulations Delhiites for achieving this for our country.” They used to say, back in the day - what America does today, India would do tomorrow. Delhi has changed it. Now -… https://t.co/t7BC6eUPdh— Arvind Kejriwal (@ArvindKejriwal) 1598278585000In April, Delhi government was the first in the country to apply for permission from the Centre to carry out plasma therapy trials at Lok Nayak Hospital. After the encouraging results of the initial trials on critical patients, the Centre was requested to allow plasma therapy in Delhi, which was granted. “Subsequently, the first plasma bank in the country was started at Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) on July 2. The objective was to provide convalescent plasma to patients free of cost. Later, another plasma bank was set up at Lok Nayak Hospital. This crucial element in Delhi’s model of fighting the virus has been adopted by other states too,” Delhi government said in a statement. Delhi government maintains that plasma therapy has played an important role in the declining death rate of Covid-19 patients. Plasma is being provided to patients of all blood groups, including the rare types AB, B and O. Till August 11, 921 recovered patients had donated plasma at ILBS, including 86 healthcare workers, 209 entrepreneurs, 8 media personnel, 28 policemen, 50 students, 32 government officials, and 508 servicemen, self-employed professionals, non-residents of Delhi, among others. Fourteen recovered patients have donated plasma more than once.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/us-following-delhi-model-of-plasma-therapy-says-cm/articleshow/77729716.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Chandigarh||No intimation to Zirakpur MC, drainage dept before opening||Mohali: The Mohali administration, Zirakpur municipal council, the drainage department and the irrigation department were unaware of the fact that the UT administration had opened the floodgates of the Sukhna Lake after it went over danger level. The opening of the floodgates caused floods in the parts of Baltana in Zirakpur on Sunday. The police post, marriage palaces, municipal park, milk dairies and cremation ground were submerged in 8 to 10 feet of water. At Baltana police post there’s still ankle-deep water. Though the water receded on Monday in most places, the threat of outbreak of epidemic looms large as many animals like cats and dogs were found dead in the open ground and eagles could be seen hovering above to feed on them. The residents of the area are concerned about the dead animals and said that the council must get them removed before any epidemic spreads. Darshan Lal, a resident living nearby said, “We are already struggling with Covid-19 pandemic and now we do not want to face another epidemic due to dead animals.” Zirakpur municipal council executive officer (EO) Sandeep Tiwari said, “We had no intimation about opening of floodgates of Sukhna Lake reservoir. In fact, we came to know at around 10am after which we learnt that the situation is grim, and we swung into action. But, by then, the floods had already submerged the area under water. Fortunately, the flooding was not on the residential side otherwise it could have been worse. Now, we are ready for any such situation in future.” He said the department with drainage and irrigation managed to plug the breach caused in Shukhna Choe using poclain and hydra machines. The executive engineer of irrigation department (Xen) Raman Bains said, “We visited the place from where the water flooded the area and learnt that the water had overflowed the banks of the Sukhna Choe after huge quantity of the water was released from the Sukhna reservoir. We have plugged the damage caused at the banks of the choe as of now and are ready for any other such situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-intimation-to-zirakpur-mc-drainage-dept-before-opening/articleshow/77729672.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
August 25, 2020||Surat||73 court cases filed against VNSGU during Gupta’s tenure||Surat: As many as 73 cases have been filed against Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) in different courts since 2017 after the now ex-vice chancellor, Shivendra Gupta, took charge of the university.The university has spent over Rs 15 lakh in legal fees during Gupta’s tenure that ended on Sunday according to VNSGU records. A syndicate member has decided to approach court with demand to recover the money from those VNSGU officials allegedly responsible for the litigations against the university. On Sunday, when questioned, Gupta refused to answer why so many cases were filed against the university during his term. He refused to comment on who was responsible for the spending of Rs 15 lakh of public money in court cases. “This is the highest number of court cases filed against the university in such a short time. All the cases are filed by teachers and trusts that run colleges affiliated to VNSGU,” said a senior teacher on condition of anonymity. “The tenure under Gupta was the worst period of VNSGU in 50 years of its history. I am going to approach the court to recover the salary from Gupta and other financial losses of public money due to his (Gupta’s) unlawful decisions,” said Sanjay Desai, a syndicate member. Desai claimed that Gupta paid the fees to lawyers without getting approval of the university syndicate. Among other controversies that mired the university included signing MOU with a private sport management training institute for sport management courses. Gupta had also appointed Hirnesh Bhavsar, an employee of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), as in-charge registrar, but had to send him back after the state government reprimanded him. He was the first VC of VNSGU, whose appointment and qualifications are under challenge in two separate cases in Gujarat High Court. Over 15 complaints have been filed with the state government against Gupta within two years of his appointment over various issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/73-court-cases-filed-against-vnsgu-during-guptas-tenure/articleshow/77728209.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Nagpur||Covid bodies remain on ICU, ward beds for hrs||Nagpur: Covid bodies are allegedly occupying beds for as long as four to eight hours at Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs) of both government medical colleges (GMCs), where critically patients are not getting admission due to lack of beds. The major reason is lack of sufficient hearse vans with the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), which is the authority responsible for quick disposal of Covid bodies. At the same time, mortuaries seem to be running full with spike in medico legal case (MLC) deaths though officials denied any shortage of storage space. GMCH has a 12-body cold storage capacity and a cold room for 12 more. IGGMCH has a 18-body limit cold storage. On an average, 20 Covid deaths are taking place at each GMC. Besides, many MLC bodies are testing positive which also hold up space. On August 20, TOI had highlighted how NMC was struggling to pick up bodies of Covid patients from IGGMCH and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) mortuaries where relatives were seen waiting for hours on end. On Monday, relatives complained that they are now made to wait in front of DCHs from where the body is loaded directly into the hearse and taken for the last rites. Others alleged that their ailing relatives were getting scared due to the presence of bodies wrapped in three-layered bags on beds around them. When TOI visited the GMCs, a hearse van was picking up bodies from DCH of patients who passed away overnight or early morning at different ward and ICU beds. Doctors admitted that bodies are kept at the DCH but claimed they were not on beds but in the freezer. At any given time, a large gathering of people has also been witnessed in front of DCHs at IGGMCH and GMCH. “My father-in-law died in the morning. We are waiting for the van,” an Amravati resident said at IGGMCH. NMC officials admitted that the availability of hearse is posing a problem but also blamed reluctant relatives in further delaying the process. “Cops have to be sent to bring relatives for the formal handing over of the body before the last rites. Bodies of non-Covid patients, testing positive later, are piling up as their relatives sometimes don’t come even after 24 hours,” they said. Forensic medicine head Dr Makrand Vaywhare told TOI that there has been no delay on his part and that his team of five doctors is working from 8am to 8pm. “We have reserved the six-body cold storage for Covid patients. The newly-renovated mortuary has a capacity for 18 bodies. An average flow of 15 medico legal case bodies are processed per day. But all may not occupy the storage facility at a time. As per government rules, Covid bodies are handed over only to NMC officials. Hence, it depends when they come to pick them up,” he said. Dr Vyawahare said some bodies are also kept in the single-body storage inside the Covid hospital. “We ensure that there is no delay on our part. One doctor is on-duty even at night,” he said. GMCH officials refused to comment. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Munde didn’t respond to TOI’s calls. PROBLEMS AND REASONS * Body wrapped in 3-layered bags kept on beds for over 4 to 8 hours * Mortuaries facing shortage as other routine deaths increased * GMC mortuary can keep 12 bodies in cold storage and 12 in cold room, IGGMCH has 18 * Number of Covid death alone is 20 * Body handing over process takes up a lot of time * NMC hearse van not available for all as it goes zone-wise * When van is available for particular area, relatives are missing and vice-versa||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-bodies-remain-on-icu-ward-beds-for-hrs/articleshow/77730849.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Class IX admission will begin after September 11||Chandigarh: After initiating admission process for pre-nursery to Class VIII, the education department has now decided to make arrangements for admission to Class IX as well, as queries by parents have started pouring in. The admission till Class VIII will end by September 11. Talking to TOI, district education officer Harbir Singh Anand said, “There are queries coming and we do have vacancies but there is already huge task of admissions to pre nursery to Class VIII and Class XI are in process. We are handling applications of more than 20,000 students, therefore initiating Class IX admissions at this hour is next to impossible. However, as soon as we finish admissions till Class VIII, we will start working on admissions to Class IX.” Singh said the department has for now asked schools to receive applications for Class IX. The teachers working on admission in government schools confirmed that they are receiving queries for admission to Class XI. “We are getting calls and some parents are coming with applications as well for admission to Class IX. These are parents whose wards are studying in private schools and they wish to admit them to government schools,” a teacher, requesting anonymity said. The admission helpline too has received hundreds of calls for admissions to Class IX. It is for the first time that online admissions for pre nursery to Class VIII are being done. The pandemic has been the reason behind the move, as many parents requested for admission to government schools. From Monday teachers of respective government schools have started giving admission to students who have been selected in pre nursery and nursery classes- that is pre-primary classes. These students were allocated seats till Friday August 21. The admission process for classes pre-nursery and nursery will continue till August 29. Till August 28, students of primary classes- that is classes I-V will be allocated seats after scrutinising forms submitted by students. Thereafter, from August 31 to September 5 they will be admitted to respective schools. Before August 31, students who have applied for upper primary classes- that is classes VI to VIII will be allocated seats and between September 7 and 11 they will be admitted to schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/class-ix-admission-will-begin-after-september-11/articleshow/77729707.cms||Kamini Mehta
August 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Set up committee of IAS officers’||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Monday directed the chief secretary of the state government to form a committee of five senior IAS officers who will visit all government/Civil Hospitals across Gujarat. Their mandate will be to take stock of the way in which Covid-19 treatment is being provided. Seeking a comprehensive report from the committee by September 4, the bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala said: “There is a lot of hue and cry at various Civil Hospitals as regards the treatment, services etc.” The judges went on to say: “We direct the committee members to prepare a comprehensive report as regards the conditions prevailing in all the Civil Hospitals/Government Hospitals in the state of Gujarat where Covid 19 patients are being treated.” The judges said that the committee shall very minutely look into deficiencies, if any, at Civil Hospitals so that such deficiencies can be cured. The judges observed that the “circumstances, as on date, are such that it is difficult for a common man to come forward and point out his problems”. Hence, the HC has ordered the committee to highlight the shortcomings in the administration of government hospitals. The court clarified that the committee’s findings will help the administration provide better medical services. The HC has directed the committee members to interact with resident doctors, interns, superintendents, nursing staff, and above all, patients and their family members. It ordered the state government to submit its reports in affidavits by the top official of the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/set-up-committee-of-ias-officers/articleshow/77729796.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat govt moves HC, says schools opposing fee cuts||AHMEDABAD: The state government rushed to the Gujarat high court on Monday claiming that its two rounds of negotiations with the association of self-financed schools have failed as schools were not ready to reduce fees by 25% for the period they remain physically closed. The government has sought HC directions over the issue. On July 31, the high court had quashed the state government’s resolution prohibiting private schools from collecting fees during the time the schools remain physically shut. The HC had ordered the government to come up with a fresh resolution after negotiating with the schools with an open mind and open heart. While the government insisted on flat reduction in tuition fees, private schools appeared to consider fee reduction on case-to-case basis depending on the financial condition of parents. The association of private schools, however, has conceded that the schools are ready to reduce fees from 10% to 100%, but on case-to-case basis after evaluating the financial hardship being faced by parents due to Covid-19 pandemic. In cases in which financial condition of the parent is stable, the schools proposed no change in fee collection. However, the state government has stated in its application before the HC that the two rounds of negotiations – on August 17 and 20 - with ‘open mind and open heart’ have failed with the private schools being not ready to accept the state government’s proposal on both the occasions. The government has also complained that the private schools are not ready to waive off other fees. It has said that despite making strenuous efforts, the state government has not been able to persuade the association of private schools. With a PIL filed by parents’ association, the HC had insisted the state government resolve the issue of collection of fees by private schools during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-moves-hc-says-schools-opposing-fee-cuts/articleshow/77729701.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Jaipur||Covid patients burden forces RUHS Hospital to upgrade oxygen supply system||JAIPUR: Authorities of RUHS Hospital, which is sharing the maximum burden of Covid-19 patients in Jaipur, fear that the existing pipelines for oxygen supply to beds will not be able to bear the pressure and needed to be upgraded. The hospital has roped in a government agency to install new pipelines wherever needed and to review oxygen supply to the patients. The number of Covid patients in the city have increased significantly this month with more than 2,800 active cases being treated either at home isolation or in hospitals. Patients with moderate and severe symptoms are getting admissions in hospitals and since RUHS Hospital is a run by the government, it is sharing the major chunk of patients’ burden with limited facilities. Since the use of oxygen has increased significantly in the hospital, it has decided to expand and strengthen the supply system. “We have roped in a government agency for installing pipelines for oxygen supply,” said Dr Sudhanshu Kacker, principal and controller, RUHS Medical College. Moreover, health minister Raghu Sharma had recently announced that the government will strengthen the facilities for Covid patients at RUHS Hospital. According to health department officials, the existing strength of beds with oxygen support is 8,090 across the state. However, they are making efforts to strengthen the infrastructure for Covid patients in which centralized oxygen pipeline and oxygen generator plants have been established at the sub-district and district hospitals. Across the state, the state government has set up 286 Covid care centres, 57 dedicated Covid health centres and 57 dedicated Covid hospitals. Besides the 8,090 beds with oxygen support, the state has reserved 42,309 isolation beds and 1,672 ICU beds for Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-patients-burden-forces-ruhs-hospital-to-upgrade-oxygen-supply-system/articleshow/77730843.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Chennai||Road map for transport for 1.8cr population in next 30 yrs in Chennai Metropolitan Area||Chennai: The authorities have rolled out a transport road map for the Chennai Metropolitan Area whose population is set to explode by another one crore in the next three decades. In 2048, the city and its suburbs, extending to about 35 km in all directions, will largely be covered by public transport systems such as bus, light rail transit, metro and railways and pedestrian malls and grade separators in core areas, says a draft Comprehensive Mobility released by the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA). The exhaustive report has been prepared by Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) in coordination with the CMDA. After the final plan gets the nod, the suggestions will be executed by the Chennai Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority. The report says the share of public transport trips in 2048 will be 57% — double the current share of 28%. Eighteen locations with high pedestrian footfalls such as Chennai Central, Koyambedu and West Tambaram have been identified for pedestrian malls for easy access to all kinds of establishments as 85% of road accident victims are bikers and pedestrians. Avvai Shanmugam Salai and Wallajah Road are among 116 identified on-street parking, says the report, adding that ₹1.61 lakh crore would be required to execute the facilities in three phases till 2048. “The plan has been approved at CMDA Authority meeting. We will be doing some updates and release the final report,” an urban department official said. K P Subramanian, former professor of urban engineering at Anna University, said the break-up of share of each transport system is needed. “This would have given a better clarity on which mode of transport carries the highest number of people. Another issue is that the report has not addressed the issue of what would be the percentage of accidents can be reduced by introducing new facilities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/road-map-for-transport-for-1-8cr-population-in-next-30-yrs-in-chennai-metropolitan-area/articleshow/77718956.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
August 25, 2020||Jaipur||Speaker can hear & decide on BJP MLA’s plea in 3 months: Rajasthan high court||JAIPUR: A single-judge bench of Rajasthan high court on Monday, while deciding on the plea filed by BJP MLA Madan Dilwar challenging the merger of BSP MLAs with Congress, asked the MLA to approach assembly Speaker C P Joshi. On Dilwar’s petition, the court said the Speaker may take a decision within a period of three months on such petitions. While dismissing the petition by BSP, the court said they have liberty to file a disqualification petition with the Speaker, who is expected to decide on the plea as per the law. The high court issued the order while partially allowing Dilawar’s petition and dismissing BSP’s plea. Earlier, the single-judge bench on July 30 heard the application seeking a stay on the order announcing the merger had issued notices to the Speaker, secretary of the Legislative Assembly and six BSP MLAs in the state asking them to file their reply. Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha had contested and won the 2018 assembly elections on a BSP ticket, but had later joined the Congress party in September 2019. “On the writ petition filed by the BJP MLA, the court has clearly stated that the Speaker is expected to take a decision within a period of three months from Monday. On the BSP’s petition, the court has dismissed it, but said the petitioners are free to file a disqualification plea before the Speaker,” said Prateek Kasliwal, counsel for Speaker C P Joshi. Thereafter, hearing a petition filed by Dilawar, the Supreme Court dismissed the plea seeking a stay on Rajasthan Speaker’s decision that allowed the BSP’s merger with the Congress. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, Vineet Saran and M R Shah was informed by senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the Speaker, that earlier in the day the Rajasthan high court passed an order on the plea filed by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar. Thus the court dismissed the plea terming it ‘infructuous’. TIMELINEHow things unfolded in the case September 16, 2019: Six BSP MLAs request the Speaker to join the Congress party September 18, 2019: Speaker allows BSP MLAs’ merger into Congress March, 16, 2020: BJP MLA Madan Dilawar files a complaint petition before the Speaker July 22: Speaker dismisses Dilawar’s plea on technical grounds July 24: Dilawar files a petition in the high court, challenging the Speaker not to take action July 27: Rajasthan high court dismisses Dilawar’s petition allowing him to withdraw July 28: Dilawar files a petition in the high court against the merger of BSP MLAs into Congress July 29: Petition filed on behalf of the BSP challenging the merger July 30: A single-judge bench of the Rajasthan HC issues notices while hearing both the petitions and fixes the date for hearing on August 11 August 4: BSP and Dilawar moves an appeal in the HC bench seeking to quash the merger and grant a stay on voting August 5: On the appeal of BSP and Dilawar, the bench of Chief Justice issues notice to the Speaker and asks him to reply at 10.30 am on August 6 August 6: The bench while disposing of the appeal, arranging for the serving of notice on the MLAs, asks the single-judge bench to decide on the stay application August 11: A single-judge bench of HC starts hearing the case August 13: Hearing held in Rajasthan HC for the entire day August 14: HC begins writing decision on the completion of the debate. Court sets August 17 as date for verdict August 17: Due to corona infection, high court work was suspended August 24: High court delivers verdict through a virtual hearing||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/speaker-can-hear-decide-on-bjp-mlas-plea-in-3-months-hc/articleshow/77730846.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Jaipur||Heavy rain in Udaipur division, 10 Mahi dam gates opened||JAIPUR: As the south-west monsoon revived on Monday across the state, heavy to very heavy rainfall was witnessed in Udaipur division.  Such was the intensity of the rainfall that authorities had to open the 10 gates of the Banswara-situated Mahi Dam which has witnesed good rainfall in the past four days. Bhongra (Banswara) received rainfall of 360 mm which was highest in the state. Banswara witnessed flood-like situation when it got disconnected from neighbouring districts of the state. High intensity rainfall that started in the district on Sunday evening continued on Monday. Mahi Dam (Banswara) was overflowing since Sunday evening. “Initially six gates were opened and thereafter 10 gates were opened due to overflowing water,” said an engineer at the Mahi Dam situated in Banswara. Bhoongra (Banswara) was followed by Ghatol (Banswara) where rainfall of 304mm was received, Kesarpura (Banswara) 267, Jagpura (Banswara) 261, Lohariya (Banswara) 191, Gadhi (Banswara) 182, Bagidora (Banswwara) 180, Sabla (Dungarpur) 180, Salumbar (Udaipur) 100 and a rainfall varying from 10mm to 90mm was received at many places in Udaipur division. People in inundated villages have been taken to safer places from Banswara while at many villages they got stuck amid heavy rainfall and disconnecting of road routes. Since Udaipur division covering Dungarpur, Udaipur, Banswara and Chittorgarh have been witnessing torrential rainfall for the past three days, many villages in this region are inundated. On Sunday a truck was swept away in rain-fed river. Likewise, many roads in these districts are blocked as heavy boulders have come down from mountains. Attributing the revival of monsoon to the active upper air cyclonic circulation and higher humidity levels, Jaipur Met office stated that during this week heavy rainfall is expected in the eastern parts of the state and some parts in the western Rajasthan. People in Jaipur woke up amid drizzle while some parts on the city outskirts including Bassi, Phagi, Dudu, Jobner and Samod witnessed moderate to heavy rainfall. In Jaipur city a rainfall of 20mm was received till 9pm in the evening. However, on the outskirts rainfall varying between 20mm to 80mm was received. District administration in Banswara, Chittorgarh, Udaipur and Dungarpur has issued an advisory to the public asking them to be at safer altitudes and avoid travelling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/extremely-heavy-rainfall-in-udaipur-divisionbanswara-worst-affected/articleshow/77730850.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Chandigarh||PSPCL conducts raids, detects 30 cases of power theft in Mohali||Mohali: The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) conducted mass raids in Mohali and detected 30 cases of power theft and unauthorised use of electricity cases in Mubarikpur and Lalru and penalised the violators to the tune of Rs 21.91 lakh. The enforcement wing of the PSPCL conducted surprise checks in the wee hours on Monday and detected the violation in the residential and commercial areas of Mubarikpur and Lalru villages in Mohali. Senior executive engineer (Xen) Mohali Inderpreet Singh disclosed that massive raids were conducted by PSPCL-DS teams in Lalru. A total of 26 teams were constituted under supervision of sub-divisional engineer (SDE) Mohit Sood, which conducted raids in villages Pandwala, Kheri Sundran, Samgoli, Rampur Bahil and Kheri Jattan of Derabassi constituency. As many as 50 consumers were checked and 30 cases of theft, nine cases of unauthorised load extension and six cases of unauthorised use of electricity have been detected which fetched the department Rs 21.91 lakh in fines under sections 135 and 126 of Electricity Act 2003. Inderpreet said, “Chief minister Amarinder Singh resolution to stop electricity theft in the state has imparted a new vigour to the campaign by PSPCL. Such drives will be a regular feature.” PSPCL explained that theft of power indirectly results in rise in tariff due to low revenue collection, which will put burden on honest consumers also. PSPCL has appealed to all its consumers to help the corporation in controlling the menace by providing information about theft. Consumers/informers can inform about the theft of electricity on Whatsapp no 96461-75770. PSPCL assured its consumers that their identity will not be disclosed. PSPCL will be conducting more raids at Mohali, Zirakpur and Derabassi. SDE Sood said awareness camps will also be organised to tell people at large how electricity theft will affect them too to encourage more whistleblowers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pspcl-conducts-raids-detects-30-cases-of-power-theft-in-mohali/articleshow/77729753.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
August 25, 2020||Delhi||Now, book appointments at Delhi government hospital via app||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday launched a mobile app and an online OPD registration system at Shri Dada Dev Matri Avum Shishu Chikitsalaya, a 106-bedded hospital in South-West district. The app is expected to make life easy for patients, especially pregnant women seeking medical care in the time of the Covid pandemic. Delhi government is also working to expand the hospital’s bed capacity to 281. Meanwhile, the government has announced that it will have a hospital management information system (HMIS) by 2021 to bring all hospitals in the city at one platform. Later, the features of the app will be integrated with the system. Delhi government aims at making treatment convenient for patients. “Pregnant women have to come early morning and stand in queues for the registration, then wait for many hours outside the doctors’ rooms. This defies the rules of social distancing because the hospital becomes very crowded,” the CM said adding that people can now book appointments from the comfort of their homes. “They will have to reach the doctors’ rooms just half an hour before the time of their appointment. I suppose that this app will hugely benefit the people, not only in the Covid times but also afterwards,” Kejriwal said. Shri Dada Dev Hospital is a key hospital among the mother and child healthcare hospitals of Delhi government. About 10,000 deliveries are conducted here every year. This hospital is only of 106 beds for now, but the capacity will be increased to 281 in the coming days. “If 2-3 women are being treated on a single bed, this is not right, especially in the national capital. The expansion of the hospital will solve this issue,” Kejriwal said. Through HMIS, the government will bring together all hospitals in Delhi, including mohalla clinics, polyclinics, multi-specialty and super-specialty hospitals. This is a very ambitious project and will be completed within one year. “I have shown the app to many people and the app has various features. We will integrate all those features with our hospital management information system to improve the system’s efficiency,” Kejriwal said and urged other hospitals to devise similar apps till the time HMIS starts functioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/now-book-appointments-at-delhi-govt-hospital-via-app/articleshow/77729758.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: ‘Schools cannot stop lessons for students yet to pay fees’||CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh Parents Association has written to the education department opposing private schools’ request to remove students from online class for nonpayment of monthly tuition fees. They have quoted a letter from the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) stating that schools have been strictly told to refrain from involving students in non payment of fees. On August 7, the Independent Schools Association (ISA) had sent a proposal to education department for striking off the names of students on account of delay/ non-payment of fees. The parent body stated that “striking off name of a child under any circumstances is not only illegal under The Right to Education Act, but also violates Article 21A of the Constitution of India.” It was further stated that, “Discontinuing or disrupting the education of children is also a criminal offence under Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice Act.” “Hundreds of complaints filed by parents challenging the exorbitant fees structure of private unaided schools are pending with the fee regulatory committee of the education department. None of the private unaided schools have uploaded their past or latest balance sheets and income and expenditure accounts, for which show cause notices have already been served to almost 50 city schools. Despite these, the private schools are pressurising parents to deposit full fees, which is totally illegal,” said Nitin Goyal, president CPA. He further alleged that, “That the administration had earlier directed all the schools to charge only tuition fee, but most of the private schools have merged financial charges like annual fee, maintenance fee and building fee and are demanding full fees.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dont-give-permission-to-schools-to-stop-lessons-to-students-yet-to-pay-fees-parents/articleshow/77729722.cms||Kamini Mehta
August 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Politicians, RWAs turn in their suggestions for wardbandi to DC||Panchkula: Various political leaders and citizen welfare association members told the deputy commissioner (DC) office that a few notified wards are geographically not suitable and needs to be changed. Residents of Panchkula were invited to submit their objections/suggestions over wardbandi. Former executive officer of Panchkula municipal corporation (MC) and politician O P Sihag submitted his nine-point objections and suggestions to the additional chief secretary of urban local bodies (ULB) department and DC. Some of his suggestions are MDC Sector 4 should be included in Sector 1 and Bhainsa Tibba village should be included in ward number 2. Sihag said Sector 19 must be made a separate ward and not part of Sector 14 as they lie far apart. He also objected to ward number 17 which includes sectors 3 and 4 with 23, 24 and 25. According to him, national highway is passing through Sector 4, clearly violating the delimination of ward rules. He suggested to include sector 2 and 4 in one ward and not include Majri village in ward 11 and include Maheshpur village in Sector 21. Sihag said, “According to parameters, wards must be practicable, geographically compact areas and must have regard to physical features, existing boundaries of administrative units and facilities of communication and public convenience.” Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) district general secretary Varinder Rana, also sent a letter to DC M K Ahuja his suggestions. According to him, ward number 17, which includes sectors 4, 3, 23, 24 and 25. must be made compact. He also mentioned that in the proposed ward number 12, Sector 2 is attached with Khark Mangoli. His suggestion is to involve Sector 2 into some urban area. Rana said, “I hope our suggestions will be considered during finalisation of wards.” President of Citizen Welfare Association (CWA) S K Nayar also moved three suggestions to the DC office — inclusion of Sector 6 with MDC sector 4, 5 and Swastik Vihar in ward number 2, Sector 19 should be separate from Abheypur, which can be included in ward number 9 and that part of Sector 4 must be included in the urban area falling on one side of the national highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/politicians-rwas-turn-in-their-suggestions-for-wardbandi-to-dc/articleshow/77729743.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
August 25, 2020||Surat||SMC starts trail run of electric buses on BRTS||Surat: Surtis get ready to ride on electric buses on the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) in the city as Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has started a trial run for the electric bus from Monday.According to SMC officials, a trail run began on Monday on an 18-kilometer stretch between Kosad and Pal (RTO) in the city. Surat Municipal Commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani and city Mayor Dr Jagdish Patel took a ride on the bus.“We have started the trail run and we will soon start purchasing electric buses in a phased manner. If everything goes as per plan, total 150 electric buses will be running on BRTS track before December this year. SMC has already received Rs 13.5 crore as the first instalment from the union government as a subsidy in February. These buses have been sanctioned under Phase-II of Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles in India Scheme (FAME India Scheme) of Department of Heavy Industry (Ministry of Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises),” said an SMC official.As per the Union government’s scheme, Surat is entitled to get a total subsidy of Rs 67.5 crore for 150 electric buses.Surat has a 102km BRTS corridor, the largest dedicated corridor in the country. In normal circumstances, 1.35 lakh commuters travel daily on BRTS buses. SMC has 166 buses. But due to Covid-19 spread in the city, it plays only 128 on BRTS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-starts-trail-run-of-electric-buses-on-brts/articleshow/77728223.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Goa||Industry sweats over health tests for workers, seeks ease||Panaji: With Covid-19 cases on a rise, industry heads are worried that the mandatory physical tests for workmen could actually expose them to the virus. Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has written to the inspectorate of factories and boilers and asked for the periodic health checks to be relaxed till July 2021 which would be a relief not just for industries but for the health department too. “Although these checks are vital for the overall health and safety of the workmen, in the present scenario, they may pose a health risk on account of probable spread of Covid-19 due to the use of common medical tools and equipments during the medical tests,” CII – Goa chairman Blaise Costabir said. He added that the request for relaxation is not to cut costs but to ensure that workers’ lives are not jeopardised. The Goa Factory Rules 1985 makes it mandatory for industrial workers to undergo periodic medical tests at various intervals. Depending on the nature of the job, workers are tested either every six months or once a year. The Goa Daman and Diu Public Health Act, 1985 and Goa Daman and Diu Public Health Rules, 1987 stipulate that every migrant worked engaged at construction sites shall be screened and given a health card, which has to be renewed every three months. Aside from asking for all medical examinations to be deferred till June 2021, CII has also recommended that a self-declaration could be obtained from the worker and the factory about the employee’s health status. “Due to lockdown, there has been large scale migration of existing workforce and to resume economic activities, industries may need to engage new workers. Therefore, in such cases, we would like to propose that the mandatory health check be done away with and a self-declaration be obtained,” Costabir said. With the state’s health infrastructure already burdened with Covid-19, the government should consider modifying the rules and laws to provide relief to the industry, which is suffering from acute labour shortage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/industry-sweats-over-health-tests-for-workers-seeks-ease/articleshow/77730851.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Security tightened at state BJP office||Ahmedabad: After pictures of the Gujarat BJP headquarters in Gandhinagar, Kamalam, were found on the phone of Irfan Shaikh, who was arrested by Gujarat ATS as he was allegedly plotting to kill Gujarat BJP vice-president and former MoS, home, Gordhan Zadafia and other political leaders, security has been tightened at Kamalam. Shaikh, was held from Hotel Vinus on Relief Road last Tuesday by Gujarat ATS. A senior police official from Gandhinagar said that 15 more armed policemen have been deployed at the BJP headquarters . “Earlier the security consisted of 15 unarmed policemen in three shifts but it has now been doubled. Barricading has been put and encroachments removed,” added a senior police official. Police said the security arrangement are being reviewed and if needed will be beefed up further. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/security-tightened-at-state-bjp-office/articleshow/77730853.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: JVVNL engineer arrested for bribery in Kota||KOTA: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) arrested an assistant engineer (AEN) of Jaipur Vidhyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (JVVNL) posted at Kaithoon town of Kota district on Monday for accepting a bribe of Rs 3,000 from a local farmer for replacing a burnt transformer on his agriculture land. Assistant engineer Dinesh Kholiya, a native of Gangapur city, was arrested from his office, said Chandrasheel Thakur, ASP, ACB. Kholiya had demanded the amount from farmer Mohammad Hussain for replacing a burnt transformer. The farmer approached ACB Kota and lodged a complaint against the AEN following which the verification of the complaint was carried out on August 19, he added. The AEN called the farmer with bribe amount on Monday afternoon at his office where ACB personnel arrested him. Search operation by another ACB team led by Ramesh Arya is underway at the AEN’s residence at RPS Colony in Kishorepura in Kota. The AEN will be produced before ACB court in Kota on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jvvnl-engr-arrested-for-bribery-in-kota/articleshow/77730867.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Nagpur||Covid cases to peak from Aug last week to Sept 15: NMC||Nagpur: The novel coronavirus (Covid-19) cases in the city are likely to head toward the much-anticipated peak from the last week of August and is likely to witness it by mid-September, if things shape up as per the projections, said municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe.As per the data with Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), zilla parishad (ZP) and civil surgeon’s office, the district has registered 19,000 cases in the 24 days of August, while the number was 5,392 in 143 days between March 11 and July 31.In the last 11 days, the district has registered over 1,100 cases per day on six occasions. There was a record single-day spike of 1,257 cases on August 19 and August 21 had seen 1,228 cases. Nearly, 78% of the total cases registered in the district are from city limit.Mundhe told TOI, “Covid peak cannot be termed based on the data for just 4-5 days. Cases are on the steep rise in the city. Start of the festivities bring a large number of people together. This also increases the chances of spread of the infection. Therefore, Covid peak is projected from the last week of August. The cases may go down from September 15 if the cases start peaking from the last week of August.”Mundhe said, “We have sufficient number of beds so no issue as far as infrastructure is concerned. We are also continuing contact-tracing. In all, 34 testing centres have been opened. We are taking all possible efforts.”The state government has projected cumulative cases at 44,451 by the end of August. But the government did not mention whether it will be peak or not. Total number of cases as on Monday was 24,500.As per the projection, there would be over 20,000 cases in next 7 days, which also means 2,857 cases per day. The district has recorded around 30% positivity rate in the last 10 days. If the positivity rate remains, nearly 9,500 persons would have to be tested per day.MLC Parinay Fuke told TOI, “Covid spread as per the projection is visible. Need of the hour is to increase testing in the city limit to over 5,000 per day and in Nagpur rural also. More testing means early detection and treatment which will curb deaths.”Earlier, state government had projected Covid peak in the 10 days from mid-May. Then 18,902 cases — 11,114 from city and 7,788 from rural — were projected in the 10 days. As per epidemiologist, the peak was averted in May due to full lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-cases-to-peak-from-aug-last-week-to-sept-15-nmc/articleshow/77730858.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 25, 2020||Hubballi||CM’s aerial survey of flood-hit areas today||Belagavi: In a bid to get an accurate picture of the extent of the damage wrought by floods in Belagavi, chief minister BS Yediyurappa will undertake an aerial survey of villages that have borne the brunt of the calamity in the border district. Yediyurappa is scheduled to arrive at the Sambra Airport at 10.15am. Sources said that he will meet with the legislators, MPs and deputy commissioners of the flood-hit Belagavi and Dharwad districts at the airport, and start his aerial survey on board an Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter at 11.15am. The CM will later pay a visit to the Lal Bahadhur Shastri Dam in Almatti. On the eve of the CM’s visit, Karnataka water resources minister Ramesh Jarkiholi chaired a meeting with key officials in the Belagavi district administration on Monday at Hidkal. Jarkiholi informed the officials that Yediyurappa would be brought abreast of the estimate of the losses incurred by the people owing to the flood. “The losses are pegged around Rs 927 crore, and this will be conveyed to the CM. I will appeal to him to ensure that farmers who have lost their crops and residents who have had their houses damaged by the rain are compensated,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cms-aerial-survey-of-flood-hit-areas-today/articleshow/77728666.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Madurai||Custodial death: HC to decide on court jurisdiction for bail pleas||Madurai: The Madras high court will decide on the jurisdiction of the court that could entertain bail applications filed by those arrested in the custodial deaths case of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks at Sathankulam in Tuticorin district, after the Tuticorin principal district and sessions judge (PDJ), N Logeswaran had sent a reference seeking clarification.Earlier, when a bail application was taken up for hearing before the Tuticorin PDJ, the special public prosecutor for CBI cases raised an objection stating that the chief judicial magistrate at Madurai is designated to try the offences and placed the notification issued by the Madras high court in 1976. Rejecting the contention of the SPP, the Tuticorin PDJ had stated that as per Section 177 of CrPC, every offence shall be ordinarily inquired and tried by a court within whose local jurisdiction it was committed. Since the bail applications of the accused in this case are being entertained and disposed of by the Madurai principal district and sessions court, the Tuticorin PDJ sent a reference to the HC Madurai bench seeking clarification.A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and V Bharathidasan suo motu impleaded the CBI and CB-CID as respondents in this case and ordered notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/custodial-death-hc-to-decide-on-court-jurisdiction-for-bail-pleas/articleshow/77732177.cms||Kaushik Kannan
August 25, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Drug free campus’ launched in Chd univ||Chandigarh: “Today as a society, we have to wage a war against the evils of drugs that have engulfed the youth who are finding it difficult to cope-up with the problems and situations that they are facing in their professional and personal lives,” said Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, founder of Art of Living. The spiritual leader was interacting with the students and faculty in a virtual session on “staying positive during crisis”, organised by Chandigarh University and the Art of Living. More than 45,000 students and faculty from all over India participated in the live session. Sri Sri Ravi Shankar also launched “Drug Free Campus” program from Chandigarh University which is the second edition of the national campaign “Drug Free India” launched by the spiritual guru from the university campus in 2019. “On one hand, the teachings of Guru Nanak Dev are so much relevant to the world as it tells the humanity to foster a self-centric approach. On the other, the teachings of Guru Gobind Singh, which is to leave distress behind and become a fighter and protector of humanity, is very much essential in every human being during the current global pandemic crisis,” said the spiritual guru. He further added that every 45 second, a human being is taking his or her life by committing suicide because they don’t have the fighting spirit and courage to face the problems or rejections. “Millions of jobs have been lost and the economy has hit rock bottom due to Covid-19 but we cannot give-up and should consider it as a testing time, which has many positive aspects attached to it — like how the nature has rejuvenated itself and as humans how we are more connected and strongly bonded to our loved ones,” added Ravi Shankar. “Chandigarh University is committed to spread the message of peace and harmony among the youth who are truly the future of our country,” said Satnam Singh Sandhu, chancellor of Chandigarh University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/drug-free-campus-launched-in-chd-univ/articleshow/77729775.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Goa||Dhavalikar readmitted to pvt hospital after mild fever||Panaji: Former deputy chief minister Ramkrishna Dhavalikar has been readmitted to Manipal hospital, Dona Paula, on Monday after he developed a low-grade fever. The Madkai MLA and senior MGP leader, who tested positive for Covid-19 last week, was admitted to hospital last Tuesday but discharged on Friday after his condition improved. “He had a mild fever, so he has been readmitted. His condition is stable,” a source said. Tivim MLA Nilkant Halarnkar and Benualim MLA Churchill Alemao had also tested positive for Covid-19 last week and were admitted to the private hospital. Both were discharged after showing improvement, a hospital source said. Former chief minister, Manohar Parrikar's son Utpal has also been discharged from the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dhavalikar-readmitted-to-pvt-hospital-after-mild-fever/articleshow/77730857.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Delhi||‘Allow banquet halls in Delhi to open with 50% capacity’||NEW DELHI: Banquet halls in Delhi have demanded permission to operate with 50% capacity and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has assured them to take up the issue for consideration. Currently, the banquet halls are permitted to hold social functions only with 50 persons. The CM held a meeting with the banquet hall owners in the wake of nine banquet halls recently being delinked from Covid hospitals. Kejriwal appreciated the support of the banquet halls to the government in the fight against Covid. “Now is the time to bring the economy back on track, and if we do not do it quickly, we may recover from Covid but we will not be able to recover from economic slowdown,” Kejriwal said on Monday underlining that the “central government allowed banquets to be opened across the country but not in Delhi and it was only after he explained to the centre, Delhi government was permitted to open the banquet halls after August 15.” The CM advised the banquet hall owners to create a unified website. Chamber of Trade and Industry convener Brijesh Goyal said that the banquet hall owners demanded that they be allowed to organise functions with at least 50% capacity of their total areas and the CM assured them in the positive. Kejriwal will hold another meeting with the banquet halls owners to discuss environmental and parking issues among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/allow-banquet-halls-to-open-with-50-capacity/articleshow/77729831.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Jaipur||Uproar in Rajasthan assembly after speaker suspends Rajendra Rathore||JAIPUR: Deputy leader of Opposition Rajendra Rathore was on Monday barred from taking part in the proceedings of the assembly after he got into a heated argument with Speaker C P Joshi. But the marshals could not execute the Speaker’s order as opposition MLAs put a security cordon around him in the well of the House. Finally, the marshals had to retreat after a face off to avoid an unpleasant scene. At the Speaker’s request, the House had approved by voice vote a proposal for Rathore's removal for the remainder of the session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/uproar-in-houseafter-speakersuspends-rathore/articleshow/77730859.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Village kids climb hills, terraces and trees to attend online classes||Mangaluru: In remote Kudlur village in Kadaba taluk, elders used to climb hills, house terraces and trees to get a proper mobile network for calls. Now it’s the turn of their children, thanks to online classes. The villagers in more than 500 houses have tried everything possible, including getting a recommendation from the Prime Minister’s Office to have a dedicated mobile tower for the area. But the assurance has remained a distant dream for more than a decade. “When the MHRD stresses on e-learning, we pinned our hopes on Sullia MLA Angara S. It is contradicting — what Union government teaches and what local government practises,” say angry villagers, who are worried about their children’s academic performance. M M Mahroof Athur, a local, said though villagers have patiently waited for years for a good network. They are now irked as their children’s education is at stake. “We have been demanding a dedicated mobile tower for almost a decade. Now, it has affected children’s studies. They are now forced to climb hills, house terraces and trees. Anyone can come here and see what our children are going through,” Athur added. Around 250 children are facing connectivity issues in the village. “We hardly have mobile signals even for normal calls. As a result, we search for better reception and end up reaching house terrace, treetops and hills. Girls share mobile hotspot in areas which have good signal. Some stand on hills under umbrellas for hours till the sessions are over,” some students said, adding: “Government should help us or else we may lag behind in academics.” S Angara, MLA of Sullia constituency, said the area is surrounded by several hills and that’s why most of the areas do not have network/ signal. “I have requested BSNL and private service providers and to set up their facilities. There is a requirement of 24 mobile towers in the constituency now,” he added. The BSNL tower was defunct in April as its generator had run ouf of diesel. Then a family struggled to convey a message on death in Kalmakaru (a remote village in Sullia) to their relatives. Finally, a person went to the tower with diesel, started the generator and made calls to inform the same. In rural Sullia, adding more mobile towers had been a major demand from voters during election time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/village-kids-climb-hills-terraces-and-trees-to-attend-online-classes/articleshow/77729320.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
August 25, 2020||Jaipur||Three kids, dad perish in roof collapse in Rajasthan's Alwar||ALWAR/JAIPUR: A man and his three children were buried alive when the roof of their house collapsed on Sunday night in Alwar’s NEB police station area. One other family member was injured, while the four suffocated to death. Sources claimed that it was not due to the rains but because of the weak construction of the house. The injured is undergoing treatment at the hospital. The deceased were identified as Mamura Khan (30), Shabnam (5), Sania (8) and one-month old boy who was yet to be named. Khan’s wife Haruni was injured in the collapse. “According to Haruni, she was feeding her infant son around midnight on Sunday when suddenly there was a loud noise following which the roof of the house collapsed. Before anyone could react, they were buried beneath the rubble,” said an official of NEB police station. After the loud noise and crash, the neighbours rushed to the spot. The police was also informed after which it reached the spot. The police official said, “With the locals’ help we started removing the debris and after several hours managed to pull out the residents. Unfortunately, four members of the family could not survive and only Haruni was pulled out alive.” According to sources, the roof had been repaired just around a year back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-kids-dad-perish-in-roof-collapse/articleshow/77730887.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Nagpur||1 dead, 4 injured in Sadar house collapse||Nagpur: A man died and four others were injured in a house collapse in Azad Chowk, Sadar, in the early hours of Monday. The near five-decade-old and dilapidated G+1 storey house of Ashok Hiralal Teksultan collapsed. Sixteen people had a miraculous escape. Local residents were woken up by a loud explosion-like sound at 4:43am, said Rakesh Bania, a neighbour. Those staying in the area informed the fire control room, said chief fire officer Rajendra Uchake. “Preliminary inquiry revealed the house was constructed more than five decades ago using mud and cement,” he said. Ishwar Hazare, one of the tenants, said his family of seven members had been living in the house for 30 years. “At around 4.30am, my sister-in-law Jaya alerted everyone about something falling on her. After waking up, we found some mud had dropped from the ceiling. We all ran outside our three room kitchen house and also alerted the Teksultan family staying upstairs,” he said. Lokesh Teksultan, who was among the lucky survivors, said 10 members of his family lived on the first floor, while two families lived on the ground floor. Lokesh said the alert from the Hazare family woke them up and all of them began getting out. However, before everyone could be out, the house collapse and five members including Lokesh’s mother Laxmi Teksultan, 65, Prabha Teksultan, 55, Lokesh Teksultan, 22, Rajesh Sirohiya, 22, and Kishore Teksultan, 43, got trapped inside. Soon, fire personnel from Civil Lines, Cotton Market and Sugat Nagar reached the place and started removing debris. The rescue operation was led by Uchake and station officer Dharmraj Nakod. The residents and fire brigade personnel brought out five people and took them to Mayo hospital. Kishore died at the hospital during treatment, Uchake told TOI. The incident again exposed the NMC’s lackadaisical attitude in acting against dilapidated structures in city. The house did not figure in the list of dilapidated structures of Dharampeth zone. Sources said this year before monsoon, NMC had carried out a structural audit of many buildings and declared 173 across the city as dilapidated and unsafe. It had also directed to demolish 97 buildings within 15 days but almost negligible action happened on the ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1-dead-4-injured-in-sadar-house-collapse/articleshow/77730885.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Dushyant hints at bill for right to recall PRI officials||Sirsa: Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Monday hinted at tabling a bill to recall the representatives of panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) in the upcoming session of the state assembly. The monsoon session of the House is scheduled to commence from Wednesday. Speaking after inaugurating the block development and panchayat office (BDPO) and some roads in Baragudha block of Sirsa, the DyCM said the government would make efforts during the House session to ensure that the legislation providing for the right to recall PRI representatives is passed. “Former Deputy Prime Minister Devi Lal had envisioned that there should be a right to recall in the panchayati raj system, so that the public has the right to remove inefficient representatives,” he said. Chautala said the government would also ensure 50% reservation for women in the PRIs. The DyCM said a bill would also be introduced in the monsoon session for 75% reservation in jobs for the youth of Haryana in the private sector. He informed the gathering that an amount of Rs 1.72 crore was spent on the construction of BDPO office and Rs 3.32 crore on the laying of roads. The deputy CM also laid the foundation stone for a community centre in Kalanwali town, which will cost an estimated Rs 1.26 crore. Other dignitaries present on the occasion included Sirsa deputy commissioner Ramesh Chandra Bidhan, Sirsa municipal commissioner Sangeeta Tetarwal and sub-divisional magistrate Nirmal Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dushyant-hints-at-bill-for-right-to-recall-pri-officials/articleshow/77730889.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man assaults wife saying she’s possessed||AHMEDABAD: A 32-year-old woman, who has a 4-year-old son, lodged an FIR at Naroda police station on Sunday alleging that about a month ago her husband beat her up saying that her father is a tantrik (occultist) and she is possessed by an evil spirit. According to the FIR, her husband pushed her to the floor and hit her up, saying ‘Who are you, come out of her body’. She then ran into a balcony and called out for help but her husband dragged her back in and hit her again. The woman alleged that her husband and in-laws were going to call a witch doctor the next morning and took away her mobile phone so she couldn’t contact her father. Inspector J G Patel of Naroda police station said they lodged an offence under Sections 498(A), 323, 294(B), 506 and 114 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against her husband, his parents and his sister. The FIR states that the woman, now staying at her parents’ house in Naroda, married the accused, a resident of Thaltej, in February 2014. “She also alleged that her father-in-law and mother-in-law used to torment her saying she is ‘too modern’ and should do only what they say,” said a police official. The woman alleged that her sister-in-law, who lives in Rajkot, also tormented her whenever she came to their house. “She stated in the FIR that to avoid fights, at her instance, she and her husband went to live in a separate house in Chandlodia but returned to her in-laws’ house in Thaltej after some time. According to the FIR, her in-laws, continued to subject her to mental and physical harassment and even threatened to take her son away and drive her out of the house,” a police source said. The complainant alleged that after her husband beat her up saying she was possessed by an evil spirit, on August 18, her father came to their house but her in-laws did not let him meet her and he had to go to Sola police to get assistance. “The complainant’s father then took his daughter to back to his house in Naroda with the assistance of Sola police. She stated that she waited for her husband to come to get her but as he did not turn up, they lodged an FIR,” said a senior police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-assaults-wife-saying-shes-possessed/articleshow/77730865.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Madurai||Containment streets come down to two in Madurai city||Madurai: The number of streets under containment in Madurai Corporation limits has come down to just two. Although active Covid-19 cases in the city is hovering around 600 to 700 in the last few days, containment streets have been reducing since cases are mostly spread across wards. TVK Street in ward number 70 (zone 3) and Preetham Street in ward 76 (zone 4) are the remaining containment streets.The city had more than 60 containment streets. A street is declared as containment area only when there are three or more cases from at least three separate houses.Corporation commissioner S Visakan said that a fortnight analysis has come in handy to contain the spread. Explaining the process, the commissioner said that data of reported cases in each of the 100 wards for a period of 15 days was collected. The focus was given to the top 10 wards with the highest number of cases for 15 days.“The best thing is that the wards once came in the top 10 list have not topped the list again in the subsequent fortnights,” he said.Health officials from the corporation said that due to e-pass rules relaxation, there has been a slight increase in the number of positive cases in the city. While around 50 to 60 positive cases were reported in a day on an average before the relaxation, around 70 cases are being reported in a day on an average in the last few days. Had there been no relaxation, active cases would have come down to less than 500.“We expect the active case to come down to 500 mark in a week’s time. We are tracking people who entered the city. Around 2,000 to 2,500 tests are done per day,” a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/containment-streets-come-down-to-two-in-madurai-city/articleshow/77732180.cms||V Devanathan
August 25, 2020||Surat||Umarpada gets 74 mm rainfall||SURAT: Umarpada taluka in Surat district, which has been receiving heavy rains for the last few days, received 74 mm rainfall on Monday. This monsoon, Umarpada has received 3,021 mm _ the highest in Surat district. Many parts of Surat district received good rainfall including Bardoli which received 57 mm, Mandvi got 53 mm and Mangrol received 37 mm of rainfall. Surat city got 20 mm rainfall on Monday. According to the Narmada and Water Resource department officials, eight out of the 13 dams in South Gujarat are overflowing and the average water in all these dams are at 73.13 % in South Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/umarpada-gets-74-mm-rainfall/articleshow/77728308.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Three arrested for woman’s murder in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: Three persons were arrested for the murder of a woman whose body was found three days ago at Kathaudi village under Sangad police station area. One of the arrested persons is the husband of the deceased woman, said police. The man suspected his wife’s character and gave her poison, strangulated her and threw the body on the roadside, said police. Jaisalmer SP Ajay Singh said that on August 20, Sangad police received information about a woman’s body on the road. Hamal Khan, the deceased’s brother gave a report in writing that his sister Soni, wife of Manak was married three years ago and her in-laws had killed her. A team was formed which investigated the spot and collected evidences and intensively questioned the in-laws. Finally, Soni’s husband confessed that as he suspected her character, he, along with another woman Ameena and Sawai Ram murdered the woman. Manak, Ameena and Sawai Ram were arrested under Sections 302, 304B and 143. They are being interrogated. Police official sources said that Soni was living separately from her husband for last 2 years. One day before the incident Manak, along with Ameena and friend Sawai Ram had planned to murder Soni. As per the plan Ameena, while talking to Soni, brought her a little away from the village. Here her husband and Sawai Ram forced her to consume poison and strangulated her. Later, they threw her body a little away from her house. They also put the poison bottle near her to make it look like a case of suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-arrested-for-womans-murder-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/77730888.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Five youths stranded in Chambal rescued||KOTA: Five youths, who had gone for a picnic around in ravines at Geparnath spot along the Chambal River on Sunday afternoon, were trapped after water level rose. The five youths were rescued around midnight following a rescue operation that started around 7.30pm on Sunday evening. Since Kota city is under lockdown for two days, on Sunday and Monday, the police booked the five youths for violation of lockdown. Further investigation into the matter is on. The five youths, identified as Harsh Bohara of Bajrang Nagar, Mayank of Rangbadi area, Ashfak Mohammad of Vigyan Nagar, Riaz Mohammad of Police Line and Himanshu Sharma of Talwandi area had gone for a picnic on Sunday afternoon. According to circle inspector at R K Puram police station Sandeep Vishnoi, the five ventured onto the other side of the river, where they were trapped amidst flooding river after water level rose.  Rescue teams comprising NDRF and SDRF personnel rushed to the spot on receiving information around 7pm on Sunday. The youths were saved after 5 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-youths-stranded-in-chambal-rescued/articleshow/77730883.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Madurai||Govt will soon permit film shootings, says minister||Tuticorin: Minister for information and publicity, Kadambur C Raju has said that the state government would soon permit film shootings in the state. Addressing reporters here on Monday, Raju said the central government had recently issued guidelines on permitting film and television show shootings. “Based on the guidelines, the state government would soon permit film shootings,” the minister said. He stated that considering the plight of the workers in the industry, the state government had permitted shooting for television shows in July. Replying to a question on releasing new films on OTT platforms, Raju said that it would affect the livelihood of thousands of workers in the film industry and will also incur loss of revenue to the government. The minister said that he believes that film producers, actors’ associations and theatre owners would meet soon and resolve this issue amicably. He further said that if they seek help, the government is also ready to help them resolve this issue. Raju also criticised Tuticorin DMK MP Kanimozhi for her comment earlier in the day that the ruling party is not inviting elected representatives from the opposition for government functions. He said that since she is the MP of the constituency, her name used to be printed in the invitations. However, owing to the pandemic situation, invitations are not printed at present. Instead, intimations are given to the elected representatives, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-will-soon-permit-film-shootings-says-minister/articleshow/77732179.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pak national to return home||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Monday cleared the path for the Pakistani national, Sajjad Bahora, 28, to return to his native town Karachi in response to a petition filed by the Pakistan high commission and Bahora himself. The high court issued necessary directions to concerned officials to enable Bahora to return to Pakistan after the Supreme Court confirmed his acquittal in a fake currency case, which was the only objection on part of the state government. According to the Pakistan high commission’s advocate here, Jeet Bhatt, the bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria directed the Surat railway DSP to issue NOC to Bahora by August 29. The Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO) Mumbai was insisting on NOC by police authority when the Pakistani national had requested for an exit permit on the ground that his travel documents had become invalid with expiry of his passport in 2017. The high court has ordered the FRRO to issue him exit permit within seven days of receiving NOC from Surat police. The high court has also ordered to waive all fees that may be levied for his overstay in India. The court has ordered the authorities to return Bahora’s original documents so that he may return to Pakistan the way he wishes. Bahora got into trouble during his visit to India to meet his relatives in Surat in 2016. When he was on his way to Mumbai along with his relatives, he was found in possession of fake currency on Surat railway station. He was prosecuted and the trial court acquitted him in 2018. The high court confirmed his acquittal in 2019. After the nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic, Bahora initiated the process to return to his native, but the authorities did not respond. He moved the HC through advocate Aum Kotwal and sought directions to the FRRO to issue him an exit visa. Meanwhile, the Pakistan high commission filed a habeas corpus petition for his custody alleging that Indian authorities were keeping him in India against his will without valid reason. The high commission had also sought Rs 20 lakh compensation for the alleged “illegal detention” of its national.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pak-national-to-return-home/articleshow/77730886.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: ‘Missing’ pradhan back, was with live-in partner||JAISALMER: Barmer police on Sunday found Samdari pradhan Pinky Choudhary (28) who had gone missing a few days ago. Choudhary told police that she was staying with her live-in partner and did not want to go to either her parents’ house or to her in-laws.’ Barmer SP Anand Sharma said she left Samdari three to four days ago for going to her parents’ house at Golia village before going missing. Her father had lodged a missing person’s report. On Sunday, she came to Samdari police and said that she had gone to her friend Ashok’s house. Sharma said when she reached Samdari police station, Ashok was also with her. In the statement, she told police that she is an adult and is in a live-in relationship with Ashok as per her wish. Police said Ashok works at a granite factory in Jalore and she had gone there to meet him. Till she gets a divorce, she will be with Ashok in a live-in relationship. She has asked police not to take any action against her in-laws for harassment. Choudhary said her father-in-law forced her father to lodge an FIR, she said. “I will stay with my friend Ashok till the time my divorce does not take place. My in-laws are giving me threats that they will ostracise me from society and I will give an answer to that in court. I have not married for a second time and all videos doing the rounds are fake,” she said. Choudhary left her house a few days ago along with her five-year-old son saying that she was going to her parents’ house. On Friday, she sent an email to SP Barmer and informed that she has not gone missing but has gone away on her own will. She alleged that her father-in-law was forcibly having relation with her besides accusing her husband of harassment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-missing-pradhan-back-was-with-live-in-partner/articleshow/77730899.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Jaipur||Vehicle mows down 6 cows in Tonk dist, driver arrested||JAIPUR: Half-a-dozen cows were mowed down by a vehicle in Tonk’s Deoli police station area on Monday morning. The driver was apparently trying to avoid the cattle on the road but instead ended up killing the ones on the roadside. He was nabbed by the villagers and handed over to the police. “The accused was driving a pick-up vehicle when he saw a few stray cows on the road and in order to avoid hitting them, he swerved the car and went into other direction, but unfortunately there were even more number of cows there. He hit them and could not control the vehicle, thus killing around half a dozen cows in the process. Few cattle were injured as well,” said an official of Deoli police station. A group of villagers gathered at the spot, preventing him from getting away. Elaborating further, the official said, “It appeared that the driver panicked and was trying to get away but he was caught before he could flee. The locals were quite agitated about the incident but fortunately, did not harm the accused driver. They informed us and we have him in our custody.” According to the officials, it appears to be accidental deaths of the bovines whose bodies were removed from the accident spot. The official added, “The driver was probably at a high speed because of which he could not control the vehicle and apply brakes in time. Having said that, it was purely an accident and the carcasses of the cattle have been removed so as to not create further traffic disruption. The villagers have also been pacified.” The driver’s vehicle was seized and he was arrested under relevant sections of the IPC as well as under the Rajasthan Bovine Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/vehicle-mows-down-6-cows-in-tonk-dist-driver-arrested/articleshow/77730904.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Madurai||90% of jaggery in Tamil Nadu is adulterated, says assn||Madurai: The Tamil Nadu Foodgrains Merchants Association has alleged that 90% of the jaggery and jaggery powder produced in the state is adulterated. In a letter to the chief minister, it sought a direction to the food safety department to check for adulterated jaggery at jaggery markets. This will help identify adulteration before it reaches the shops and consumers, association president S P Jeyapragasam said. Salem, Namakkal, Erode, Tirupur, Coimbatore, Madurai, Vellore, Tirupattur and Virudhunagar districts are the major jaggery producers in the state. “90% of the jaggery produced in Virudhunagar and Madurai is not adulterated. 70% of the produce in Vellore and Tirupattur districts is not adulterated. Problem is in every district but more in the western districts,” he said. “Sabarimala used to consume 1,000 tonne (10 lakh kg) of jaggery annually and it used to be supplied from Tamil Nadu. Due to adulteration in our state, Sabarimala and other major temples have started procuring jaggery from Maharashtra. We will be able to avoid more of our major buyers within Tamil Nadu and neighbouring states from switching to markets in other states only if we put an end to adulteration,” he told TOI. Jeyapragasam said that jaggery cannot be adulterated with chemicals or coloured after production. “It happens during production. Jaggery is priced at Rs 100 a kg whereas sugar is just Rs 45,” he said and added that white sugar is mixed with cane juice to make jaggery. The association accused people with strong political and financial background of engaging in such acts at the cost of the public’s health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/90-of-jaggery-in-tamil-nadu-is-adulterated-says-assn/articleshow/77732184.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Madurai||‘Neet exemption needed at least during Covid crisis’||Tuticorin: Condemning the Centre for not considering the views of the opposition with the regard to the New Education Policy (NEP), Tuticorin MP and DMK women’s wing secretary Kanimozhi on Monday said the government should give exemption to medical aspirants from National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Neet) at least this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“NEET could then be cancelled permanently,” she told reporters here on Monday.Kanimozhi pointed out the suicide of a 19-year-old Coimbatore girl preparing for NEET. The girl committed suicide as she was afraid of appearing for Neet. She said the Centre had not listened to the observations and suggestions of the DMK and other opposition parties across the country. Kanimozhi said that a committee formed by the DMK to analyse the drawbacks of the NEP had submitted feedback to the Centre in a book form. “But it looks like no feedback has been accepted by them. It is an education policy against social justice,” she said. The MP said the DMK would welcome the NEP after all the changes suggested by the opposition were incorporated in it. Kanimozhi also condemned the Tamil Nadu government for trying to fight Covid-19 without listening to the suggestions of the opposition. The MP said that governments in all other states were involving the opposition and working with them to fight Covid-19, unlike Tamil Nadu. “In Tamil Nadu, the AIADMK has taken a stand that it alone is battling Covid-19,” she said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/neet-exemption-needed-at-least-during-covid-crisis/articleshow/77732187.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Goa||Shack owners want licence fee waiver in view of bleak season||Calangute: Beach shack owners in the Calangute-Candolim beach-belt have urged the state government to waive the shack licence and other fees for the coming 2020-21 tourist season. The process of renewing shack licences normally begins in early September when shack owners are sent messages asking them to pay the licence fee. “The last season lasted for only three-and-a-half months. Though the shack licences were renewed by the end of September, we were able to start only in mid-November because of a court case and then we had to shut down in March because of the coronavirus pandemic. It was a complete loss season for us and many have not recovered the cost of putting up the shacks,” general secretary of the Shack Owners Welfare Society (SOWS) John Lobo told TOI. The Calangute-Candolim belt has around 176 shacks, more than half of all the shacks in the state. SOWS recently submitted a memorandum to the chief minister, tourism minister and the tourism department with their grievances, asking for the waiver, but are yet to receive a reply. “They said they’ll think about it,” Lobo said. According to shack owners, the last season saw fewer foreign tourists due to the closure of Thomas Cook. This year also there will be less business because foreigners are unlikely to come in the midst of the pandemic and with travel restrictions in place, even though the state government has announced the reopening of the tourism industry, they said. Stakeholders said domestic tourists have started trickling in, most driving down in their own vehicles. “We don’t know when and if beach shacks will be allowed. We’ve been told that they may allow us from January, but opening so late makes no sense because our staff are all from other states and they will not come down only for three months. If we ask them to come they will ask for six months’ salary,” Lobo said. He said that it also depends on the pandemic situation. “They are now saying that a vaccine may be available by the end of this year. If the situation does not improve, then there may be no beach shacks this year. In that case, we should get a fee waiver for the 2021-22 season,” Lobo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shack-owners-want-licence-fee-waiver-in-view-of-bleak-season/articleshow/77730905.cms||Joseph Zuzarte
August 25, 2020||Lucknow||UP: DG family welfare, DSO test Covid positive in line of duty||LUCKNOW: Two key officials in charge of containing communicable and infectious diseases, including Covid-19, tested positive on Monday and were among 749 new cases detected in past 24 hours. The coronavirus infection case count in city rose to 22,585 since the outbreak. Director general of family welfare Dr Mithilesh Chaturvedi, who is also director of communicable diseases, was tested after symptoms. The district surveillance officer for Covid-19 got himself tested after developing fever. The officer also holds charge of additional CMO. Both officials are in home quarantine while the family welfare directorate was shut down for sanitisation and all employees are being tested. The DSO said it’s difficult to point out the source of infection, but he had been visiting various hospitals including KGMU, SGPGIMS and Integrated Command and Control Centre where some people have tested positive. The new cases also included two doctors, four nurses, seven cyber cell cops and a CBI inspector. ACP Vivek Ranjan Rai said seven cops have tested positive while others in the unit are also being tested. The CBI office at Nawal Kishore Road was closed for sanitisation after an inspector in the anti-corruption division was found infected. A doctor and four nurses of RML Institute of Medical Sciences and one doctor of a corporate hospital also tested positive. Gomtinagar again recorded the highest number of 38 cases among all localities and was followed by Indiranagar with 32, Hazratganj 30, Alambagh 29, Madiaon 28, Chowk 27 and Ashiana and Chinhat 25 each new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dg-family-welfare-dso-test-covid-positive-in-line-of-duty/articleshow/77730864.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Madurai||Cases dip to 950 in south, spike to 685 in central TN||Madurai/Trichy: The 10 southern districts have recorded 950 cases on Monday, first time after 47 days. The last time the region recorded less than 1,000 cases a day was on July 8 when it recorded 922 cases. This is despite an increase in vehicular movement after relaxation of e-pass norms from last Monday. The region recorded 28 deaths on Monday. The region’s active cases that recorded 9,808 on Sunday dropped to 9,289 on Monday. Meanwhile, the eight central districts reported 685 fresh cases pushing the tally to 27,449, an increase of 123 from the Sunday’s count of 562 cases. The region has 5,534 active cases. Seven deaths, including four in Thanjavur and three in Pudukottai, has pushed the toll to 402. After July 8, the number of fresh cases has gone even beyond 2,400 a day in the south. In the last two days, the region has recorded less than 10,000 active cases for the first time after July 9. The number of active cases was even above 16,000 a day till earlier this month before it started declining. On Monday, for the first time since July 8, less than four districts recorded more than 100 fresh cases – Theni (193), Kanyakumari (149) and Dindigul (132). Since Friday, no district recorded more than 200 daily fresh cases. A month ago, six districts were recording more than 200 fresh cases a day with some recording more than 400 cases a day. Of the 83,993 total Covid-19 cases in the region is 87.2%, more than the state average of 84.5%. The number of active cases in the southern region is 11.06% against 13.8% in the state. On the other hand the death rate of the south at 1.73% with 1,456 deaths has gone past the state average of 1.72%. Except Tenkasi (94) and Ramanathapuram (97), all other districts have more than 100 deaths. Death rate in Ramanathapuram is 2.2% whereas it is 1.94% in Tenkasi. Madurai tops the list in the region with 338 deaths and a death rate of 2.5%. The reason for the spike in the central districts can be attributed to the increase of cases in Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam where 111 cases and 63 cases were recorded on Monday. For the third consecutive day, Pudukottai recorded fresh cases above 150. The number of fresh cases on August 22, 23 and 24 were – 154, 155, 187 cases. Pudukottai became the third district with more than 5,000 cases on Sunday with 5,256 cases. Thanjavur came second with 119 cases taking the tally to 5,796. Tiruvarur also recorded 111 cases. The district tally is 2,896. Fresh cases in Trichy district is 104 taking the tally to 6,764 on Monday. Covid-19 cases were also registered in Nagapattinam-63, Ariyalur-52, Perambalur-26 and Karur-23. Active cases in the region are Pudukottai-1,394, Trichy-947, Thanjavur-880, Nagapattinam-616, Tiruvarur-570, Ariyalur-515, Karur-403 and Perambalur-209 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cases-dip-to-950-in-south-spike-to-685-in-central-tn/articleshow/77732182.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Chennai||Mobility, road infra future perfect||Chennai: Broad pathways, cycling tracks and an improved road infrastructure could soon become a reality in six neighbourhoods of the city. Conceptualised as a part of the Rs 1,800cr 'mega streets project' of the Chennai corporation, these six projects will be completed in a year’s time. The chosen localities are New Avadi road in Anna Nagar, Broadway in Tondiarpet, Cathedral road in Nungambakkam, CP Ramaswamy road in Mylapore, Velachery main road and Ramachandra Aadithanar road in Adyar. Last week, the project consultants submitted their reports to corporation commissioner G Prakash, who along with engineers inspected Broadway, one of the chosen sites. For Adyar, the consultants -- Architecture Red and Urban Design Collective-- have selected a loop connecting two MRTS stations along the West Canal Bank Road and Canal Bank Road. The proposal is to earmark space for a linear park system along the canal side of the road by demarcating a clear two lane driveway to facilitate vehicular traffic along the road. The space between the road and the canal will be utilised and designed as an active social and public space. For Velachery, which doesn’t have much public space, the corporation has zeroed in on the Velacherry main road and the Race Course road to be redesigned with a cycle track and pathways, apart from other amenities. In North Chennai, the sea shore will be redeveloped and made similar to the shoreline in Puducherry. Making the beach area more presentable and a vibrant public space will be the focus. Work will commence on the road from Toll Gate metro station connecting it to the sea side for almost 5km. Sujatha Hingoria, a consultant, said “North Chennai is usually overlooked whenever developmental projects are taken up. We decided to provide a public space and give the place its due." The new design would not just focus on broad pathways, organised on-street parking and well-planned underground utilities but will also ensure the design integrates bus stops, street vendors and all other paraphernalia that give a street a character of its own. Ashwathy Dilip of ITDP said the mega streets project will transform the neighbourhoods of Chennai into vibrant public spaces for all. “The project will improve safety for all vulnerable users — pedestrians, cyclists, and public transport users; efficiency of traffic flow, seamless integration between different modes of transport, boost local businesses, create local parks and reinvent streets as public spaces.” ends||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mobility-road-infra-future-perfect/articleshow/77719012.cms||Komal Gautham
August 25, 2020||Jaipur||Sand brought by floodwaters in Jaipur on sale||JAIPUR: Tonnes of sand retrieved from Lal Dungri and other areas of the city after heavy rainfall on August 14 is now being sold by the Municipal Corporation Jaipur, Heritage. Authorities have issued an advertisement and invited interested buyers to come to the Lal Dungri transfer station with a vehicle of their own. The sand will be measured before being sold to the person. A senior official of Municipal Corporation Jaipur, Heritage, said the tonnes of sand became a headache for the authorities. “This is the first time that the municipal corporation is selling sand as thousands of tonnes had covered the Lal Dungri area. However, not many have showed interest in the deal. So, we are also using this sand to fill up potholes in the city and to fill up the sand bags which will be used in water management during monsoon,” said an official who wished to be unnamed. Till now, authorities have excavated over 70,000 tonnes of sand from Lal Dungri area – Rahiman colony, Sundar Nagar, Ganesh Puri and Gangeshwar Nagar. Over 2,000 houses were covered with five-feet sand after the August 14 deluge. The work is still going on to clean the entire area. Residents were shifted to nearby community halls and government schools till the water dried down. Later, people had to spend days to clean their houses and get the sand out. Most of their belongings — furniture, television, refrigerator and vehicles — had submerged under sand causing heavy losses to the residents. At present, the excavated sand has been shifted to the Lal Dungri garbage transfer depot and will either be sold to a person who demands it or will be used in flood control operations in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sand-brought-by-floodwaters-in-city-on-sale/articleshow/77730926.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Goa||Shripad Naik has lung infection, but stable: Goa CM after AIIMS review||PANAJI: Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said Ayush minister Shripad Naik has developed “lung infection” but was “stable” and a team of experts from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), who arrived in Goa on Monday night, have decided not to shift him to Delhi “for now”. Naik, who is also the junior defence minister, has been undergoing treatment at a private hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19 on August 12. “The condition of Ayush minister is stable. The team from AIIMS is satisfied with the line of treatment. He has developed an infection in his lungs. The AIIMS doctors are staying overnight and monitoring him. They will again take a review on Tuesday and decide on the future course of action,” Sawant said. The AIIMS team was air dashed to Goa after Naik’s oxygen saturation level dropped in the morning and had come prepared to medically evacuate him if needed. A senior doctor at Manipal Hospital, where Naik is being treated, said the Ayush minister had tested negative for Covid-19 on Monday when he underwent the TrueNat test, but his CT scan showed advancement of the infection. “The expert team from AIIMS is monitoring the minister in the hospital. Naik will undergo further tests including RT-PCR, on Tuesday and the AIIMS experts will then decide on the future course of treatment. His condition had deteriorated earlier in the day,” Goa Medical College dean S M Bandekar said. The Manipal Hospital doctor said as soon as Naik’s oxygen levels started dropping, he was placed on a non-invasive ventilation (NIV) and his condition had shown improvement. “The oxygen saturation level is fluctuating between 96.2 and 98%, but we have to see how he responds in the next 24 hours. There are limitations of NIV,” he said. Naik, who was critical last week, was administered complacent plasma therapy and had shown marked improvement. AIIMS experts, who had visited Goa and reviewed his case, had also expressed satisfaction about the line of treatment followed for Naik. Health minister Vishwajit Rane had said last week that it was only due to plasma therapy that they were able to save Naik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shripad-has-lung-infection-but-stable-cm-after-aiims-review/articleshow/77730913.cms||Bindiya Chari
August 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 80-year-old woman beaten to death by grandson for Rs 20,000 in Bundi||Kota: An 80-year-old woman succumbed to injuries inflicted on her by her grandson (20) during treatment on Monday evening at Bundi district government hospital. She had been rushed here on Monday morning after she was allegedly attacked with a stick by her grandson for Rs 20,000 at their house on Sunday night in Umerthuna village under Bundi Sadar police station. The accused is absconding. The deceased was identified as Jhamoribai Meena. Circle inspector at Bundi Sadar police station, Shauqat Ali said the body was handed over to family members after post-mortem. Initial investigation revealed, the grandson, identified as Deepak Meena had borrowed Rs 20,000 from the deceased through his elder uncle. When she demanded the money a fight between her and the grandson took place. The youth, in a fit of rage, beat his grandmother with a stick.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/80-yr-old-woman-beaten-to-death-by-grandson-for-rs-20000-in-bundi/articleshow/77730908.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Madurai||Loan agreement for Madurai AIIMS likely to be signed by Dec||Madurai: Nineteen months after Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for AIIMS Madurai, the government is yet to appoint the executing agency for the ambitious project. The deadline for completion of the project is September 2022.R Pandiarajan Pavoorchatram of Tenkasi district filed an RTI before the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), regarding the status of AIIMS hospitals in the country that were sanctioned under Padhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY). In its reply on Monday, the ministry on AIIMS Madurai said, “The loan agreement is likely to be signed by December 2020, subject to approval by the governments of India and Japan.” The RTI further said that six AIIMS’ have become functional, seven are partly functional and nine, including Madurai are under construction.Pavoorchatram said that this will affect the project deadline. “Formalities after December 2020 till work commences, will take a few months. By then, the cost of construction would have gone up heavily and there will be delay in the deserving in receiving proper treatment,” he said.Pandiarajan filed the RTI seeking replies for his queries pertaining to the funding agencies for other projects. “It is to find out the reason for the delay in starting work in Madurai while work has begun at other sites with a deadline much beyond ours,” he said.The petitioner forwarded the replies to MPs of Madurai, Tenkasi and Tirunelveli and is trying to reach out to others in the region to raise their voice for AIIMS in Madurai.Madurai MP Su Venkatesan recalled the efforts he took for AIIMS in Madurai. He said that correspondence with those concerned has not been fruitful and that he will exert pressure when he goes to Delhi for the monsoon session of the Parliament in September.Coordinator of AIIMS for Madurai movement, V S Manimaran said the delay in signing the agreement will reflect in the project cost going up by 25% (or Rs 300 crore). “While Japan will only agree for actual project cost of Rs 1,264 crore, who will fund the rest is a question,” he said.“For all the other AIIMS’ projects the respective state governments have established administrative offices. But, the government of Tamil Nadu has not done it,” he said. The offices of the special officer and administrative officer are also yet to be established, Manimaran said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/loan-agreement-for-madurai-aiims-likely-to-be-signed-by-dec/articleshow/77732190.cms||M K Ananth
August 25, 2020||Nagpur||Ytl ZP holds meeting online, oppn protests||Yavatmal: Opposition parties in Yavatmal Zilla Parishad have threatened to launch agitation against the president’s unilateral move to hold general body meeting online. In a press conference held on Monday, group leader of the opposition Mangala Pawade criticised the autocratic way of functioning of the ZP president Kalindabai Pawar. Pawade said a 15-day notice was given to summon the general body meeting and the district collector had ordered the ZP administration to call the meeting on June 26 last. Though there was no official word on holding the meeting in physical presence, the administration deliberately delayed holding the meet and on August 20 it was held online with an ulterior motive of hushing up irregularities committed by ruling party office-bearers, she alleged. Chairman of education committee Shreedhar Mohod, who is also Shiv Sena group leader, said the collector had refused permission for a regular meeting in presence of all members citing government’s restrictions on allowing a gathering of more than 50 persons. Hence, the meeting was held online. Had there been a physical meeting, over 150 persons would have required to attend it — 61 elected members, 16 panchayat samiti chairmen, 50-60 officers and employees, he said. Several bills were pending for want of the general body sanction, he added. “We protested against the online meeting by staging a sit-in dharna on the floor of the meeting hall on August 20,” said Pawade. “Members of various subject committees are yet to be nominated and hence the privilege of the members is denied,” she further added. According to former chairperson of social welfare committee Pragnya Bhoomkale, people’s issues couldn’t be discussed properly when the meeting is held online. “We want the general meeting be held offline,” said former ZP vice-president Shyam Jaiswal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ytl-zp-holds-meeting-online-oppn-protests/articleshow/77723686.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Madurai||As Covid cases decrease, people lower their guard||Madurai: With new Covid-19 cases on the decline in the city, people have lowered their guard as they are seen gathering for casual chats in public places without wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. The city has returned to near normalcy with relaxations given over a period of time. Although the state government has been insisting on making use of the relaxation with utmost safety and care, people are behaving as if the disease has completely gone. Health officials warn that it will not take much time for the infection to spread. G R Sivakumar, a social activist, said that people followed safety measures only when they were scared of the infection. Majority of the people are no more afraid and hence they are behaving as if normalcy has returned. It has become very common to see people in groups chatting with each other without masks or distance between them. V Senthilvel, a resident of Anupanadi, said, “Wearing mask has become customary just like wearing a helmet. People wear it only when they want to get into a government office or noticing a policeman at a distance,” he said. A health official from Madurai Corporation said that they have been levying fine and sensitizing people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/as-covid-cases-decrease-people-lower-their-guard/articleshow/77732192.cms||V Devanathan
August 25, 2020||Nagpur||With CM’s nod, Mahendri sanctuary plan moves ahead after 25 years||Nagpur: After a gap of 25 years, there seems to be light at the end of the tunnel for proposed Mahendri wildlife sanctuary in Warud forest range under Amravati forest circle. The proposal was first mooted by Kishor Rithe’s Nature Conservation Society, Amravati (NCSA) in 1994-95. Since then, it has been discussed several times in the state wildlife board (SWBL) meetings without decision. For the first time now it has got political support with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray taking a stand on need for declaring new protected areas (PAs). Chairing the 15th state board for wildlife (SBWL) meeting on August 7, Thackeray gave in-principle approval to Mahendri and also encouraged new sanctuary proposals in the state. Following this, PCCF (wildlife) office has swung into action and on August 20 asked Amravati CCF to submit proposal for Mahendri sanctuary. “We will do as directed by the PCCF office,” said CCF Praveen Chavan. The proposed sanctuary area is at present a reserve forest under Amravati territorial division. It has a succession of hills and valleys that are extension of Satpuda range. The area gains significance as it is the catchment for Wardha river. The demand for notifying wildlife sanctuary was strongly raised by wildlife lovers in April 2013 when a full-grown tigress was found dead in Urad beat under Warud range near Lohada village. Mahendri is a wildlife rich and geographically important forest area. The around 100 sqkm of forest has several critically endangered animals. However, sambar, blue bulls, chinkara, spotted deer, chowsingha and wild boar are main prey species found here. As the final proposal is yet to be prepared, the area is not finalized. “Mahendri is one of the potential forest areas that can be notified as a sanctuary to protect tigers and other species. It will act as important corridor for tiger movement between Bor and Melghat tiger reserves,” said state wildlife board member Kishor Rithe. “In the long-term it will also be a good ecotourism destination generating employment for locals. Moreover, the proposed area doesn’t have any villages,” Rithe added. The area has a diverse population of bird life with species like lesser kestrel, crested serpent eagle, eurasian eagle owl. The congregative bird species include blossom headed parakeet, rose ringed parakeet and others. “In camera trapping exercise conducted in 2015 and 2017 by Wildlife Conservation Trust (WCT), Mumbai, the forest area reveals good diversity of mammals like tiger, leopard, sloth bear, wolf, jackal, hyena, chinkara, sambar and many more,” said WCT field officer Vishal Bansod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-cms-nod-mahendri-sanctuary-plan-moves-ahead-after-25-years/articleshow/77730910.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 25, 2020||Kochi||Corp plans to secure nod for cost escalation of RAY project||Kochi: Almost one year after their decision to increase the cost of the ground-plus-eleven-storeyed apartment complex being constructed at Thuruthi in Fort Kochi under Rajiv Awas Yojana (RAY), the corporation authorities have started a move to secure the corporation council’s nod for the same. The revised estimate has resulted in the escalation of cost of a 300sqft apartment unit to Rs 19.5 lakh, excluding the cost of land component, from Rs 7.40 lakh. The corporation authorities have also started moves to ratify the act of mayor Soumini Jain giving back the security deposit of Rs 91 lakh to the contractor at the council meeting. As per the norms, the anticipatory approvals given should be ratified by the council when it meets next. The act of the mayor is said to be in violation of norms as the security deposit is supposed to be given back to the contractor after completing the works and also after the expiry of the guarantee period as per the agreement. But the mayor gave anticipatory approval for returning the amount to the contractor despite the fact that work on only one-and-a-half floors of the structure has been completed. Though TOI tried to contact Jain over phone, she was not available for comments. The mayor is now in quarantine after she became the primary contact of a councillor who tested positive for coronavirus a few days ago. Going by her earlier comments, she gave anticipatory approval as per the advice of a committee led by the then superintending engineer of the corporation. The engineer had told that there are no legal issues in giving back the fund to the contractor. Similarly, authorities are unable to clarify why the cost of an individual apartment unit shot up to Rs 19.5 lakh. According to the professionals in the real estate sector, the cost of a 300sqft apartment unit can be around Rs 7.5 lakh. Even the finance standing committee of the corporation is of the opinion that the cost escalation should be examined in detail. “The standing committee has also asked the corporation to initiate a separate tender for carrying out the works using additional funds after fixing the rates properly,” one of the members of the committee said. Opposition councillors had lodged a complaint with the vigilance and anti-corruption bureau alleging that there are anomalies in the mayor’s act of giving anticipatory approval for giving back the security deposit. A probe by performance audit wing of the state government into the case is pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/corp-plans-to-secure-nod-for-cost-escalation-of-ray-project/articleshow/77728383.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
August 25, 2020||Delhi||Supreme Court asks EPCA to file report on pollution level at Delhi hotspots||NEW DELHI: With the Delhi government claiming that it has managed to control pollution levels at 13 hotspots in the national capital through effective steps, the Supreme Court on Monday asked the Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority to visit the sites and file a report after on-the-spot verification. Appearing before a bench of Justices Arun Mishra, Vineet Saran and M R Shah, chief secretary Vijay Kumar Dev told the court that the pollution levels are much lower than previous years as the directions to deal with the crisis have been strictly enforced and he is personally monitoring the implementation. Central Pollution Control Board has identified the 13 hotspots — Rohini, Dwarka, Okhla Phase II, Punjabi Bagh, Anand Vihar, Vivek Vihar, Wazirpur, Jahangirpuri, RK Puram, Bawana, Narela, Mundka and Mayapuri — based on the high PM concentration in these areas. Dev informed the court that teams have been constituted to specifically deal with all the hotspots and efforts will be further intensified in the coming days. Referring to the pollution caused by construction work, the chief secretary said an order has been passed making it mandatory to use anti-smog guns at construction site. He said anti-smog guns are operational at 30 places. He said the government has also directed other developers to use the machine and stayed construction work at nine sites for not deploying anti-smog guns. On the issue of smog towers, which the Centre and CPCB assured the court to set up within 10 months, the bench directed the government to place before it all the correspondence with University of Minnesota, which will provide technology for construction of the towers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sc-asks-epca-to-file-report-on-pollution-level-at-city-hotspots/articleshow/77729853.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Perform or pay, NGT panel tells civic body||Ludhiana: Acting tough against the failure of the municipal corporation in proper handling of the solid waste management (SWM) in the city, an NGT-formed monitoring committee on Monday asked the civic body to deposit bank guarantees in favour of PPCB in respect of every unfinished task, which would stand forfeited if the corporation is not able to do the needful in the stipulated period.At a meeting held through video-conferencing, members of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) committee expressed dissatisfaction over the working of the civic body as well as waste management company A2Z. The panel has asked the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) officials to impose environment compensation on A2Z for not lapses in processing of garbage. For the implementation of SWM rules, deadlines were fixed for various related works. The civic body was also found lacking in the implementation of source segregation of waste in the city. Moreover, the work of upgradation of sewerage treatment plants (STPs) of the corporation has not started yet. The civic officials, however, claimed that due to Covid-19, they were not able to complete their works and they need another two-three months’ time for the pending tasks.The panel head, Justice Jasbir Singh, however, made it clear that the NGT committee does not have the power to extend the deadline, and if they want extension, they should approach the tribunal. But, finally, the committee yielded, saying if they are not able to complete the task in the sought time period, their bank guarantees would be forfeited. Although the civic officials are tight-lipped about the bank guarantee clause, the PPCB officials confirmed the same. Municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, however, could not be contacted for his comments.A member of the committee and environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal said, “The time given to the civic body has lapsed, so they have been asked to deposit bank guarantees. Apart from Ludhiana MC, small civic bodies like Khanna, Jagraon etc had also joined the meeting. All have been asked to deposit bank guarantees.” The bank guarantee amounts range from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 10 lakh for the Ludhiana MC and for each missed target, separate bank guarantee has been demanded, he added. PPCB senior environment engineer Sandeep Behl said, “The NGT panel has clearly instructed the civic body to get solid waste processed properly and they also flayed the working of A2Z waste management company for not doing their work properly. We are told to impose environmental compensation on the private garbage collecting firm.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/perform-or-pay-ngt-panel-tells-civic-body/articleshow/77728360.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Madurai||Govt, corpn schools see rise in admissions||Madurai: As an after effect of the financial burden being faced by citizens owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, government and corporation schools have been witnessing a rise in new admissions. With the Class X 100% pass, the schools are seeing a surge in admissions to Class XI, which began on Monday. The admission procedures are being conducted maintaining Covid-19 safety precautions. Textbooks were distributed to students. “Since all the Class X students were declared passed, we are definitely seeing more number of students. In our school, all those who cleared Class X are seeking admissions to Class XI. Students who usually drop out or opt for technical education are showing more interest in higher secondary education now,” said Rajendran M, headmaster, Elango Corporation Higher Secondary School. Apart from this, families in financial crisis are turning to government and corporation schools for admissions. Now, many corporation schools have English as teaching medium and smart classrooms. Many parents who had their children enrolled in private matriculation schools are also coming forward to choose corporation schools. With more students coming in for admissions, the schools are also prepared to increase the strength of their sections and create new sections to ensure all students are accommodated. Though commerce group has more demand, government schools said that there is also a good mix of students opting for different groups, including vocational subjects. “We had more than 100 admissions on the first day. A few students from private schools are also coming for admission,” said K Anand Raman, headmaster, T Kallupatti Government Higher Secondary School. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-corpn-schools-see-rise-in-admissions/articleshow/77732194.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Madurai||Madurai gets its 3rd Kendriya Vidyalaya||Madurai: A third Kendriya Vidyalaya (KV) school has been established at the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), Idayapatti in Madurai, according to an order from the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) aon Monday. It is one of the more than 50 new KVs sanctioned by the central government. “Since the land has been transferred by the sponsoring authority in favour of Kendriya Vidyalaya concerned, sanction of the commissioner, KVS is hereby conveyed to start a new Kendriya Vidyalaya under civil sector at ITBP Idayapatti with immediate effect,” read the notification. Union minister for education, Ramesh Pokhriyal on Monday conveyed best wishes for the school in a tweet. “Delighted to share that Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan is opening a new school today, named ‘Kendriya Vidyalaya ITBP Idayapatti’ in Madurai district of Tamil Nadu. I extend my heartiest congratulations to all the students and parents who will benefit from this school. It is the 1241st school of the ever-growing chain of Kendriya Vidyalayas in the country,” he said. Madurai MP Su Venkatesan also took to Twitter to thank the minister. “For 10 years, establishment of Kendriya Vidyalaya ITBP Idayapatti was stuck in land dispute. I thank the minister for starting admissions to the school from this academic year,” he said. The new school will start functioning from classes I to V with single section each during 2020-21. The admission process may be completed within 30 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-gets-its-3rd-kendriya-vidyalaya/articleshow/77732197.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Who will pay our workers, power bills, ask shopkeepers||Ludhiana: The businessmen are terming the even-odd system of opening of non-essentials’ shops as a huge setback, as they will now be able to open their businesses for only 10-11 days in the coming month. They are at their wits’ end and do not know how they will be able to pay the salaries of their employees and power bills. Businessmen say this system will leave them bankrupt.Kamal Gupta, a trader from Sabun Bazaar, says, “We fail to understand how closing of non-essentials’ shops will control the coronavirus cases. Shopkeepers are already suffering huge losses due to low customer turnout ever since the lockdown. Now this restriction of even-odd will prove to be a disaster for us. This week, the odd number shops will be able to open for only two days. It will be impossible for us to generate income to pay even one day’s power bill and salaries of our employees. Will the government pay them? It is an illogical system and should be withdrawn immediately.” Raj Kumar Singla, president of market committee of fastener suppliers, Gill Road, says “It is certain that along with confusion and chaos, traders will suffer huge losses. In September, both even and odd will be able to open for only 11 days. So, the government should also pass orders, asking the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to charge us bills only for the days our shops remain open. Moreover, how can the government expect us to earn enough in 11 days to manage our living expenses and also pay salaries to our workers. If this system is not scrapped, thousands of shopkeepers and workers will find it hard to make ends meet.”Manpreet Singh Bunty of Akalgarh Market says, “For more than three months, traders had to keep their shops shut. And when we were allowed to open them, another order was passed and Sunday was made a no-working day despite the fact that this is the only day when we register most of our sales. If this was not enough, now the system of even-odd has been imposed on us. The system should be withdrawn and we should be allowed to open shops at least from Monday to Saturday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/who-will-pay-our-workers-power-bills-ask-shopkeepers/articleshow/77728389.cms||Mohit Behl
August 25, 2020||Ludhiana||11 from dist lose battle with Covid-19, 152 test positive||TNNLudhiana: Twelve persons, including 11 from Ludhiana district, died of Covid-19 at various hospitals of the state on Monday, when 152 persons from the district and 21 outsiders tested positive for the disease here. As per the local media bulletin, besides 11 from the district, one from Kapurthala has succumbed.The district casualties included a nine-year-old Ludhiana boy with tuberculosis. A 40-year-old man from Ludhiana with BP and heart problem also succumbed to the virus. A 42-year-old diabetic woman from Focal Point, a 22-year-old man from Central Jail with liver problem and a 43-year-old man from New Janta Nagar with diabetes passed away at Rajindra Hospital in Patiala. Others who died at various city hospitals included a Covid positive 58-year-old diabetic man from South City, a 76-year-old diabetic man from Gagan Park with blood pressure, a 64-year-old man from Shastri Nagar with diabetes and BP, a 72-year-old man from Dehlon, a 70-year-old man from Bhaag Wali Gali in Ludhiana and a 74-year-old man from Madhopuri with blood pressure.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said with 11 deaths from the district, the toll has risen to 323 and that of outsiders to 70.Dr Bagga said to date 1,06,997 suspects were tested in Ludhiana district. He added that of the 152 patients from the district who tested positive, 40 were from the flu corner, 35 were positive cases’ contacts, 37 from OPD, three police personnel, nine healthcare workers, one traveller, one pregnant woman, 23 from tracing process, two severe acute respiratory infection cases and one pre-operative patient.Local health department officials said Ludhiana case tally stood at 8,831 and that of outsiders at 898. The civil surgeon said on Monday, 2,527 samples were sent for testing. As many as 6,451 people have recovered, which is 73.09% of the total cases.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said there were 2,054 active patients in the district at present and on Monday, 542 persons were sent for home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/11-from-dist-lose-battle-with-covid-19-152-test-positive/articleshow/77728373.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Goa||Containment zone at Usgao denotified||Ponda: The South Goa district collector on Monday denotified the containment zone in Usgao-Ganjem village after a dip in Covid cases. The area was declared as a containment zone after 27 persons from seven families at Siddheshwarnagar and Avantinagar at Tisk-Usgao tested positive on July 22. Parts of Siddheshwarnagar and Avantinagar that were declared as buffer zones also stand denotified. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/containment-zone-at-usgao-denotified/articleshow/77730933.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Madurai||Sivaganga records highest death rate in TN||Madurai: Sivaganga district has the highest Covid-19 death rate at 2.7% in Tamil Nadu, though the total number of cases is less than 4,000. This is much higher than the state and national death rates. However, local health officials asserted that most Covid-19 deaths were of patients with various comorbid conditions and that efforts are being taken to reduce the number. As on Monday, the total deaths in Sivaganga stood at 102, making it the only district in Tamil Nadu which has more than 100 Covid-19 deaths, but less than 5,000 cases. “Death rate appears high only due to the low number of cases. High number of positive cases often dilutes the death rate. Only less than 5% of Covid-19 deaths in the district are of patients without co-morbidities,” said a senior district health official. The official added that efforts are also being taken for early identification of patients through fever clinics and surveillance and to create more awareness among the public. According to data, 76% of Covid-19 deaths in Sivaganga have been at government institutions. “The death rate at the Government Sivaganga Medical College Hospital is 2.26%. Most deaths were of patients with various comorbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney disease,” said Dr A Rathinavel, dean of the hospital. However, according to hospital sources, Sivaganga MCH has been struggling with lack of sufficient manpower. “At presnte, there are 150 patients being treated here. But, the case load of severe patients who require oxygen support has not declined even as the numbers are declining overall. Due to quarantining, only 50% of workforce can work at a time. It has been difficult for the doctors and staff nurses on Covid-19 duty for long hours,” said a staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sivaganga-records-highest-death-rate-in-tn/articleshow/77732193.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
August 25, 2020||Kolkata||Civic body’s Covid-combat plans stalled after CMHO’s +ve result||Kolkata: The civic authorities’ Covid-combat plans have been temporarily halted after Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s chief municipal health officer (CMHO) Soumitra Ghosh tested positive for the disease on Sunday. After Ghosh’s rapid antigen test result was known on Sunday, the civic brass decided to keep the chambers of all senior health officials at the civic headquarters shut till August 31. “Till the end of this week, all meetings relating to formulation of Covid-combat plans that were scheduled over the next five days at the headquarters will remain suspended. These meetings include the weekly meeting chaired by state home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and Kolkata’s nodal officer for Covid management to decide on the mode of action in the Covid-sensitive zones,” said a KMC health department official. This apart, the official added, meetings that were to be held at the civic headquarters to take regular feedback from the borough health executive officers and the coordinators have also been suspended. “Based on the feedback and an instructions given to the boroughs, the Covid containment zone lists get updated. We will now have to wait till the beginning of next week to decide on some crucial aspects of the Covid-combat plans,” the official added. According to a KMC senior health official, it has also been decided that all deputy chief health officers and other senior officials who held regular meetings with Ghosh the previous week would need to undergo mandatory Covid tests on Friday. The functioning of the health department at the headquarters will depend on the outcome of these test. “We have reasons to feel anxious as all senior officers have their chambers very close to the chamber of the CMHO and they were regularly seen meeting with Ghosh as part of a Covid-combat strategy,” said a senior official of the KMC health department. Besides the headquarters, functioning of a few boroughs have also come under threat following spread of the virus among the KMC solid waste management department officials who are working as frontline workers in Covid fight. “We are keeping our fingers crossed as several of our health executive officers, medical officers and lab technicians are getting infected since Unlock 1.0 started. A section of the solid waste management department workers associated with sanitization drives across the city is also getting infected. The numbers of infected civic workers are growing and we are hard pressed for the monumental work,” said an official associated with the Covid-combat team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/civic-bodys-covid-combat-plans-stalled-after-cmhos-ve-result/articleshow/77729864.cms||Saikat Ray
August 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Paatil’s ‘work from Kamalam’ mandate for ministers stirs unease||Gandhingar: The state BJP has found itself in a rather awkward situation after newly appointed state president C R Paatil asked ministers of the Vijay Rupani cabinet to meet party workers and citizens at the state party headquarters and resolve their grievances there. The unprecedented diktat has reportedly not gone down well with government functionaries including CM Vijay Rupani and deputy CM Nitin Patel, who are said to perceive Paatil’s action as unwarranted. Paatil accompanied revenue minister Kaushik Patel at Kamalam on Monday and sources said he was seen actively participating even as the revenue minister was resolving grievances of people. A minister in the government said, “Such things (forcing ministers to sit at the party HQ Kamalam with the party president) have not ever happened in the past in any BJP government. The CM, deputy CM and ministers are upset with Paatil for acting like a super-CM and directly giving orders to ministers. The tradition of one-person-one-post and elected wing working in harmony with the organisation will be adversely affected because of this.” The minister said that Swarnim Sankul (ministers have their offices here) has its sanctity which should not be undermined. “Officers have already started tilting towards Paatil as a new power centre in the state, but such actions clearly weaken the authority of the CM. After lockdown, the CM has directed ministers to meet people every Monday and Tuesday at their Swarnim Sankul offices. Now with C R Paatil’s order, party workers are confused whom to follow – the CM or the state president,” the minister said. A combative Congress says that the CM, deputy CM and ministers have taken oath of allegiance to the Constitution and not the BJP. “The CM and ministers are constitutional authorities. Many citizens and Congress MLAs will never go to meet the CM or ministers at the BJP state headquarters. Hundreds of crores of rupees have been spent to construct Swarnim Sankul so that the CM and ministers can meet people. Paatil is making a mockery of it,” said Amit Chavda, state Congress president. Chavda added that the CM should exercise his authority and discontinue C R Paatil’s directive of asking ministers to meet citizens at Kamalam. He alleged that this practice will also breed corruption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/paatils-work-from-kamalam-mandate-for-ministers-stirs-unease/articleshow/77730931.cms||Kapil Dave
August 25, 2020||Nagpur||Won’t allow to move freely in state: Kedar to 3 Cong netas||Nagpur: Sunil Kedar, dairy development minister and Congress MLA from Saoner, has openly threatened three Congress leaders from the state for questioning the leadership of interim Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Prithviraj Chavan, Mukul Wasnik and Milind Deora were among the party leaders who had written to Sonia Gandhi demanding a full-time and effective leadership for the party. Kedar had tweeted, “I wholeheartedly support Sonia Gandhi as president. It is shameful of Mukul Wasnik, Prithviraj Chavan and Milind Deora to raise questions on the leadership of Gandhi family. These leaders must apologize for their act immediately, otherwise Congress workers would ensure they would not be able to move freely in the state. Congress can give fight to BJP government only when party has a Gandhi as its head. This is high time to stand firmly behind Soniaji’s leadership.” Talking to TOI-MT, Kedar said he stands by his tweet. “The country can never forget the sacrifices of the Gandhi family. Some leaders have started feeling that they are bigger than the party. If they wanted to raise some issues then they should have done it in the Congress Working Committee (CWC) and not publicly,” he added. Sunil Kedar is a second-generation Congress leader. His father Chhatrapal was also a minister in Congress government and had a major role to play in cooperative movement in Nagpur district. Kedar does not get along well with Prithviraj Chavan. In late 2013, he had led a delegation of Congress MLAs from Vidarbha seeking replacement of Chavan as chief minister of the state. Kedar was unsuccessful but Chavan had dissolved the Nagpur District Central Cooperative Bank (NDCCB) controlled by Kedar aides in retaliation. Kedar also does not have good equations with Mukul Wasnik. The two had a problematic relationship when Wasnik was member of Parliament from Ramtek. However, both came together during 2019 assembly elections to win four out of six seats for Congress-NCP in Nagpur rural.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wont-allow-to-move-freely-in-state-kedar-to-3-cong-netas/articleshow/77730932.cms||Ashish Roy
August 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: No respite from waterlogging for residents of Vidhyadhar Nagar||JAIPUR: Potholes and waterlogged roads have become a headache for people in Vidhyadhar Nagar zone, especially during monsoon. Authorities construct roads every year, but those easily disintegrate during monsoon leading to waterlogging. Rima Ahuja, a resident of Sector 7 in Vidhyadhar Nagar, said there was a big pit in front of her house which they had to fill with sand bags. “The crater was really big and we decided to fill it up with sand bags. The entire lane is slippery and difficult to commute during monsoon,” Ahuja said. Shopkeepers in Vidhyadhar Nagar market said on August 14 rainwater entered their shops causing losses. “The drainage system in the city is poor. I believe residents are at fault as well because they have constructed houses over drains,” said Niraj Meena, a shopkeeper of the area. Sewage water flows on roads and people have complained to Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) on several occasions but no one paid any heed. Akash Kumar, a resident of Murlipura area, said that for last one week, sewage water has been overflowing on the road emanating foul smell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-respite-from-waterlogging-for-residents-of-vidhyadhar-nagar/articleshow/77730934.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Agra||Agra commissioner loses parents to Covid-19||AGRA: A day after his father died of Covid-19, Agra divisional commissioner Anil Kumar lost his mother as well to the deadly virus on Monday. While his mother had tested positive on August 3, his father had been diagnosed the following day. Both were undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Gautam Buddha Nagar. The commissioner's 69-year-old mother was tested for Covid-19 after she was having breathing difficulties. It was part of a random testing of 26 people, including the commissioner's family members, at his house and office on the Mall Road. Six individuals, including his father and sister, were diagnosed. Four staffers were also tested positive. However, the commissioner, his wife and two children have tested negative so far. Both the parents and sister of the commissioner were put up at a private hotel on the MG Road which has been transformed into a Covid-19 isolation facility. The health condition of the two elderly persons deteriorated at the isolation facility. Later, they were shifted to Gautam Buddha Nagar for further treatment. According to the health department, the commissioner's parents were suffering from comorbidity. His 74-year-old father died at 11 pm on Saturday. His body was brought to Agra at 10:30 am on Sunday for cremation. About 24 hours later, his mother passed away as well. She was also cremated in Agra. The commissioner's father was a retired central government officer. His mother was a homemaker. The commissioner's sister - an IAS officer posted in West Bengal - has recovered from the Covid-19 infection and is now back at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/in-two-days-agra-div-commissioner-loses-both-his-parents-to-covid-19/articleshow/77727118.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 25, 2020||Chennai||At home for months, residents find comfort in Mahabs, Pondy||CHENNAI: It was something Chennaiites took for granted on the weekends. A drive along ECR, having coffee in brass tumblers by the highway, arguing at the ‘toll gate’ outside Mamallapuram, brushing up those golden chapters from history and then spending a night at a hotel for that fish curry after soaking in the red sun that set behind the lighthouse. But that was before the pandemic, when the word normal did not need adjectives — old and new. Then came easing of travel restrictions and Manish Kumar, cocooned in his house for five months, thought he had enough. “I drove down to Mamallapuram town and found that there were no restrictions. A few cafes and restaurants were open near the bus stand. Some shops too were open. No one stopped us from driving around the town,” he said. Kumar said the beach-side terrace restaurants were not open. “But they were cleaning the premises because they are planning to open in the coming days.” Then there are those for whom Puducherry, or Pondy, is a natural getaway. They visit the old town and return with new memories, always. And with the Union territory doing away with e-passes now, many are planning a short trip. Last week, Krishna Kumar sneaked into the town with some friends. WFH fatigue had driven him out of his house. “We were all locked indoors and desperately needed a change of place. We wanted to get away from all the tension surrounding us due to the pandemic,” said Krishna Kumar said. “I just wanted to walk around, grab some good food. Restaurants were allowing dine-in and shops were open in Auroville (which is in TN). That was a good break from Chennai,” he said. With restrictions eased now, residents need not break the law to travel. Those in the business hope that inter-state domestic travel may pick up in the coming days as Karnataka has revoked the e-pass system and quarantine. Many people have begun to drive to Kodaikanal and Ooty. Though an e-pass is needed, it is easier to get as the government is issuing them to everyone. A Chennai resident told TOI that he cited a personal crisis and visited Kodaikanal with his family. Sriharan Balan of Madura Travels said Rajasthan relaxing the rules for its tourist destinations like Udaipur is a fillip because there is a direct flight. “Hotel rates are cheaper than they used to be in the pre-shutdown days and they will pick up visitors from the airport. Driving down or flying to Bengaluru is also an easy option.” An airline official said travel and hotel bookings may have to be allowed next month as NEET exams are scheduled. “Students and parents will need a place to stay if the exam centre is in another city,” he said. But Manish Kumar does not want to visit “another city” any time soon. He will drive to Mamallapuram again, hoping one of those beach-side cafes is open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/at-home-for-months-residents-find-comfort-in-mahabs-pondy/articleshow/77729851.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Goa||Only 38 KTC buses operated on visarjan day||Panaji: The Kadamba Transport Corporation Limited (KTCL) operated only 38 buses on Sunday, on the day of one and a half days Ganesh visarjan, due to poor response from commuters. Attending aartis or visiting loved ones for Ganesh Chaturthi was something that many people seemed to have avoided this year due to the pandemic. “Even otherwise, we have been operating more than 100 buses on Sundays during the pandemic. The drop to 38 buses this year was drastic. We are managing the operations with whatever resources we have,” KTCL managing director Venancio Furtado said. He said that there could be a chance that people may have moved in their personal vehicles. However, on the first day of the festival, KTC operated over 100 buses used by shoppers and devotees, with the crowd coming in as early as 6am onwards. “The pandemic has brought down the number of travellers in public transport owing to which buses are generating lesser income,” he added. Though not many people venture out of their homes on the second day of the festival, KTC keeps its buses operational to ensure connectivity. Only 200-210 buses from the KTC’s fleet of 500-odd buses are currently plying in the state. There are a few buses with the collector at the Covid shelters and the containment zones. As and when there is a demand from the collector, some buses are also deployed at the airport to pick up or drop stranded passengers. With the ministry of home affairs (MHA) orders awaited, interstate transport has only been suspended keeping those buses on standby. The few buses that are plying are with 50% capacity and as per the other standard operating procedures (SOPs) laid out by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/only-38-ktc-buses-operated-on-visarjan-day/articleshow/77730929.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Ludhiana||10 men tried to shoot at me, says Daba man||Times News Network Ludhiana: A 24-year-old man has accused a group of miscreants of firing at him after thrashing him in Daba around 11.30pm on Sunday.Sunny, a resident of Daba, said in his police complaint, “On Sunday afternoon, I had a fight with my friends. It, however, ended in a compromise. Due to a power cut, I went outside my house around 11.30pm. At that time, about 10 men reached there. They thrashed me with blunt weapons and tried to shoot at me.”“As it was dark due to the outage, the bullet missed its mark. On hearing the gunshot, the area residents gathered at the spot. Some youngsters tried to nab the accused. While they caught hold of one, the others fled,” he added.Residents sounded the police and handed over the accused to them. Daba police station SHO inspector Pavittar Singh said, “The complainant has given names of three youngsters of Haibowal and the others are yet to be identified. The nabbed accused has confessed that they came to beat up Sunny, but has denied opening fire at him. Sunny has given a bullet shell to police. We are verifying the matter. The FIR will be lodged after a thorough investigation.”The incident took place a few metres from the Daba police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/10-men-tried-to-shoot-at-me-says-daba-man/articleshow/77728394.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Three UP natives held for sexual abuse of minor girl||KOCHI: Kochi city police arrested three Uttar Pradesh natives for allegedly sexually abusing a 14-year-old girl, multiple times since March 2020. According to police, a gang of six committed aggravated sexual assault against the girl whom they knew, after threatening her. The arrested persons have been identified as Shahid (24) of Hanupura, UP; Farhad Khan (29) of Rampur and Haneef (28) of Rampur. Three other accused went back to their home state during this period. Police are on the look-out for them. Ernakulam assistant commissioner K Laljy led the investigation team. Police said that charges of gang rape, rape and relevant provisions of the Pocso Act has been invoked against the accused. The arrested trio was produced before a magistrate on Monday and was remanded in judicial custody. Five among the accused sexually assaulted the girl at a house at Manjummal multiple times since March. Two among the accused assaulted her at a room at Edapally on July 30. She was again sexually assaulted by two of the accused in a room at Kunnumpuram in August, police said. Eloor police registered an FIR after the relatives of the survivor came to know about the abuse. The investigation team included inspector Manoj, SI Sudarshan Babu and ASIs Salim and Sunil Kumar. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/three-up-natives-held-for-sexual-abuse-of-minor-girl/articleshow/77728404.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Lucknow||New hub: Coronavirus shifts base from west to east Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: The covid-19 virus has clearly shifted its base from western to eastern parts of Uttar Pradesh, if one goes by the case positivity rate or the number of persons found positive among those tested. A crucial tool to measure the extent and activity of pandemic, the CPR of UP remains under the ideal limit of 5%. For the entire month of August, it has dropped to 4% while the current figure is 4.8%. However, a district-wise assessment reveals that seven of 10 districts with highest CPR in the state are in the eastern part. Gorakhpur tops with 13.9, followed by Deoria (11), Maharajganj (9.2), Kushinagar (8.9), Prayagraj (7.8), Varanasi (7.7) and Azamgarh (7.0). The other districts in the top 10 include Lucknow (10.5), Kanpur (13.7) and Sitapur (7.3) which belong to the Central UP. On the contrary, the situation in the previously heavy caseload districts of western UP is more under control. In six districts of Meerut division -- Ghaziabad (4.4), Gautam Budh Nagar (4.1), Meerut (2.7), Hapur (1.5), Bulandshahr (1.3) and Baghpat (0.7) -- the average CPR was found to be 2.4 which way lower than the state and national average. Agra, which faced the covid-19 brunt in the first leg, has also settled down with the CFR of 2.0. Citing WHO documents, experts point out that a CPR of less than 3% and more than 12% spoke about testing inadequacies and called for micro-assessment of the situation. The CPR in the range of 3%-5% was considered as good by health officials. As man as 33 districts of UP belong to this category. In 22 districts, the CPR is above the state average of 4.8% while in 25 districts, it was below 3%. Speaking about state’s CPR, additional chief secretary health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said: “Despite the surge in cases, UP’s CPR has remained in the safe zone. This is mainly because of our strategic push to testing. Also, we are constantly improving our strategy for better control of the situation so that fewer lives are lost.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/new-hub-coronavirus-shifts-base-from-west-to-east-uttar-pradesh/articleshow/77730894.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 25, 2020||Madurai||MKU panel probing answer script malpractice meets||Madurai: The committee inquiring into the alleged malpractices by the Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) distance education centres over answer scripts met on Friday and Monday. MKU vice-chancellor M Krishnan said that the committee would be finalizing and submitting the report soon. Recently, it had come to light that discrepancies were found in answer scripts of the previous semester exams held in February from some of the distance education centres. These centres were allegedly said to have paved way for students to write their exams outside of exam centres and submit their answer scripts. The VC had previously confirmed that 29 answer scripts were found to be with discrepancies. According to sources at MKU, on investigation, more such answer scripts were found with discrepancies. The university is likely to initiate a directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) probe. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-panel-probing-answer-script-malpractice-meets/articleshow/77732198.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Ludhiana||It was a complex number game at city markets||Ludhiana: Utter chaos ruled the city markets on Monday, the first day of the start of even-odd formula for opening of non-essentials’ shops. All shops in some markets remained open for initial few hours and were closed partly after the police swung into action. At some markets, arguments took place among shopkeepers over numbering of their shops. A sea of people turned up at Chaura Bazaar where non-essentials’ shops opened after two days’ off. At some markets, police teams were seen solving the issue of addresses of shops and marking the numbers when shopkeepers failed to resolve the issue mutually. Traders in almost all the markets were of the view that this system has failed and they were demanding that it should be scrapped. They said instead, even-odd system for vehicles should be adopted to curb the movement of people.Gurdeep Singh Gosha, president of Business Bachao Morcha which represents several shopkeepers’ associations of Old City, said, “The day was marred by confusion and shopkeepers of every market faced a lot of harassment. Due to wrong numbering or its absence in some markets, there were disputes among shopkeepers. It was very difficult for us to resolve it as not everyone was cooperative. There were some shops that had three or four shutters and separate numbering was done on all, which irked other shopkeepers as traders with multiple numbers can open their shop every day as one shutter was even and the other odd.”Gosha added, “On the other hand, a record number of people turned up at markets, but the majority had to return as the shops they wanted to visit were either closed or there was a lot of rush. We faced a very tough time in tackling the situation. Entire chain of events exposed the government’s poor planning. On Tuesday, too, the same problems will take place. What formula does the government has to stop the flow of customers into the markets? People do not know which shop will be open. Therefore, the government should reconsider its decision and rather adopt an even-odd system for vehicles.” Kumar Gaurav, from NGO Yuwa who is also a trader, said, “Shopkeepers are the worst affected lot ever since the lockdown began. What is the use of giving permission to the factories to operate when the shops where their products have to be sold are closed? When shops will register no sales, how will the factories function? At Chaura Bazaar, customers, majority of whom were outsiders, came without knowing the shop numbers.”Vijay Kumar, a shopkeeper from Gill Road, said, “There is no use of adopting this even-odd system as there are many markets even inside small streets. First, it has to be decided from which side of the shops the numbering should start. Then there is another problem why a shop should remain closed for four days in continuation like in case of even number shops in the next week when August 31 is Monday and September 1 is Tuesday. So even shops will have to remain off on Saturday (August 29), Sunday (August 30) and next two days as well. This system will serve no purpose and therefore it should be withdrawn. It should be left to market committees to decide how to cut down the number of visitors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/it-was-a-complex-number-game-at-city-markets/articleshow/77728403.cms||Mohit Behl
August 25, 2020||Kochi||A melodious wedding greeting to artist’s son||Kochi: Musician and renowned guitarist Jerson Antony has always dreamt of conducting his son Subin Jerson’s wedding in the presence of all of his friends in the musical world, but the pandemic forced him to settle for a low-profile function with less than 50 members on Sunday. But his friends have made it up for their absence at the wedding by presenting a different gift to the bride and groom — a song exclusively composed for them within 24 hours. The three-minute-long Malayalam melody named Melodious Greetings was written and composed by Antony’s friends who are members of a WhatsApp group named Canticle, which was created to research the history of Christian devotional songs. The final version of the song was launched on YouTube at the time of the wedding. “Subin is a musician too, so we thought of giving a musical gift for the newly-wed Subin and Meenu Rose,” said James Augustine, who coordinated the initiative. The lyrics were written by Fr Vincent Variath and the music director was Johnson Mangazha. Eight vocalists — Abhijith Kollam, Elizabeth Raju, Gagul Joseph, Mithila Michael, Marla Davina, Tansen Berny, Krista Kala and Keerthan Berny — together have sung the song. Other artists are Joel Joseph (programming), Herald (violin), Rajesh Cherthala (flute) and Binu Ninan (guitar). The video was edited by Alen Norbert and the sound designer was Joel Joseph.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/a-melodious-wedding-greeting-to-artists-son/articleshow/77728432.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Chandigarh||43 deaths, 1,516 cases reported in Punjab||Chandigarh: Covid-19 claimed 43 more lives in Punjab while 1,516 more people were tested positive on Monday. The positivity rate was recorded as high as 12.17% in the state, pushing the overall tally to 43,284. The virus has claimed 1,129 lives so far. A total of 11 cases belonging to other states have been removed from the tally. In all, 11 people died of the pandemic in Ludhiana and eight in Mohali. Four people died in Gurdaspur and three each in Patiala, Kapurthala and Mansa. One death each was reported in Nawanshahr, Sangrur, Fazilka and Fatehgarh Sahib. At present 51 people in critical condition are on ventilator, of which 10 were added on Monday, and 414 are on oxygen support. Mohali contributed the highest of 251 cases, followed by Jalandhar which added 184 fresh cases to the state’s tally. In Gurdaspur, 142 people were tested positive, 140 in Patiala, 125 in Bathinda and 108 in Amritsar. Reports of as many as 72 people came positive in Ludhiana, 60 in Muktsar, 48 in Fazilka, 47 in Sangrur, 42 in Ropar, 41 each in Kapurthala and Moga, 39 in Pathankot, 37 in Hoshiarpur, 35 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 27 in Barnala, 21 in Nawanshahr, 19 in Mansa, eight in Tarn Taran and seven in Ferozepur. A total of 1829 people were discharged after recovering from Covid-19, taking the tally of cure patients to 28,357. Of them, 507 were discharged in Ludhiana, 232 in Jalandhar, 294 in Patiala, 22 in Amritsar, 167 in Mohali, 165 in Bathinda, 35 in Gurdaspur, 21 in Ferozepur, 64 in Moga, 11 in Hoshiarpur, 25 in Pathankot, 18 in Barnala, 64 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 41 in Kapurthala, 93 in Faridkot, 18 in Tarn Taran, eight in Fazilka, 17 in Nawanshahr, 25 in Muktsar, and two in Mansa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/43-deaths-1516-cases-reported-in-punjab/articleshow/77730937.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Assembly notifies Punjab Bhawan as extended precinct||Chandigarh: Adhering to safety protocol in view of the pandemic, Punjab assembly speaker Rana KP Singh has decided to notify Punjab Bhawan in Sector 3 of Chandigarh as an extended “Precinct of the House” for the press coverage of the 12th session of 15th Punjab Vidhan Sabha. This decision was taken in a meeting presided over by the speaker, who said Covid-19 test would be compulsory for all the journalists, who will cover the session and a special camp would be held for it. Live streaming of the session would be provided in the hall, where no camera/mobile phone would be allowed. He said MLAs can hold press conferences in open area of Punjab Bhawan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/assembly-notifies-punjab-bhawan-as-extended-precinct/articleshow/77730942.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: Happy with home visarjan, many to make it an annual feature||PANAJI: The immersion of the Ganesh idol is usually a community affair in Goa, carried out at designated spots. But this year, due to the pandemic, many families chose to avoid any risk and carried out the immersion at home. Some even found this practice more intimate and nature-friendly, and said they have now decided to make immersion at home a permanent feature. For years, the Shenvi Priolkar family in Priol has been carrying out the immersion at a ‘talli’ or public pond, where all families from the area would converge to immerse their individual Ganesh idols. This year, however, they decided to purchase a barrel, into which the immersion was carried out. “We have a well at our residence. But we felt immersing the idol may lead to the clay settling down in places that could block the source of water to the well. So we decided to do it in a drum,” said Sanjay Priolkar, a pharma consultant. “We felt this was safer, as there has been Covid spread everywhere. The ‘talli’ we usually use for the visarjan has many villagers coming to it to wash clothes and utensils. So we did not want to risk it.”  The families that carried out the immersion at home will eventually offer the contents of the water and clay to plants in their garden. In Caranzalem, homeopathic physician Rachana Joshi said that her family has decided to permanently carry out the visarjan ritual at home now. “Covid was a reason we felt we should do the immersion at home,” she said. “But we felt we should ultimately think about our water bodies at some point. We prefer to do it this way from now on.” Like many in the capital city, Joshi’s family used to do the visarjan at Panaji’s ferry point. “But even if we were early (7am), there would still be firecrackers and such things. This year, it felt better to have everything homemade, from sweets to flowers from the garden and visarjan in our backyard. We purchased a shallow tub in which the immersion was done.” The Joshi family sources the idol from a traditional craftsman in Bicholim, which ensured it was made of 100% clay. Therefore, she said, it was safe to carry out the immersion at home and then use the contents of the tub for plants. In the case of Sanatkumar Kamat, the idea to immerse the idol at home came from an article he read. “It was meant for families in Mumbai, and mentioned how immersion can be carried out at home.” In years past, the Kamats would immerse their idol at a river bank in Marcel. “We specially purchased a tub and, as suggested by the writer, added perfume and rose petals to the water,” said the retired MPT employee. “The water from the immersion will be used to water our plants. I have decided that every year from now on, we will transfer the clay from the immersion into flower pots and plant a new sapling in it.” In other cases where public immersion was carried out, a conscious decision was taken by the community to avoid crowding. “We usually take the idol to the steps of the Shree Devkikrishna temple, and from there, the entire ward leads a procession to the immersion spot,” said Mithila Lawande from Marcel. “This year, it was decided that the immersion would be carried out by families by taking their individual idols to the immersion spot on their own. Each ward was allotted a time to avoid crowding, and a boatman was hired for the locality to help carry out the visarjan,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/happy-with-home-visarjan-many-to-make-it-an-annual-feature/articleshow/77730946.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
August 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Popular builders: Father-son duo moves HC for pre-arrest bail||Ahmedabad: After a sessions court rejected their pleas, the owner of Popular Builders, Raman Patel and his son Monang approached the Gujarat high court on Monday for anticipatory bail with regard to a complaint filed by Monang’s wife alleging domestic violence, assault and attempt to murder.Last week, the father-son duo was denied pre-arrest bail by a trial court considering the allegations levelled by Monang’s wife Fizu. The prosecution had also insisted that without their custodial interrogation, further investigation would be difficult in this case.On behalf of the accused, it was submitted that Fizu has lodged a false complaint with the aim to extort money from the builder family. She was aided in this by her mother. Those accused also included Monang’s mother and Fizu’s father. The court had granted them anticipatory bail on furnishing bail bond of Rs 20,000.Fizu had lodged an FIR with Vastrapur police against her husband and in-laws alleging that she had been facing domestic violence and cruelty for last eight years. She alleged that on her daughter’s birthday a fortnight ago, she was assaulted by her husband and father-in-law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/popular-builders-father-son-duo-moves-hc-for-pre-arrest-bail/articleshow/77730944.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Unemployed youths to stir on September 2||JAIPUR: With the state government not having issued the advertisement for conducting REET examination yet, the Rajasthan Berozgar Ekikrit Mahasangh - a group of unemployed youths - will hold a demonstration in Jaipur on September 2. This was the tentative date for the exam. Education minister Govind Singh Dotasra on several occasions had said that the state government would conduct REET examination to fill 30,000 vacant posts on September 2, but the advertisement for the same has not been issued yet. “We met the minister about 5-6 days ago. He said that he will do it soon. But, nothing has been done so far,” said Upen Yadav, convenor, Rajasthan Berozgar Ekikrit Mahasangh. He also said at least three-month time should be given to the applicants to submit their applications and prepare themselves for the examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/unemployed-youths-to-stir-on-sep-2/articleshow/77730947.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Amritsar||Badals’ residence turns macro containment zone||Bathinda: With as many as 19 persons deployed at the residence of former Punjab chief minister and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patriarch Parkash Singh Badal at his native village Badal in Muktsar district now testing coronavirus-positive, the premises has been declared a macro containment zone. Earlier, the former CM’s residence had been declared a micro containment zone after eight personnel had tested positive for the virus. According to heath officials, test reports of more staff members are awaited. Those testing positive have been isolated at a hospital. Of the 19 persons testing positive, many are from the security staff, including a Punjab Police SP and CISF personnel. One of the telephone operators and a cook have also tested positive. Five-time chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, 93, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal are staying at the residence currently. After the premises was declared a macro containment zone, the entry of outsiders has been completely restricted. When contacted, Muktsar civil surgeon Dr Harinarain Singh said, “Any place where there are more than 15 Covid cases is declared a macro containment zone. With 11 persons deployed at the residence of Badals testing positive on Monday, a total of 19 persons are Covid-positive now. So, going by the norms, the residence has been declared a macro containment zone with more restrictions.” Owing to his old age, Parkash Singh Badal was already in home isolation and not meeting anyone. Sukhbir Badal and Harsimrat Kaur were regularly meeting people at their residence, but now they have also been asked to remain in isolation and not hold any meetings till the situation normalises, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/badals-residence-turns-macro-containment-zone/articleshow/77730954.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Jaipur||Collector instructs JMC to videograph cleaning of drains||JAIPUR: District collector Antar Singh Nehra, during the weekly review meeting on Monday, instructed the Nagar Nigam officials to do video recording of drain-cleaning work in the city. He also warned the officials of strict action for not clearing the land conversion cases pending with various departments. “The payment for cleaning the drains should not be made without recording video and taking photographs of the conditions of drains before and after cleaning them,” said Nehra. The video and photographs will serve as proof that the drains were cleaned by nagar nigam. He instructed the PHED officials to regularly check the water quality of the tube wells in the colonies around the Dravyavati area and also check the nitrate levels. The district collector directed the nagar nigam officials to inform the district administration about the flood relief equipment and resources available in their flood control centres. Besides, he also directed the corporation to submit the list of 2.5 lakh cement bags used in flood relief work mentioning the places these were used. “We have received complaints of the existence of excess nitrate in tube well water. Hence, the water quality should be regularly checked,” he said. PHED officials said around 700 tube wells were made operational in the city due to insufficient supply of water from Bisalpur last year. “Land conversion cases, sent to various departments from the district administration must be cleared within 15 days. Else, action will be taken against the officer concerned,” he added. He also instructed the officials to ensure drinking water and power supply to Ganesh Nagar and other rain-affected areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/collector-instructs-jmc-to-videograph-cleaning-of-drains/articleshow/77730940.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Staff injured as group fires shots, vandalizes restaurant||Times News Network Ludhiana: When asked to leave a restaurant at its closing time, a group of miscreants attacked its staff members and vandalized the premises in Pohir village on Saturday evening.On Sunday night, the police registered an FIR on the complaint of J-9 Restaurant receptionist Sandeep Singh, 22, a resident of Jodhan village, against Abhijit Singh Mand, of SBS Nagar; Jagat Singh of Dugri Phase II; Kuntal Sachdeva of Baba Nand Singh Nagar; Jarmanjeet Singh, Mudit Sood; Naseeb Bhinder; and an unidentified accomplice, all aged between 19 and 21.Sandeep said, “Around 3pm on Saturday, the group came to the restaurant and sat in a separate section. Hours later, they started abusing each other and creating nuisance. We objected to it and requested them to pipe down as other customers were getting disturbed. Later, we apprised them of the closing time. Around 7pm, we again asked them to leave after bill payment as the closing time was 6.30pm.” At this, they got offended. “Abhijit Singh Mand took out a weapon and fired at me. The bullet missed its mark, but hit Davinder Singh, 50, who has the restaurant’s liquor bar contract, on his shoulder. As our colleagues raised the alarm, Kuntal Sachdeva picked up the stand of foot-operated sanitizer and hit me on my head. And those accompanying them vandalised the restaurant and escaped,” he added.Dehlon police station SHO inspector Sukhdev Singh said, “The injured were rushed to a hospital following which the staff called up the police. We recorded the statements of Davinder, a resident of Samrala’s Shamshpur, and Sandeep on Sunday night. Earlier, they were not fit to give one. A case has been registered under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the IPC, and the Arms Act, the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Disease Act.”Last year, Dugri police had arrested the group in a kidnapping case, the inspector added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/staff-injured-as-group-fires-shots-vandalizes-restaurant/articleshow/77728414.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Agra||124 more test Covid-19 +ve in Bareilly, 33 cases in Agra||Bareilly/Agra: Two persons died while 124 were reported positive for Covid-19 in Bareilly district on Monday. So far, 5,852 people are reported positive in the district. Health department has deployed 88 government ambulances in the district to ensure prompt emergency medical service to the patients. In Shahjahanpur, 53 people were tested positive, taking the district tally to 2,644. In Agra, a clerk and a staff of state government-run power distribution company Dakshinanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited were tested Covid-19 positive on Monday. The two were attached to the office of the chief engineer of the discom. They have been placed under home isolation. At least 33 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in the district on Monday, taking the district tally to 2,552. The patients included were three suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, two of influenza-like illness, two of severe acute respiratory infection, a patient of coronary artery infection and a kidney patient. Also, 37 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Monday. Of the 2,552 cases, 84.7% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 283 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 2,162 people have recovered and been discharged. Besides, people who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/124-more-test-covid-19-ve-in-bareilly-33-cases-in-agra/articleshow/77727129.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Nagpur||Subhash Nagar open well a threat to motorists||Nagpur: An unprotected open well alongside busy Subhash Nagar Road near Jaitala Road in southwest Nagpur has made driving a risky affair. Though no incident has been reported so far, locals hope Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) acts in time to prevent possible tragedies. Despite residents having written to the NMC’s Laxmi Nagar zone, traffic police and Pratap Nagar police, nothing has been done so far. Locals told TOI that the well had been dug up by one Naik family which used to own a huge chunk of land around six to seven decades ago, when the area, which was agricultural then, was deprived of water for irrigation. Today, the well is lying unused following conversion of farmland into a residential area. The worrying factor is that open well by the roadside has no protective wall around it. This puts motorists in possible danger, especially while overtaking. A newly opened Viveka Hospitals too has raised the issue with the concerned authorities and also submitted complaints. “The well is situated in front of the hospital’s gate and poses danger not only to visiting patients, but also to other motorists,” said a hospital staffer. As a social responsibility, the hospital staff has covered the defunct well with tin sheet and also constructed a frame protecting the well towards the road side. TOI spotted a security guard stationed near the well. The hospital has deployed a guard 24x7 to ensure safety of all concerned. The guard told TOI that before the well was covered with tin sheet, people used to throw garbage in it. The hospital has also requested the NMC to provide permanent protection by covering the well with cement slab before any incident takes place. NMC’s superintending engineer Manoj Talewar said the civic body has already entrusted the job to cover the well to a private firm that converted the tar road into cement one. “The firm had been assigned the job in January itself,” he pointed out. To a query over delay, the SE said the firm had already been directed to cover the well soon or action will be initiated. Jayant Khadatkar, owner of the firm, assured TOI that he would start the work within a couple of days. Apart from outstanding payments from the NMC, the contractor also blamed shortage of labourers for the delay in executing the work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/subhash-nagar-open-well-a-threat-to-motorists/articleshow/77730970.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 25, 2020||Lucknow||Devouts flout ban, immerse Ganesha idols in Gomti river||Lucknow: Despite a ban on immersion of Lord Ganesh idols in the Gomti imposed by the state government to check overcrowding in view of the pandemic, some devotees performed immersion at Jhulelal Park on the river banks on Monday. Joint commissioner of police, law and order, Naveen Arora said prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC were issued under which gathering for any purpose including immersion of idols was banned. “However, it has come to our notice that some immersions were performed. We again appeal to the people not to take such a step, which is not only a violation of the orders, but also puts them and others at risk of catching the infection,” he said. The JCP said they will identify people who performed immersion and also police personnel on duty at the place who failed to stop them. In 2013, high court had banned idol immersion in rivers, but enforcement of the order was poor over the past few years primarily due to dearth of alternative arrangements. However, last year, immersion was done in artificial ponds by the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/devouts-flout-ban-immerse-ganesha-idols-in-gomti-river/articleshow/77730922.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Goa||Pandemic gives home chefs the recipe for entrepreneurship||PANAJI: For passionate cooks, there is no better compliment than second helpings and generous praise, and the Covid-19 pandemic has nudged many culinary wizards to try their hand at entrepreneurship. With the diminished appetite for dining out, the demand for takeaway meals is booming. And while restaurants do cater to this demand, a substantial chunk of takeaway food is now being prepared by home cooks. But ironically, for many of them, the decision to cook for others was “just for fun” and not for commercial purposes. Take Jacqueline Fernandes for example. The Merces resident has a full-time job as an administrative coordinator, and has her hands full with a seven-month old infant, a three-year-old child and aging parents. To pass whatever little time she had during the pandemic, she decided to make the bebinca the traditional way. “It was non-intentional,” she said. “I just wanted to do something during the lockdown since everyone was at home.” With families shuttered at home and mothers fed up with cooking, WhatsApp groups and social media platforms are buzzing with menus, take-away options and home chefs sharing their passion for food. With time at hand, the pandemic has prompted many to test the entrepreneurial waters by blending passion and business to whip up a storm. And authentic Goan food has reaped the benefits. Prawn caldinha, pork ribs, godshe, traditional recipes — everything is on offer on social media, and is a call or WhatsApp text away. Maria Lorena Viegas dusted out her mother’s recipes during the pandemic to cook up delicacies for friends and family. Soon, her family urged her to take the entrepreneurial plunge. “Cooking is my passion and I want someone to eat,” said Viegas, who resides at Tonca, Panaji. “Earlier, whenever we used to have parties, I would cook for my family, but now there is no one.” Cheryl Susan Gomes gave up a five-year journey as a restaurateur in 2019 due to health issues, but the pandemic and subsequent lockdown convinced her to indulge her passion again. Aside from traditional Goan dishes, Gomes also prepares traditional masalas. Not content with this, chef Gomes is also helping others start their own ventures. “I feel great when I hear good rave reviews about my food,” Gomes said. “Very few restaurants provide authentic Goan food today.” Noting the rise in home-based take-away joints and entrepreneurs, the Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) has offered to support such entrepreneurs. GCCI recently held a webinar for 81 such persons to assist them with compliances and financing options, said director general of GCCI, R S Kamat. “The next step for us is to sit across with small batches of entrepreneurs, 15-20 and talk about licensing, hygiene and the steps to obtain FSSAI licenses,” said Kamat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pandemic-gives-home-chefs-the-recipe-for-entrepreneurship/articleshow/77730938.cms||Newton Sequeira
August 25, 2020||Kolkata||Activists in Kolkata worried over ‘unplanned’ tree planting||KOLKATA: Tree experts and green activists have voiced their concern over the unplanned manner in which saplings are being planted across the city and have urged Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) to take remedial measures to avoid repeating the mistakes that led to the loss of nearly 15,000 trees during Cyclone Amphan on May 20. In the days following the devastation, green activists had urged the KMC to not hurry into a compensatory plantation drive, but plan it carefully after analyzing the reasons behind the destruction so as to ensure that proper varieties are planted in the right place. KMC had even convened a meeting attended by officials from the parks and squares department and forest department, green experts and NGOs. At the meeting, ideas were exchanged and it was decided that experts would be consulted when plantations are carried out. But that didn’t happen. “We had called for ‘space for a tree’ and ‘tree for a space’. Space for a tree referred to finding the right space to plant a tree of our choice. For instance, if one wants to plant a banyan, one needs a large enough open space without any impediments. On the other hand, tree for a space referred to finding the right tree for a defined space, for example a spot on the pavement where a tree got uprooted in the cyclone,” said Arjan Basu Roy, whose organization Nature Mates has helped restore 260 uprooted trees in the city post Amphan. Bonani Kakkar of green activist group Public, which has been crusading against paving of tree trunks, thoughtless and arbitrary plantation drives and unscientific pruning, said none of the concerns that had been expressed at the meeting appear to have been addressed. “It is disheartening to see that saplings are being planted without thought to the location and future growth. Trees have been planted in the drain on Rawdon Street,” she said. She added that trees had also been planted in a row without considering the space between them and the room for roots to find stability. Such planting will only increase the likelihood of trees being knocked down by storms. “The plantation has also violated the Urban Greening Guidelines, 2014, of the ministry of urban development, which clearly states that a minimum area of 1.2m×1.2m around the trees should be left uncemented for the tree’s healthy growth,” Kakkar said. She has written to KMC commissioner Binor Kumar, drawing his attention to the anomalies in the planting process and urged him to take corrective steps. KMC parks department officials said they were dependent on contractors for the job. “We know there have been lapses for want of supervision. We will rearrange the planting in some places,” said an official. He, however, said leaving a 4ft×4ft space around a tree in a congested urban space like Kolkata may not be possible all the time. “Often, we don’t have this space,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/activists-worried-over-unplanned-tree-planting/articleshow/77729877.cms||Subhro Niyogi
August 25, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Steady rise recorded in domestic flights||JAIPUR: Covid fear is gradually fading away if one looked at rising number of domestic flights to and from Jaipur airport. Though the airport had started operating merely three to four flights per day in May with merely 100 to 300 passengers, it is now operating 22 flights per day carrying more than 4,000 passengers. Two more flights will be added in the schedule from Tuesday. TOI on Monday spoke to various operators and airport authorities to know how the fear among passengers was fading away. “When we started our operations during the last week of May, we had three to four flights with merely 100 to 300 passengers. Now we are operating 18 to 20 flights per day. On Monday, we operated 21 flights with the inclusion of the Jaipur-Chandigarh flight,” said a senior airport officer. When contacted, airport director Jaideep Singh Balhara said, “The kind of SOPs we are following along with what operators are doing have helped passengers to overcome the fear. Many operators are providing masks, sanitizers and PPE kits. From Tuesday we would have two more flights including Jaipur to Mumbai and Jaipur to Kolkata. With this inclusion, we would be operating 24 flights per day.” Anish Jain, a passenger who came to Jaipur from Mumbai and is a frequent traveler said, “I have travelled to Mumbai thrice so far after domestic flights resumed. Everything is properly followed. Be it the maks, hand gloves or sanitizers I keep everything. And while coming out of the flight, I go to the washroom to wash my face and hands.” In May, the airport operated three to four flights per day and was followed by eight to 10 flights per day in June. “We saw improvement from July when Unlock started,” said a senior officer at the airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/steady-rise-recorded-in-domestic-flights/articleshow/77730979.cms||Ashish Mehta
August 25, 2020||India||Sentencing today, no apology, says Prashant Bhushan||NEW DELHI: Ahead of the Supreme Court’s hearing on Tuesday to determine the quantum of sentence after finding Prashant Bhushan guilty of contempt for “false and malicious” tweets, the activist-advocate on Monday again refused to apologise and told the apex court that his “contemptuous” remarks were meant to arrest the court’s drift from its role as protector of people’s rights. Responding to the Supreme Court’s August 20 order giving him time till Tuesday to “submit unconditional apology, if he so desires” before the hearing on sentencing, the activist-advocate said the tweets were expressions of his belief as well as bona fide opinions, which at best could amount to constructive criticism meant to convey to the court not to deviate from its sterling record. "If I retract a statement before this court that I otherwise believe to be true or offer an insincere apology, that in my eyes would amount to contempt of my conscience and of an institution that I hold in highest esteem,” Prashant Bhushan said, living up to his August 20 promise to the Supreme Court that there would be no substantial change in the tone, tenor and content of his unapologetic statement made that day. In a 435-word statement filed through advocate Kamini Jaiswal, he said, “Today, in these troubling times, the hopes of the people of India vest in this court to ensure the rule of law and the Constitution and not an untrammelled rule of the executive. This casts a duty, especially for an officer of this court like myself, to speak up when I believe there is a deviation from its sterling record. “Therefore, I expressed myself in good faith, not to malign the Supreme Court or any particular chief justice but to offer constructive criticism so that the court can arrest any drift away from its long-standing role as a guardian of the Constitution and custodian of peoples’ rights.” He even faulted the bench of Justices Arun Mishra, BR Gavai and Krishna Murari for failing to factually record what he told the court on August 20. “It is with deep regret that I read this court’s August 20 order. At the hearing, the court asked me to take 2-3 days to reconsider the statement I made in the court. However, the order states: ‘We have given time to the contemnor to submit an unconditional apology, if he so desires’.” He said he had never flinched in offering an apology for his mistakes and wrongdoings. “It has been a privilege for me to have served this institution and bring several important public interest causes before it. I live with the realisation that I have received from this institution much more than I have had the opportunity to give it,” he said. Recording his utmost regard for the SC, Bhushan said, “I believe that the SC is the last bastion of hope for the protection of fundamental rights, the watchdog institutions and indeed for constitutional democracy itself. My tweets represented this bona fide belief that I continue to hold. Public expression of these beliefs was, I believe, in line with my higher obligations as a citizen and a loyal officer of this court.” Watch 2 tweets against judiciary: Activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan refuses to apologise in SC||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sentence-today-no-apology-says-prashant-bhushan/articleshow/77732200.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Coronavirus tests to be ramped up, daily target set for health workers||Hyderabad: In a bid to increase the number of Covid-19 tests per day, district collectors are now fixing targets for the field staff including the auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs). If the daily target set for the testing centres is not met then the staff would have to give the reasons for non-compliance. A minimum target of 500 tests per day has been set for each district. Finding it difficult to meet this demand, the health workers are gearing up to submit representations to the higher officials. They say that it is very difficult to meet the target as they have to perform the regular duties at these health centres. As per the instructions, a primary health care centre (PHC) should complete at least 50 antigen rapid tests. Earlier, they had to do only 20 tests. The instructions, a copy of which is with TOI, say, “It’s a must, there should be no excuses. If less than 50, they would have to explain the reasons for non-compliance.” The daily target for community health centres (CHCs) is 150, for area hospitals in the districts it is 150, and for the staff of district medical and health officer (DMHO) it 200. In all 500 tests have to be done in a district. The results and other details of these tests have to be uploaded in the mobile application developed by the health department and not in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) or the state portal. The field staff is complaining that it would require a herculean effort to meet the target. “The ANMs will have to perform anti-natal care routine for two days a week apart from immunization on other days. They also stand the risk of contracting the virus. The government should recruit more staff for this purpose,” said Karnati Sai Reddy, president, Telangana medical and public health employees union.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/coronavirus-tests-to-be-ramped-up-daily-target-set-for-health-workers/articleshow/77729930.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 25, 2020||Nagpur||2 dead, 47 new patients found in Chanda||Chandrapur: District registered two deaths raising the toll to 17, and the spike of 47 cases took the Covid-19 total to 1495 on Monday. The day also witnessed the discharge of 45 patients during the day helping the number of cured patients to climb up to 998. This has left 481 active cases under treatment in the district. Health authorities informed that a 53-year-old Covid patient from WCL colony in Bhadrawati died on Sunday evening. He was admitted to Covid Hospital here on Sunday afternoon and he succumbed to the coronaviurs infection the same evening. One other 65-year-old patient from Jatpura locality of city also died of Covid-19 on Monday. Both the deceased were also suffering from pneumonia.This is first time when more than one death has been registered in district during the day. Majority of newfound patients during the day came from Chandrapur. They include 29 from Chandrapur city, eight from Mul, five from Bhadrawati, three from Gondpipri and two from Bramhapuri tehsils.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-dead-47-new-patients-found-in-chanda/articleshow/77731016.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Himachal adds 99 new cases, 123 recover||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh on Monday reported 99 fresh cases of Covid-19, while as many as 123 patients recovered. Now, the state’s tally of positive cases stands at 5,101, out of which 1,436 are active cases, 3,584 have recovered and 27 patients died, while 52 migrated out of Himachal. Of the fresh cases, maximum 30 were reported in Sirmaur district, followed by 15 cases each in Solan and Kangra, 12 in Una, eight in Chamba, six in Bilaspur, four in Mandi, three each in Hamirpur and Kinnaur, two in Shimla and one person tested positive in Kullu district. Among the recoveries, 31 were reported cured in Kullu district, 21 in Kangra, 14 each in in Una and Mandi, 13 in Sirmaur, nine in Bilaspur district, eight in Hamirpur, six in Solan, five in Chamba, four in Kinnaur, three in Shimla and one in Lahaul-Spiti district. So far, Bilaspur district has seen 269 positive cases, of which 112 are active cases. Of Chamba’s total 361 cases, 101 are active cases, while three died. Hamirpur has registered 468 patients, of whom 70 are under treatment, while four succumbed. Kangra has seen 701 cases, of which 131 are active cases, while five died. Total 76 cases surfaced in Kinnaur, of which 22 are active cases. Kullu saw 255 cases, of which 86 are active cases. Lahaul-Spiti has seen seven positive cases, of which two are active cases. Out of Mandi’s total of 390 cases, 123 are active cases and seven died. Shimla registered 270 cases, of which 59 are active and two died. Sirmaur has seen 649 cases, of which 172 are active cases, while one died. Total 1,273 cases surfaced in Solan, of which 471 are active cases, while five died. Una district has witnessed 382 cases, of which 87 are active cases. Total 195,581 persons had been tested till Monday, of whom 190,387 persons tested negative, while the results of 93 samples were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/himachal-adds-99-new-cases-123-recover/articleshow/77730988.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow civic body eyes clean sweep next year after Swachh Survey feat||LUCKNOW: Bouyed by the success in all-India Swachh Survey (SBS) 2020 in which Lucknow bagged 12th rank to emerge as the “fastest mover state capital”, the Lucknow Municipal Corporation has decided to invest heavily in garbage collection and cleaning to improve ‘citizen satisfaction level’ and help the city improve its ranking in 2021. LMC has decided to spend Rs 51 crore on the purchase of 70 mini-trucks, three big trucks and three mechanised street sweeping machines. Mini-trucks will be deployed for door-to-door garbage collection while big trucks will be used for shifting garbage from roadside and transfer stations to solid waste treatment plant. Each mini-truck will cover 1,000 houses daily, which means 70,000 households will be covered under door-to-door collection. Together, these trucks will have the capacity of lifting 3 metric tonne of garbage. Three mechanised street sweeping machines will clean about 100km of road network daily. The city generates about 1,600 metric tonne garbage daily, of which 1,200 MT is from 5.6 lakh households. Currently, only 50% houses are covered under door-to-door garbage collection. “Money will be taken from Swachh Bharat Mission funds to purchase the machinery,” said municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi. Speaking about out his plans for the city, Dwivedi said garbage collection was LMC’s weakest area due to which it scored low on the parameter of ‘citizen feedback’. “By addressing people’s problems, we plan to increase their satisfaction level, which will improve citizen feedback and help us score better in this category next year,” he added. In this year’s survey, Lucknow scored 1029 points out of 1500 (68.6%) in citizen feedback. Dwivedi also asked Ecogreen Energy, the company hired for door-to-door garbage collection, to increase its capacity to cover 100% households in the city by September-end. 2nd electric crematorium from Sep: The second electric crematorium of the city will start functioning from September. Constructed at Gulala Ghat at a cost of Rs 3 crore, the facility was to begin in April, but got delayed due to financial issues. “Work has started again and is expected to be completed in a month,” said chief engineer, rubbish removal department, RN Tripathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmc-eyes-clean-sweep-next-yr-after-swachh-survey-feat/articleshow/77731013.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
August 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid recovery rate slips in UT, Haryana, Punjab||Jind: The Union Territory of Chandigarh saw a decline in the rate of recovery of Covid-19 patients during July 12-August 23 period, whereas it showed a rising trend in the National Capital Territory (NCT) of Delhi in the same duration, suggests a data of the health department of Haryana. According to the data, Haryana for the first time saw a decline in recoveries in August 16-23 week, Punjab reported a similar trend during the 42-day period, Rajasthan reported decline in three weeks from July 12 to August 2 and rise in the last three weeks, and similar was the case with Himachal Pradesh. In Uttar Pradesh, the recovery rate has been increasing for the last four weeks. During the July 12-19 week, the recovery rate in Chandigarh was 69.3%, which decreased to 65.1% the next week ending on July 26, followed by 63.3% till August 2, 61.2% till August 9 and 55.6% till August 16, which went down to 53% by August 23. Delhi recorded 83.3% recovery rate in first week, which rose to 87.3% in second week and to 89.3% in third, followed by 89.8% in fourth week and after a meagre decline to 89.7% in fifth week, it again went up to 90.1% in the week ending August 23. In Punjab, it was 65.9 % in the first week, which decreased to 65.4% in second, followed by 64.9% in third and fourth weeks, and 62.8% in fifth and 59.8% in the last week. It was 74.2% in Rajasthan in the first week, which slipped to 71.7% in second and 70.3% in third, but increased to 72.4% in fourth week followed by 75.4% in fifth week and 78.2% in the week closing on August 23. In Himachal, the recovery there was 71.1% in the first week, which decreased to 57.2% in second, 57% in third and rose to 63.8% in fourth week, followed by 65.9% in fifth and 68.3% in the last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-recovery-rate-slips-in-ut-haryana-punjab/articleshow/77731022.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Chennai||Homestays open, but with caution||CHENNAI: Kavitha Srikanth, owner of Villa Sree homestay in Puducherry, is thrilled that she got her first guest after five months. “Now that the government has withdrawn the need for an e-pass for inter and intrastate travels, I am hoping that we will receive more guests in the coming days,” she said. Several homestays, boutique hotels and lodges in Puducherry opened their doors a few weeks ago. “It is the first time our campus is empty. It was always filled with people before the lockdown, especially during the weekends,” said Louie Billot, owner of La Closerie. “But today when two of our rooms get occupied, I’m happy,” he said. Homestay and hotel owners have limited the numbers of guests they allow on their premises. “We don’t take large groups. We have limited it to four and we insist that they are screened, maintain social distancing and follow all the safety norms,” he said. Kavitha said over the past one week, she’s been getting inquiries from youngsters who want to have a staycation in groups of 10 and more. “We have denied them all. Apart from the safety reasons, the staff is also scared and so are people in the neighbourhood. They get very anxious when they see large groups,” she said. A few have reduced their prices by 30% and more to get guests. “Our normal rate is `2,300 per night, we brought it down to `1,700, but even then we are not getting customers and it’s become a task to maintain and pay the staff,” said Deva Kumar, owner of Comfort Home Stay. A few small establishments in Mamallapuram are allowing guests who they are familiar with to stay for a night or a few days. In Chennai, a few five-star hotels have started to accept bookings unofficially. Some are also allowing staycation to give bored residents a different experience.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/homestays-open-but-with-caution/articleshow/77729928.cms||Aditi R
August 25, 2020||Kolkata||‘Family gang’ strikes at S Kol homes, two women held||Kolkata: Two women, who used to move along with a 10-year-old boy and two toddlers, were arrested by Garfa police for stealing laptops and mobiles from different houses in Garfa, Selimpur and Jadavpur. Cops said the accused, Tumpa Das and Lali Das, had two different modus operandi — they posed as the needy worst-hit by Cyclone Amphan and the pandemic, and knocked on the doors of various houses, seeking some help from the residents. While the women and toddlers kept the victims busy in a conversation, the 10-year-old stole various electronic gadgets. The second modus operandi was that the accused targeted and robbed the locked houses in southern parts of the city. “Both the accused are from Kharagpur but they live near Ballygunge station. Every morning, the children used by them for robbery would target the victims. As both the women carried babies, the victims did not suspect them as thieves. There was a major break-in at a Garfa residence a couple of days ago. We caught the accused with the help of the CCTV footage,” said a police officer. The accused had also carried out another theft on Saturday. The DC (SSD) Biswajit Ghosh said they had recovered one laptop, one tab, three costly mobiles, each priced at over Rs 30,000, one wallet with cash, a driving licence and three ATM cards from the accused. Cops said the accused had been part of the Banjara gang posing as pregnant women and roaming around the city barefooted with small children. The gang was busted in Patuli in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/family-gang-strikes-at-s-kol-homes-two-women-held/articleshow/77729951.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 25, 2020||Mumbai||Crime branch, MIDC cops get detection and recovery awards||Mumbai: City crime branch and MIDC police station, which cracked an international illegal telephone exchange racket and biggest heist of a jewellery unit worth Rs 7 crore, won best detection and recovery awards recently. The best detection award of April 2020 was won by MIDC police which cracked a house-breaking case and arrested seven persons, including constable Santosh Rathod, who aided and abetted the gang. On May 22, during lockdown, the owner of a gold jewellery unit in MIDC in Andheri complained that his workshop was broken into from the rooftop and gold jewellery, diamonds and other valuables worth more than Rs 7 crore was looted. “Police nabbed Vipul Chambariya, owner of a foundation, into distribution of food packets to the poor during lockdown. Chambariya spilled the beans on stock-broker Diman Chauhan, who was known to the complainant, and who had tipped off the gang about the topography of the place,” an officer said. “MIDC police arrested eight gang members and recovered jewellery worth Rs 6.5 crore from the gang. Our team won best detection and recovery award,’’ said the officer. Crime branch (unit VI) received best detection award of May for busting an international illegal telephone exchange in Govandi, which had links with a Chinese company. The tip-off came from military intelligence in Jammu & Kashmir, which found suspicious VOIP calls to Poonch-Rajouri in Kashmir and Leh (Ladakh). Crime branch raided the godown in Govandi and arrested Sameer Alwari. They seized SIM boxes, 223 SIM cards,10 mobile phones, a laptop and two routers from Alwari. The exchanges used to skip VSNL gateway and international calls would end up as a local call, causing a huge loss to the exchequer. “Though the tip-off had come from Indian Army, our unit 6 team headed by Deepak Chavan had worked hard on and arrested Alwari, who ran the exchange with the help of a Chinese company, is being interrogated for espionage,’’ said Akbar Pathan, deputy commissioner of police (detection-1). Police said every month awards are decided by a panel of senior officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/crime-branch-midc-cops-get-detection-and-recovery-awards/articleshow/77730108.cms||Ahmed Ali
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops nab Covid +ve prisoner who fled OGH||Hyderabad: An undertrial prisoner who was admitted in Osmania General Hospital since he was showing Covid symptoms escaped from the hospital. Police immediately nabbed him from a nursing home at Ibrahimpatnam on Monday. Afzalgunj police said that M Vamshidhar Reddy was in judicial remand after he was arrested for committing burglary in Alwal. When he was in prison, he had Covid symptoms. So, the prison authorities shifted him to OGH two days ago by giving him police escort. Officials said that when he was in OGH, he gave his sample for Covid-19 test and the result was awaited. When everyone was asleep, Vamshidhar jumped to the ground and escaped from the hospital premises. The incident took place at 4 am on Monday. Later when the escort police noticed that Vamshidhar went missing, they started to search for him. As he was untraceable, they lodged a complaint in Afzalgunj police station. Police contacted the accused’s family members and his friends. Based on the information shared by his family members that he came in contact with them and that he later visited a nursing home at Ibrahimpatnam, police nabbed him at the nursing home.  The accused went to the nursing home since he suffered hairline fracture, after he jumped from the second floor at Osmania General Hospital. Meanwhile, his test reports confirmed that he was suffering from coronavirus. After registering another case, police shifted him to Gandhi Hospital to treat him for Covid-19. The accused went to the nursing home since he suffered hairline fracture, after he jumped from the second floor at Osmania General Hospital||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-nab-covid-ve-prisoner-who-fled-ogh/articleshow/77729953.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Nashik||Gangapur starts discharge as dam storage crosses 94%||Nashik: With the water level in Gangapur dam going above 94%, the water resources department (WRD) on Sunday started discharge at 520 cusec at 1pm. “This is the first time that water from Gangapur dam is being released this monsoon. The discharge has been delayed this year because of lower rainfall in the catchment areas in Trimbakeshwar taluka,” a WRD official said. “Now that the dam is filled over 94%, the water had to be discharged given the safety protocol and reserve operations plan that will help accommodate more water due to rains in the next few days,” the WRD said. Other than Gangapur dam, Kashyap dam and Gautami Godavari are currently showing live storage of 54% and 64% respectively. These three dams constitute Gangapur dam complex that provides drinking water to the NMC and various other local self-governing bodies other than for agriculture. The water from Kashyapi and Gautami-Godavari dams flow in through two separate channels into the Gangapur Dam. “We would have not released water from the dam if the live storage was not above 94%,” the official said. He said that with sufficient water in the complex the need for immediate water cut in Nashik city or for other non-agricultural purpose usage has been put off. “There is no immediate requirement for water cuts. But water cuts in the future cannot be ruled out if the storage does not cross 95% live storage by October 31,” he added. The district this year has only seven dams that are overflowing in comparison with 11 dams that were overflowing last year during the same period. The 23 major and minor dams across the district have 46,253 million cubic feet (mcft) of water or 70% of the storage which is lower than 59,252 (90%) mcft of water available at the same time last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/gangapur-starts-discharge-as-dam-storage-crosses-94/articleshow/77708138.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 25, 2020||Nagpur||Three die due to Covid||Wardha: Three coronavirus patients died in the district, including a 64-year-old and a 57-year-old, both men from Arvi and an 80-year-old man from Pulgaon, while 39 new patients were registered and 37 got discharged on Monday. Total 212 reports were received and 39 of them tested positive from Wardha (18), Hinganghat (12), Selu (3), Karanja (2), Deoli (2) and one each from Arvi and Samudrapur. The cases in the district reached 665 and active positive are 217. Total recoveries are 432.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/three-die-due-to-covid/articleshow/77731029.cms||Balwant Dhage
August 25, 2020||Nagpur||PSI leads tribals in desilting nullah to clear flood waters over bridge||Nagpur: Around 60 tribals of Zinganoor village in Sironcha taluka of south Gadchiroli, led by a police sub-inspector, desilted the choked Koretogu nullah to divert flood waters through pipes below the bridge. This opened the bridge for traffic, after remaining submerged for over a week, allowing the civic administration to reach over a dozen villages. The villages, which have many senior citizens, pregnant women and children, also could not organize their weekly markets for a fortnight, leaving them without bare necessities too. Accessing medical care and help in emergencies too was a challenge with the flood water flowing dangerously over the Koretogu bridge. The tribals ensured security of police sub-inspector (PSI) Yuvraj Ghodke of Zinganoor police station, who supervised the work without his force for protection in the deep Maoist heartland, where rebels are known to attack solitary cops and consider killing officers as a major triumph. During the six-hour work schedule, the villagers also restored a temporary road between Sironcha and Zinganoor, around 2km away from Koretogu nullah. This road too had been swept away in last week’s flood. The state transport bus is also likely to start operating now. PSI Ghodke, who risked his life to lead the villagers in the desilting works in the forested stretch, around 12km away from his police station, said he appealed to villagers to join hands after being moved by their plight. “Every year, the bridge gets submerged and several villages remain disconnected for days, without essential and emergency services,” said the PSI, who is posted in the highly sensitive police station with his batchmate PSI Vishal Bodkhe. “Tehsildar Ramesh Jaswant had visited the nullah on our request to assess the situation and plan a strategy to restore connectivity. His suggestion was to desilt the nullah and clear the sand-filled pipes to enable the flood water to flow away,” he said. “I approached Zinganoor village for help, and they were happy to help. We contributed by hiring JCB machine and paid for it’s fuel. As I too wanted to remain at the site to oversee the work, the villagers encouraged me to come along, assuring to fight the Maoists if they came to get me,” said Ghodke, who had also built a makeshift hospital around a year ago at Zinganoor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/psi-leads-tribals-in-desilting-nullah-to-clear-flood-waters-over-bridge/articleshow/77731030.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 25, 2020||Kolkata||Majerhat bridge awaits change in bearing design||Kolkata: Eastern Railway (ER) and the state public works department (PWD), the agency implementing the Majerhat bridge reconstruction project, are trying to resolve the issues related to the design and drawing of bearings for the bridge. Construction of the rail overbridge (ROB) has stopped last Saturday because of a pending clearance for installing the bearings in the girder. A span of the ROB that comes under the ER’s ambit had collapsed on September 4, 2018. The new 650m bridge that is being built since January 2019 needs the zonal railway’s clearance at various stages. On Monday, a video conference was held on the issue. “Another virtual meeting through video conference will be held on Tuesday to resolve three pending issues pertaining to the design and drawing of bearings,” said Nikhil K Chakraborty, chief public relations officer (CRPO), Eastern Railway. A state official said, “ER engineers may visit the site this week and give us the pending permission.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/majerhat-bridge-awaits-change-in-bearing-design/articleshow/77729977.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
August 25, 2020||Lucknow||Digital museum for Awadhi culture||Lucknow: Want to explore the bylanes of traditional Awadhi folk tunes? Or listen to talks about Lucknow’s undiscovered history and heritage ? Or, would you want to be part of cookery workshops where you learn home recipes from Awadhi kitchens with stories? If yes, then Lucknow Bioscope is your place to visit. A first of its kind digital museum of culture, the initiative is a step by Sanatkada through lectures, virtual exhibitions, workshops, readings on the traditions of Awadh’s art and crafts, history, and guided tours on virtual social media platforms. The museum houses three digital segments —‘Naayaab Nageene’, a series of lively evenings comprising lectures, stories and poetry about Lucknow by its people, ‘Rawaiyati Vyanjan’, where home chefs take over web conferencing to teach participants family recipes and ‘Mehfil-e-Tarannum’, with renditions of Awadhi folk tunes, semi-classical compositions, and ghazals. “With every one indoors, we thought an initiative like this will be an excellent opportunity to connect and reach a wider audience online. The digital museum aims to tell a story of Lucknow grounded in both the extraordinary and every day, past and present, highlighting its communities, art and cuisine,” said Madhavi Kuckreja of Sanatkada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/digital-museum-for-awadhi-culture/articleshow/77731026.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Lungs airlifted from Kolkata for transplant in Hyd hosp||Hyderabad: For the second time in 10 days, lungs from a brain-dead patient were airlifted from Kolkata and brought to the city. Coordinated by Telangana State’s Jeevandan foundation and the regional organ and tissue transplant organisation (ROTTO), green corridors were arranged in both cities to airlift lungs from a patient in Kolkata to be transplanted to a patient (from Chandigarh) undergoing treatment at a city hospital.  “While organ donation programmes have come down across the country since the beginning of the pandemic, we are trying to contact the families whenever and wherever there is a possibility. Last time too we got the lungs. Since there are very few takers of lungs, they were utilised locally,” said Dr. Swarnalatha, in charge of Jeevandana foundation, Telangana. She added that organ donation is likely to pick up in the coming months. While the donor lungs brought on Monday were from a young brain dead donor, the recipient is an individual suffering from end-stage lung disease and is dependent on oxygen. In both instances of the organs flown in and the lung recipients were at the KIMS Heart and Lung Transplant Institute, Hyderabad.  “The donor was certified brain dead at the Institute of Neurosciences Kolkata (INK) on Saturday, following which the relatives collectively made a decision to contribute for this noble cause. This is the second consecutive double lung transplant at our institute,” said Dr. Sreenivas, consultant pulmonologist, KIMS Heart And Lung Transplant institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lungs-airlifted-from-kolkata-for-transplant-in-hyd-hosp/articleshow/77729990.cms||Amrita Didyala
August 25, 2020||Mumbai||U-turn in air: Most bookings now from small towns to cities||MUMBAI: In the initial weeks after domestic air travel resumed on May 25, flights that departed from Delhi and Mumbai to cities in the north were in high demand as passengers fled metros. Three months later, the domestic travel pattern has reversed. In August, most domestic bookings were for flights from cities like Patna and Varanasi to Delhi and Mumbai, data shared by online travel companies showed. Most Indians are still booking one-way tickets. In the last three months, percentage of return bookings has been on a slow but steady climb. “Pre-Covid, about 25% bookings were for round trips,’’ said MakeMyTrip (MMT). Data shared by MMT and Cleartrip showed the percentage of round trips during the pandemic went up from 1% in May to 6% in August. Pre-Covid, top domestic routes were between metros, but the pandemic brought non-metros to the fore. “Metro-to-metro travel remains muted since resumption of flights,’’ said Balu Ramachandran of Cleartrip. The only difference in travel patterns in the past three months has been that earlier people fled metros but now were rushing to metros. “In June, top high demand flights were Delhi to Patna, followed by Mumbai to Varanasi and Bengaluru to Kolkata. In August, it is Varanasi to Mumbai, followed by Patna to Delhi and Kolkata to Mumbai,’’ he said. MakeMyTrip data corroborated that trend. Their top domestic city-pairs in August are Mumbai-Delhi followed by Varanasi-Mumbai and Patna-Delhi. While in June, it was Delhi-Patna followed by Mumbai-Varanasi and Bengaluru-Kolkata. Ixigo data showed the same pattern: The top domestic route in June was Delhi to Patna, but in August it is Patna to Delhi. The big question is volumes. Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation said domestic passenger traffic was 137 million in FY20. But projected domestic passenger traffic for FY21 is less than half, at 40-50 million, and for FY22 90-100 million. Airlines operate only a third of their capacity, but passenger loads have been poor. But numbers are picking up. “Compared to the week of May 25, there was a 40-50% increase in the last two weeks (week of August 3 and week of August 10). The aggregate volumes are around 25% of pre Covid volumes,’’ said Ramachandran. “Customers are mostly travelling for emergencies. They are concerned about safe travel and flexibility in travel plans,’’ he added. Ixigo said, “Travellers from tier 2 and 3 cities are now the driving force behind upsurge in demand for air travel. We are nearing 25% recovery on domestic market front.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/u-turn-in-air-most-bookings-now-from-small-towns-to-cities/articleshow/77730104.cms||Manju V
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||108 new defence systems to get push under DRDO’s Atmanirbhar initiative||Hyderabad: The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Monday said it would design, develop and manufacture several defence-related equipment and systems as part of Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative. In a list submitted to defence minister Rajnath Singh in Delhi, senior officials of the DRDO said anti-terrorist vehicles, missile canisters, armoured engineering reconnaissance vehicles, heavy recovery vehicles, satellite navigation receivers and potentiometer for aircraft applications were among 108 systems and sub-systems that would be designed and manufactured.  Officials met Rajnath and gave him a list with timelines of manufacturing. In the next six years or so, the domestic defence industry can hope to get contracts worth Rs 4 lakh crore thanks to the indigenisation move, sources said. “DRDO will provide support to industries in this development process. This initiative will pave the way for Indian defence industry to develop several technologies towards building Atmanirbhar Bharat,” the minister said and lauded DRDO for its endeavours.  DRDO officials said the requirements of R&D establishments, armed forces and other security agencies would be met along with production orders from the industry. “This will allow DRDO to focus on design and development of critical and advanced technologies and systems,” the officials said. The present industry base for DRDO consists of 1,800 MSMEs along with defence PSUs, ordnance factories and large-scale industries. DRDO has already launched major initiatives through various policies to involve Indian industry as development-cum-production partners offering its technology to industry at a nominal cost and providing a free access to its patents. On August 8, Rajnath had announced that the defence ministry would embargo 101 defence items in a bid to give boost for indigenous production of defence products. This was in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/108-new-defence-systems-to-get-push-under-drdos-atmanirbhar-initiative/articleshow/77730021.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Rockfall due to vertical slicing of boulders: Expert||HYDERABAD: Recent rains have resulted in chunks of rocks rolling on to the roads in the western corridor, leaving motorists worried about their safety. In the most recent instance on Sunday, several chunks of rocks fell near Biodiversity Park, Knowledge City and the Outer Ring Road. Earlier this month too, a large rock formation broke into two at Jubilee Hills because of the use of heavy machinery in the area. Experts said the indiscriminate blasting of rocks for construction of roads and buildings has led to several such episodes in the recent past. They say ‘slope stabilisation’ is a necessary precaution. Geologist Subba Rao said: “The assumption made with hard rocks is that there will not be any landslides, which is misguided. Officials must never cut rocks vertically. They must be sloping. Added to this, any greening, even minimal shrubs or grass, can prevent rocks from slipping.” Great Hyderabad Adventure Club founder Diyanat Ali, who has been involved in the movement to protect rocks, said, “When rock formations are cut through and edges left exposed, such incidents can occur.” Speaking about how the water accelerates rock damage, he said, “With rain, the sand between the rocks loosens allowing them to break off. When authorities are blasting rocks to create a road, they must also put up metal barricades or a mesh to protect motorists.” “It was not just one rock, a series of rocks could be seen on the road across the stretch around Knowledge City. For someone like me, who travels on a bike, these can prove dangerous,” Chandrakanth, an IT employee, said. Ritwik Reddy, who also frequents the area, said: “It’s most likely because rock formations have been cut through randomly without any thought about how the rocks are placed. It probably seemed stable at the time, but the rain must have accelerated the weathering process.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rockfall-due-to-vertical-slicing-of-boulders-expert/articleshow/77730027.cms||Uttara Varma
August 25, 2020||Nagpur||Police find ‘Rhea’ connection in honeytrap gang, three arrested||Nagpur: After the name Rhea became a nationwide issue of debate following the suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, city police seems to have had a brush with the same first name of one of the masterminds of a city honeytrap gang, that had robbed a pharmaceutical company executive of Rs93,000 on August 21. Rhea Rahangdale, who is still on the run, is learnt to have lured victim Sanjaykumar Arya to walk into the trap, posing as one Priya. Police are also searching for her accomplice, Rajat Thakur, alias Ajju Bhai, who is considered as the other role player. Rahangdale and Thakur had also robbed the son of a former assistant commissioner of police, following a similar modus operandi. An offence was registered regarding the matter at Sonegaon police station in the past. MIDC police, under senior inspector Hemant Kharabe, supervised by Zonal DCP Vivek Masaal, have so far taken three persons into custody for being part of the honey-trapper gang. Sumeet Parihar, Gunnu Mondal and Tushar Jagtap were the ones arrested. It’s learnt Parihar is an engineering student who paid his college fees with the amount robbed by him. Arya was robbed and thrashed at the residence of Jagtap, where the honeytrap was laid. Arya is learnt to have got introduced to Priya at a salon at Pardi a few months ago. Priya gained Arya’s confidence by seeking help from him to get a job at a hospital or medical shop. She invited Arya to her place to show the purported condition of hardship of her family at Rajgriha Nagar in MIDC. As Arya reached the place, he met Priya but she walked out of the room soon. Another woman, identified as Puja, had walked into the room. After some time, Thakur and three others barged into the room. Thakur thrashed Arya and started demanding Rs8 lakhs to settle the matter, threatening to approach the police for misbehaving with his sister otherwise. After snatching Rs3,000, he wrenched his ATM card and took out Rs90,000 from his account. He also made Arya call up a friend to pay Rs50,000 to a woman, who later turned out to be Rahangdale, stating that she required the amount urgently to settle an accident case. Arya’s friend reached the place and started questioning Rahangdale. Sensing trouble, she left the place without taking the cash from Arya’s friend. After the complaint was lodged, police picked up Mondal first, who had posed as one Bandu. He was rounded up on the basis of the registration number of a two-wheeler used by him. The registration number was caught on a CCTV camera. He had spilt the beans, leading to the other arrests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/police-find-rhea-connection-in-honeytrap-gang-three-arrested/articleshow/77731090.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 25, 2020||Thane||Want to buck global trend of second surge, says Uddhav Thackeray||THANE: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday iterated that Maharashtra, including the state’s economy hubs in Thane and Mumbai, were unlikely to rush into relaxing lockdown fearing a second surge in cases, as witnessed globally. Thackeray was addressing the media after a review of corporations in Thane district. He directed administrations here to stay prepared with adequate facilities in the eventuality of a spike in cases. “There is a global trend of a second surge in cases after the first hits a plateau. Thane has controlled the virus outbreak well and the recovery rate has shot up to 90%, but we need to be alert. We will not allow operations of any facility in a hurry and then force it shut. Maharashtra will take its time to fully reopen,” he said. He issued directions to the administration to keep track of recovered patients for a month and iterated how infection symptoms were frequently changing, stressing the need for remaining alert about asymptomatic patients too. “We need more facilities and oxygen beds than ventilators. Corporations must set up more facilities as a preventive measure,” he said while remotely flagging off 1,100 bed Covid facilities at Kalwa. Taskforce members led by Dr Santosh Kadam, president of Indian Medical Association (Thane chapter) requested Thackeray to allow admission and use of remdesivir for few patients who show symptoms but have tested negative. “ICMR guidelines need to be followed, but it is very important to take note of local experiences,” Thackeray told doctors. There were 125 new cases in Thane city on Monday, taking the tally to 24,584, with five more deaths, taking the toll to 792. The city has a recovery rate of 90%, with 22,004 recovering and only 1,788 active cases here; 1,47,912 samples were sent for testing and their reports wcre received till Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/want-to-buck-global-trend-of-second-surge-says-uddhav/articleshow/77735089.cms||Manoj Badgeri
August 25, 2020||Mumbai||Want to buck global trend of second surge, says Uddhav Thackeray||THANE: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday iterated that Maharashtra, including the state’s economy hubs in Thane and Mumbai, were unlikely to rush into relaxing lockdown fearing a second surge in cases, as witnessed globally. Thackeray was addressing the media after a review of corporations in Thane district. He directed administrations here to stay prepared with adequate facilities in the eventuality of a spike in cases. “There is a global trend of a second surge in cases after the first hits a plateau. Thane has controlled the virus outbreak well and the recovery rate has shot up to 90%, but we need to be alert. We will not allow operations of any facility in a hurry and then force it shut. Maharashtra will take its time to fully reopen,” he said. He issued directions to the administration to keep track of recovered patients for a month and iterated how infection symptoms were frequently changing, stressing the need for remaining alert about asymptomatic patients too. “We need more facilities and oxygen beds than ventilators. Corporations must set up more facilities as a preventive measure,” he said while remotely flagging off 1,100 bed Covid facilities at Kalwa. Taskforce members led by Dr Santosh Kadam, president of Indian Medical Association (Thane chapter) requested Thackeray to allow admission and use of remdesivir for few patients who show symptoms but have tested negative. “ICMR guidelines need to be followed, but it is very important to take note of local experiences,” Thackeray told doctors. There were 125 new cases in Thane city on Monday, taking the tally to 24,584, with five more deaths, taking the toll to 792. The city has a recovery rate of 90%, with 22,004 recovering and only 1,788 active cases here; 1,47,912 samples were sent for testing and their reports wcre received till Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/want-to-buck-global-trend-of-second-surge-says-uddhav/articleshow/77730103.cms||Manoj Badgeri
August 25, 2020||Mumbai||It’s quietest visarjan till now due to lockdown, says noise-tracking NGO||Mumbai: It was the quietest Ganpati visarjan recorded ever, said Awaaz Foundation convenor Sumaira Abdulali. On Sunday the city witnessed immersions of the one-and-a-half day Ganpati idols, wherein mostly household idols were immersed. Restrictions due to Covid-19 resulted in a very low-key festival. “There were no crowds at most places and almost no loudspeakers or noisy instruments. The highest level of 100.7 dB was recorded near Worli Dairy at a procession with drums and a crowd, including children. Small crowds were at Mahim Fishermen’s Colony and Khar-Danda. Firecrackers were reported at Worli by a resident,” said Abdulali, who measured noise levels at 14 locations in the city. The NGO, advocating implementation of anti-noise pollution rules for two decades, has been measuring noise from sources since 2003, including festivals, religious places, political rallies, private events using loudspeakers or fire crackers, construction, traffic, railways and airports. Abdulali said while there was a dramatic change in noise levels this year due to lockdown, it is to be seen if it will be sustained. TIMES VIEW: The decibel levels have been perfectly under control, and the overall air is of simplicity, elegance and quiet devotion. Quite the Ganeshotsav that many saw as desirable. Though all of this is due to restrictions imposed by the pandemic, this year’s celebration may also be the template that would be good to take forward so that the festival gets back its sense of sanctity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/its-quietest-visarjan-till-now-due-to-lockdown-says-noise-tracking-ngo/articleshow/77730098.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Rocks across state under threat, say green activists||Hyderabad: Environmentalists warn that rocks across Telanagana are under threat as unclear legal provisions for their protection is among the primary reasons for their decimation. Frauke Quader, secretary, Society to Save Rocks, highlighted the case of the rocks at Fakhruddingutta as an example. “There has been rampant construction activity on the hillock at the cost of the rocks there.” Speaking about indiscriminate breaking of rocks in other districts as well, heritage expert Anuradha Reddy said, “The damage to rocks can be seen particularly in Khammam, Karminagar and Nalgonda. If unchecked the entire landscape of this region can change.” Frauke Quader, secretary, Society to Save Rocks, highlighted the case of the rocks at Fakhruddingutta as an example||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rocks-across-state-under-threat-say-green-activists/articleshow/77730032.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||India’s own Elon Musks have roots in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: When world’s only operational small rockets maker Rocket Lab, a New Zealand-American space technology start-up, attempted test launch of its lightweight orbital rocket Electron in May 2017, Hyderabad-based Skyroot Aerospace was still a germ of an idea. It’s founders Pawan Kumar Chandana and Naga Bharath Daka, both IITians who had joined ISRO’s Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre at Thiruvananthapuram together in 2012, were busy in their respective jobs -- Chandana at ISRO and Daka with semiconductor company Xilinx in Hyderabad. But both were dreaming of making rockets and over six months after draft Space Activities Bill 2017 was unveiled, they decided to start Skyroot Aerospace armed with inspiration from Elon Musk and Rocket Lab and a Rs 10.3 crore seed funding from Curefit founders Mukesh Bansal and Ankit Nagori. “When we took the leap of faith in June 2018 there were no guidelines for private players to come in. Cabinet approval for private sector participation two months back came at perfect time,” said Pawan, which created history by test firing its upper stage rocket engine Raman in July end at a government facility near Hyderabad. Skyroot’s 40-member team designed India’s first 100% 3D-printed bi-propellant liquid rocket engine injector that helped reduce its overall mass by 50% and total number of components and lead time by 80%, said Chandana, explaining what would have taken 3-4 months took only a couple of weeks thanks to 3D printing. Startup has also developed in-house the software for launch vehicle guidance, navigation and control functions and is testing onboard avionics modules, said Bharath. Read AlsoHyderabad promising launch pad for new-age space venturesWith the government opening up the space sector for private players and a clutch of space tech start-ups coming up in the last four to five years, Hyderabad can emerge as a launch pad for entrepreneurs keen on exploring opportunities in space.Having raised Rs 31.5 crore, Skyroot is now in parleys to raise Rs 90 crore to build one of the cheapest small rockets. While most global space startups raised funding of over $100 mn for their first test launch, we will be able to do it at one-fifth the cost, said Chandana. Skyroot plans launch vehicle by December 2021Skyroot is now working on putting its first launch vehicle Vikram-I into space by December 2021, said Daka, adding that rocket will have capability to insert multiple satellites into orbit and can be assembled and launched within 24 hours from any launch site. But before that other stages of the rocket will be tested over the next 6-12 months. “There are three more stages of manufacturing that we are working on. Most of them have been designed and are in final stages of manufacturing,” explained Chandana. Skyroot is building small rockets that can launch multiple small commercial satellites and is eyeing revenues from satellite launches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indias-own-elon-musks-have-roots-in-city/articleshow/77730040.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||AP to divert excess water to prevent property loss||Hyderabad: With projects in Krishna river basin receiving huge inflows in the last 10 days, the Andhra Pradesh government is planning to divert maximum flood-water in the upstream of Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar, Pulichintala and Prakasam barrages to prevent further damages and inundation of low-lying areas. “All major reservoirs in Krishna basin in AP and Telangana received surplus waters and floodwaters of more than one lakh cusecs are being let out into Bay of Bengal. As per the indication and forecast, the outflows are expected to touch five lakh cusecs which is likely to cause loss of human lives and damage to properties. Also, low-lying areas of Vijayawada and other adjacent areas will face inundation,” AP engineer-in-chief C Narayana Reddy said in a letter to the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB). The AP government further said it should be treated as diversion of surplus floodwaters to minimise damage and to avoid untoward incidents in the downstream and should not be considered as going against the actual allocation of the individual state. KRMB member (power) LB Maunthang passed the letter to Telangana on Monday and asked it to furnish its views to the KRMB at the earliest. The AP government also informed KRMB that the inflows into Jurala project stand at 3.39 lakh cuses and the same quantity is being released to the downstream. In Srisailam, the inflows are close to four lakh cusecs, while Nagarjuna Sagar is receiving 4.30 lakh cusecs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-to-divert-excess-water-to-prevent-property-loss/articleshow/77730745.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||KRMB seeks report on fire||The Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) has asked the Telangana government to submit a report on the fire accident at Srisailam power plant. KRMB member (power) LB Muanthang, in a letter to director (hydel) of TSGenco on Monday, said the report should be sent urgently to apprise the ministry of jal shakti on the mishap. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/krmb-seeks-report-on-fire/articleshow/77730659.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 19 held for rooster fights in Bibinagar||HYDERABAD: Special operations team (SOT) of Rachakonda commissionerate have busted a gambling racket in Bibinagar and arrested 19 persons betting on rooster fights. Acting on specific information, the SOT Bhongir sleuths along with Bibinagar police raided Chinnapalugu thanda in Bibinagar where rooster fights were organised at a farm. Police teams arrested 19 offenders for indulging in betting on the fights and rescued 32 roosters. One of the offenders was from Guntur in Andhra Pradesh while the remaining 18 were all from various parts of the city. Police seized eight dead roosters, Rs 1.5 lakh in cash, 60 knives, 14 cars and 30 bikes from the spot. When cops raided, there were about 50 persons participating in the live betting on rooster fights. However, when the accused noticed police teams approaching and most of them managed to escape from the spot. Main organisers Madhusudhan Reddy, 30, from Bhongir, M Sridhar, 32, from Secunderabad, and Pandu, 35, from Chinnapalugu Thanda, managed to escape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/19-held-for-rooster-fights-in-bibinagar/articleshow/77730717.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana’s digital ID violates privacy: Activists||HYDERABAD: Data security researchers claim the Telangana government has secured Aadhaar-like digital identity, facial recognition with colour photographs and data from the Election Commission of India (ECI) database. Real Time Digital Authentication of Identity (RTDAI), which sources information from Samagra Vedika database, violates privacy, they allege. Government documents reveal Telangana’s smart governance platform ‘Samagram’ is an adaptation of ‘X Road’ of Estonia. However, information technology (IT) secretary Jayesh Ranjan has denied the allegations. “Telangana has dedicated its new Aadhaar-like RTDAI using facial recognition to the public. The state is issuing these new digital identity systems to people, but their consent has not been taken. This is a continuing practice from Hyderabad police, which had access to EC photos through Telangana’s new digital ID,” data security researcher Srinivas Kodali said. “Colour photographs from ECI are used for de-duplication of pensioners in Telangana with a digital ID based on facial recognition. All without any law and with impunity. Two years ago, I had approached the Telangana high court asking them to delete all ECI data shared with the government. The case is still pending,” he said The government has denied use of ECI data in building RTDAI. “Since biometric cannot be used due to touch restrictions during the pandemic, it is being substituted by using facial recognition. RTDAI tool, the government operates, neither uses Aaadhar or ECI data. ECI data can be used if RTDA is to be used to validate a voter for elections,” IT principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ts-digi-id-violates-privacy-activists/articleshow/77730043.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 25, 2020||Mysuru||Foresters start WhatsApp group to mitigate human-elephant conflicts||Mysuru: In a bid to mitigate man-elephant conflict in the district, forest department has launched a unique initiative in Hassan. The foresters have started a WhatsApp group with coffee estate managements and general public as members to share information about the location or movement of wild animals, especially elephants. The move is expect to aid in swift action and help foresters reach spots and drive away wild animals back to forest. Hassan has been beset by human-elephant conflicts since several years and majority of these conflicts have resulted in fatalities. WhatsApp group ‘Elephants Conflict Zones’ was launched to track the movement of elephants on a regular basis and to alert people to take extra precautions while working in the coffee estates or moving through these areas. The WhatsApp group members — foresters and staff, local coffee planters, forest department rapid response teams, railway gangmen in railway officials and villagers — upload information, photos and videos of the movement of elephants in their area in the group. Sivaram Babu M, deputy conservator of forests, Hassan division told TOI that most of the conflicts are reported from Sakaleshpura, Alur and Yesaluru region where around 55 to 60 elephants have been traced. The department has put radio collars with GPS systems to three elephants to track the movement and migration pattern of the elephants. “Their movements will be tracked regularly to avoid human elephant conflicts and damages to crops. Information and locations will be tracked through mobile app every hour. Their movements and locations will be uploaded in the Whatsapp group to alert the people,” he said. More than 26 rapid response teams — with 4 members in each team — will exclusively track the movement and prevent human-elephant conflicts. As many as 140 RRT staff will follow the elephants and provide information and alert the planters and villagers before the elephants cause damage. The new move has helped minimise fatalities in the region, said Sivaram. Before 2017-18, there were around four to five human deaths caused by elephants, but since last one-and-a-half-year, there hasn’t been a single death, he said. “As an early warning system, we have erected SIM connected LED display boards in strategic locations. We will display the messages of elephant movement to alert the people,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/foresters-start-whatsapp-group-to-mitigate-human-elephant-conflicts/articleshow/77727328.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Safety measures poor at power stn: Experts||Hyderabad: Scientists for People, South Asia Network on Dams and River Projects along with ten other organisations have alleged that the deaths at the Srisailam hydroelectric power station were a result of inadequate safety provisions in the design of the building. In a letter to CM K Chandrasekhar Rao, the organisations said that no fire-hazard risk assessment had been carried out for the station. “No emergency action plan and employee training for emergencies such as fire or flood exist,” said K Babu Rao, a retired scientist said. “There is no evidence that this hydropower station was built to international standards...No safety up gradation was done to meet the current safety standards after two previous flooding incidents in 1998 and 2000 and one fire accident in 2019 at the right bank station,” read the letter signed by former Union power ministry secretary EAS Sharma. Experts also pointed out that there was no fire suppression system. “Portable extinguishers were used to fight panel fire. Fire can double in size every 30 seconds and extinguishers are inadequate after initial stages of fire. If the employees were trained in fire safety and had at least rudimentary understanding of fire science, they would have attempted to exit the building immediately after failing to contain fire with extinguishers,” they said and added that any investigation should involve an independent body. We urge the government to begin safety audit for hydro-power stations and implement all relevant international safety standards...” the organisations said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/safety-measures-poor-at-power-stn-experts/articleshow/77730515.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Revive Warangal airport: KT Rama Rao to Centre||HYDERABAD: Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao has urged the Centre to revive the Mamnoor airport at Warangal. The minister also sought release of Rs 2,527 crore due to the state under various central sector schemes. He said the Warangal airport should be included in the central government’s Udaan scheme to improve regional connectivity. KTR, who met civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri in New Delhi on Monday, said better air connectivity was necessary pointing out that Warangal is the second largest city in Telangana with 11 lakh population. He said Mamnoor has an existing airstrip and only its runway needs be increased. “A team of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) was supposed to take up a survey at the Mamnoor airport but they could not because of the Covid-19 situation. But, we want survey to be done on a priority basis,” KTR said. The minister assured additional land would be acquired for the expansion of the airport. KTR said proposals have been made for airports at six different locations in the state. “Since there is an existing runway at Mamnoor, work can be speeded up there. Work on other airports will also have to be speeded up subsequently,” he said. KTR said Hardeep Singh had promised to send a team in 10 days to carry out the survey at Mamnoor. The airstrip was constructed during the time of the Nizam in 1930, mainly to serve Sirpur Kagaznagar Mill. However, the airstrip was abandoned in 1981. Accompanied by Telangana State Planning Board vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar, KTR explained to the minister about the construction of two bedroom houses for the poor in urban areas and public amenities, including public toilets, dump yards and sewage treatment plants, in the urban bodies. “The minister has asked us to come back with all information on the schemes taken up in Telangana so that they can be replicated by other states,” KTR said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revive-warangal-airport-ktr-to-centre/articleshow/77730690.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Rider who modified bike inspired by KGF-2 among 7 booked||Bengaluru: Continuing their drive against motorcycle riders indulging in dangerous stunts, KR Puram police on Sunday evening seized seven bikes and booked their riders under the Motor Vehicles Act. One of the bikes was modified to look like the one used by actor Yash in his upcoming movie KGF-2. The bike’s owner, Sunil Kumar, who was performing wheelies on KR Puram-Hoskote Road, told police he was influenced by the actor’s motorbike in the yet-to-be-released film. A realtor from Hoskote, Sunil told cops he wanted to gift the modified motorbike to Yash when KGF-2 released. ‘ Seven cases have been registered. The others who were booked are Mubarak Pasha, 18, of KR Puram, Madhu alias Madhusoodhan of Bhattarahalli, and Moin Khan, 22, and Nawaz Sharif, 19, from Hoskote. Police are on the lookout for two more youths, who fled the scene leaving behind their bikes. The riders have been booked under IPC section 279 (rash and negligent driving) apart from MV Act. “Sunil has also been booked for modifying the bike, which again is a violation of MV Act,” said KR Puram police. Members of the public had alerted cops about youngsters performing stunts on the KR Puram-Hoskote stretch. “Plainclothesmen reached the spot in a private car and caught the riders red-handed. Videos and pictures in their mobile phones showed they had been indulging in such acts for long,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rider-who-modified-bike-inspired-by-kgf-2-among-7-booked/articleshow/77729303.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Genco vows all help to families of fire victims||Hyderabad: TSGenco CMD D Prabhakar Rao on Monday said they would support the families of the employees who had died in the fire accident at the Srisailam power plant on August 20. The CMD along with senior officials paid a courtesy visit to the houses of the employees and consoled their family members. “Losing my colleagues in the freak mishap is one of the most unfortunate incidents. The engineers risked their lives to protect the plant,” Prabhakar Rao said. Prabhakar Rao consoled family members of divisional engineer Srinivas Goud in Champapet, Fathima’s in Azampura and Mohan Kumar in Jeedimetla. Nagarjunasagar chief engineer Suryanarayana went to the house of assistant engineer Sundar Kumar in Suryapet while KTPC chief engineer Ravindra Kumar went to houses of Venkat Rao in Madhira, plant attendant Y Rambabu in Karepally and junior plant attendant Kiran Kumar in Palwancha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/genco-vows-all-help-to-families-of-fire-victims/articleshow/77730672.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Revanth urges PM to order CBI probe||Telangana Congress working president A Revanth Reddy urged PM Modi to order a CBI inquiry into the fire mishap. In a letter to the PM, Revanth said, “From past several years, multiple red flags were raised... Concerns were also raised at the 39th meeting of the National Committee on Dam Safety (NCDS) in February 2019 but the state government of Telangana failed to act...This accident is the result of negligence on the part of the state government.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revanth-urges-pm-to-order-cbi-probe/articleshow/77730538.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||HC: Make it easy for farmers to have pacts with seed firms||Hyderabad: Telangana high court has directed the state government to make it easy for farmers willing to go for farm agreements with seed companies as enshrined by Centre’s recent ordinance. A division bench comprising Justice A Rajashekar Reddy and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy also directed the government to file a counter affidavit in this matter within two weeks. The bench pointed out to special government pleader A Sanjeev Kumar that the central ordinance had given option only to the farmers and not to the seed companies and said “if the farmers come forward to have agreements, the state government must ensure they are made.” Assistant solicitor general N Rajeshwar Rao sought 10 days’ time to get instructions from the Centre on the applicability of the ordinance vis-a-vis the state laws. The bench was hearing a petition of G Ranjit Kumar of Jogulamba Gadwal district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-make-it-easy-for-farmers-to-have-pacts-with-seed-firms/articleshow/77730763.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Sub-inspector and activist-uncle nabbed for kidnapping, dacoity||BENGALURU: A 31-year-old sub-inspector and his relative, who claims to be a journalist and human rights activist, were arrested on Monday for kidnapping and dacoity. Four of their aides are at large. Jeevan Kumar, SI with SJ Park police station and resident of police officers’ quarters, Ashoknagar, his uncle Jnana Prakash, 44, of Jnanabharathi, and their associates allegedly abducted Shivakumara Swamy and Darshan, employees of Gubbi-based agri businessman Mohan, from Chickpet Metro Station on August 19. Minutes before they were kidnapped, the duo had collected Rs 26.5 lakh from Bharat, a trader. Mohan had supplied copra, arecanut and tamarind to Bharat, who owed him Rs 26.5 lakh for the items. He had sent Swamy and Darshan to collect the money. Swamy later told police he and Darshan left Gubbi around 11am on August 19 and collected the money from Bharat around 1.30pm. “We kept the money bag in the car and were about to leave. Mohan asked us to wait for a few minutes as another man was to give us Rs 2 lakh. So we parked the vehicle in front of the Metro station. Three people arrived there, forcefully got into our car and snatched our mobiles. They threatened me to drive to the place they wanted. A police officer sitting on a twowheeler signalled the trio to move ahead. Later, two more people followed us in another car. They shifted the bag into their car near Unity Building,” Swamy said. Jeevan and Prakash were arrested once their presence at the crime spot was confirmed. Jeevan is married to Prakash’s niece. The money was shared among the accused. Police are in the process of identifying and arresting the duo’s aides and recovering the sum. Sanjeev M Patil, DCP (west), said a suspect identified as Kishore collected information about Mohan sending his men to get cash from Chickpet. He told Prakash, who planned to loot the money, and took the SI’s help. “The duo was produced before court and taken into police custody,” he said. Prakash claimed to be a journalist with Suddi Saramale magazine and state president of Karnataka Manava Hakkugala Janajagruti Samiti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sub-inspector-activist-uncle-held-for-kidnapping-dacoity/articleshow/77729146.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Amaravati||East Godavari crosses 50,000 Covid-19 cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 8,601 Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the cumulative caseload to 3,61,712. The toll jumped to 3,368 as 86 more people died due to the pandemic virus. As many as 8,741 Covid-19 patients were declared cured on Monday, outnumbering the fresh cases. With the fresh discharges, the recovery rate improved to 74.3%. East Godavari crossed the 50,000 case mark, becoming the first district in the state to achieve such a grim milestone. The district managed to keep the infections in check till June and was not part of the group of five districts classified as red zones by the Union government. But since then, the novel coronavirus outbreak continued to accelerate in this most populous district of the state, despite taking several measures to control the spread of the disease. Till last week, the district officials imposed complete restrictions every Sunday. According to the state health officials, the district had already entered its peak curve and may witness a gradual drop in daily cases starting from the end of August. Meanwhile, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari districts crossed the 30,000 case mark. East Godavari reported the highest number of cases of 1,441 on Monday, followed by Nellore 965 and Anantapur 933. Of the 86 deaths registered on Monday, 10 each are from Nellore and Prakasam, nine each from East Godavari and Guntur, eight each from Chittoor and Kadapa, seven each from Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam, six from Anantapur, five from Krishna, four from Vizianagaram, two from Kurnool, and one from West Godavari. The state so far conducted 32.92 lakh tests with an overall case positivity rate of 10.9% against the national average of 8.65%. The mortality rate stood at 0.93%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/east-godavari-crosses-50k-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77733658.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Mumbai||Day 2: Idol immersions come down by one-third compared to last year||MUMBAI: Less than 25% Ganesh idols were immersed on the second day of the festival on Sunday, compared to last year, at Girgaum chowpatty, a key immersion point in the city for big mandals. The situation was similar situation at other key immersion points, including Juhu chowpatty. Officials said 40,823 idols were immersed on Sunday in the city, of which 56% were in artificial ponds. Last year, 61,930 idols were immersed, of which 23% were in artificial ponds on the second day. TimesViewThe decibel levels have been perfectly under control, and the overall air is of simplicity, elegance and quiet devotion. Quite the Ganeshotsav that many saw as desirable. Though all of this is due to restrictions imposed by the pandemic, this year’s celebration may also be the template that would be good to take forward so that the festival gets back its sense of sanctity.Due to Covid-19, BMC had urged devotees to go in for low-key celebrations and encouraged all to immerse household idols at home or in nearby artificial ponds to avoid overcrowding. BMC has created 167 artificial ponds this year, compared to 32 last year. BMC also converted hundreds of dumpers into mobile ponds, which were used by many devotees. Girgaum Chowpatty comes under D ward and includes Malabar Hill and Nana Chowk. Assistant municipal commissioner Prashant Gaikwad said 1,488 idols were immersed in the ward, of which 1,032 were at chowpatty, on the second day this year; last year, 4,571 idols were immersed, of which 98% were at Girgaum. At Juhu-Versova 1,190 idols immersed on Sunday, far less compared to last year. The area comes under the K west ward, where 1,660 idols were immersed in artificial ponds. In G-north ward, which covers Dharavi, Mahim and Dadar, 2,080 idols were immersed on Sunday, of which 339 were at Dadar and Mahim. K-east ward, which covers the eastern stretch of Jogeshwari, Andheri and Vile Parle, and reported most Covid-19 cases (8,370) in the city, 2,954 idols were immersed on Sunday, of which 488 were in natural ponds. Among the rest, 1,140 were in the artificial ponds and 1,326 in the ponds created in the dumpers. Civic officials said devotees responded to their request and opted for nearby artificial ponds, which helped avoid spread of the virus. They requested devotees to continue the trend during the remaining immersion days of the 11-day festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/day-2-idol-immersions-come-down-by-one-third-compared-to-last-year/articleshow/77730101.cms||Vijay V Singh
August 25, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu govt mulls new pandemic law to penalise violators||CHENNAI: The state health department is planning a legislation to punish individuals and institutions violating golden rules of the pandemic – not wearing a mask, not adhering to social distancing norms in work places or at events such as marriages and funerals. An ordinance planned under The Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, plans to make offences compoundable and violators will have to pay a fine, which will be higher than what is prescribed in the existing Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939, officials said. The proposal, which is now with the law department, will be sent to the governor’s office in a few days. The proposed law will give public health officials and authorities the power to prescribe offenses which are not covered under the present legislation and help them notify specifics. For instance, the rules will prescribe types of violations within the workspace or while organising an event. With the state moving closer to opening up hospitality, entertainment, sports and recreation sectors, public health experts and doctors made a fervid appeal to involve people to stop the spread of the viral infection. “No matter how many people we test and isolate, we will not be able to stop the spread if there is no community involvement. We still see many people without masks. Some walk to the store with a mask, and remove it while they enter the store or while talking to someone,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. In the past few weeks, officials have found people attending office with symptoms of Covid-19, leading to cluster at work places. Social distancing norms are violated during lunch hours and tea time or while they travel together in the company vehicle. In apartment complexes, residents organised get-togethers violating pandemic rules. “All this could have been avoided. We are now seeing an increase in cases in Chennai because of these violations,” he said. Sources did not specify fines the government will levy for each offence, but said it will cut down on the existing “roundabout ways”. “We don’t have to issue showcause notices. The fines will be a few hundreds and the aim is to discourage people from violating pandemic rules,” said a senior public health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-mulls-new-pandemic-law-to-penalise-violators/articleshow/77730035.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||East Godavari crosses 50,000 Covid-19 cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 8,601 Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the cumulative caseload to 3,61,712. The toll jumped to 3,368 as 86 more people died due to the pandemic virus. As many as 8,741 Covid-19 patients were declared cured on Monday, outnumbering the fresh cases. With the fresh discharges, the recovery rate improved to 74.3%. East Godavari crossed the 50,000 case mark, becoming the first district in the state to achieve such a grim milestone. The district managed to keep the infections in check till June and was not part of the group of five districts classified as red zones by the Union government. But since then, the novel coronavirus outbreak continued to accelerate in this most populous district of the state, despite taking several measures to control the spread of the disease. Till last week, the district officials imposed complete restrictions every Sunday. According to the state health officials, the district had already entered its peak curve and may witness a gradual drop in daily cases starting from the end of August. Meanwhile, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari districts crossed the 30,000 case mark. East Godavari reported the highest number of cases of 1,441 on Monday, followed by Nellore 965 and Anantapur 933. Of the 86 deaths registered on Monday, 10 each are from Nellore and Prakasam, nine each from East Godavari and Guntur, eight each from Chittoor and Kadapa, seven each from Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam, six from Anantapur, five from Krishna, four from Vizianagaram, two from Kurnool, and one from West Godavari. The state so far conducted 32.92 lakh tests with an overall case positivity rate of 10.9% against the national average of 8.65%. The mortality rate stood at 0.93%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/east-godavari-crosses-50k-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77733657.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Vegetable prices hit the roof as incessant rains destroy crops||Hyderabad: Heavy rains that battered Telangana consistently for the last two weeks has damaged vegetable crops in several districts and resulted in sharp increase in the prices of tomatoes, lady finger, brinjal, carrot, beans etc. Between August 10 and August 20, Telangana received 300 per cent excess rainfall, submerging vegetable crops in many districts. As per the statistics of Telangana agriculture marketing department, between August 1 and August 22, prices of tomato doubled from Rs 18 to Rs 36, brinjal increased from Rs 35 to Rs 55, lady finger from Rs 32 to Rs 55 and beans from Rs 54 to Rs 74. “The rainfall stopped on August 23. We are still assessing the damage that the incessant rains have caused. We receive tomatoes from Chevella, Medchal and some districts of Maharashtra. Other vegetables such as lady finger, brinjal arrive from Gadwal, Anantapur etc.,” said G Lakshmi Bai, director of agricultural marketing, indicating uncertainty over when the prices of vegetables are likely to drop. Supply of these vegetables in Rythu Bazaars has also dropped drastically. For example, Erragadda market received only 19 quintal of lady finger on August 22 as against 55 quintal received on August 1. Similar is the case with brinjal, carrot and beans wherein the supply has dropped from 25-35 quintal on August 1 to four to 10 quintal by August 24. “In merely two weeks, prices of staple vegetables has gone up. Price of only potatoes and onions are stable now. We hope that the situation improves in the next few weeks,” said Vijaya Rawapudi, a home-maker. The total annual production of vegetables in the state is over 30 lakh metric tonnes, which is less than the consumption. Between August 10 and August 20, Telangana received 300 per cent excess rainfall, submerging vegetable crops in many districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vegetable-prices-hit-the-roof-as-incessant-rains-destroy-crops/articleshow/77730083.cms||Preeti Biswas
August 25, 2020||Delhi||Four Delhiites heading to Murthal for snack die in crash||MURTHAL: A fun drive for a midnight snack at a Murthal dhaba near Sonipat turned tragic for four young men and a woman from Rohini, when their hatchback went out of control and hit the road divider before flipping over to the other side and colliding headon with a truck. Four of them, including the woman, were killed on the spot while the fifth escaped with injuries. Eyewitnesses said the car crashed around 11pm near Pehelwan dhaba in Murthal, where the five youths — Subham Sharma, Tushar Gupta, Vaibhav Sakral, Megha Khatri and Jyoti Swaroop — were heading to. All five were 23 years old and were pals from school. First trip after lockdown turns fatal for friendsThe five had been planning the trip ever since the lockdown was lifted. They were travelling in Subham’s i-10 Grand car. Subham was driving and Megha was sitting beside him while the other three were seated behind. According to Swaroop, they were driving on the right lane at moderate speed. When they were just a few metres from the dhaba, Sharma slammed the brakes to avoid hitting a man who had come running from the other side to cross the road. The car veered out of control and hit the divider, flipped over a few times and landed on its side on the opposite carriageway. A truck coming from the other side could not stop in time and rammed the car, which rolled over a few more times before coming to a stop. Locals rushed to the rescue of the youths and informed the police. A team from Murthal police station had to rip open the doors of the car to rescue the youths. By then, Subham, Tushar, Vaibhav and Megha had died. Swaroop was rushed to the Murthal town hospital while the bodies of the other four were shifted to a mortuary. The youths were identified on the basis of their ID cards and their families contacted. Tushar’s family said he had left home saying he would be back soon. Instead, they got a call from the police within a few hours informing them about the mishap. “His father, a businessman in Rohini, is in shock. Tushar was the youngest of three siblings and had recently joined a job,” said a family member. The bodies of the four youths were handed over to the families after a postmortem and cremated at the Punjabi Bagh crematorium. All of them had joined jobs after passing out of colleges with different streams. “They were bosom friends since childhood and this was not the first time that they had driven together,” said one of Vaibhav’s relatives. A case of causing death due to negligence has been registered against the truck driver who had fled after the incident. A manhunt has been launched to nab him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/four-heading-to-murthal-for-snack-die-in-crash/articleshow/77730069.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Vijayawada||East Godavari crosses 50,000 Covid-19 cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 8,601 Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the cumulative caseload to 3,61,712. The toll jumped to 3,368 as 86 more people died due to the pandemic virus. As many as 8,741 Covid-19 patients were declared cured on Monday, outnumbering the fresh cases. With the fresh discharges, the recovery rate improved to 74.3%. East Godavari crossed the 50,000 case mark, becoming the first district in the state to achieve such a grim milestone. The district managed to keep the infections in check till June and was not part of the group of five districts classified as red zones by the Union government. But since then, the novel coronavirus outbreak continued to accelerate in this most populous district of the state, despite taking several measures to control the spread of the disease. Till last week, the district officials imposed complete restrictions every Sunday. According to the state health officials, the district had already entered its peak curve and may witness a gradual drop in daily cases starting from the end of August. Meanwhile, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari districts crossed the 30,000 case mark. East Godavari reported the highest number of cases of 1,441 on Monday, followed by Nellore 965 and Anantapur 933. Of the 86 deaths registered on Monday, 10 each are from Nellore and Prakasam, nine each from East Godavari and Guntur, eight each from Chittoor and Kadapa, seven each from Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam, six from Anantapur, five from Krishna, four from Vizianagaram, two from Kurnool, and one from West Godavari. The state so far conducted 32.92 lakh tests with an overall case positivity rate of 10.9% against the national average of 8.65%. The mortality rate stood at 0.93%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/east-godavari-crosses-50k-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77728550.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Trichy||Over 5,900 fresh Covid-19 cases push Tamil Nadu’s tally beyond 3.8 lakh||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 5,967 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 97 deaths on Monday, which pushed the case tally to 3,85,352 and cumulative death toll to 6,614. At the end of the day, there were 53,282 people still under treatment. The average recovery rate in the state went up to 85% and the case fatality rate stood at 1.7%. In August, the state added 1.4 lakh cases, which is 36% of the total cases so far. In the last 24 days, there were 2,679 deaths, which is 41% of the Covid-19 deaths reported by the state. The case fatality rate was above 2% in at least seven districts – Chennai (2%); Coimbatore (2%), Madurai (2.5%), Ramanathapuram (2.2%), Sivagangai (2.7%), Thirupathur (2.1%), and Tiruppur (2.5%). “Late admission is one of the biggest reasons for high fatality rate. People must come to hospital as soon as they experience symptoms,” said director of public health Dr TS Selvavinayagam. On Monday, Chennai reported 1,278 cases and 23 deaths. The active cases in the district had increased to 13,255 from 12,287 on August 20. The three neighbouring districts Chengalpet (306), Tiruvallur (321) and Kancheepuram( 226) together added 852 new cases and 12 deaths. The other northern districts added 1,063 cases and 16 deaths. Cuddalore topped the table with 370 new cases. Ranipet (121), Tiruvannamalai (145), Vellore (159) and Villupuram (156) reported high incidence. In the eight western districts, Coimbatore reported 387 fresh cases, followed by Salem (273) and Erode (189). Together, the zone reported 1,128 cases and 11 deaths. At the end of the day, there were 8,570 active cases, including 3,143 in Coimbatore and 2,536 in Salem. Fresh cases dropped to 950 in the southern districts although the districts continued to report 28 deaths. Theni reported 193 cases, Dindigul 132, Kanyakumari 149, Thoothukudi 98, and Tenkasi 94). While Madurai reported 74 cases, Tirunelveli had 77. In the central zone, Pudukottai (187), Thanjavur (119), Tiruvarur (111) and Trichy (104) reported cases in three digits. Nagapattinam had 63, Ariyalur 52, Perambalur 26, and Karur 23. The central zone together reported 685 cases and seven deaths. Among the deaths reported on Monday, five people had no comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/over-5-9k-fresh-cases-push-tns-tally-beyond-3-8l/articleshow/77732421.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Madurai||Over 5,900 fresh Covid-19 cases push Tamil Nadu’s tally beyond 3.8 lakh||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 5,967 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 97 deaths on Monday, which pushed the case tally to 3,85,352 and cumulative death toll to 6,614. At the end of the day, there were 53,282 people still under treatment. The average recovery rate in the state went up to 85% and the case fatality rate stood at 1.7%. In August, the state added 1.4 lakh cases, which is 36% of the total cases so far. In the last 24 days, there were 2,679 deaths, which is 41% of the Covid-19 deaths reported by the state. The case fatality rate was above 2% in at least seven districts – Chennai (2%); Coimbatore (2%), Madurai (2.5%), Ramanathapuram (2.2%), Sivagangai (2.7%), Thirupathur (2.1%), and Tiruppur (2.5%). “Late admission is one of the biggest reasons for high fatality rate. People must come to hospital as soon as they experience symptoms,” said director of public health Dr TS Selvavinayagam. On Monday, Chennai reported 1,278 cases and 23 deaths. The active cases in the district had increased to 13,255 from 12,287 on August 20. The three neighbouring districts Chengalpet (306), Tiruvallur (321) and Kancheepuram( 226) together added 852 new cases and 12 deaths. The other northern districts added 1,063 cases and 16 deaths. Cuddalore topped the table with 370 new cases. Ranipet (121), Tiruvannamalai (145), Vellore (159) and Villupuram (156) reported high incidence. In the eight western districts, Coimbatore reported 387 fresh cases, followed by Salem (273) and Erode (189). Together, the zone reported 1,128 cases and 11 deaths. At the end of the day, there were 8,570 active cases, including 3,143 in Coimbatore and 2,536 in Salem. Fresh cases dropped to 950 in the southern districts although the districts continued to report 28 deaths. Theni reported 193 cases, Dindigul 132, Kanyakumari 149, Thoothukudi 98, and Tenkasi 94). While Madurai reported 74 cases, Tirunelveli had 77. In the central zone, Pudukottai (187), Thanjavur (119), Tiruvarur (111) and Trichy (104) reported cases in three digits. Nagapattinam had 63, Ariyalur 52, Perambalur 26, and Karur 23. The central zone together reported 685 cases and seven deaths. Among the deaths reported on Monday, five people had no comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/over-5-9k-fresh-cases-push-tns-tally-beyond-3-8l/articleshow/77732420.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Vijayawada||75% Covid-19 patients did not respond||Visakhapatnam: Nearly 75% of the Covid-19 patients could not respond to a survey on ‘Satisfaction Levels of Covid-19’, conducted by the Srikakulam district administration as part of its measures to improve its services. It was carried out in August at GEMS, a government designated Covid-19 hospital at Ragolu in the outskirts of Srikakulam. The survey targeted all the 740 patients at the hospital. It was conducted via smart and budget phones, on quality of food supply, sanitation and doctors- and nurse-visits. Nearly 74.86% of the patients did not even open the questionnaire. A senior district official attributed the poor response to poor connectivity inside the hospital, wrong numbers, etc. “The numbers of 47 patients were wrong,” said an official. “Nearly 15% expressed dissatisfaction with doctors’ visit and bathroom facilities and cleaning. The patients were happy with the supply and quality of food,” the officer said. Collector J Nivas held a review meeting on Monday regarding the services at Covid-19 hospitals with health workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/75-covid-19-patients-did-not-respond/articleshow/77728555.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad promising launch pad for new-age space ventures||HYDERABAD: With the government opening up the space sector for private players and a clutch of space tech start-ups coming up in the last four to five years, Hyderabad can emerge as a launch pad for entrepreneurs keen on exploring opportunities in space.  Awais Ahmed, founder and CEO of space-tech startup Pixxel, that bagged a $5 million funding last week, too said that apart from Bengaluru, Hyderabad is the only suitable city for space tech start-ups, especially working in the hardware area, because of the manufacturing ecosystem and the presence of RCI-DRDO, where prototypes can be tested. There are 25-30 space tech startups in India and if we add aviation startups, the number would be in the range of 150-170. Telangana IT principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan pointed out that aviation and space being a highly regulated sector, close coordination with Bengaluru-based nodal aviation/space institutions such as ISRO, NAL and concerned OEM divisions are required for these start-ups for testing, prototyping and getting necessary clearances. There is a natural preference for start-ups to set up base in Bengaluru but once they scale up, these firms are open to relocating to hubs like Hyderabad, he said. “We have taken various measures to encourage start-ups in these sectors by hosting acceleration programmes of Boeing, Pratt and Whitney and Collins Aerospace. We also entered into an MoU with Airbus Bizlab and IDeX to work with their start-ups in Telangana. More hardware start-ups are also expected to come up once T-Works become operational,” he added. Even Ravikant Reddy, an investor who led a funding round into Hyderabad-based Dhurva Space, said the existing infrastructure in Hyderabad can be leveraged to tap the global markets hitherto untouched. Awais said government can consider setting up a grant to provide funding for start-ups to build IP in India. Yashas Karanam, director, Bengaluru-based Bellatrix Aerospace said government can look into issuance of licences to start-ups in a time bound manner. Besides, the government is planning an online portal for start-ups to book slots for getting access to common facilities. “Industries can plan their testing activities and meet timelines if the process is seamless with the portal having updated information. Transfer of technology of niche materials and processes under suitable agreements to protect national interest would accelerate companies to add more technologies to their portfolio,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-promising-launch-pad-for-new-age-space-ventures/articleshow/77730091.cms||Swati Rathor
August 25, 2020||Erode||Over 5,900 fresh Covid-19 cases push Tamil Nadu’s tally beyond 3.8 lakh||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 5,967 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 97 deaths on Monday, which pushed the case tally to 3,85,352 and cumulative death toll to 6,614. At the end of the day, there were 53,282 people still under treatment. The average recovery rate in the state went up to 85% and the case fatality rate stood at 1.7%. In August, the state added 1.4 lakh cases, which is 36% of the total cases so far. In the last 24 days, there were 2,679 deaths, which is 41% of the Covid-19 deaths reported by the state. The case fatality rate was above 2% in at least seven districts – Chennai (2%); Coimbatore (2%), Madurai (2.5%), Ramanathapuram (2.2%), Sivagangai (2.7%), Thirupathur (2.1%), and Tiruppur (2.5%). “Late admission is one of the biggest reasons for high fatality rate. People must come to hospital as soon as they experience symptoms,” said director of public health Dr TS Selvavinayagam. On Monday, Chennai reported 1,278 cases and 23 deaths. The active cases in the district had increased to 13,255 from 12,287 on August 20. The three neighbouring districts Chengalpet (306), Tiruvallur (321) and Kancheepuram( 226) together added 852 new cases and 12 deaths. The other northern districts added 1,063 cases and 16 deaths. Cuddalore topped the table with 370 new cases. Ranipet (121), Tiruvannamalai (145), Vellore (159) and Villupuram (156) reported high incidence. In the eight western districts, Coimbatore reported 387 fresh cases, followed by Salem (273) and Erode (189). Together, the zone reported 1,128 cases and 11 deaths. At the end of the day, there were 8,570 active cases, including 3,143 in Coimbatore and 2,536 in Salem. Fresh cases dropped to 950 in the southern districts although the districts continued to report 28 deaths. Theni reported 193 cases, Dindigul 132, Kanyakumari 149, Thoothukudi 98, and Tenkasi 94). While Madurai reported 74 cases, Tirunelveli had 77. In the central zone, Pudukottai (187), Thanjavur (119), Tiruvarur (111) and Trichy (104) reported cases in three digits. Nagapattinam had 63, Ariyalur 52, Perambalur 26, and Karur 23. The central zone together reported 685 cases and seven deaths. Among the deaths reported on Monday, five people had no comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/over-5-9k-fresh-cases-push-tns-tally-beyond-3-8l/articleshow/77732419.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Chennai||Over 5,900 fresh Covid-19 cases push Tamil Nadu’s tally beyond 3.8 lakh||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 5,967 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 97 deaths on Monday, which pushed the case tally to 3,85,352 and cumulative death toll to 6,614. At the end of the day, there were 53,282 people still under treatment. The average recovery rate in the state went up to 85% and the case fatality rate stood at 1.7%. In August, the state added 1.4 lakh cases, which is 36% of the total cases so far. In the last 24 days, there were 2,679 deaths, which is 41% of the Covid-19 deaths reported by the state. The case fatality rate was above 2% in at least seven districts – Chennai (2%); Coimbatore (2%), Madurai (2.5%), Ramanathapuram (2.2%), Sivagangai (2.7%), Thirupathur (2.1%), and Tiruppur (2.5%). “Late admission is one of the biggest reasons for high fatality rate. People must come to hospital as soon as they experience symptoms,” said director of public health Dr TS Selvavinayagam. On Monday, Chennai reported 1,278 cases and 23 deaths. The active cases in the district had increased to 13,255 from 12,287 on August 20. The three neighbouring districts Chengalpet (306), Tiruvallur (321) and Kancheepuram( 226) together added 852 new cases and 12 deaths. The other northern districts added 1,063 cases and 16 deaths. Cuddalore topped the table with 370 new cases. Ranipet (121), Tiruvannamalai (145), Vellore (159) and Villupuram (156) reported high incidence. In the eight western districts, Coimbatore reported 387 fresh cases, followed by Salem (273) and Erode (189). Together, the zone reported 1,128 cases and 11 deaths. At the end of the day, there were 8,570 active cases, including 3,143 in Coimbatore and 2,536 in Salem. Fresh cases dropped to 950 in the southern districts although the districts continued to report 28 deaths. Theni reported 193 cases, Dindigul 132, Kanyakumari 149, Thoothukudi 98, and Tenkasi 94). While Madurai reported 74 cases, Tirunelveli had 77. In the central zone, Pudukottai (187), Thanjavur (119), Tiruvarur (111) and Trichy (104) reported cases in three digits. Nagapattinam had 63, Ariyalur 52, Perambalur 26, and Karur 23. The central zone together reported 685 cases and seven deaths. Among the deaths reported on Monday, five people had no comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/over-5-9k-fresh-cases-push-tns-tally-beyond-3-8l/articleshow/77730037.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Hearing to begin in CS assault case||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Monday permitted a trial court to begin hearings in the case relating to alleged assault on former chief secretary in which chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia were made accused. The high court allowed an application by IAS officer Anshu Prakash and modified its March 14, 2019 order, whereby the trial court was directed not to hear the arguments on the charges. Prakash had also sought a direction for an early hearing of the petition filed before the high court by Kejriwal and Sisodia challenging the trial court’s order, which said prosecution in the case be conducted by a Delhi Police officer not below the rank of additional commissioner. The two AAP members had challenged the trial court’s October 22, 2018, order permitting two other advocates to conduct the prosecution on behalf of the Delhi Police officer, instead of a regular public prosecutor attached to the court concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hearing-to-begin-in-cs-assault-case/articleshow/77730095.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||2 burglars held with 13 smart TVs||Hyderabad: Two burglars who stole 13 smart TVs from a hostel on August 20 at Kukatpally have been arrested. Police recovered the entire stolen property worth Rs 1.5 lakh from their possession. The accused have been identified as D Venkateshwarulu, 27, and D Praveen, 25. During the early hours of August, 20, the duo gained entry into Laxmi Sai Boys Hostel at KPHB Colony, which was closed due to Covid-19. They broke the locks of 13 rooms and stole 13 smart TVs. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-burglars-held-with-13-smart-tvs/articleshow/77730096.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Over 5,900 fresh Covid-19 cases push Tamil Nadu’s tally beyond 3.8 lakh||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 5,967 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 97 deaths on Monday, which pushed the case tally to 3,85,352 and cumulative death toll to 6,614. At the end of the day, there were 53,282 people still under treatment. The average recovery rate in the state went up to 85% and the case fatality rate stood at 1.7%. In August, the state added 1.4 lakh cases, which is 36% of the total cases so far. In the last 24 days, there were 2,679 deaths, which is 41% of the Covid-19 deaths reported by the state. The case fatality rate was above 2% in at least seven districts – Chennai (2%); Coimbatore (2%), Madurai (2.5%), Ramanathapuram (2.2%), Sivagangai (2.7%), Thirupathur (2.1%), and Tiruppur (2.5%). “Late admission is one of the biggest reasons for high fatality rate. People must come to hospital as soon as they experience symptoms,” said director of public health Dr TS Selvavinayagam. On Monday, Chennai reported 1,278 cases and 23 deaths. The active cases in the district had increased to 13,255 from 12,287 on August 20. The three neighbouring districts Chengalpet (306), Tiruvallur (321) and Kancheepuram( 226) together added 852 new cases and 12 deaths. The other northern districts added 1,063 cases and 16 deaths. Cuddalore topped the table with 370 new cases. Ranipet (121), Tiruvannamalai (145), Vellore (159) and Villupuram (156) reported high incidence. In the eight western districts, Coimbatore reported 387 fresh cases, followed by Salem (273) and Erode (189). Together, the zone reported 1,128 cases and 11 deaths. At the end of the day, there were 8,570 active cases, including 3,143 in Coimbatore and 2,536 in Salem. Fresh cases dropped to 950 in the southern districts although the districts continued to report 28 deaths. Theni reported 193 cases, Dindigul 132, Kanyakumari 149, Thoothukudi 98, and Tenkasi 94). While Madurai reported 74 cases, Tirunelveli had 77. In the central zone, Pudukottai (187), Thanjavur (119), Tiruvarur (111) and Trichy (104) reported cases in three digits. Nagapattinam had 63, Ariyalur 52, Perambalur 26, and Karur 23. The central zone together reported 685 cases and seven deaths. Among the deaths reported on Monday, five people had no comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/over-5-9k-fresh-cases-push-tns-tally-beyond-3-8l/articleshow/77732418.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Salem||Over 5,900 fresh Covid-19 cases push Tamil Nadu’s tally beyond 3.8 lakh||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 5,967 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 97 deaths on Monday, which pushed the case tally to 3,85,352 and cumulative death toll to 6,614. At the end of the day, there were 53,282 people still under treatment. The average recovery rate in the state went up to 85% and the case fatality rate stood at 1.7%. In August, the state added 1.4 lakh cases, which is 36% of the total cases so far. In the last 24 days, there were 2,679 deaths, which is 41% of the Covid-19 deaths reported by the state. The case fatality rate was above 2% in at least seven districts – Chennai (2%); Coimbatore (2%), Madurai (2.5%), Ramanathapuram (2.2%), Sivagangai (2.7%), Thirupathur (2.1%), and Tiruppur (2.5%). “Late admission is one of the biggest reasons for high fatality rate. People must come to hospital as soon as they experience symptoms,” said director of public health Dr TS Selvavinayagam. On Monday, Chennai reported 1,278 cases and 23 deaths. The active cases in the district had increased to 13,255 from 12,287 on August 20. The three neighbouring districts Chengalpet (306), Tiruvallur (321) and Kancheepuram( 226) together added 852 new cases and 12 deaths. The other northern districts added 1,063 cases and 16 deaths. Cuddalore topped the table with 370 new cases. Ranipet (121), Tiruvannamalai (145), Vellore (159) and Villupuram (156) reported high incidence. In the eight western districts, Coimbatore reported 387 fresh cases, followed by Salem (273) and Erode (189). Together, the zone reported 1,128 cases and 11 deaths. At the end of the day, there were 8,570 active cases, including 3,143 in Coimbatore and 2,536 in Salem. Fresh cases dropped to 950 in the southern districts although the districts continued to report 28 deaths. Theni reported 193 cases, Dindigul 132, Kanyakumari 149, Thoothukudi 98, and Tenkasi 94). While Madurai reported 74 cases, Tirunelveli had 77. In the central zone, Pudukottai (187), Thanjavur (119), Tiruvarur (111) and Trichy (104) reported cases in three digits. Nagapattinam had 63, Ariyalur 52, Perambalur 26, and Karur 23. The central zone together reported 685 cases and seven deaths. Among the deaths reported on Monday, five people had no comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/over-5-9k-fresh-cases-push-tns-tally-beyond-3-8l/articleshow/77732422.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||A year on, forensics probe nails Ahmedabad man for child porn||AHMEDABAD: Nearly one-and-a-half-years after a man from Kalol uploaded a clip of child pornography on social media, Gandhinagar police on Sunday filed a complaint against him. The complaint was filed against the 27-year-old man after forensic reports confirmed that the material was indeed shared by him. An officer of the special operations group (SOG) of Gandhinagar Police said that the accused, Guddu Rai, had on February 6, 2019, uploaded a video showing a child being sexually exploited. “We received information from a US organization, National Centre for Missing and Exploited Children, that a child pornography video had been uploaded from a cellphone number from Kalol,” said the SOG officer. SOG officers said that they identified the culprit as Rai, who worked at a private firm in Kalol GIDC, on January 28. Police officers had then seized his cellphone and had sent it for examination to forensic experts. “We have found that Rai got the video from someone and shared it on Facebook,” the officer said. Police have booked Rai under Section 67 (B) of the Information Technology Act which deals with offences related to child pornography. According to the law, it is a punishable offence to publish or transmit material depicting children in sexually explicit acts. In 2019, CID (crime) of Gujarat Police had prepared a list of about 100 people who were suspected paedophiles in major cities such as Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot. The SOG officer said that this is the first case of child pornography in Gandhinagar district which has been filed after a thorough analysis by forensic experts. The officer said that the probe will also focus on who had sent the video or from which website it was downloaded. Another officer said that police have identified the numbers of other men who had uploaded or downloaded child porn and said that action will be taken against them. Watch Forensics probe nails Ahmedabad man for child porn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/a-year-on-forensics-probe-nails-man-for-child-porn/articleshow/77730105.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Chennai||Leaping over the barriers of body and mind||Chennai: Mariyappan Thangavelu — raised by a single mother who sold vegetables and worked as a daily wage labourer — garnered global attention with his high jump at the Rio Paralympics in 2016. That leap of glory changed his life forever and pushed closer to reality the dream of every child back home who thought his/her disability was an impediment. Despite that stupendous feat, the 25-year-old didn’t rest on his laurels and continued winning medals internationally and four years later, he has been honoured with the Khel Ratna — the country’s highest sporting award. As he soaked in the accolades, Mariyappan made an important remark, "This recognition is the by-product of the consistency I have shown over the years. This award should serve as a reminder that — if Mariyappan can win it, so can anyone." The latest recognition of the athlete, from Periavadagampatti village in Salem district, is another milestone that para-athletes across the state can use to shatter their biggest hurdle in pursuing a sporting career — people’s mindset. From being mocked at for their appearance to raised eyebrows when training with able athletes, para athletes say society’s disdain for anything that is not ‘normal’, is what pulls them back. Despite showing interest in sports, S Manoj couldn’t train with normal athletes who would mock at his short stature. "I wouldn’t go out to many social gatherings because I wanted to avoid the comments on my appearance," says the para-athlete from Madurai, who won a gold and silver in javelin and discus at the World Dwarf Games, Canada in 2017. His parents’ support helped Manoj overcome his insecurities. "Things changed when I took up sports and people began to recognise me. There are many para-athletes in our state who dream big but their hopes are nipped in the bud either by their family members or by friends. Mariyappan’s Khel Ratna gives us hope that success will come if you are ready to put in those hard yards," says the mechanical engineering graduate. On the ground, more youngsters are taking up para sports. "Over the few years, there has been a steady increase in the number of para-athletes wanting to take up sports," says coach J Ranjith Kumar, who will receive the Dhyan Chand award for having trained state para-athletes for more than a decade. He says in terms of infrastructure, the state government has been supportive of para-athletes, ensuring holding competitions and free coaching to help spot and nurture talent. "While we had the basic infrastructure in place, what we have done in recent years is to build ramps at stadiums. These are at various points in the training area and also in the washrooms for wheelchair-bound athletes," says an SDAT official.Talking about the need to have sporting models in para-athletics, A Arunmoli, whose legs are affected by polio, recollects how growing up she was not encouraged to take up sports, but pushed towards a corporate job for a secure future. "After seeing Mariyappan’s success, parents will encourage their differently-abled children to take up sports and that is the biggest change that he has brought about," says Arunmoli from Madurai, who has won seven gold medals in shot put, discus throw and javelin in the state para athletics meet at Karaikudi last year. Arunmoli’s story mirrors that of Mariyappan. The 34-year-old lost her father as a child. "Our family’s financial condition wasn’t good but I made sure to complete my studies. But since my heart was in sports and decided to take it up. There were a few who weren’t too pleased with my decision. With Mariyappan’s Khel Ratna award, they may have to eat up their words," she says. The state recognition is a reminder that there are no limitations when there are opportunities. "Our para-athletes are excelling in discus, shot put and javelin --- both in domestic and international events. What was needed is a boost in confidence to face the world and Mariyappan has helped with that," says Ranjith.Email feedback to southpole.toi@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/leaping-over-the-barriers-of-body-and-mind/articleshow/77730099.cms||Prasad RS
August 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh to get law for time-bound trials in corruption cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state government would soon bring in a legislation for time-bound trials in corruption cases on the lines of Disha Bill, said chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy. The chief minister held a meeting at the camp office on Monday, during which IIM-Ahmedabad presented its report on ‘Good Governance’. The chief minister reviewed the cabinet sub-committee report and the functioning of the ACB Call Centre (14440), reverse tendering and other issues on eradicating corruption. The CM said that more stringent laws should be made to eradicate corruption. The meeting also discussed the reasons for delay in the trials of corruption cases. “Even if an employee is caught red-handed taking bribes, the case gets dragged for a long period and in some cases, even for over 25 years. We have to bring in legislation on the lines of Disha Bill, fixing the timeline for the trial, to combat the delays. We could eradicate corruption at the top level and it should percolate down the lane,” said the CM. The CM said that all the complaints on corruption coming to 1092 should be diverted to the ACB toll free number 14440, which covers right from village secretariats to the state-level offices. The officials said that the ACB call centre was started a year ago. The centre has received 44,999 calls till date of which 1,747 calls were related to corruption. Other than the 35 pending complaints, the remaining 1712 complaints were addressed, said the officials. The officials have briefed the chief minister about reverse tendering, which involved 788 tenders. This saved about 15.01 percent project cost to the state’s exchequer compared to 7.7 percent during the normal tendering process. The chief minister said that the government should go for reverse tendering in all sectors wherever the tender amount exceeds Rs 1 crore. The officials told the chief minister that so far 45 projects worth RS 14,285 crore were sent for judicial preview. Prof. Sundaravalli Narayana Swamy of IIM-Ahmedabad submitted the report on Good Governance to the chief minister. The report identifies the grey areas of corruption in government departments and the means in which it can be eradicated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-to-get-law-for-time-bound-trials-in-corruption-cases/articleshow/77728604.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Chennai||IIT-Madras researchers find way to safely dispose pharma waste||CHENNAI: Management of waste containing chemicals from personal care products and medicines have been a challenge for long — they barely decompose and their remains affect both the environment and humans. Now, a team of researchers from Indian Institute of Technology, Madras (IIT-M) and Stuttgart University, Germany have developed a co-composting method, where they mix low concentrations of chemical compounds with dry sewer waste and organic waste, for safe disposal of toxic pharmaceutical wastewater sludge. The team studied the degradation pattern of two chemical compounds commonly found in water bodies in South India — triclosan, an antibacterial agent also used as a preservative in soaps, skin screams, toothpaste and deodorants, and carbamazepine, an anti-epileptic drug. They conducted an experiment in an in-vessel composter where three different concentrations — five, 50 and 100mg per kg of dry weight of either both the compounds together and separately were tested with dewatered septage from a sewer plant and mixed organic waste. They found that at a lower concentration of 5mg per kg of dry weight, carbamazepine degraded up to 83% and triclosan up to 86%. “Even though pharmaceuticals and personal care products are less susceptible to biodegradation, the addition of mixed organic waste and coir pith (bulking agent) during septage composting provided an appropriate conducive environment for significant carbamazepine removal. Therefore, in-vessel ‘co-composting’ of septage can be considered as a resource recovery option for septage treatment,” said professor Ligy Philip, department of civil engineering, IIT Madras. “With the increasing population, the usage of onsite sanitation systems like septic tanks have been increasing every year, leading to the disposal of an enormous quantity of septage into the environment without proper treatment. Untreated septage disposal creates environmental degradation which includes contamination of precious surface and groundwater sources, serious health threats and potential greenhouse gas emissions,” said Philip, who led the team which included Anu Rachel Thomas from IIT Madras and professor Martin Kranert from the Germany-based Institute for Sanitary Engineering, Water Quality and Solid Waste Management, Stuttgart University. Watch Chennai: IIT-Madras researchers find way to safely dispose pharma waste||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/iit-m-researchers-find-way-to-safely-dispose-pharma-waste/articleshow/77730067.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Achieving herd immunity is vital to breaking Covid-19 transmission chain, say experts||Amaravati: According to an analysis of the recent Sero Surveillance Survey findings, achieving herd immunity is vital to breaking the Covid-19 chain. The survey said people who have failed to develop antibodies due to immunodeficiency, suppression or contraindications for vaccination could be saved only by herd immunity. World Health Organisation (WHO) has said it was not wise to think about herd immunity at this stage and asked governments to focus on containment of the virus through aggressive testing, tracing and treating the infected the people to break the chain. It also observed that elimination of virus through herd immunity was not possible at this juncture. While echoing WHO, healthcare experts in the state are, however, contending that herd immunity is a strong weapon as it might take very long to get vaccine for its large population. “As many people think, herd immunity is not about protection of individuals who already have antibodies against Covid-19 either because of vaccine or because of previous infection. It is the protection of people who have failed to develop antibodies because of immunodeficiency,” said Dr N V Sundarachary, officer on special duty (OSD) at the state Covid-19 Command Control Centre. He said many might not develop antibodies due to suppression or contraindications for vaccination. He analysed that Seroconversion, which helps development of detectable antibodies in blood that are directed against an infectious agent, is a way to fight the virus. Antibodies do not usually develop until sometime after the initial exposure to the agent. “For example, a small group of Covid-19 infected people can spread the virus to an entire community of healthy people due to absence of vaccine. The virus continues to spread even if only a few are vaccinated as it is not possible to break the chain of the contagious disease without reaching herd immunity level,” said Dr Sundarachary. The solution to break the chain lies in majority of people developing antibodies because of vaccination or getting recovered with Seroconversion. “Only this situation can help remaining people who have no antibodies from getting infected,” he said. Recent Sero surveillance carried out in four districts including Krishna, East Godavari, Anantapur and Nellore found that about 20% people were unaware that they had contracted the virus and recovered. The positivity rate in Vijayawada city was very high with 40% against the 10% positivity rate across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/achieving-herd-immunity-is-vital-to-breaking-covid-19-transmission-chain-say-experts/articleshow/77728559.cms||Samdani MN
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman killed at her house in Dundigal||Hyderabad: A housewife was murdered in Dundigal on Sunday. Police are suspecting the role of the victim’s brother and her husband. According to police, two years back, 20-year-old Kasi Bai got married to Madhav in Pune. They stayed in Pune during the lockdown and came to Hyderabad along with Madhav’s family. After spending a few days in the city Madhav returned to Pune. He came back on August 22. On the day, Madhav and Kasi Bai stayed at their residence in Dundigal after all the other relatives left for work. However, after they returned from work, the relatives found Kasi Bai’s body lying in the kitchen in a pool of blood with her throat slit. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-killed-at-her-house-in-dundigal/articleshow/77730100.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Chennai||City runners lace up for half marathon||Chennai: The Dream Runners have decided that despite the pandemic, the show will, and must, go on. Running enthusiasts out there, it’s time to lace up and register for the Hexaware Dream Runners Half Marathon (DRHM) 2020, which will take place between September 19 and 26. The event is virtual, so participants can choose to run any of the three categories -- 5k, 10k or 21.1k -- at a time and route of their convenience bearing in mind they maintain the rules of safety and physical distancing. “This will not be a conventional timed run where participants have to track their runs on their respective running app and upload the same on the link provided by the event organisers,” said Rekha Sudarsan, race director, at the 9th edition of DRHM which was kicked off, virtually of course, on August 23. “I have run in this event in Chennai for many years. This year too I have started training for the half marathon,” said R Srikishna, aka, Keech, CEO Hexaware Technologies. DRHM, which had its modest start in the city in 2008, when a group of people passionate about road running banded together, has grown to become an organization with over 500 active members across 10 chapters. DRHM usually marks the opening event to Chennai’s running season and is usually held during the second last Sunday of July every year, but was postponed this year on account of the pandemic. The DRHM has served as a fund-raising platform for supporting the causes of various charity partners. The 9th edition continues to deliver on the promise of its tag line, ‘We Run, So They Can Walk’, and will raise funds for the Freedom Trust and towards funding prosthetic limbs for amputees. “Walk India, which was started three years ago, has provided mobility to more than 3,000 people,” said Dr S Sunder, Founder, Freedom Trust. This year’s edition also aims to raise funds to provide pressure garments for women who are victims of acid attack and burns from domestic violence supported by the International Foundation for Crime Prevention & Victim Care (PCVC) and to give financial assistance to Covid-19 front line workers. This year, there will be no prize money for the fastest finishers. For more details, visit www.dreamrunnershalfmarathon.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-runners-lace-up-for-half-marathon/articleshow/77730093.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||TPF vice-president released from jail||Hyderabad: After obtaining bail in a case registered by National Investigation Agency (NIA) for allegedly having links with Maoists, Telangana Praja Front (TPF) vice-president Nalamasa Krishna was released from Cherlapally jail on Monday evening. He appealed the state and Union government to drop all criminal cases registered against him. Two more accused in the case are still in jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tpf-vice-president-released-from-jail/articleshow/77730113.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||dAir transport bubble passengers need not register with Indian missions||Ahmedabad: According to a new standard operating protocol (SOP) issued by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Saturday, passengers travelling to India from countries with which India has an ‘air transport bubbles’ arrangement, need not register themselves with the Indian missions for return. The ‘air transport bubbles’ arrangement is a temporary arrangement with a few countries to allow limited commercial passenger flights on a reciprocal basis, at a time when regular international flights continue to be suspended as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.The countries with which India has made ‘air transport bubbles’ arrangement are USA, France, Germany, UK, Canada and the UAE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dair-transport-bubble-passengers-need-not-register-with-indian-missions/articleshow/77730163.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Chennai||Rs 3cr ‘ancient DNA lab’ to studyexcavated artefacts in TN: Minister||Chennai: The antiquities unearthed during the ongoing archaeological excavations at places like Keeladi, Adichchanallur, Sivagalai and Kodumanal across the state will be analyzed using modern scientific methods in reputed laboratories and institutions, said minister for Tamil language, culture and archaeology K Pandirajan on Monday. “To supplement the ongoing archaeological excavations in Tamil Nadu, Madurai Kamaraj University has taken necessary steps to establish an ‘ancient DNA lab’ at a cost of Rs 3 crore. We normally depend on foreign laboratories for testing and it consumes a lot of time and energy. New initiatives like this will help get the results faster,” the minister said, while releasing “Ongoing archaeological excavations in Tamil Nadu: A status report (July 2020).” The report, which includes graphs, fact-files and figures, shows the systematic archaeological explorations and excavations conducted across the state since the sixth season of systematic archaeological excavation was inaugurated by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on February 19.  Having recognized the valuable contribution of specialized disciplines for a deeper analysis of archaeological findings, the state department of archaeology is collaborating with experts from such fields as archaeo-botany, molecular biology, population genetics, prehistoric archaeology, environmental archaeology and linguistic archaeology. “The department has taken up a major initiative in adopting various technologies like ground penetrating radar (GPR) survey, magnetometer survey, unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) survey to identify the ideal spot for carrying out the explorations and excavations with the help of reputed institutions in India,” he said.  On the trenches and quadrants laid as part of the excavations at Keeladi, Adichchanallur, Sivagalai and Kodumanal, Pandirajan said 76 trenches and 168 quadrants had been opened till the end of July. “We have collected 128 carbon samples from these sites, the highest being 97 from Keeladi and its clusters,” he said. It was to study the civilisation that flourished along the Vaigai river in detail that excavations have been taken up in the clusters of Keeladi such as Kondagai, Manalur and Agaram, he said. “The available information provides a clear idea of a habitation-industrial-burial site here.” Asked why the department was not taking any action to preserve the idols that had been returned from foreign countries, Pandiarajan said the courts concerned and the police department had to decide where these idols should go. “We are ready to take care of them. But it’s the court that should decide whether the idols should go to the temple or museum,” he said. Rs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rs-3cr-ancient-dna-lab-to-studyexcavated-artefacts-in-tn-min/articleshow/77730097.cms||M T Saju
August 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Flood levels fall at Prakasam Barrage, further drop likely||Vijayawada: Inflows into the Prakasam Barrage fell on Monday following reduction in outflows at Srisailam, Nagarjuna Sagar and Pulichintala Projects. The flood level came down to 1.7 lakh cusecs at Prakasam Barrage by Monday evening. Irrigation authorities estimate that the flood level will further fall by Wednesday morning as inflows from the Munneru rivulet reduce. Flood relief efforts by the Krishna district administration and the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) continued downstream of the Prakasam Barrage as many villages remain inundated. The VMC set up flood relief camps at Pandit Nehru Bus Station, AVS Reddy High School and Patamata Lanka high schools. Those taking shelter at the Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation Stadium (IGMS) flood relief camp said they had trouble in spending the night in a open stadium. “We are facing similar problem every year. We are happy that officials provided food and essentials, but we are unable to sleep in the open ground. Mosquitoes are a problem for children. Officials should arrange a shelter in a closed space,” said Srinu Babu, a flood victim. The VMC surveyed flood victims and the process to identify eligible families for permanent housing has begun. Officials confirmed that many families are likely to get ‘pattas’ soon under the Navaratnalu scheme. Meanwhile, at the Prakasam Barrage, crowds gathered to see the flood. Police deployed special forces and prevented entry into danger zones. High-risk areas were barricaded. Police and VMC authorities urged visitors to maintain physical distancing in view of the Covid-19 outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/flood-levels-fall-at-prakasam-barrage-further-drop-likely/articleshow/77728641.cms||Venu Lanka
August 25, 2020||Chennai||M K Stalin writes to Union minister to defer Neet, JEE due to pandemic||CHENNAI: DMK president M K Stalin on Monday asked Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal to postpone Neet and JEE this year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. In his letter, Stalin highlighted the difficulties faced by students who are slated to appear for these two exams. Apart from the havoc wreaked by Covid-19, many parts are yet to recover from the recent floods that ravaged people’s livelihoods. Students and parents are under enormous mental stress, trying to cope with the testing times, Stalin said in his letter. “With the present restrictions on public transport, the allotted exam centres are not uniformly accessible to all and it will not be possible for students belonging to rural areas and less-privileged sections to reach the exam centres. They will be put under a great disadvantage against their affluent counterparts,” Stalin wrote in his letter to the Union minister. “No decision shall be made in haste putting the lives of students at stake. The government shall act keeping the well-being and future of students in mind. In the light of the severe difficulties explained above, I sincerely request you to postpone the JEE, Neet until Covid-19 is brought under control,” Stalin said. Meanwhile, Tuticorin MP and DMK women’s wing secretary Kanimozhi said the Centre should grant exemption for MBBS aspirants from Neet at least this year due to the pandemic. “Neet could then be cancelled permanently,” she told reporters in Tuticorin on Monday. Meanwhile, Congress MP from Sivaganga Karthi P Chidambaram too joined the fray in urging the Centre to postpone Neet and JEE. “Those in favour of going forward with the exams greatly undermine the personal risk that students will be forced to take when appearing for these exams,” Karthi said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/stalin-writes-to-union-minister-to-defer-neet-jee-due-to-pandemic/articleshow/77728642.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Bhopal||Short walk or long drive in Bhopal: Safety first, don’t ditch the mask||BHOPAL: ‘To mask or not to mask’ doesn’t even qualify for a question when the state isbattling the surge surge in Covid cases. So, what is the reason behind giving mask a miss? Is it Bhopalis’ ‘chalta hai’ attitude, which is reflecting in their approach towards wearing masks as well? Well, numbers speak for themselves. City police have registered more than a whopping 8,000 cases of lockdown violation since March 22, and since June 8, traffic police have registered around 5,000 cases specifically against those people, who ventured out without wearing masks in public spaces. But still people can be seen roaming on streets without wearing masks. Police officers say that people come up with a range of excuses when caught without wearing a mask. They blame the weather for it or just say that they forgot their mask at home, or that wearing mask makes them feel uncomfortable, they feel suffocated when they wear a mask. Some even argue with cops that they can look after their own safety and there is no need for police to get involved in it. Traffic SI Vinayak Soni, deployed at the checkpoint on Link Road-2 in TT Nagar said, “masks have become like helmets in the city. People riding bikes or scooters wear them only when they spot cops or checkpoints on roads. Just like how they hold helmets in their hand while driving, they have started putting masks in their pockets.” SI Soni said, “Many car owners are under the impression that they are safe inside their vehicles, but that is wrong.” He said that most of the people do not wear masks properly and even if they are wearing a mask, they do not cover their nose and mouth. When cops object to this, people say that they are not audible when they speak while wearing a mask. In major commercial and market areas people can be spotted either not wearing a mask or hanging it around their chin. ASI Chhatrapal Singh, deployed at Board Office Square traffic checkpoint said, “people argue with police when stopped at checkpoints. They say they reside nearby and just stepped out of home so they forgot to wear a mask. Some say that their mask got drenched in rain and they are going to buy a new one. These people waste a minimum half an hour of the cops arguing before paying the fine of Rs100 for not wearing masks.“ASP Rajat Saklecha said, “when police stop people at checkpoints for not wearing masks the focus is on making them aware of the importance of wearing masks by counselling. The situation is improving and more people can be spotted wearing masks while venturing out of their homes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/short-walk-or-long-drive-safety-first-dont-ditch-the-mask/articleshow/77730165.cms||Sudeept Mishra
August 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Parents wary of govt’s eagerness to reopen schools in September||Visakhapatnam: Amid speculations that Unlock 4.0, which will start from September 1, may allow reopening of schools, a majority of the parents are apprehensive about sending their wards to schools in view of the increasing Covid-19 cases. Limited infrastructure and small classrooms at various schools, which make physical distancing and other safety measures a difficult task, have raised concerns among parents of transmission of the virus. Additionally, some private schools have been operating out of cramped classrooms. As ensuring that students follow Covid-19-related precautions at all times will be a daunting task for school managements, some experts have suggested the state government evolve a model to implement at the micro-level, taking into account logistics, limitations, safety of students and other factors. B Appalaraju, whose children study at a school in Seethammadhara, said the government should allow online classes to continue till the Covid-19 threat subsides or there is a significant drop in number of cases. “I request the government to wait for some more time to see the disease trend and plan appropriately,” he said. Several parents who spoke to TOI echoed Appalaraju’s opinion and expressed a preference for home schooling instead of sending children to school and exposing to the risk of virus contraction. Head of Catherine Group of Institutions Oliver Rayi said, “Coronavirus had spread like wildfire in less than two weeks after the resumption of schools abroad. Hundreds of students and teachers had to go into quarantine. Reopening schools too early in developing countries could undermine the gains made so far in containing the spread of the virus through various measures. The state government needs a clear and balanced plan in this regard and schools should only be reopened after that,” said Oliver. Narasapuram MP Raghu Ramakrishna Raju wrote to chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Sunday, requesting the proposal to reopen schools from September 5 be deferred. “Andhra Pradesh has been reporting about 10,000 new Covid-19 cases daily. Parents are extremely worried about sending their kids to schools due to increasing cases,” said Ramakrishna Raju in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/parents-wary-of-govts-eagerness-to-reopen-schools-in-september/articleshow/77728650.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 25, 2020||Chennai||Court: Inequality in edu system is worse with online classes||Chennai: Inequality in education system has further worsened due to online classes, said the Madras high court, asking Tamil Nadu government for details of online classes for tribal students in hilly regions. A division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha also directed the government to file a comprehensive report on the steps taken to ensure that schools follow guidelines issued by the state for conducting such classes. While hearing a batch of PILs seeking to regulate online classes, the judges observed that the inequality in the education system has further worsened due to such online classes. Explaining the difficulties faced by students in attending such classes, advocate J Ravindran relied on a study made by NCERT which said 27% of central government school children face difficulties in attending online classes. The petitioners unanimously submitted that a combination of online classes and classes through TV channels must be adopted to address the primary concern of parents — longer exposure of kids to digital screens. They further added that pre-recorded programmes can be uploaded to school websites, which can be accessed by the students instead of live classes. Recording the submission, the bench said availability of gadgets to all students is one of the primary issues, while internet connectivity comes next. The bench then asked additional advocate-general Narmadha Sampath whether there were mechanisms by the state to ensure that all students are graduated through online classes. “Online classes have become the order of the day with over 300 million children from across the world pursuing it due to the pandemic,” Narmadha Sampath said. As she sought some more time to get instructions as to the accessibility of such classes to tribal students and the availability of a mechanism, the bench adjourned the pleas to August 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/court-inequality-in-edu-system-is-worse-with-online-classes/articleshow/77728667.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Chennai||Repair of RA Puram sewer line, damaged by ISP, to end today||Chennai: Work on restoring a sewer pipeline in RA Puram, that was damaged on Sunday morning during cable-laying work of a private internet service provider, continued on Monday evening and is expected to be completed by Tuesday morning, said a Metrowater official. One of the reasons for the delay in repairing the pipeline is that it runs at a depth ranging from 1m to 2.5m, said the official. The line pumping out sewage from neighbourhoods in Mandaveli, Mylapore, Royapettah and Ice House to the Metrowater station on Brodies Castle Road in RA Puram, was burst early on Sunday, spewing sewage on to the road. Metrowater officials filed an FIR with police. Another huge pipeline, which runs at a depth of 7m, brings sewage through gravity to pumping stations and the task would have been more difficult had such a line been damaged. “At times, it may even take a year to identify the fault or damage to such pipelines,” the official said. This is not the first time a sewer line has been damaged by a private telecom operator laying cables, said the official, adding that permission from Metrowater should be made mandatory for such projects to avoid recurrence of such incidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/repair-of-ra-puram-sewer-line-damaged-by-isp-to-end-today/articleshow/77728649.cms||P Oppili
August 25, 2020||Goa||Merces missing files: Probe ordered||Panaji: The state information commissioner has ordered the director of panchayats to conduct an inquiry into two missing files of construction licence issued to a party by the Merces panchayat. The commission has ordered for the inquiry to be completed within six months and a copy of the inquiry report to be furnished. State information commissioner Pratima Vernekar stated that the order was required to be passed so that liability is fixed and the records are traced. Vernekar observed that the secretary of Merces panchayat filed a police complaint about the missing construction licence “without fixing any responsibility on any of the staff for the loss of records. There is no thorough inquiry conducted in the present case for the loss of said records”. Citizen Adolfo Carvalho sought certified copies of two construction licences issued in 2000-2001 and 1994 along with approved plans, under the RTI. The public information officer stated that the information could not be furnished as files could not be traced in the office despite issuing a memorandum to staff of the Merces panchayat— the dealing clerk and peon to search the files. “One could gather from the documents relied by the public information officer that the office memorandum was issued to the present dealing clerk and the present peon of village panchayat Merces only and the replies were sought by him from them. The village panchayat secretary ought to have inquired and ought to have sought explanation from the previous staff who was attached to the village panchayat of Merces,” the commission stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/merces-missing-files-probe-ordered/articleshow/77731749.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC to set up 320 parks, says mayor||Hyderabad: The GHMC has planned to set up 320 parks in colonies to increase the green cover, mayor Bonthu Rammohan said during the inauguration of a park in IS Sadan division. He said the parks will have facilities for people of all ages. In addition, 50 theme parks are being set up across the city. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-to-set-up-320-parks-says-mayor/articleshow/77730148.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana okays online classes from September 1||HYDERABAD: Government on Monday issued orders to commence the new academic year in the state from September 1. With this, schools across the state can start admission process and digital classes. However, private schools, including those affiliated to other boards (CBSE and ICSE), have already commenced their online classes. The school education department, in an order issued on Monday, stated that a meeting of the council of ministers held on August 5 had approved the commencement of admissions and starting distance education and e-learning for school education. “Government after careful examination hereby permit as part of e-learning and distance education, online classes on various digital/TV/T-SAT platforms from September 1 in all schools,” the order, issued by special chief secretary, education, Chitra Ramachandran, said. The state has also directed all teachers to attend schools regularly from August 27 onwards and prepare e-content, lesson plans, etc. With regards to the reopening of schools and commencement of regular classes, the state said separate instructions would be issued as per the Union government’s guidelines. “Until then, all schools shall remain physically closed for students,” the order added. The special chief secretary also directed the Director of School Education to follow an alternative academic calendar prepared by SCERT and issue detailed operational guidelines on the subject.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-okays-online-classes-from-sept-1/articleshow/77730195.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong groups sink differences, bat for Nehru-Gandhi family||Hyderabad: Various groups in Telangana Congress have sunk their differences for once and took the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting as an opportunity to express their loyalty to the party as well as the Nehru-Gandhi family. Now, state Congress leaders want to see Rahul Gandhi as next Congress president. Political analysts said there would not be any direct impact of the ginger group-forced CWC meeting on Telangana Congress. Sources, however, said leaders close to Renuka Choudhary, Mukul Wasnik and Ghulam Nabi Azad might be under the scanner here after. Renuka, Wasnik and Azad were among signatories of a letter sent to Sonia Gandhi. A veteran leader said the ginger group’s letter is a wake-up call to the party high command that only those born and brought up in the party should be promoted and not paratroopers. “The time has come to promote ideologically-strong Congress loyalists,” the veteran leader said. Party veterans, seniors and youngsters had thrown their weight behind Sonia and Rahul a day before the CWC meeting, while many others showed their loyalty to the Nehru-Gandhi family on Monday. Telangana Congress working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi stating he has full faith and confidence in her and Rahul Gandhi’s leadership. The letter assumes significance as a section of the party had complained to the high command against him. Though Revanth has never spoken against the Nehru-Gandhi family, some TPCC post hopefuls see him as a threat to their aspirations. CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, MLAs Sridhar Babu and T Jayaprakash Reddy said Rahul has been waging a lone battle against the Modi government. “All secularists, SCs, STs, BCs and economically weaker sections are waiting for Rahul Gandhi to take over party leadership. Rahul should take up a nation-wide tour,” Bhatti said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-groups-sink-differences-bat-for-nehru-gandhi-family/articleshow/77730192.cms||Roushan Ali
August 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt scoffs at Puri land row, says facility to be renovated for pilgrims||Bhubaneswar: The state government on Monday denied charges of corruption involving the Bagala Dharmasala land and said the government plans to renovate it and provide a better facility for pilgrims. “Only a piece of vacant land of the Dharmasala has been utilized for the purpose of rehabilitation and resettlement for those who have given their land for (Jagannath) temple development by following all the legal procedures,” the government said. The government’s response came in the wake of BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra and senior party leader Bijoy Mohapatra’s allegation of illegal sale of Dharmasala land meant to provide affordable accommodation to Jagannath devotees. Countering the allegation, a government statement said there is some misinformation regarding compensation accorded to displaced lodge owners in the “development of heritage security corridor around the Shree Jagannath Temple in Puri.” The government said as part of the heritage project, 27 lodges were displaced and as per the rehabilitation policy approved by it, they were given option of one-time cash settlement or land in exchange. The policy had the approval of the state cabinet and was designed to motivate people to come forward and offer their land for the project. Till date, six of the lodge owners out of 27 exercised the option of land as resettlement assistance and were being given land, the government said. “The resettlement plots were allotted to them on payment of benchmark value. The land in question was never sold to anyone nor connected with the project, rather allotted and transferred to the displaced lodge owners/yatri niwas/dharmasala/hotels as per the provisions of resettlement assistance,” the government statement said. The government also clarified the project plan does not envisage demolishing Bagala Dharmasala. “In fact, the government has plans to renovate and make it a better facility for pilgrims,” the statement added. The government said while major projects in the country are stuck because of land acquisition issues, here is a project in the heart of Puri town where people have come forward to sacrifice their business establishments, land and homes where they have been living and working for of years. “This exercise has been done in the most transparent manner, following all legal procedures,” the government said. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-scoffs-at-puri-land-row-says-facility-to-be-renovated-for-pilgrims/articleshow/77728665.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Naveen asks Jindal to create jobs in steel plant||Bhubaneswar: Chief minister Naveen Patnaik asked JSW chairman Sajjan Jindal to start work on its proposed 13.2 MTPA integrated steel plant in Jagatsinghpur district. He emphasised on maximum value addition that will fuel job creation and revenue generation for the state exchequer during a video conference with Jindal on Monday. The high-level clearance authority led by the chief minister approved the proposed JSW steel plant at an investment of over Rs 50,000 crore in 2017. “The JSW is committed to all its projects in the state. We are getting complete support from the entire state machinery. The movement of materials has already started and we are going to start work soon,” said Jindal. He said JSW is tying up with IIM, Sambalpur, to create JSW Centre for Development Studies for Odisha. The company has plans to invest over Rs one lakh crore in Odisha in the next 10 years, Jindal added. JSW Steel will also establish a 100-bed hospital and a school at Koida in Sundargarh district in PPP mode to develop mining areas for the benefits of the local people. With the full support of the state government, this development project will be established soon. Naveen earlier spoke to ArcelorMittal chairman L N Mittal regarding his investment proposals and is planning to speak to other industry leaders to attract investment to Odisha. “The state government has allocated land, water and power for the project. It is being fast paced to begin at the earliest,” a government statement said. Beginning of the JSW project work will be a significant milestone for Odisha as Posco had to abandon its proposed project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/naveen-asks-jindal-to-create-jobs-in-steel-plant/articleshow/77728670.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Chennai||EIA policy matter, can’t stay, says HC||Chennai: The Madras high court on Monday refused to stay the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification 2020, saying it cannot pass interim orders in the policy matters of the government. However, admitting the plea moved by advocate Ramkumar Adityan, seeking direction to the Centre to publish Tamil version of the draft, the first bench of chief justice A P Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy directed the government to file its response by September 8. The bench also directed the registry to tag the matter with a similar plea already pending before another division bench. The petitioner pointed out that though the Delhi HC had recently directed the Centre to publish the draft in all the 22 recognised languages in the country, which was also upheld by the Supreme Court, the Centre was yet to implement the order. He further contended the draft EIA-2020 notification was a complex document and was difficult to understand. It is also clear that the draft EIA is less environment-friendly and more aligned to serving interests of project proponents who have little concern for the environment, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eia-policy-matter-cant-stay-says-hc/articleshow/77728671.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Asad’s poetic justice jibe at Azad||Hyderabad: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Monday termed senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad’s offer to resign from the party as ‘poetic justice’. “Poetic Justice: @ghulamnazad GHULAM NABI sb u’d accused me of exactly this. Now you’re accused of the same. 45 years of ghulami for this? Now it’s proven that anyone opposing Janeudhari leadership will be branded B-Team I hope Muslims now know the high cost of loyalty to Congress,” tweeted Owaisi. The MP also wrote to CM K Chandrasekhar Rao requesting exemption of Motor Vehicles Tax during lockdown. In the letter, he said the transport industry is on verge of collapse as operators are unable to do business and around six lakh workers have lost their livelihood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asads-poetic-justice-jibe-at-azad/articleshow/77730196.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Graft tremor: 12 tahsildars in Medchal-Malkajgiri moved out||Hyderabad: A week after Keesara tahsildar E B Nagaraju was caught red-handed by Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials in a graft case, the Medchal-Malkajgiri district administration has transferred all tahsildars working in the district. The revamping of the revenue department has begun in the district in the wake of allegations of corruption and nexus between officials and politicians. Nagaraju getting caught with Rs 1.10 crore alleged bribe sent shockwaves across the state, especially in the revenue department. Medchal collector Vasam Venkateshwaralu on Monday issued transfer orders. Official sources said this was the first time all mandal tahsildars have been transferred at one go. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar has reportedly directed the collector to revamp the district by transferring all the 12 tahsildars. According to the order, Y Gouri Vatsala, presently working as tahsildar Qutubullapur, has been posted as tahsildar of Keesara. Divisional administrative officer of Keesara divison, M Sarala, was shunted out to superintendent of H section in the collectorate. Kapra tahsildar K Goutham Kumar would continue in the same past, but has been given full additional charge of Uppal mandal. Malkajgiri tahsildar B Geetha, currently on leave, has been transferred to Medchal, while Alwal tahsildar Nagamani would hold additional charge of Medchal till the new incumbent joins duty. M Surender, who was in Medchal, has been posted to Shamirpet and he was also asked to look after Muduchintalpally till further orders. The other tahsildars, who were shifted include M Mahipal (Qutubullapur), R Govardhan (Kukatpally and FAC Balanagar), V Bhupal (Bachupally), P Sanjeeva Rao (divisional administrative officer, Keesara), N Nirmala (divisional administrative officer, Malkajgiri division), and D Ahalya (superintendent D section and land reforms).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/graft-tremor-12-tahsildars-in-medchal-malkajgiri-moved-out/articleshow/77730226.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 25, 2020||Amritsar||Cotton picking yet to pick up pace in Malwa||Bathinda: Cotton picking is yet to gather pace in most parts of the Malwa region. The first arrival of the crop was reported at Abohar grain market where raw cotton fetched a price of Rs 4,850 per quintal on Monday. The minimum support price (MSP) for the long staple (27.5-28.5 MM) cotton, grown in Punjab, has been fixed at Rs 5,725 per quintal. Though official purchase of cotton starts from September 1, the arrivals start nearly a week early in Abohar area. Last year too, the first arrivals were reported on August 25 and raw cotton had fetched Rs 4,750 per quintal while the MSP was Rs 5,450 per quintal. Cotton has been sown over 5 lakh hectares in Punjab this season as against 3.92 lakh hectares in 2019. However, as per state agriculture department officials, the flowering and boll formation stage got lengthier due to rains in many parts of cotton belt. Arrivals are expected to pick up pace after middle of September. Abohar-based commission agent Suresh Bansal’s son Jai Parkash Bansal said, “Three farmers from the area had brought some cotton from the new season on Sunday and we made the purchase for ‘muhurat’ trading. Though Abohar area normally leads in crop arrivals, the regular arrival of the crop this season has seen some delay.” “In the 2019-20 season, the cotton was sown in 3.92 lakh hectares which increased to 5 lakh in 2020-21 season. Most of this area is learnt to have converted from paddy to cotton because of its good yield and adequate increase in MSP,” said a senior official of the agriculture department. Apart from damage to crop in small area due to rains, the growth of the crop has been good, he added. “The picking has started at slow pace in some areas which is expected to pick up after mid-September. We expect good yield and hope to earn some money from the crop,” said farmer Gurjant Singh of Sangat village in Bathinda, who had sown crop in four acres. An official from Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) said, “The Union government though has announced the MSP for various crops, including cotton, the corporation is yet to receive the official letter about the MSP. The CCI purchase season starts from October 1 and till then, all the documentation formalities will be completed.” The MSP is for moisture content up to 8% and thereafter 1% price is deducted from MSP for 1% more moisture up to 12% and crop with more than 12% moisture content is not purchased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/cotton-picking-yet-to-pick-up-pace-in-malwa/articleshow/77730216.cms||Neel Kamal
August 25, 2020||Goa||State Cong backs Sonia Gandhi, says no alternative to family||Panaji: The Congress Working Committee’s (CWC) decision to back national party president Sonia Gandhi and give her a free hand to bring in organisational changes got the backing of the state Congress unit. Party functionaries said that the Gandhi family is the unifying factor for the party and there is no other alternative. Opposition leader Digambar Kamat and state party chief Girish Chodankar said that with Gandhi at the helm of the party Congress would remain united and strong. The turmoil fuelled by the dissent letter signed by 23 of its senior most members had party workers in Goa glued to their phones and TV sets. With status quo being maintained, many drew a sigh of relief, though concerns about the party’s next rung of leadership remain. “I welcome the decision taken by the CWC today to authorise our Congress president Sonia Gandhi to effect necessary organisational changes that she may deem appropriate to tackle all challenges faced by the party,” said Kamat. Kamat said that Gandhi has led the party during difficult situations and handled various challenges in the past while also upholding the Constitution. “I am sure, very soon we will see a rejuvenated and energised Congress all across India. I am confident that the Congress party would emerge stronger and victorious in the days ahead,” said Kamat. Chodankar also supported the decision to urge the ailing Gandhi to continue at the helm of the party “We urge all Congress workers to unitedly support Rahul Gandhi as he single-handedly leads India against the attack on the Constitution, our democracy, the mismanagement of economy and Covid-19. The CWC deliberated for nearly seven hours after which the 52 members unanimously agreed that there should be no change in the party’s leadership. Many party workers pointed out that the lack of a clear successor is a major factor behind the decision. “The Gandhi family is a unifying factor and the name brings stability to the party. From an academic perspective, the party’s history and the Gandhi family’s history is intertwined. Politically, there is nobody else in sight,” said a party office bearer. Uncertainty over the national leadership ever since Rahul Gandhi stepped away from the post and the party’s electoral failures have demoralised workers at the Centre and in Goa. “The first thing for a leader is to command respect and the CWC meeting proved it as not a single name came up to replace the Gandhis,” said state Congress media convenor Trajano D’Mello.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-cong-backs-sonia-gandhi-says-no-alternative-to-family/articleshow/77731750.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Two dead, one injured in road mishap||Hyderabad: Two construction workers died and a commuter sustained injuries after a bus rammed into them near Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University in Rajendranagar on Monday. The deceased were identified as Shekharaiah, 50, and his wife Shankaramma, 45, construction labourers from Addakal in Nagarkurnool district. The victims were working at an under-construction flyover near the university. “The driver of the bus coming from Shamshabad was speeding. While trying to overtake a bike rider, the bus driver hit the rider and the couple who were working nearby. The couple died on the spot. The bus driver abandoned the vehicle and fled from the spot,” said Rajendranagar inspector Suresh. A case was registered against the bus driver under Sections 304-a and 337 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-dead-one-injured-in-road-mishap/articleshow/77730234.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Three cases dimissed in first hearing itself||VADODARA: A court in Vadodara has dismissed three cases filed for lockdown violation of section 188 of the IPC (disobeying an order promulgated by a public servant), observing that judicial magistrate’s consent is mandatory before lodging the FIR in such offences. The court of the additional senior civil judge and additional chief judicial magistrate N P Unadkat dismissed three cases last week in the first hearing itself. The three cases were registered under section 188 of IPC at Bapod police station during the lockdown. The cases were registered against a fruit seller for not maintaining social distancing among his customers at his stall on Ajwa Road and two citizens for roaming around on Waghodiya Road without any purpose during the lockdown. The court dismissed the cases by referring to section 195 of criminal procedure code (CrPC) which states that no court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under sections 172 to 188 of the IPC. The court also referred to judgements of Gujarat, Patna and Delhi high courts and the Supreme Court on the same issue. The ruling could have bearing on thousands of FIRs lodged during the lockdown, without the consent of the judicial magistrate, with lawyers claiming that these have no legal standing. After registering the FIRs, police filed the chargesheet in these cases on the grounds that the three had violated the notification issued by the police commissioner and committed a crime under section 188 of IPC. “There is a difference between a complaint and an FIR. Police cannot directly register the FIR under sections 172 to 188 of IPC, but can take preventive action and then give a complaint in writing to a magistrate who shall decide whether the FIR should be registered or not,” said Pravin Thakkar, a Vadodara-based lawyer practising criminal law. He added that all FIRs registered without following the due procedure will be dismissed similarly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/court-dismisses-twolockdown-violation-cases-in-1st-hearing/articleshow/77727443.cms||Jay Pachchigar
August 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Fewer idol immersions may improve water quality along Visakhapatnam’s beaches||VISAKHAPATNAM: Environmentalists are hopeful that this year the coastline of Visakhapatnam and water bodies in the city will remain free of pollution following the curb on Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations and restrictions on the height of idols. Unlike other years, only a few Ganesh idols were immersed in the city’s water bodies and beaches on Sunday. Most of the idols were barely two to three feet high. The restriction, environmentalists claimed, would prevent pollution in water bodies. “Our research has shown that every year after the Ganesh festival, water at the immersion points of the city gets severely polluted. The pH level goes down significantly making the water highly acidic for at least a fortnight at a stretch. Thanks to the restrictions for Covid-19, this year, water bodies won’t get polluted to that extent,” said Prof KV Ramesh of the chemical engineering department at Andhra University. Prof Ramesh was part of a team that conducted a survey on the effects of Ganesh idol immersion along the beaches and coastline of Visakhapatnam. The report was published in February 2018. “Our survey revealed that the pH level of seawater reduced to almost 3.5 on major immersion days after the Ganesh festival. This indicates that the waters become highly acidic and hence have a significant impact on the aquatic life,” Ramesh told TOI. Normally, seawater has a pH of 8.2 but can range between 7.5 and 8.5 depending on local conditions. “In Visakhapatnam, while carrying out different surveys over the years, we have found out the pH level is a little below 7. In fact, that figure is also not good. Going down to as much as 3.5 is actually dangerous,” said Anupam Ghosh, secretary-general of Asian Marine Conservative Association. The association has special consultative status under the United Nations’ ECOSOC and carries out various marine surveys in Visakhapatnam. Taking advantage of restrictions on Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations this year, thousands of clay idols were distributed across Visakhapatnam by several individuals and organisations in a bid to promote environmental consciousness. “This is a very good move. Normally, toxic lead paints are responsible for water bodies getting polluted. As the number and size of Ganesh idols reduced and with clay Ganesh idols distributed, water bodies and coastline of the city would remain pollution-free to a great extent,” added Ghosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/fewer-idol-immersions-may-improve-water-quality-along-vizags-beaches/articleshow/77728683.cms||Arpit Basu
August 25, 2020||Bhopal||8 sandalwood trees stolen from IGRMS campus||BHOPAL: Thieves chopped and stole eight sandalwood trees from the high security zone at Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Manav Sangrahalaya (IGRMS) premises, early on Sunday. The theft came to light when the security guards noticed the chopped trees and alerted senior officials. Security officer of IGRMS filed a complaint with Shyamla Hills police station on Sunday, after which the cops registered a theft case against unidentified accused and started the investigation. SHO Shyamla Hills police station, SI Tarun Singh Bhati, said that complainant Nitin Raj Deshpande, 55, is posted as security officer as IGRMS. He filed a complaint, stating that unidentified accused had barged into the IGRMS premises on Sunday night and stole eight sandalwood trees after chopping them. “We have started collecting information about the suspects who were involved in sandalwood thefts previously,” SI Bhati said. He said that the footages of CCTV cameras installed in the IGRMS premises are being scanned to identify the accused. IGRMS is located in high security zone, near the CM House. Many senior ministers & VIPs reside in the area and the Judges Colony is also located nearby. The theft of sandalwood trees from such high security zone during night curfew raises questions over police security. It is evident that sandalwood smugglers are active in the city. Two days ago, they chopped 11 trees in Morvan Shahpura but could not steal the sandalwood as the residents of the area spotted them and raised alarm. City police have busted gangs involved in smuggling sandalwood in the recent past. Thieves steal sandalwood trees from many areas of Bhopal and smuggle it to other states through their network in Sehore and Shajapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/8-sandalwood-trees-stolen-from-igrms-campus/articleshow/77730228.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Agra||Priyanka slams UP govt, child rights panel asks why family was without ration card||Agra: The death of a five-year-old Dalit girl in Agra due to “hunger and sickness” is a blot on the Uttar Pradesh government which has not taken any concrete step to address the ongoing financial squeeze, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said. In a Facebook post, Gandhi asked what steps are being taken to ensure that such an incident does not repeat. The girl, Sonia, who lived in Nagla Vidhichand village in Agra’s Baroli Ahir block with her family, went without food for several days before she died on Friday. Her parents were unemployed for several days and they had no ration card. Gandhi, who is party in-charge for UP, said, “Yogi government is so self-obsessed that it is not ready to hear the voice of poor and helpless people. This government has become synonymous with failure. Suicide and increasing number of hunger deaths are the reality of Uttar Pradesh now. Government is not able to find any solution to the financial crisis.” “Death of the girl child in Agra due to hunger is a disgrace to the government. The entire family of the child is distraught,” she added. Meanwhile, the Agra DM Prabhu Narain Singh said that the girl did not die due to hunger but due to sickness. He had said on Friday, “The family buried the body, which they should not have done. A post-mortem would have ascertained the cause of death.” Meanwhile, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has issued a notice to the district magistrate of Agra seeking an action taken report within 48 hours. The notice was issued after a child rights activist Naresh Paras tweeted about the issue tagging the commission on Sunday. The notice says, “As per the complaint, a five-year-old girl has died due to starvation in Agra. The Dalit family did not have a ration card and any source of income.” It told the DM, “The commission has taken cognizance of the matter and is requesting you to look into the matter urgently. You are requested to link the family with the existing government schemes in terms of food safety and provide ration card.” On Sunday, taking cognizance of the TOI report, the NHRC had issued a notice to the UP’s chief secretary. The commission called for detailed reports within four weeks including the relief and rehabilitation provided to the family by the administration and the action taken against the “delinquent officials.” The NHRC said, “The chief secretary is also expected to issue instructions to all the district authorities to ensure that such incidents do not recur in future.” The commission observed that the girl apparently died due to starvation and illness in spite of a number of social welfare schemes run by the central and the state governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/priyanka-slams-up-govt-child-rights-panel-asks-why-family-was-without-ration-card/articleshow/77727433.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Schools warn parents over fee protests||Hyderabad: Multiple schools in the city have started sending out circulars and messages to parents raising their voice against the institutions for violating fee regulation norms. While parents allege that they are being harassed by the schools, managements maintain that they will initiate action against anybody who is trying to tarnish their reputation. A circular issued by a prominent school in Banjara Hills read: “The parents will be given the facility of deferring the fee but there would be no concession or waiving off the existing fee. Keeping the pandemic in mind, group discussions cannot happen and the challenge for no two parents can be the same. Parents are requested to seek a prior appointment to meet the principal by informing the front office or admin in-charge,” adding that the school will be constrained to act against anyone found acting in a manner deterrent to the image of the school. Another school in Bowenpally, parents claimed, egged on the police to file complaints against those staging protests outside their premises. “These schools don’t react when parents approach them individually. If they go in groups, they are threatening parents by issuing circulars,” said Venkata Sainath K, joint secretary of the Hyderabad School Parents Association (HSPA). He said many schools are similarly threatening parents of dire consequences. Condemning the schools’ move, parent of another class 9 student studying at a private institute said that their demand, of collecting only the tuition fee, must be met. “They cannot club everything under the tuition fee header and ask us to pay,” said the parent reiterating that managements should not threaten parents with circulars. Meanwhile, speaking to TOI, the principal of one such school said that they are being compelled to issue these circulars as a handful of parents are “forcefully dragging other parents, who have no problem with the fee structure, into social media groups and making unfounded allegations” against reputed schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-warn-parents-over-fee-protests/articleshow/77730248.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Rowdy-sheeter arrested for murder in Telangana's Mahabubabad||HYDERABAD: Kesamduram police arrested a rowdy-sheeter in connection with the murder of a flower vendor at Girinithanda in Mahabubabad on Monday. The accused, Harish, had severed the head of the victim, identified as Venkanna (40), and threw the body parts in different places. Police said that Harish had killed the victim in order to terrorise a land owner with whom he was involved in a land dispute. “Harish had invited the victim for drinks at his house on Sunday night and between 2 am and 4 am on Monday, Harish killed Venkanna with a knife. Harish laid claim to an open land which is adjacent to his house. Recently, he had an argument with the owner of the land. To create fear in the mind of the land owner and settle the dispute, he made the victim a scapegoat and killed him. The victim has nothing to do with the land dispute. Infact, he did not even know the accused,” Kesamduram SI Satish told TOI. Harish was arrested under Section 302 (murder) of IPC and will be produced before the magistrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rowdy-sheeter-arrested-for-murder/articleshow/77730249.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Sampla targets govt for not providing info to ED in liquor scam||Chandigarh: Former Union minister and Punjab BJP leader Vijay Sampla has alleged that the state police and excise department were working to shield the liquor mafia and Congress leaders allegedly involved in multi-crore liquor scam. He said Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh should respond why despite repeated requests from the Enforcement Directorate (ED), copies of 13 FIRs registered against the liquor mafia at Patiala, Mohali, and Ludhiana were not being provided. The chief minister should also answer why details of accused including history sheet, bank details, revenue record, call details and police investigation details had so far not been provided to ED in written format, said Sampla. He added that the ED had written to the SSP Patiala on June 6 and June 12, SSP Mohali on June 17, SSP Ludhiana (rural) on June 18 and none of them had replied yet, claimed Sampla. Sampla said the ED officials had met the SSP Patiala on June 16, seeking information but nothing has been done so far. He added that ED had also written letters to the state DGP and secretary of the excise and taxation department, but it was yet to hear from either of them. “This makes it clear that the government is shielding Congress leaders, MLAs, ministers, and officers involved in this scam,” alleged Sampla. The BJP leader said while more than 120 people had already died, and the government was suffering financial losses due to illicit liquor, but it was still busy in shielding the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sampla-targets-govt-for-not-providing-info-to-ed-in-liquor-scam/articleshow/77730250.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana, Andhra Pradesh set for fresh spell of rain, districts put on alert||HYDERABAD: More trouble may be in store for flood-hit districts of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh as India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy showers from August 25. Meteorologists said a fresh low-pressure area has developed over the north Bay of Bengal. Under its influence, Telangana is expected to receive heavy rains. “Beginning Tuesday, few places across Telangana will start receiving light to moderate rains. Thereafter, heavy rains will lash mostly northern districts,” said Naga Ratna, the director in-charge of IMD in Hyderabad. The government has put all district collectors on high alert and has also asked all ministers and MLAs to monitor the situation in coordination with local officials. “They have been asked to ensure that there are no human lives lost,” said an official. Absence of any rainfall activity over the last few days had led to a rise in mercury levels. As per IMD’s weather report, maximum temperature crossed 30 degrees celsius mark on Monday at many places. However, the weather system is expected to undergo a change again, following the low pressure area having developed over north Bay of Bengal. “Northern districts such as Adilabad and adjoining areas may receive moderate to heavy rains of 30-60 mm every day from August 26-28. Following that, the weather system will go dry as there will be only isolated patchy rains,” said Mahesh Palawat, the vice-president of meteorology and climate change at Skymet. From June 1 till date, Telangana has received 49% excess rainfall to the tune of 824.9 mm as against normal rains of 553.8 mm. Of the 33 districts, 14 have received excess rainfall and eight have received normal rainfall till date. Warangal (rural and urban) have received 107%-154% excess rainfall this season followed by Wanaparthy, Jogulamba Gadwal, Mahbubabad among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/more-trouble-for-rain-hit-state-warns-imd-govt-on-high-alert/articleshow/77730246.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Telangana, Andhra Pradesh set for fresh spell of rain, districts put on alert||HYDERABAD: More trouble may be in store for flood-hit districts of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh as India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy showers from August 25. Meteorologists said a fresh low-pressure area has developed over the north Bay of Bengal. Under its influence, Telangana is expected to receive heavy rains. “Beginning Tuesday, few places across Telangana will start receiving light to moderate rains. Thereafter, heavy rains will lash mostly northern districts,” said Naga Ratna, the director in-charge of IMD in Hyderabad. The government has put all district collectors on high alert and has also asked all ministers and MLAs to monitor the situation in coordination with local officials. “They have been asked to ensure that there are no human lives lost,” said an official. Absence of any rainfall activity over the last few days had led to a rise in mercury levels. As per IMD’s weather report, maximum temperature crossed 30 degrees celsius mark on Monday at many places. However, the weather system is expected to undergo a change again, following the low pressure area having developed over north Bay of Bengal. “Northern districts such as Adilabad and adjoining areas may receive moderate to heavy rains of 30-60 mm every day from August 26-28. Following that, the weather system will go dry as there will be only isolated patchy rains,” said Mahesh Palawat, the vice-president of meteorology and climate change at Skymet. From June 1 till date, Telangana has received 49% excess rainfall to the tune of 824.9 mm as against normal rains of 553.8 mm. Of the 33 districts, 14 have received excess rainfall and eight have received normal rainfall till date. Warangal (rural and urban) have received 107%-154% excess rainfall this season followed by Wanaparthy, Jogulamba Gadwal, Mahbubabad among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/more-trouble-for-rain-hit-state-warns-imd-govt-on-high-alert/articleshow/77732536.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Man held for Rs 1 crore job fraud, many duped||HYDERABAD: A fraudster who duped people to the tune of Rs 1.34 crore by promising to secure government jobs for them was arrested by police on Sunday. Sharjeel Bin Fareed alias Faizan Khan got acquainted with M Ravinder, a bar and restaurant owner from Bachupally in January 2019. Sharjeel convinced Ravinder that through his contacts, he can secure state and central government jobs for a price. Ravinder requested Sharjeel to secure an assistant motor vehicle inspector job for his son and Sharjeel agreed to do so. As per the directions of Sharjeel, Ravinder, along with some other job aspirants, pooled in Rs 84 lakh and transferred the amount to Sharjeel’s bank account. “After receiving the amount, Sharjeel gave fake appointment letters to Ravinder and others. Sharjeel also took from Ravinder an additional Rs 50 lakh by promising to set up a restaurant in Bangkok,” CCS ACP KN Vijay Kumar said. The victims lodged a complaint with CCS police a few months ago and police arrested the accused on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-held-for-rs-1cr-job-fraud-many-duped/articleshow/77730254.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder welcomes CWC resolution asking Sonia to continue||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh welcomed on Monday the unanimous resolution passed by the Congress Working Committee (CWC) asking Sonia Gandhi to continue as party president till the next AICC session. The resolution also authorised her to take whatever decisions needed, including necessary organisational changes that she may deem appropriate, to tackle any challenge or situation. Capt Amarinder, however, agreed with Rahul Gandhi that Sonia’s continuation at the helm of the Congress could not be open ended. Speaking during the CWC videoconference, he also endorsed Rahul’s suggestion that some sort of structure needs to be put in place to assist the Congress president in handling the party’s affairs and functioning. He said he was in agreement with senior party functionary P Chidambaram that the next AICC session should be convened at the earliest, possibly within the next six months, to elect a new president. Since a regular session was precluded by the Covid pandemic, it could be held virtually, he said, backing Chidambaram’s suggestion. The CM said he was in full agreement with the CWC resolution stressing the need for discussing and addressing intra-party differences within the party and not in the media or on public forum. “There are ways to deal with issues,” he had said earlier, at the start of the meeting, in reference to the content and the leakage of the letter by a group of Congress leaders. “This is not done. BJP is after us (the Congress) and then, in the middle of it, we find our own people striking a dissenting note,” said Capt Amarinder, speaking immediately after Rahul’s intervention questioning the timing of the letter. Amarinder had earlier also urged Sonia Gandhi to continue to lead the party and hand over the baton to Rahul Gandhi once she decides to finally step down. Terming as ‘shameful and unacceptable’ the public dissent by a group of Congress leaders in the midst of the continuing BJP onslaught against the party, he said he agreed with other speakers on the need for raising such an issue at this critical time. He pointed out that Sonia had always been accessible, and there was no need to pen down such a dissenting letter and then putting it in public domain. While he said that all the leaders who had signed the letter were friends of the rest in the party and he hoped they would continue to do so, Amarinder made it clear that what their act was not acceptable. There is no village in the country without a Congress leader and the binding force for the party is the Gandhis, with Sonia responsible for holding it together for the past two decades, said Amarinder, adding that two of the five generations of Nehru-Gandhi family in the Congress had laid their lives for the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/amarinder-welcomes-cwc-resolution-asking-sonia-to-continue/articleshow/77730247.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana government will support film shooting: P Srinivas Goud||HYDERABAD: Tourism minister P Srinivas Goud held a meeting with representatives of the film industry on Monday and said all facilities will be provided for film shootings in the state. He said that a single-window permission will be facilitated so that they can plan shootings at any of the locations in the state. A meeting with IT minister K T Rama Rao will be held after the places are identified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-will-support-film-shooting-min/articleshow/77730263.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Plea in HC again to open up Puri temple||Cuttack: A fresh petition was filed in the Orissa high court on Monday on opening of the Jagannath Temple, Puri, and other religious places in the state. The petitioner has alleged that the state government has not complied with the high court order of August 10 after the court took up analogous hearing of two PILs seeking direction for opening of religious places and places of worship. One of the petitioners, Jayanta Kumar Bal, has filed the fresh petition. “The judicial order should be complied with as early as possible. The authorities are not taking any decision as the high court had not specified any time limit for a decision on the issue,” the petitioner stated. The Union government has opened religious places from July 8. The other states have opened religious places but Odisha government is not taking any decision, the petitioner stated. The petitioner has sought a direction fixing a time limit with regards to opening of religious places for worship and practices. In the August 10 order, the high court said, “While it is not issuing any general direction, this court deems it appropriate to require the state government to examine the grievance of the petitioners, keeping in view the observations of the Supreme Court in the July 31, 2020, order related to Jharkhand and take a decision as it may deem appropriate, depending on the situation prevalent, from place to place and time to time, with regard to the entry of public in different places of worship in the State of Odisha, by adhering to the norms of social distancing and use of masks and sanitizer, etc”. In its July 31, 2020 order, the Supreme Court order said, “The state cannot shirk from its responsibility to enforce social distancing norms, particularly when there is opening up of such places throughout the world. As the state government has to make proper arrangements, we refrain from issuing a direction to the state government; however, we earnestly request them to find out a possibility of limited entry of the general public in temples, churches and mosques in the state”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/plea-in-hc-again-to-open-up-puri-temple/articleshow/77728729.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong: Hold virtual assembly sessions||Hyderabad: The Congress on Monday said the state should make arrangements for virtual state assembly sessions scheduled to start from September 7. Congress MLA D Sridhar Babu said that when IT minister K T Rama Rao boasts of Telangana becoming an IT hub, why can’t the state government conduct virtual assembly sessions. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-hold-virtual-assembly-sessions/articleshow/77730273.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Weather prompts residents to line up for antigen tests||Bhubaneswar: With a spurt in influenza-like illness (ILI) due to the changing weather, the city’s residents have queued up at health centres to voluntarily take the rapid antigen test to rule out Covid. The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) has set up testing centres at 12 Urban Primary Health Centres and Urban Community Health Centres across the city. Anyone wanting an antigen test for Covid can get themselves tested at these centres. Ample precautions are being taken to ensure the infection doesn’t spread at the centres. The sample collection kiosk is being sanitised after every use and the registration counter is wrapped in polythene. Staff wear PPE. Doctors have welcomed the trend as early detection of Covid through these tests can reduce complications from the disease. They said ILI cases were common in July and August. Symptoms of ILI are similar to those of Covid and include a blocked or runny nose, sore throat, cough, temperature and body ache. “It is advisable that if someone shows mild ILI symptoms, they should get tested. Even if they test negative for Covid, they should isolate themselves at home as the common cold virus can also spread and lead to unnecessary worry,” said city-based doctor Manoj Sahu, adding voluntary tests would help early detection of Covid cases, if any. On Friday, the city’s overall tests crossed the 1-lakh mark. Of this, 21,445 were antigen tests. “On an average, 3,000 antigen tests are being done daily. Initially, only RT-PCR tests were being conducted,” said an officer of the BMC who is incharge of Covid management. “I went to the nearest health centre to give my swab for rapid antigen test. Many had advised me not to go for test unless I displayed flu-like symptoms. But I decided to go for it as I wanted to know the degree of self-imposed austerity that I would need to maintain to remain safe. I tested negative for Covid,” said a senior citizen, who had gone to the IRC village health centre in Nayapalli. Besides testing camps at health centres, as many as 10 mobile teams of the Capital Hospital go to different places on a daily basis and set up camps for sample collection. One team comprises two to three teachers, two laboratory assistants, a data entry operator and a sanitation worker. The capital city on Monday reported 267 fresh cases out of which 153 were reported from quarantine (home and institutional). With 4,563 recoveries and 33 deaths, the city now has 2,995 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/weather-prompts-residents-to-line-up-for-antigen-tests/articleshow/77728704.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Chennai||Former judge’s protest: SHRC seeks SP’s reply||Chennai: State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has taken suo motu cognizance of a news report in TOI about the protest by a former judge of the Madras high court in front of a police station in Sivaganga district, claiming inaction on a complaint. The commission has sought a report from the superintendent of police of the district within four weeks. The report stated that the retired judge, Justice A Selvam, protested against police apathy in front of the Poolankurichi police station. A native of Poolankurichi village, he had told reporters that a fellow villager Senthil, 36, and his wife Priyadharshini were attacked by Prakash and his relatives Pavithra, Palanisamy, Panchu and Machakannu on August 1 at a public place. Senthil sustained a fracture in the attack and a complaint was registered at the station the same day, he said. But, even after 22 days, no action has been taken, prompting the protest demanding immediate arrest of Prakash and his relatives. Sivaganga SP R Rohith Nathan told TOI that the station SI, who had failed to act in the case, had been transferred to the control room and that the inspector was investigating the case.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/former-judges-protest-shrc-seeks-sps-reply/articleshow/77728725.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Chandigarh||AAP to move resolution on farm ordinances, Electricity Bill||Chandigarh: During the one-day session of Punjab Assembly on August 28, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will move a resolution against the three farm ordinances and also the Electricity Amendment Bill-2020. Party’s Sunam MLA Aman Arora has sought permission from speaker Rana K P Singh to table a motion in this regard under Rule 71 of the Vidhan Sabha Rules during the session. Arora said the three agriculture ordinances and the Power Amendment Bill pushed by the Centre were contrary to the federal structure of the country, besides impinging on the rights of the states. He said the farmers would be left at the mercy of big corporate houses and the rural economy of Punjab would go for a toss if the ordinances were implemented. Similarly, if the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 became a law, the entire gamut would go into the hands of big corporate houses and different rates of electricity would be charged from rural and urban consumers, with the powers vested with State Electricity Regulatory Commission would go to the Centre, and the state government would not be able to protect its own interests. He said the anti-farm move would indirectly hit the farmers, traders, urban, laboring consumers of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/aap-to-move-resolution-on-farm-ordinances-electricity-bill/articleshow/77730269.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||MMTS phase-II trial begins, covers 90 km||Hyderabad: The South Central Railway (SCR) conducted a trial run of the Multi-Modal Transport System (MMTS) train on the Secunderabad-Malkajgiri and Medchal-Moula-Ali routes here on Monday. The new stations are part of the ongoing works of Phase- II of the MMTS project, covering a distance of around 90 km across the city. According to the officials, passengers from the Sanathnagar area had to earlier travel to Bharathnagar whereas passengers from Moula-Ali had to travel to Secunderabad to catch a local train. “With the new routes, travel woes of thousands of commuters will come to an end. The railway line for the passenger train that had been laid for MMTS services will enhance suburban connectivity in a major way,” said a SCR official. Meanwhile, the suburban train and bus travellers’ association thanked SCR authorities, including general manager Gajanan Mallya, for arranging a trial run of MMTS trains on both the sections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mmts-phase-ii-trial-begins-covers-90-km/articleshow/77730278.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||‘Tribal communities must be made stakeholders in post-Covid world’||Archana Soreng, 24, spent the lockdown in her workplace in Bhubaneswar, away from her mother and her native village of Bihabandh in Rajgangpur in tribal-dominated Sundargarh district, close to the Jharkhand-Odisha border. Soreng, 24, belongs to the indigenous Kharia community and was recently chosen as one of the seven members of the United Nations Secretary General’s Youth Advisory Group on Climate Change. She is also a migrant of sorts, and the months she spent apart from her family only served to reinforce her belief that any post-pandemic recovery would have to incorporate respect for sustainable lifestyles, including indigenous cultures. “I am spending time reading up on climate change and attending webinars on development, sustainability and tribal concerns. A ‘didi’ from a women’s collective back home told me that they were heartbroken to see young, able-bodied men coming back to the village during the lockdown. The women, on the other hand, were better off. They grow their own food and can depend on the forest, lockdown or no lockdown,” Soreng, a research officer at Vasundhara, a policy advocacy group in Bhubaneswar, said. Soreng’s initiation into social work and development activism happened early. Her paternal grandfather was involved in forming small groups in his village Baliposh to share knowledge about indigenous practices in farming and forest resource management. Her father, Bijay Kumar Soreng, was a first-generation learner who carried on the tradition of forming community networks, spreading education and propagating indigenous healthcare. A principal of Gangpur College of Social Work in Bihabandh, he died in 2017. Her mother, Usha Kerketta, is a librarian in St. John Mary Vianney School in Sundargarh. “My interest in activism and research was spurred by my father’s death. I realised that a lot of what he knew was lost to us with his passing. This made me want to work to preserve knowledge about our way of life,” said Soreng. She completed her schooling in Sundargarh, her graduation from Patna Women’s College and her master’s in regulatory governance from TISS, Mumbai. Soreng’s days in Bihabandh, her community’s struggles and her parents’ effort to give a voice to the marginalised shaped her life. “Land and forest are critical to an indigenous person’s identity. My clan name, ‘Soreng’, means a rock. Similarly, ‘Kerketta’ refers to a bird,” said the woman who speaks Kharia, a dialect now written in the Devnagari script. Soreng hopes to draw inspiration from her clan name to withstand criticism. “I am a young tribal woman. I know what kind of criticism young people face. To everyone who feels I should be minding my own business, I say the policies you make will affect me,” she said when asked about the polarising figure of Greta Thunberg, the face of climate activism today. What Soreng lacks in age, she makes up for in clarity of vision. On August 12, UN Secretary General António Guterres held his first meeting with the Youth Advisory Group on Climate Change. “There, I emphasized that to build a better post-Covid world, it is important that indigenous communities are made stakeholders of the climate action strategy,” said the woman who will, for the next two years, advise Guterres on climate change along with her colleagues in Sudan, Fiji, Moldova, the US, France and Brazil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/tribal-communities-must-be-made-stakeholders-in-post-covid-world/articleshow/77728783.cms||Amava Bhattacharya
August 25, 2020||Lucknow||‘Caste share in UP BJP exec adequate’||Lucknow: Chairman of Scheduled Castes finance and development corporation (SCFDC)Lalji Nirmal on Monday hailed the BJP leadership for giving adequate representation to Dalits, OBC and women in its state executive. He said the result of this exercise would bear results in the 2022 assembly elections. Nirmal, formerly president of Bhim Rao Ambedkar Mahasabha, accused Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav of cheating Dalits and OBC. “SP needs the votes of SC, OBC and women but only promotes members of the Yadav family,” Nirmal said, adding that the party was not following the socialist principles of Ram Manohar Lohia but the policy of nepotism. He said the BJP state executive had 12 OBCs and eight SCs which was sufficient for the community. Nirmal, who joined the BJP after it stormed to power in UP in 2017, said the party was giving Dalits adequate share in political space. Nirmal said the BJP respected women by giving them 25% representation in the state executive. “BSP chief Mayawati, Congress president Sonia Gandhi and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi project themselves as leaders. BJP took care of women who work at the grass roots,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/caste-share-in-up-bjp-exec-adequate/articleshow/77731111.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad gets rainfall in excess of season’s quota||Aurangabad: With over one month of monsoon still to go, Aurangabad has already received more than the season’s quota of rainfall this year. During monsoon, Aurangabad district gets an average rainfall of 584 mm, from June to September. This year, the district, comprising nine talukas, had recorded over 677 mm rainfall till Monday morning — 116% of the expected showers. As per official data, eight out of nine talukas in Aurangabad district have crossed their quota of season’s rainfall. Vaijapur is on top with 137% expected showers followed by Phulambri (129%), Gangapur (124%), Kannad (122%), Khuldabad, Tehsil limit of Aurangabad (both 121%) Paithan (120%) and Soygaon (104%). Sillod taluka is also nearing to complete the season’s quota of rainfall having received 95% of the expected showers. Among eight districts from Marathwada, Jalna (115%) is another district that has received season’s quota of the rainfall. The region as a whole has reported 81% of the expected showers received between June and September. As per India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast, Aurangabad is likely to witness spells of light rain amid generally cloudy skies for the next 72 hours. Weather expert Kirankumar Johare said many parts of Marathwada are likely to receive record rainfall in recent past. “The timely initiation of monsoon followed by its good run so far has produced surplus rainfall at many places. Considering, the withdrawal phase of monsoon, the tally of rainfall may increase to record high this time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-gets-rainfall-in-excess-of-seasons-quota/articleshow/77727508.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Accused remanded in 3-day police custody||Hyderabad: A special court for ACB cases on Monday granted three-day police custody of four accused in connection with Rs 1.1 crore bribe case. During a surprise raid at the house of realtor K Anji Reddy’s friend in Kapra on August 14, ACB officials found Rs 1.1 crore in possession of Anji Reddy, his associate and realtor Ch Srinath Yadav, Keesara tehsildar E B Nagaraj and Rampally VRA B Sai Raj and arrested all four. The ACB moved a petition before the court seeking custody of the accused for probe. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/accused-remanded-in-3-day-police-custody/articleshow/77730294.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Goa||Lack of staff delays execution of CCP’s ICMYC app to Sept 1||Panaji: The ‘I change my city (ICMYC)’ app, launched ambitiously last week by the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) has already run into rough weather. Lack of staff has delayed the app’s implementation to September. The app is meant to allow residents of Panaji to report their grievances without having to leave their homes. “The Covid-19 positive cases in Chimbel are on the rise due to which CCP staff from there have not been able to rejoin work. We are managing with less number of workers these days, especially since most of our existing staff are on leave for Ganesh Chaturthi. We have, therefore, resolved to start ICMYC from September 1 onwards,” Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. This, however, has not gone down too well with some residents, especially those plagued by issues such as the stray cattle menace and failure of CCP workers to carry out door-to-door garbage collection. At its launch, CCP had announced that residents can use this app to complain about a host of issues including electricity problems, picking up of roadkill, open urination, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lack-of-staff-delays-execution-of-ccps-icmyc-app-to-sept-1/articleshow/77731797.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Pune||5 Shivshahi bus passengers injured in accident||Pune: Five passengers suffered minor injuries after the Shivshahi bus they were travelling in turned on its side on Sunday night at Kalamb village near Manchar on Pune-Nashik highway, about 70km from the city. An officer from the Manchar police said there were about 10 passengers in the bus going to Pune from Nashik. “The accident occurred around 8.30pm while the bus driver was attempting to overtake a vehicle,” an officer from the Manchar police said. The officer said the bus driver claimed that while overtaking, a car came from the opposite side of the highway suddenly. To avoid a head-on collision, he took the bus to the right side. “The bus went off the slippery road (because of rain) and tipped over,” the officer said. The injured passengers are being treated at a hospital in Manchar, the police said. Traffic movement on the highway stopped for about half-an-hour after the accident. The Manchar police have registered a case of accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5-shivshahi-bus-passengers-injured-in-accident/articleshow/77730298.cms||---
August 25, 2020||India||USFDA may give impetus to plasma therapy in India, experts question efficacy||MUMBAI: The emergency use approval authorisation by US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) to convalescent plasma as a potential therapy for Covid in US, is expected to provide impetus to its use as a ‘promising’ treatment option in India, even as doctors say clear scientific evidence is needed. The US President announced USFDA approval on August 23, though the agency put it on hold just last week over doubts on its efficacy. Doctors say the therapy involving use of recovered Covid-19 patients’ plasma to treat infected people will get even more widespread in India, given the ‘endorsement’ from US. This would be similar to the sharp surge in demand witnessed for anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine as a potential Covid-19 treatment, after President Trump’s repeated backing for it, though it had no scientific backing, and later failed in global trials, experts say. The USFDA announced that convalescent plasma may be effective in treating Covid-19, and potential benefits of the product outweigh the risks, based on scientific evidence available. In India, multi-centre clinical trials to study whether plasma therapy is a useful Covid treatment are underway by the Indian Council of Medical Research. Further, states like Maharashtra are running the ‘world's largest’ plasma therapy trials, Project Platina, in 18 medical colleges, but response from donors reportedly has been lacklustre. “Covid therapy is highly individualized. The use of plasma therapy can be life-saving in certain cases, and is being used on compassionate grounds. It is a promising treatment option if used earlier in the cycle of the disease. It has been used as therapy for over 100 years, but for Covid-19, we need to document this in a research programme. We also need better methodology for its use while screening donors so as to know the adequate level of neutralising antibody, or titers”. Dr Shashank Joshi endocrinologist and member, Maharashtra's Covid-19 task force told TOI. Significantly, World Health Organisation on Monday remained cautious about endorsing the use of plasma to treat infected people. “The results are not conclusive”, it’s chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan said, adding “We recommend that convalescent plasma is still an experimental therapy, and should be continued to be evaluated in well-designed randomized clinical trials”. Dr CS Pramesh director, Tata Memorial Hospital said, “In India, this will mean that patients' families will now rush to get this treatment, spending a lot of money, hunting for potential donors, with no proven benefit. In fact, the only two randomized trials with published results show no benefit with this treatment though it must be admitted that these trials were underpowered to find a difference even if one existed”. The USFDA decision was based on an observational study that gave “some positive signals that convalescent plasma can be helpful in treating Covid-19” and might reduce the mortality if administered early after diagnosis. This article is posted on preprint servers and is yet to find its way into a medical journal. However, the tall claims made by the USFDA commissioner have considerably done more harm to the science and raised unrealistic hopes among the public, experts say. “Politicians, policymakers, physicians and public fail to understand that this study is not a randomized controlled trial, but an observational study. Although this study enrolled close to 35,000 patients, it’s design is that of an observational study, and has major limitations. We badly needed rigorous randomized clinical trials to get clear and accurate answers and to put our patients on treatments that work. Instead, by ignoring science, we shall continue to treat patients based on evidence generated by anecdotes, poor observational studies, biases, not knowing if plasma benefits or harm”, said Dr SP Kalantri Professor of Medicine, Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Sevagram. In India, plasma is being promoted asking people to donate plasma to save lives, and shaming Covid survivors who chose not to donate. We seem to have accepted plasma therapy widely without any good quality evidence supporting its use. This is likely to get even more widespread with the endorsement from the US, said Dr Lancelot Pinto consultant respirologist at Mumbai-based PD Hinduja Hospital. Plasma reduces death rates if there are enough neutralizing antibodies in the donor plasma. “As of now, our labs are not accurately measuring the titres of antibodies in donor plasma- thus it is a wild guess if plasma administered to the Covid patient would indeed benefit the patients”, Kalantri added. USFDA’s statement implies a 35% absolute improvement in outcomes, when the reality is a 3.2% improvement, and that too comparing early vs late plasma, Dr Pramesh said, adding, The danger of such a public statement is that ongoing randomized trials of convalescent plasma will struggle to recruit patients; notably, the USFDA still recommends that randomized trials of plasma continue (which implies that we don't know whether there is a benefit), but which patient or physician will willingly enter a randomized trial after the FDA Commissioner has claimed a 35% benefit?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/usfda-may-give-impetus-to-plasma-therapy-in-india-experts-question-efficacy/articleshow/77731145.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
August 25, 2020||Pune||Man booked for demanding Rs 40k from woman and threatening to make her photos viral||Pune: The Warje police filed a case of extortion against an unidentified man for demanding Rs 40,000 from a woman medical practitioner and threatening to make her photographs and videos viral on social media sites. The woman (age 27), a Karvenagar resident, lodged a complaint with the Warje police on Sunday. She said she accidentally forwarded some videos and photographs to the man after the display screen of her phone was damaged. After watching the photographs and the videos, the man started issuing threats to her. The complainant said that she and the man became friends on a social networking site about a year ago. He informed her that he stays in Pune. The two exchanged phone numbers and chatted on an internet-based messaging service application on a few occasions. Police said that the woman claimed that she had not met the man in person and does not know his real name. In December, the display screen of her mobile phone got damaged, police said. The touch sense of the phone stopped working properly and the woman sent her videos and photographs to the man through the messaging application accidentally, Warje police said. Police said that the man started demanding Rs40,000 for deleting the videos and photographs. He also threatened to upload the same on social networking sites if the money was not paid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-booked-for-demanding-rs-40k-from-woman-and-threatening-to-make-her-photos-viral/articleshow/77730320.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Pune||How good neighbours can help each other during a pandemic||Pune: Residents of the Sun Planet housing society, at Anandnagar, Sinhagad road, are a tight-knit group. All the families here — spread across 200 flats in six buildings and an equal number of row houses — come together every year to celebrate major festivals. It’s this bond that proved vital during the Covid-19 restrictions. “We have six elderly couples here. As soon as curbs were enforced, we gave them the emergency numbers and ensured they were not short on essential supplies such as medicines and groceries. We made sure all such items were delivered at their doorsteps,” said Shrirang Palande, chairman of the Sun Planet residents’ group. Friendly ties also helped fight off stigma. Across the city, during the stages of the outbreak, there were reports of frontline doctors and patients being shunned by their neighbours. But at Sun Planet, one resident, Dr Arati Daithankar, was celebrated for her role as a medic during the pandemic. Neighbours welcomed her and cheered her on for her services at a city hospital’s Covid ward. “We also arranged a lecture by her — on how to avoid infection and what to do if one contracts the virus,” Palande said. The residents also teamed up to help sanitize the complex. Many, including Sandeep Rairikar and Nitin Darekar, went about cleaning the lifts and the stairwells. “We kept up virtual meetings to check on everyone. These calls allowed us to discuss topics of health, nutrition and stress relief. And for the children who were at home, drawing competitions were organised to keep them engaged,” the chairman said. Sun Planet has been blanketed with extensive hygiene measures. Palande said, “Security arrangements were immediately enforced. Hand sanitisers, gloves and other safety requirements were deployed at our gates. Vegetable and dry ration vendors were quickly identified and requested to organise stalls at the society’s entrance gate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/how-good-neighbours-can-help-each-other-during-a-pandemic/articleshow/77730312.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Man to reunite with kin after 40 yrs||Berhampur: A 75-year-old tribal man of a remote village in Gajapati district, who was separated from his family about 40 years ago, is set to reunite with them soon, thanks to the reach of social media. Jagatapati Karji (real name Daya Bhuyan) of Abarasingh village in Rayagada block’s Talamanda village, who had gone to Arunachal Pradesh to do road construction work in the 1980s, remained stuck there despite his company winding up work for the last several years. “He is likely to return to Gajapati on Wednesday as two persons, including the assistant labour officer (ALO) and one of his relatives, have already reached Arunachal Pradesh to bring him. The district administration has made all arrangements for his repatriation,” district collector (Gajapati) Anupam Saha said. Karji or Daya was recognized by his younger brother and sister after a video of his story went viral. An Odia professor of Rajiv Gandhi University in Itanagar, SK Nayak, is coordinating with the administration through the former SP (Gajapati) Sarah Sharma to ensure his return. “Daya had been living in the house of a schoolteacher at Ziro in the lower Subansiri district after the latter rescued him from a nearby jungle,” Nayak said over phone. He added, “Daya had been eking out a living as a daily wager in the jungle. Owing to his old age, he could not earn much. Rubu Amma, a schoolteacher, took pity on him and had been providing him with food since last December.” The Odia professor said, “He did not want to take any help from the government or from the Arunachal Pradesh Utkal Samaj (Odia association in the state) when he was admitted to a hospital recently and was full of praise for the tribal culture of Arunachal Pradesh. He had said the tribal culture of the state ensures that food is given to the needy. Else he would have died of starvation by now.” While staying with him, Amma came to know of his real identity. He made a video which soon went viral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/man-to-reunite-with-kin-after-40-yrs/articleshow/77728837.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
August 25, 2020||Kolhapur||594 cases, 781 recoveries in Kolhapur dist||Kolhapur: The district reported 594 fresh Covid-19 patients and 16 deaths due to the virus on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 19,081 and the death toll to 563. On Monday, 781 patients were discharged in the district, which is the highest recovery in a single day, in the last few weeks. A total of 10,847 patients have recovered so far while 7,671 patients are undergoing treatment. Meanwhile, 21 cases and 12 cases were reported from Kolhapur city’s Tarabai Park and Nagala Park, respectively. For the last few weeks, very few cases were being reported from these two localities 15% oxygen for industries District collector Daulat Desai ordered MIDC authorities to allow five private oxygen units to supply 15% of the daily produced oxygen to industries. Earlier, Desai had asked to provide oxygen only for medical purposes. Sangli reports 25 deaths Sangli district reported 251 fresh Covid cases on Monday. With this the total number of cases rose to 8,694. 25 patients succumbed to the infection on Monday, taking the death toll to 345. As many as 5,314 patients have recovered in the district and 3,035 are undergoing treatment. Currently, the death rate in the district is 3.5% Antigen testing at lower level Sangli collector Abhijeet Chaudhari appealed to the private pathology labs to start antigen testings at the local level to facilitate earlier detection of the Covid patients. He said the labs can charge as per the government fixed rates. Meanwhile, a jumbo oxygen tank of 6 KL capacity has been installed at the Miraj Civil Hospital due to the increase in Covid patients. Chaudhari said the recovery rate in the hospital is 74% which is more than the national average.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/594-cases-781-recoveries-in-kolhapur-dist/articleshow/77727552.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow girl wins global online UN contest for Asia||Lucknow: The World Photography Day couldn’t have been better for Aeshwarya Singh, as she acknowledges on her Facebook post sharing her excitement over winning the global online competition organized by United Nations Major Group for Children and Youth (UNMGCY). The event spun around the broader theme of ‘The Role of Young People in Covid-19 and Humanitarian Response’. Aeshwarya won the competition ‘Creativity In The Times Of Covid-19’ in the category of Photography/Videography, under the adolescent group (11-19 years). The theme chosen by her was ‘Covid-19 and its impact on mental health’. An elated Aeshwarya, who is a class VI student of Loreto Convent, said that she had clicked the photograph standing in her garden with her father Dr Ashutosh Singh’s camera. The pensive moment of her grandmother, captured in a monochrome frame, was submitted with the caption ‘Searching for a ray of hope during lockdown’. Aeshwarya’s mother Ruchira shares that her daughter harbours great interest in photography and keeps trying her hands on different art forms. Ruchira says that Aeshwarya has an inquisitive and aesthetic mind and is also a melodious singer, a voracious reader, an articulate writer and an orator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-girl-wins-global-online-un-contest-for-asia/articleshow/77722997.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Nashik||Referral hosp not for Covid cases as of now||Nashik: With the improvement the treatment administered to Covid-19 patients and fewer symptomatic cases being detected from across the district, collector Suraj Mandhare has temporarily shelved the plan of converting the referral hospital in Nashik into a Covid care facility. “It may be noted that Nashik district is getting more asymptomatic patients because of early diagnosis by way of antigen testing. Since they can be treated at their homes and do not require a Covid facility, the load on hospitals has reduced drastically,” said Mandhare. He further pointed out that the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has also increased bed capacity at various Covid-19 facilities to cater to patients at all levels. “As of now, we have good infrastructure in place. Hence, there is no need to convert the referral hospital into a Covid hospital. We have temporality put off the plan until the need arises when other establishments fail,” said Mandhare. District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal, who convened a meeting on Covid-19 at the collectorate, said, “With good infrastructure in place, the recovery rate is touching new highs and the death rate is falling drastically, indicating that the situation is improving.” On the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, Bhujbal said, “People are moving out in large numbers to earn their living. Those not following safety norms are contracting the infection. However, people have learnt to live with the virus. Many people are not contracting the disease at all.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/referral-hosp-not-for-covid-cases-as-of-now/articleshow/77727541.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 25, 2020||Rajkot||Saurashtra battered; Morbi on the edge||RAJKOT: At least 1,600 people, mostly in Rajkot district, were shifted to safer places as flash floods caused by incessant downpour on the third consecutive day lead to dams overflowing and forcing authorities to release water In Rajkot city alone, 675 people were shifted from low-lying areas but the situation was particularly of concern in Morbi district where gates of Machhu 2 dam were opened which led to flooding in several down stream areas. According to official sources, there were several incidents of people getting swept away in turbulent waters of natural drains while body of one labourer identified as Ramesh Ninama, 35, a native of Madhya Pradesh, was fished out in Sisak village near Kotda-Sangani in Rajkot district. A boy, who was on his way to give the GujCET exam, and his father were swept away in a turbulent natural drain, near Raisangpur village of Morbi district’s Halvad taluka. Search operation was undertaken to trace them. Two persons also drowned in the Gondli River of Gondal town and they are also missing. Situation was particularly grim in Morbi, Gondal taluka of Rajkot and Jodia in Jamnagar district, which were lashed by heavy downpour within just a few hours. In all, 34 people who were swept away were rescued by fire brigade and National Disaster Respose Force (NDRF) teams in Rajkot, Morbi and Surendranagar districts. Six persons of a family, including three children, had a close shave with death as they started drowning in Lalpari lake in Rajkot after the water level swelled suddenly due to release of water from the dam and continuous rainfall. Fire brigade teams rescued all of them. Around 27 labourers -17 stranded in Nana Khijadia village of Tankara taluka in Morbi and eight trapped in a flooded warehouse - were rescued on Sunday night. Three persons are missing and two were rescued after their car got swept away in Maha River near Wankaner town of Morbi. Three among five persons, who tried to cross a causeway near Gondli River, were swept away. However, one of them knew swimming and swam to safety taking his two friends along.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/saurashtra-battered-morbi-on-the-edge/articleshow/77727551.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Aurangabad||HC dismisses murder convict’s plea for acquittal||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court recently dismissed a criminal appeal challenging the verdict of Dhule session court sentencing a 28-year-old man to life imprisonment for brutally murdering his wife in the year 2013. The man had approached the high court seeking directions that the district court judgment be quashed, claiming insanity at the time of the incident. Bhatu Himmat Akhade (29), an autorickshaw driver, was convicted on July 15, 2014, under sections 302 and 309 of the Indian Penal Code and sentenced him to life imprisonment for brutally murdering his wife Sangita. Following the crime, the convict had tried to end his own life. At the time, when the relatives along with the neighbours broke into the house, Akhade was found in a naked condition. He was then rushed to the hospital and later arrested. Bhatu had challenged the sessions court verdict pleading insanity at that time, and also that the prosecution did not examine a woman neighbour, who had alerted Sangita’s relatives about the incident. While dismissing the criminal appeal, Justices Sunil P Deshmukh and B U Debadwar observed “suggestions to this effect were neither given to the witnesses examined by the prosecution during the course of their cross-examination, nor have medical papers been brought on record showing that the appellant was and / or is taking treatment for unsoundness of mind or insanity.” The court further observed that the appellant had not stated anything in this respect in his statement recorded under Section 313 (1)(b) of the criminal procedure code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-dismisses-murder-convicts-plea-for-acquittal/articleshow/77727544.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
August 25, 2020||Lucknow||Cops collect details of ISIS suspect’s travel, contacts||Lucknow: A day after the Special Cell of Delhi Police recovered 15kg of explosives and suicide vests from the residence of ISIS suspect Abdul Yusuf Khan in Balrampur, Uttar Pradesh Police teams started collecting details of his travel, relatives and contacts in the last one year to trace his activities and unravel plans of any terror strikes. Two armed policemen have been deployed at his house and entry has been restricted. Senior officers said joint teams of Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorist Squad (UPATS) and local police have started collecting details of his family and contacts and are rigorously tracing his travel history. Some more villagers were questioned by police on Monday about the activities of Yusuf and his connections. Police teams will also go to the places visited by Yusuf in the last one month for probe. An ATS officer said investigations are on to find out from where did Yusuf procure the explosives. “The explosives and materials used by the suspect seem to have been sourced from outside the state,” said an ATS official privy to the investigations. UPATS officials are in touch with Special Cell of Delhi Police for any further inputs revealed by the ISIS suspect and ascertain if he had visited Ayodhya and was planning a strike. DIG Ayodhya Deepak Kumar said, “We have no specific input from any agency about any planned strike so far. But we have increased vigilance and intensified patrolling.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cops-collect-details-of-isis-suspects-travel-contacts/articleshow/77731167.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Flood waters recede, laying bare losses||Rajahmundry: The water level at Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage at Dowlaiswaram fell to 14 feet on Monday evening and 13 lakh cusecs of water is being discharged into the sea. Authorities are hopeful the first warning will be withdrawn by Tuesday. But as floods recede in the Godavari river, most of the houses in the region have sustained continuous rainfall over a fortnight and are now about to give way. In four merged mandals under Chinturu ITDA, 25 villages are without connectivity though power has been restored while in 33 habitations in Devipatnam mandal are still cut off. In Velerupadu, Kukunoor and Polavaram mandals in West Godavari, initial estimates point to massive property loss as most houses are in a state of collapse. Nineteen villages in Polavaram are cut off and 30 villages submerged in Velerupadu and Kukunoor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/flood-waters-recede-laying-bare-losses/articleshow/77728886.cms||Samson Raj
August 25, 2020||Dehradun||Three labourers working on Char Dham all-weather road killed as excavators, hit by landslide, fall off road||Dehradun: Three labourers working on construction of the Centre’s ambitious all-weather Char Dham Road project were killed as the two earthmover machines they were travelling in fell into a deep gorge, after being hit by a landslide on the Rishikesh-Badrinath national highway near Kaudiyala in Tehri district. The incident took place at 5:20am on Monday as the men, two of them from Punjab and one from Bijnor, Uttar Pradesh, were returning to their shelters after completing their work. On receiving information, a State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) team reached the site and recovered the three bodies after a four-hour long operation. Brijesh Bhatt, district disaster management officer of Tehri district, told TOI, “All three labourers were buried under heavy boulders. Prabhat, a JCB operator, was from Bijnor while Rajesh was a resident of Gurdaspur in Punjab and Sanjeev Kumar, the Pokland operator, a native of Pathankot in Punjab.” This isn’t the first time that recurring landslides due to slope-cutting work, initiated as part of the project, have led to injuries and deaths. Notably, work on the project is going on despite heavy rains in a bid to expedite the project completion. There have been several accidents caused in the past few months on the project’s sites. Last month, the retaining wall of a highway, which was being widened for the project, gave way and collapsed on a nearby house, killing three siblings. In March, three persons working on the project, including an engineer, were killed after some boulders fell on them in Chada area of the Badrinath highway. Uttarakhand has lost over 28,000 trees to the project and is set to lose still more. According to experts, this rampant deforestation has loosened the soil of slopes, triggering landslides. A high-powered committee headed by Doon-based environmentalist Ravi Chopra had in its report submitted to the Union environment ministry in July had warned of disastrous consequences arising out of the project, saying that “during field visits to the road construction site and interactions with locals, it was found there was unaccounted loss of forests, trees and green cover, increased landslides, vulnerability of slopes due to vertical hill cutting and inadequate slope stabilisation measures, hazardous and unauthorised muck dumps along many stretches and almost no stabilisation measures.” Vimal Bhai from Matu Jan Sangatha, an organisation working on environment-related issues in Uttarakhand, said that it was disheartening that construction of the all-weather road had continued despite red flags raised by experts. “The government has deliberately ignored all warnings of environmentalists and experts who have said that digging and blasting in eco-sensitive zones will only invite nature’s fury. It’s not surprising that landslides are occurring. What experts had predicted is simply coming true — this is an all-weather murder road.” (with inputs from Ishita Mishra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-labourers-working-on-char-dham-all-weather-road-killed-as-excavators-hit-by-landslide-fall-off-road/articleshow/77726434.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Man protests over expired beer, contractor challaned||Ludhiana: In a very interesting incident a customer and his supporters started a protest outside a liquor vend after the salesperson allegedly sold him an expired beer bottle on Sunday. The excise department later seized more than 100 bottles of expired beer from the vend. Police officials said that a customer had bought a bottle of beer from a liquor vend on Khanna-Malerkotla road late on Sunday evening. They added that after he found that the bottle had passed its expiry date. he called some of his associates and friends and after they reached the spot they started protesting outside the vend. The cops said that the customer also called the excise department officials after which excise inspector Kashmira Singh reached the spot. They added that after the police got news about the protest by the customer and his friends and associates, some cops from Khanna city two police station, led by SHO of police station inspector Randeep Kumar, reached the spot. Police officials said that the excise inspector and the SHO talked to the protesters and later were able to pacify them. They added that later the excise department officials found 110 bottles of beer which had surpassed their expiry date. Excise department officials said that the challan was issued to the to contractor of the liquor vend for keeping and selling expired beer. On the other hand, the contractor told the officials that due to lockdown some bottles may have been left at the vend and his salesman may have placed those in the refrigerator. SHO, city 2 police station, inspector Randeep Kumar said that since the matter was related to the excise department, they took away the expired stock and took necessary action in the matter. He added that they visited the spot from the security point of view.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-protests-over-expired-beer-contractor-challaned/articleshow/77728890.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Rajkot||Overflowing Machchhu dam floods villages||Rajkot: Residents of Morbi town and villages remained on the edge as opening of overflowing Machchhu 2 Dam’s gates resulted in heavy flooding in the downstream areas. Nearly 1.36 lakh cusecs water was released in two days which hit 23 villages, 17 in Maliya taluka. Some 22 people in Chikhli village who got stranded in sudden well of water, were rescued by NDRF teams while 50 were rescued from the Morbi-Kandla highway where traffic movement was affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/overflowing-machchhu-dam-floods-villages/articleshow/77727583.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Chennai||Two institutions in Chennai to join Oxford Covid vaccine trials||CHENNAI: Joining the international quest for a vaccine against Covid-19, two Chennai-based institutions will offer the Oxford vaccine, one of the most promising candidates against the novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2, to nearly 300 volunteers. This is a part of the multi-centric clinical trial in India. In four to six weeks, the directorate of public health will administer the vaccine — called Covishield — to healthy volunteers in Tamil Nadu. “We are planning to vaccinate at least 120 to 150 people as part of phase two and three clinical trials. This will be done at the directorate office on Anna Salai. Doctors at the department of community medicine at the Madras Medical College will be co-investigators for the trial,” said a senior health department official. Director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam will be the principal investigator for the project. Besides DPH, Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research (SRIHER) from Chennai will also test the vaccine. “Until now, we have been a part of several drug trials for Covid-19. We are now into a vaccine trial. We will test the vaccine made by Bharat Biotech and the Oxford vaccine on our campus. The Oxford vaccine will be given to at least 120 people,” said SRIHER dean (research) and senior professor S P Thyagarajan.The ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 (AZD1222) vaccine developed by AstraZeneca Plc and Oxford University and manufactured by Serum Institute of India, will be tested across 17 cities in India with more than 1,600 volunteers. Of the several candidates, the Oxford one has shown an acceptable safety profile and strong immune response in early trials. Studies have shown the vaccine triggered a T-cell response within 14 days of vaccination, and an antibody response within 28 days. T-cells are white blood cells that can attack coronavirus infected cells, whereas antibodies are protein molecules that are able to neutralise the virus so that it cannot infect cells when initially contracted. Besides the two city-based institutions, PGIMER Chandigarh, AIIMS in Delhi, ABJ Medical College in Pune, Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS) in Patna, Andhra Medical College in Visakhapatnam, and JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research in Mysore will be a part of the trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/2-institutions-in-city-to-join-oxford-covid-vaccine-trials/articleshow/77730387.cms||Pushpa Narayan
August 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid-19 cases breach 10,000-mark in Udupi||MANGALURU/UDUPI: The coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi on Monday reported six lesser cases compared to the day earlier. While DK accounted for 201 of the 304 cases. Udupi accounted for the remaining 103. The mini spikes in cases in the last 48 hours meant that while DK crossed the 10,000 cases mark on Saturday, Udupi did so on Monday. DK with total positive cases of 10,531 is 295 more than its neighbour. While the source of 72 new cases in DK is under investigation, 70 patients were diagnosed with influenza like illness (ILI), 49 were primary contacts and nine patients had severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). A domestic traveller too tested positive for the coronavirus. In all, 63% or 128 of the new cases, including 88 men were asymptomatic in nature, DC KV Rajendra. Mangaluru taluk accounted for 144 of the new cases in DK. The active cases in DK is now 2,297. Six more Covid related deaths including three from Mangaluru, two from Bantwal and one from outside DK saw the overall death tally climb to 316.Dr Rajendra, who earlier in the day visited the designated Covid-19 hospital and oversaw process for installation of ventilators there. Udupi which recorded five deaths including three from Karakala and two from Udupi, taking total deaths to 89, discharged more patients than fresh reported cases at 156. With this, the number of those discharged post-treatment in Udupi is 7,557 and active cases is 2,590. Fifty-two of the new cases were primary contacts, 23 had ILI, two SARI, source of infection in 25 is being traced and one was reported in a domestic traveller.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-19-cases-breach-10000-mark-in-udupi/articleshow/77728776.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Nashik||51% of 82k tests done so far conducted in past 23 days||Nashik: The civic administration has conducted 51% of the total Covid-19 tests between August 1 and 23. Of the 82,000 tests conducted in the city ever since the first case was reported on April 6, 42,000 tests have been conducted in the last 23 days. Of the total tests conducted so far, 20,074 people have confirmed positive for Covid-19. The positivity rate of patients, which was 23.56 per 100 swabs on July 31, has increased to 24.48% by August 23. Of the total 82,000 tests, 42,000 were RTPCR tests, while the remaining 40,000 were antigen tests that were conducted during the second half of July, in which over 5,000 people tested positive. While around 15,000 antigen tests were conducted in the second half of July, 25,000 antigen tests were conducted this month. “We conducted around 100 tests by the last week of June and daily testing by July 15 was around 500. We doubled the testing in the second half of July. Now, we are conducting 1,500 and 2,000 tests per day,” said NMC officials.“The rise in the number of tests has helped us trace Covid-19 suspects with the help of an NGO and corporators under the ‘Mission Zero Nashik’,” said officials. The first Covid-19 patient from the city was reported on April 6. The city had only 214 cases and 14 deaths by May 30 and 2,182 Covid-19 patients with 105 deaths by June 30.By July 31, the city had 9,441 patients with 276 deaths. Now, the city has a total of 20,074 patients with 429 deaths. It means 53% of the total Covid-19 patients in the city have been tested in the last 23 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/51-of-82k-tests-done-so-far-conducted-in-past-23-days/articleshow/77727575.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Auction of commercial complex by Kandavara GP takes political turn||Mangaluru: A move by rural development and panchayat raj department officials to auction 28 commercial complexes over which two-gram panchayats — Gurupura and Kandavara — have laid claims, has taken a political turn. Former elected members of Kandavara gram panchayat, while assailing the move, said Yashwanth Belchada, panchayat development officer (PDO) backtracked on an assurance given to authorities, including police, in going ahead with the auction. Vijaya G Suvarna, former president of Kandavara GP told reporters on Monday that the elected body in its last meeting before its term ended had adopted a resolution to defer the auction process given the current economic situation. Acting on representation from then GP members, EO of Mangaluru taluk panchayat and administrator of the panchayat were scheduled to undertake spot inspection of the area on August 25 before the auction, she said. Former MLA B A Mohiuddin Bawa said the PDO in a complete volte-face, went ahead with the auction after assuring all stakeholders concerned that the panchayat would not do so on Friday. Those who have bid for the commercial complexes have been asked to pay upfront rental advance for 11 months by Tuesday against RDPR department norms of six months, he said, adding this is an inhumane gesture in present economic scenario. Questioning the PDOs haste in auctioning the complexes when one of the previous tenants there had moved the court and also in face of taluk panchayat resolution directing the EO to settle the issue over jurisdictional claims of the two panchayats, Bawa alleged PDO and the in-charge administrator were acting at the behest of Dr Bharath Shetty, Mangaluru City North MLA. Dr Shetty dismissed the charges as figment of his predecessor’s imagination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/auction-of-commercial-complex-by-kandavara-gp-takes-political-turn/articleshow/77729367.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Kanakadurga flyover to be inagurated on September 4||Vijayawada: The Kanakadurga flyover will be inaugurated on September 4, said Vijayawada MP Kesineni Srinivas (Nani). He inspected the flyover work on Monday and said Union minister Nitin Gadkari will inaugurate the flyover virtually. “Many parties said that construction of flyover at Kanaka Durga temple is impossible but the Telugu Desam Party government started the works and made it possible.This flyover will reduce the traffic burden and help people of Gollapudi and Bhavanipuram to reach the city fast,” Nani said. He dismissed the claims made by YSRC leaders about the flyover; he alleged that chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has deceived the people of Vijayawada and Amaravati and is trying to divide the region into three parts. The chief minister was never involved in the flyover work, Nani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/kanakadurga-flyover-to-be-inagurated-on-september-4/articleshow/77728898.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Goa||Realty cos to face brunt of NGT’s pvt forest order||Panaji: National Green Tribunal’s recent order to notify 46.11sqkm private forest in Goa includes approximately 100 hectares of land belonging to real estate entities in the state. This land was not considered as private forest by government constituted D’Souza Committee while the Sharma Committee constituted under NGT directions included it as private forest. Goa Foundation pointed it out before the NGT in August about the ownership being held by the companies. D’Souza committee in its report of 2020 excluded the crucial area of 1.04 sqkm from the green cover “without following standard statistical procedure and committed flaws in calculation of canopy density”. This came for scrutiny of the bench following the allegations made by the Goa Foundation before the bench on August 8. Goa Foundation said that the Sharma Committee measured patches of natural forest and left out portions of the land which were not obviously wooded for identifying the forest. The D’Souza Committee decided forest area on the basis of the area of the surveyed plot, including non-forest areas within the assessment, the NGO said, and added “this naturally reduced the overall density and took the areas out of one of the principal criteria at least”. Accepting the work done by Sharma Committee, the bench observed, “It is to be noted that Sharma Committee, constituted in accordance with the direction issued by this tribunal, chaired by deputy conservator of forest comprised senior forest officials, IFS officer, assisted by two assistant conservator forest, north and south division, with the chief forest surveyor of the forest department as member secretary. Besides two local experts knowledgeable about indigenous Goa flora, two additional collectors were included for the purpose of land record. The director of settlement and land record was also a member. The team obviously had forestry expertise and knowledge.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/realty-cos-to-face-brunt-of-ngts-pvt-forest-order/articleshow/77731803.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Meerut||CHC head removed after staff found drawing salaries without work||Meerut: A fight at a run-down government hospital room over marking of attendance spilled on social media platforms, and so did the alleged rampant irregularity which saw health staff drawing salaries without even reporting to work in Meerut. The in-charge of the Community Health Centre (CHC) head was removed with immediate effect and a probe was ordered against all those whose attendance he was being marked.The alleged incident took place at Bhoorbharal CHC. According to the initial probe into the matter, it has come to the fore that Dr Ashutosh was the in-charge of the CHC for the last five years. And some staff allegedly did only a week’s duty every month.But they were taking home the salary of the entire month. Dr Ashutosh’s complicity has come to the fore, sources said.The matter came to the fore after the staff fought among each other over marking of the attendance, and one of them clicked the pictures of the entire attendance register and shared it on social media.Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut’s chief medical officer said, "It is a serious matter and Dr Ashutosh has been removed from Bhoorbharal CHC with immediate effect and sent to Rohta. Also, a two-member team including two additional chief medical officers Dr Kunwar Sen and Dr Sunil Kamboj has been formed to probe the matter. There was overwriting on the register. Those absent were marked as present later." Meanwhile, Dr Ashutosh has denied all allegations and said that he was ready for the probe as he had only marked attendance of a few staff when they informed him about their presence over phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/chc-head-removed-after-staff-found-drawing-salaries-without-work/articleshow/77727577.cms||Ishita Bhatia
August 25, 2020||Hubballi||NSUI protests intermediate sem exam at KSLU||Hubballi: Demanding the withdrawal of the exam notification for intermediate semesters of Karnataka State Law University (KSLU), members of National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), Dharwad unit, protested at the varsity premises on Monday. Former NSUI national delegate Rajat Ullagaddimath said KSLU had taken a one-sided decision of holding examination for intermediate semester students. “Though we met the vice chancellor on August 18 and requested to collect opinion from students and parents, the varsity is adamant to consider the reports and statistics from colleges only. Most colleges have not completed the syllabus while most students are from rural areas and do not have proper internet bandwidth and access,” he alleged. Nagaraj Gouri, another NSUI member, said the state government has clearly asked varsities promote all intermediate semester students based on comprehensive evaluation parameter. Even the governor, who is the chancellor for all varsities in state has given his assent for the same. However, KSLU is not abiding by the chancellor’s order,” he said. Sourab Masekar, Abdul Savantnavar, Sunil Marathe and Laxman Gaddi said most KSLU students have returned home in other states and countries during the lockdown and they are deprived of study material, library access and online classes. “Though most students and parents have appealed to KSLU authorities to cancel the intermediate exams, they have turned a deaf ear towards them,” they said. Vatal joins protestKannada activist Vatal Nagaraj joined the protest and said it was and injustice towards law students. “It’s unreasonable to ask students to appear for the examination while UGC itself has cancelled exams of all intermediate semesters of all universities in the country. KSLU should reconsider its decision in the larger interest of students,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/nsui-protests-intermediate-sem-exam-at-kslu/articleshow/77729906.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru ZP plans waste processing units on city outskirts||Mysuru: The district administration and zilla panchayat have turned their attention towards setting up processing units to process garbage generated on the city's outskirts. Sources told TOI that the ZP has received Rs 2.1 crore under Swachh Bharat mission to set up such units in more than a dozen gram panchayats under the limits of Chamundeshwari assembly segment covering both urban and rural pockets. Officials said setting up such units will ease the mounting garbage crisis and solid waste management issues of the Mysuru City Corporation. Garbage processing units may come up in GPs like Harohalli, Rammanahalli, Gangralchatra, Dhanagalli, Jayapura, Doora, Varakodu, Naganhalli, Varuna Beerihundi, Siddalingapura, Maratikyathanahalli, Marballi, MB Halli, Doddamaragowdnahalli, Hosahundi, Ilavala, Koorgalli and Alanahalli. This will also decentralize garbage processing work by having waste treatment units at source. All these units will treat dry and wet waste. “Local panchayat development officers have been instructed to initiate the tendering process to set up such units after identifying land and buying tippers for door to door and street to street garbage collection. A single unit can process garbage from three to four nearby villages,” said an official ZP assistant secretary M Krishna told TOI that local waste processing units in the fringes are essential considering the sharp rise in construction, population and commercial activities in the city. “All the 266 GPs in the district can utilise the funds available from both the Union and state rural development and panchayat raj departments to set up the units. Each GP can seek Rs 20 lakh by providing details of land and other resources. They can float tenders for garbage collection after getting the ZP’s approval,” he said “At present, villages in the fringes dump solid waste as they neither have a garbage management plan nor a processing unit. Once processing units start functioning, they can ensure garbage does not go to landfills or get dumped in open grounds resulting in clogging of drains and rivers,” Krishna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-zp-plans-waste-processing-units-on-city-outskirts/articleshow/77728077.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Advocates back camplainant against Jindu, case hearing tomorrow||Ludhiana: In the matter of an FIR against Guru Nanak Modikhana fame Baljinder Singh Jindu, over 100 advocates have stood up against him and lent their support to the complainant. Importantly, in February this year, when Ludhiana advocates had gone on strike against STF in-charge and had also intensified protest, Jindu not only opposed it but had also written to Ludhiana commissioner of Police por taking action against the advocates. On Monday, about 100 advocates submitted ‘vakalatnama’ in the court supporting complainants, where Jindu has applied for bail. A city-based advocate, Arun Kurami, said, “Jindu has been doing cheap publicity tactics for quite some time. He had spoken ill words against former SGPC president Avtar Singh Makkar when he was booked. He was also booked in an attempt to murder case when he opened fire at a person. Moreover, he has spoken against doctors, advocates and even those organising langars. This time he has spoken ill words against some gods, which cannot be accepted.” “Later on, to divert from the topic he pasted a poster at Guru Nanak Modi Khana, medical store, that the target was to shut Modikhana. The issue is only with the way he has talked about certain gods and goddesses. We have nothing to do with his medical store,” he added. Another advocate Dinesh Kumar said, “Lately, Jindu’s own team has levelled allegations against him for getting funds from foreign and also demanded clarity on those being used by him. Since Jindu is unable to give clarity, he wanted to shut the medical store. Therefore, he created this controversy and escaped after closing the store.” Ritesh Raja, general secretary, Shiv Sena, Punjab, on whose complaint the police have lodged an FIR, said, “So many advocates have come up in our support. On Wednesday, the hearing on Jindu’s bail application will be held. We are waiting for the decision.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/advocates-back-camplainant-against-jindu-case-hearing-tomorrow/articleshow/77728904.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Hubballi||TJ attendees in Karnataka take heart from Bombay HC order||Belagavi: Foreign nationals in Karnataka who attended the Tablighi Jamaat are seeking withdrawal of FIRs after the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court last week struck down criminal cases registered against foreigners in Maharashtra. The attendees may move the Karnataka High Court to quash cases. In Karnataka, FIRs were filed against persons from Indonesia, Malaysia, Kyrgyzstan and South Africa in Belagavi, Tumakuru, Bidar and Bengaluru. In Belagavi, five Indonesian couples were booked for visa violations and are currently on bail. They’re staying at a mosque and barred from leaving the country. Tablighi Jamaat came under fire for holding a religious congregation in March and was accused of deliberately spreading the coronavirus. The Aurangabad bench observed that foregin nationals were scapegoats. Faizulla Madiwale, who knows the Indonesians in Belagavi, said the Karnataka government should withdraw the cases. He said: “It’s unfair to target them.” An Indonesian said: “The purpose of our visit was religious; we have no other agenda. I request the Indian government to withdraw cases so that we can return home.” Zaheer Abbas, the advocate helping them, told TOI that some in Karnataka didn’t even attend the event but were booked. He said: “”Ten foreigners left India after paying fines, but many are not inclined to plead guilty as they haven’t done any wrong.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/tj-attendees-in-karnataka-take-heart-from-bombay-hc-order/articleshow/77727962.cms||Shreyas HS
August 25, 2020||Hubballi||Covid care centre turns exam hall for KAS aspirant||HAVERI: A Covid Care Centre (CCC) in Basapur, Haveri district, was converted into an examination hall for a lone Karnataka Administrative Service (KAS) aspirant on Monday. The candidate, a 23-year-old woman, had contracted Covid-19, but took the exam on Monday. More than 15 officials, including additional deputy commissioner of the district, the DDPI, the district surgeon, deputy director of the department of social welfare, deputy director for treasury department and BEO, were deployed to ensure “smooth conduct” of the exam at the centre. “On Sunday, a rapid antigen test showed the aspirant was positive for Covid-19,” said S Yogishwar, additional DC. “Earlier on Sunday, both her parents had tested positive, so she too took the test. However, the 23-year-old is asymptomatic and was sent to Basapur CCC. We received approval from KPSC to set up a separate examination centre and we arranged it at the CCC since she is the only student infected with Covid-19 in Haveri district to take the exam.” Yogishwar said elaborate arrangements were made and all precautions taken to ensure the aspirant took the exam. “In all, 15 gazetted officers including me, besides other staff were deployed on examination duty at the CCC,” he said. Andaneppa Vadageri, DDPI, and a nodal officer for the special exam centre said SOP prescribed by the government was followed. “Officials encouraged her to write the exams without fear,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/covid-care-centre-turns-in-haveri-into-exam-hall-for-lone-kas-aspirant/articleshow/77727930.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
August 25, 2020||Mysuru||Regional commissioner starts probe into Nanjangud doctor’s suicide||MYSURU: Although it has been five days since the tragic suicide of Nanjangud taluk health officer Dr SR Nagendra, the furore over the incident refuses to die down. Taking cognisance of the persisting outrage over his death, the state government on Monday tasked Mysuru regional commissioner GC Prakash to head an investigation into Dr Nagendra’s death. Confirming the receipt of the government order to TOI, Prakash added, “I received an order to initiate a probe at 2pm on Monday. I have been asked to file a report within a week, and I will try to meet the stipulated deadline. I have already started the inquiry.” On August 20, Dr Nagendra, 42, ended his life at his home in Alanahalli, on the outskirts of Mysuru. Following his death, Mysuru zilla panchayat chief executive officer Prashanth Kumar Mishra was transferred but he is yet to be assigned a new role. In the wake of Nagendra’s death, doctors, and other staff in the department of health launched a four-day protest demanding Mishra’s transfer. The staff resumed duty only on Monday. The protesting healthcare personnel alleged that the doctor had been forced to take the extreme step owing to pressure from the former ZP CEO. In the meanwhile, collection of swab samples for Covid-19 tests, and examination with rapid antigen test kits resumed on Monday in Mysuru, Chamarajanmagar and Kodagu districts as the protesting personnel returned to work, confirmed Mysuru district health officer Dr R Venkatesh. Cops continue probe Notwithstanding the government’s directions to regional commissioner Prakash, Mysuru police continued their probe into Nagendra’s death. Although deputy commissioner of police (law and order, Mysuru N Prakash Gowda refused to divulge any specific details about the investigation, sources in the police department said that the deceased doctor’s smartphone had been sent for a forensic examination. ZP staff protest CEO’s transfer On Monday, it was the turn of the ZP staff and the panchayat development officers to protest, seeking the revocation of the government’s order transferring Prashant Kumar Mishra. The protesting staff gathered in front of the Mysuru regional commissioner’s office, to voice their disgruntlement with the ZP CEO’s treatment. Mysuru district PDO association president MD Mayappa, batting for Mishra’s reinstatement, said, “Under Mishra, the district performed very well in the implementation of various state and central government schemes. He is a very efficient officer. He has not committed any mistake and the government must recall the transfer order.” New THO appointed Dr E Eshwar, from Mugur primary health center, has been appointed the new taluk health officer (THO) of Nanjangud. “He is likely to report to duty on Tuesday,” said sources in the district health department.The post has been vacant following the death of incumbent THO SR Nagendra who committed suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/regional-commissioner-starts-probe-into-nanjangud-doctors-suicide/articleshow/77729298.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Nashik||Avg wholesale onion price falls by 30% to Rs 1,200/quintal in Lasalgaon||Nashik: The average wholesale price of onions at Lasalgaon APMC — the country’s largest wholesale onion market — dropped by 30% on Monday. The average wholesale onion price fell by Rs 500, from Rs 1,700 per quintal on Thursday to Rs 1,200 on Monday. The onion auction did not take place on Friday as all the APMCs in the district remained closed in response to the bandh that was called by the Maharashtra Rajya Bazaar Samiti Sangh to protest against the Union government’s decision to allow farmers to sell their produce in any part of the country. The wholesale market remains closed on weekends. Farmers brought their produce to the market in large quantities on Monday with the expectation of a price rise but the rise in the supply of onions at APMC led to a drop in the average wholesale price. The minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices were recorded at Rs 500 and Rs 1,570 per quintal, respectively on Monday. According to APMC officials, although the average wholesale onion price have dropped as compared to the prices last week, the prices are expected to cross Rs 1,800 per quintal by next week. Presently, the onions arriving in the wholesale market are the summer quality harvested in March and April. Farmers prefer storing summer onions with a hope of getting better prices. “The onions in the storage of farmers have started rotting. Most farmers have already sold their stock. Crops in the onion-growing belt in South India have been damaged due to rain. Hence, the demand may pick up again and the average wholesale onion price will increase in the next few days,” said APMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/avg-wholesale-onion-price-falls-by-30-to-rs-1200/quintal-in-lasalgaon/articleshow/77727588.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Health dept, state bulletin differ on Covid recovery rate||Ludhiana: Even as the state media bulletin suggests that the recovery rate in Ludhiana district is just 65%, the local health department claims that it is more than 72%. Interestingly, there is a difference between the two bulletins in the number of total cases as well. On Sunday evening, the deputy commissioner while quoting the local health department statistics had said that out of a total 8,679 patients, 72.5% (62,92 Covid patients) had fully recovered while many others were undergoing treatment in government and private hospitals. However, the state media bulletin released by the Punjab government on Sunday evening pointed out that the recovery rate in the Ludhiana District was 65% and the number of recovered cases was 5,944 of the total 9,170 cases. There was difference in the figures related to the number of active cases as per the district administration and the state media bulletin, with the former putting the number at 2,072 whereas the latter suggested the number at 2,913. The difference was in the number of daily cases as well with local health department officials suggesting that of the pending reports 171 patients were tested positive for the disease whereas the state media bulletin on Covid-19 suggested that the number of positive cases reported on that day in Ludhiana district was 242. Even before also such difference was found in the number of cases reported on a particular day in Ludhiana district in the local and state media bulletins. Besides, the local health authorities claim that their figures are correct. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that sometimes they (state health officials) update the figure late, which is why there may be a difference. He added that their data was correct. Even as senior officials of the state health department couldn’t be contacted, a junior-level officer while asking not to be named said that their numbers were correct as they were showing more number of total cases as compared to the local health department officials. He added that maybe the local health department officials had not updated the figures, which was why they were showing less number of total cases for Ludhiana district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/health-dept-state-bulletin-differ-on-covid-recovery-rate/articleshow/77728945.cms||Shariq Majeed
August 25, 2020||Rajkot||Incessant rains dampen spirits of groundnut farmers||Rajkot: The groundnut farmers of Saurashtra, who were expecting better earning this year, are now staring at huge losses as the incessant rains over the past three days has left hundreds of acres of groundnut fields inundated in water. Moreover, an overcast sky and high level of humidity over the past 20 days have further dampened the chances of a good yield this year. However, experts believe that there was still hope for Saurashtra’s super crop if the weather cleared in next day of two and there is bright sunlight. Mahesh Khuman, who has cultivated groundnut in his 30 bigha land in Jabal village of Amreli said, “My whole field is underwater. It has become difficult to sprinkle pesticide and remove weeds. If the water does not recede soon the entire crop will be lost.” Khuman is not alone. Groundnut farmers across Saurashtra are facing a similar problem. This year groundnut sowing has been done in 20.53 lakh hectare against 15.36 lakh hectare in last Kharif season. The main reason being that the state government has been procuring the agro-commodity from the farmers at Minimum Support Price (MSP), which is higher than the market price. This has encouraged many farmers to shift to groundnut this Kharif season. Amreli district agriculture officer J K Kanani said, “As per the complaints received till August 20, crop damage has been reported from 21 villages. Many farms are still waterlogged. After the water recedes we expect more complaint to be filed. This situation could also lead to disease in the crop.” Kanani added that like groundnut, there is also damage to cotton and sesame crop. They are yet to assess the extent of damage to crops, he added. The major groundnut producing districts of Gir Somanath, Junagadh and Amreli have received heavy rainfall during August. On the other hand, oil millers are fearing that the damp weather would affect the yield of groundnut. President of Saurashtra Oil Mills Association (SOMA) Samir Shah said, “The groundnut crop requires bright sunlight at regular intervals. But it has not got proper sunlight in the last 20 days.” He added, “Last year the yield was 360kg per bigha, which we expect to go down to 240-260kg per bigha due to high humidity in the atmosphere.” However, the total production may not go down as area of sowing is fairly large this year, Shah added. K L Dobariya, groundnut expert at at Junagadh Agriculture University (JAU) said, “There has been some damage to the crop due to rain. But if rains continue and there is no sunlight for few more days, then it will cause further damage to the crop.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/incessant-rains-dampen-spirits-of-groundnut-farmers/articleshow/77727648.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
August 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Somasila project starts to fill up, water released to Kandaleru||Amaravati: Bringing cheer to farmers of drought-hit regions of Penna river region, Somasila project in Nellore is full of waters. Although, water reached just 34 tmc against the project’s full capacity of 78tmc, the authorities have started letting out waters to the Kandaleru reservoir in the district. Irrigation minister Anil Kumar Yadav from Nellore district said they are hopeful that Kandaleru reservoir will fill up as inflows to Somasila reservoir is likely to be constant for the next few days. “We will give water to the entire ayucut in the district as both major projects will reach Full Reservoir Level (FRL),” said Yadav. He said 78 tmc would be saved in Somasila as the flood is heavy owing to rains upstream. Meanwhile, with inflows to Srisailam project dipping, authorities have reduced the outflows to Nagarjuna Sagar. The inflows to Srisailam project slowed down to around three lakh cusecs from the four-five lakh cusecs received in the last few days. The project authorities are however releasing almost entire inflows to the downstream as the project reached its full capacity. It currently has nearly 208 tmc of water against the full capacity of 215tmc. While Nagarjuna Sagar project is receiving around 1.7 lakh cusecs from Srisailam, officials are letting out around 1.5 lakh cusecs downstream. The inflows to Pulichintala project have also come down to around 1.3 lakh cusecs. The officials slowed down the releases downstream keeping in view the inflows. They are letting out around 45,000 cusecs to Prakasam barrage that is likely to bring respite to low-lying areas in Vijayawada and rural mandals along the Krishna in Guntur and Krishna districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/somasila-project-starts-to-fill-up-water-released-to-kandaleru/articleshow/77728951.cms||Samdani MN
August 25, 2020||Nashik||Over 500 containment zones lifted last week||Nashik: With the civic administration lifting containment zones from 586 buildings in the last one week, of which 267 zones have been lifted in the last 48 hours, the number of active containment zones in residential buildings has dropped from 1,675 to 1,089. Officials from Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) said that earlier, Covid-19 patients were being reported from the slum areas of the city, but suddenly, the trend changed and positive cases started emerging from the residential societies. “We had deployed 400 teams of civic health officials and other staff to trace Covid-19 suspects in the containment zones drawn up in the residential buildings. We conducted antigen tests for early detection of patients,” said civic officials. “The focus on tracing and testing Covid-19 suspects in the residential areas has yielded positive results in the last one week as no new patients were reported from the 586 residential buildings from where the containment zones have been lifted,” said officials. Over 600 teachers were roped in to trace comorbid patients in the city and conduct their antigen tests. “All these factors contributed to the improvement in the recovery rate,” said officials. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has also improved. The recovery rate, which was around 72% in the first week of August, has now increased to over 85%. Around 3,730 patients have recovered in the last seven days, as per civic officials. Of the total 4,003 containment zones drawn up in the city so far, 2,913 zones have been lifted as the patients from these zones have successfully recovered and no new cases were reported from these areas. Currently, there are 1,389 containment zones drawn up in residential societies and one in a slum are a.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-500-containment-zones-lifted-last-week/articleshow/77727636.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur still 2nd in divn in case count||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district continues to record the second-highest number of cases in Pune revenue division, after Pune metropolitan region, while Solapur district has been reporting fewer Covid cases. Satara, the smallest district in Pune division, is reporting cases at an alarming rate. Till Sunday night, Kolhapur district reported 18, 487 Covid cases, which has way more cases than the other three districts -Solapur, Sangli and Satara. Earlier, Solapur district had the highest number of cases, earlier. As per the official date, Kolhapur district has been recording 400 to 500 Covid cases on an average every day for last two weeks. As against this, the number of patients in Solapur city has come down. Satara district has been recording 300 patients on an average everyday for over a week along with nine deaths on an average for a week. Satara district crossed the five-digit mark of Covid cases on Sunday night. In Sangli district, the jurisdiction of Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad municipal corporation continues to record Covid patients but the number is lesser compared to Kolhapur district and city. Kolhapur district has the highest number of active cases-7,874, followed by Solapur district with 7,809 active cases, Satara with 4,144 active patients and Sangli with 3,803 cases. However, Solapur district has recorded the highest number of deaths-665 till Sunday night. Kolhapur district has recorded 547 deaths due to Covid-19, Sangli and Satara reported 320 and 306 casualties respectively. Though Solapur municipal corporation has shown a considerable decline in the number of Covid cases, it has 6,309 cases so far. Kolhapur municipal corporation had 5,768 cases till Sunday night. Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad municipal corporation has 4,965 cases till Sunday night. Satara district does not have any municipal corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-still-2nd-in-divn-in-case-count/articleshow/77727643.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Lucknow||Proposed Def production policy will be out in September: Rajnath||Lucknow: During a review of the defence corridor with UP government officials via video conferencing on Monday, defence minister Rajnath Singh said a cabinet note on the proposed defence production policy was ready and would be released in September. Singh directed the officials to speed up the work of land acquisition in Lucknow and Agra, two of the six nodes along the corridor where the government has so far not been able to zero in on any location. Chief secretary RK Tiwari informed Singh that of the 1,461.0579 hectare land identified in the six nodes of the corridor — Aligarh, Agra, Jhansi, Chitrakoot, Kanpur and Lucknow — the government had already acquired 1,310.2532 hectare land, which is over 90% of the total land to be acquired. He added that in Agra, land outside the Taj Trapezium Zone was being considered while in Lucknow the option of acquiring land around the Ring Road was being explored. Tiwari further informed the minister that investments of Rs 3,732 crore have been announced. Among companies, PSUs that have committed to investing in the corridor are Ordinance which will invest Rs 1,077 crore, HAL which will invest Rs 1,200 crore, BEL Rs 240 crore, PTC Industries Rs 115 crore, Bharat Forge Rs 200 crore and MKU Rs 900 crore. Some have already started work on their projects, Tiwari said. Additional chief secretary, UPEIDA, Awanish Awasthi said that in addition to this 32 MoUs had also been signed, many of them during the Defence Expo held in Lucknow in February. “Among these, M/s Titan Aviation and Aerospace India Limited has said that it will invest more than Rs 36,000 crore in Jhansi, for which a detailed project report has been submitted. Besides, investment proposals from Korea and Ukraine have also been received,” he said. Along with the promulgation of a Defence and Aerospace Manufacturing Employment Promotion Policy, 2018, Tiwari said progress has been made under the Aligarh node where the complete planning of DPR, town planning, setting up of power station has been completed. He assured the minister that the instructions given by him “will be followed in letter and spirit and all the targets will be completed within the deadline”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/proposed-def-production-policy-will-be-out-in-september-rajnath/articleshow/77731184.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Meerut||Murder of Baghpat BJP functionary: Cops say political rivalry led to killing, 2 arrested||MEERUT: Exactly a week after the family of a slain Baghpat BJP functionary met UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressing dissatisfaction with the probe, local police on Monday arrested another set of two persons and claimed that political rivalry led to the murder. Hours after the meeting police chief of Baghpat was shifted-- he was the third officer to face the music after the killing of former BJP district president Sanjay Khokhar on August 11. Soon after the murder, Baghpat police arrested two men and claimed that it was a matter of personal enmity. CM Adityanath had given them 24 hours to solve the case. But, on Monday morning, in a twist, police produced two men with the “weapon” used in the crime. Police said that Sanjay was killed due to political rivalry and the upcoming civic body election was the trigger. Newly-appointed superintendent of police (SP) of Baghpat, Abhishek Singh, said, “Sister-in-law of the main accused, Sanjeev Khokhar, held the post of chairperson of Chaprauli civic body from 2006-11. But in 2011 and then in 2016, a candidate supported by Sanjay won the seat. It led to bitterness between the two groups. A clash also took place between the two families two years ago. To settle the score Sanjeev along with his associates conspired to kill Sanjay.” Sanjeev and his nephew Shravan Khokhar have been arrested and a hunt is on to nab three others-- Sagar Balyan, Sagar Goswami and Sahil Salmani. Sanjay was killed when he went out for a morning walk. Soon after the murder, SHO of Chaprauli police station was also suspended. Initially three suspects were arrested on the basis of a complaint given by Sanjay's son. Embarrassed by the previous arrests made soon after the murder, which also led to strong reaction from the UP government, an SIT has been formed to investigate “every aspect of investigation.” “I have formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to look into every detail of the investigation,” said SP Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/murder-of-baghpat-bjp-functionary-cops-say-political-rivalry-led-to-killing-2-arrested/articleshow/77727620.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Police keep vigil at pond after activist drown||Aurangabad: The death of a social activist on Sunday in a water tank in the historic Himayat Baug area has prompted the police to act and put a stop to people visiting the area to witness the overflowing waterbodies. On Sunday, Sajid Khan, a 28-year-old resident of the Sanjaynagar area, had gone to the pond and had got into the water for a swim. However, a few feet from the bank, he lost his breath and drowned. The incident was caught on tape by one of his friends. Due to incessant rainfall in Aurangabad and surrounding areas, several waterbodies, including the Harsul lake and this pond, have been overflowing over the past few days. At Harsul lake, the authorities had to impose section 144 to prevent people from gathering. Inspector Sachin Sanap, who visited the spot on Monday, said the requests and warnings had been ignored. That is why a bandobast has been deployed at the pond. Scenic images and videos of the overflowing waterbodies had gone viral on social media, attracting a large number of visitors, including families. Several photographs and videos also revealed a rampant violation of social distancing and other safety norms, but the authorities had failed to take steps to stop people from thronging the spots. However, the death of the youth drew serious flak. Senior police officers then not only visited the spot but also deployed bandobast for stop visitors. Police have now warned of registering offences against the violators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-keep-vigil-at-pond-after-activist-drown/articleshow/77727645.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Court refuses bail to 2 in Pansare case||Kolhapur: District and sessions judge B D Shelke refused bail application of Bharat Kurne and Sachin Andure, the two accused in the murder of CPI’s senior leader Govind Pansare. Kurne and Andure had applied for bail but the application was rejected by the court considering evidence produced by the police . Special public prosecutor Harshad Nimbalkar argued that the duo might influence the witnesses. It was also argued that they were allegedly separately involved in the killing of Dr Narendra Dabholkar and Gauri Lankesh. Police have filed chargesheets against 12 people in the Govind Pansare murder case. Two suspects — Sarang Akolkar and Vinay Pawar — are still absconding. Kurne and Andure have been booked with serious offences like threatening witnesses, theft of motorcycle and handling of firearms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/court-refuses-bail-to-2-in-pansare-case/articleshow/77727658.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Loosely hanging power wires in city pose danger to residents||Loosely hanging, scattered and overhead electrical wires and cables are a common sight in the city. Not only does it pose grave threat to the precious lives of the people, but also to the property. This threat has increased manifold due to the monsoon. In many locations like Model Town market area there are electricity poles with high voltage cables hanging loosely almost above the head of the people. According to the residents and some shop owners, they have complained about the same to the administration many times but in vain. Talking to TOI, a resident, Radhu, who owns a garment shop in Model Town area, says, “This happens every two to three months and gets worse during the rainy season. Someone from the electricity department does come after calling a couple of times to rectify the problem, but there is no permanent solution. Hence after a few days the situation is back to square one with the live wires all over the place, some hanging loose and the other scattered carelessly here and there”. Another shopkeeper from Model Town Hardeep Singh, who owns a confectionery shop, shares, “The electrical pole is just near our shop and the way the wires are connected and hanging loosely, it becomes really scary. It’s just not this part of the city, one can find such situation almost everywhere. It not only puts our life in danger but also a short circuit in this weather will cause fire that will engulf everything”. According to a report, everyday 30 individuals lose their precious life due to electrocution in India and 80% of fire is caused by short circuits. The narrow streets and overhead scattered wiring make the city vulnerable to short circuits. It’s just not the market areas like Model Town, Focal Point, industrial areas, but also residential areas, which are suffering from a similar fate. In Model Town Extension, a resident, Achint Dhir, shares, “Most of the houses in the area have their boundary wall almost adjoining some electricity pole, and in such a case wires hang loosely, endangering lives. Also, the wires are not tied or placed neatly, rather you would find them disorganized and messy.” It seems the administration is in deep slumber and waiting for an unfortunate event to take place, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/loosely-hanging-power-wires-in-city-pose-danger-to-residents/articleshow/77729006.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Bareilly||25-year-old man drowns in river, body fished out||Pilibhit: A 25-year-old man Ravindra Singh of Rajeev Colony under Sungarhi police station drowned in Devha river on Sunday evening while he was fishing in nearby Rooppur Kamalu village. His body was recovered by villagers from the river around 11pm, after which it was sent for autopsy by the police on Monday morning. According to Krishna Pal, the father of the deceased, his son used to take cattle for grazing to Rooppur Kamalu village where he used to spend time fishing. “On Sunday evening, as he stepped into the river, he got into a whirlpool and was drifted by the river discharge up to around 5 kilometers. After a four-hour-long rescue operation, his body was fished out by villagers,” Pal said. Station house officer (SHO) Atar Singh said that police were waiting for the autopsy report to see if there was anything indicating the involvement of a criminal activity relating to Ravindra Singh’s death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/25-year-old-man-drowns-in-river-body-fished-out/articleshow/77727569.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||SI suspended for harassment||Ponduru (Srikakulam): A sub-inspector of Ponduru police station in Srikakulam district was suspended on Monday by Visakha Range DIG LKV Ranga Rao for allegedly requesting sexual favours from an accused. In a telephone conversation, the SI can be heard asking the woman to see him at his house in order to resolve the case. The woman is heard repeatedly asking him why he has invited her. Sources said the SI had seized 36 liquor bottles from one Annepu Appa Rao and 11 bottles from his daughter in Tungapeta village on August 22. However, a case was registered against Rao’s daughter only late on August 23. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/si-suspended-for-harassment/articleshow/77729050.cms||Siva G
August 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Poor response from sugar mills to Covid facilities call||Kolhapur: Sugar mill operators in the three western Maharashtra districts have not responded favourably to the appeal from the state government to set up 100-bed Covid care centres on the factory premises.Only four of the 60 mills in Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli districts have responded positively to the appeal and have started preparations to set up treatment facility. Two of these are from Kolhapur and one each from Satara and Sangli districts.“Since there has been very poor response, we have requested the government to make it mandatory for the factories to set up treatment facilities,” a senior official, requesting anonymity, said.The mill operators claimed that they had not been provided the requirements to set up the Covid care centres. Also, they have sought doctors and other staff for treatment facility.Arun Lad, chairman of Kranti Sugars from Kundal in Sangli district, said they had pledged the materials such as oxygen tanks, which are in short supply at the existing centres run by the administration. “We have limitations in setting up covid care centres and running them on our own. Instead, administration should allow us to donate materials required for the centres.”Kolhapur district collector Daulat Desai said that when cane cutters arrive in the region for the sugar cane harvest season, the centres will help admit and treat the infected workers. Two of the 23 factories in Kolhapur district have pledged to set up covid care centre and preparations have begun at one mill.The authorities said the godowns of the factories can be utilised for setting up the centre, instead of building new one. It will help set up 50 beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/poor-response-from-sugar-mills-to-covid-facilities-call/articleshow/77727679.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Nashik||1.1L students delivered certificates at home||Nashik: A total of 1.13 lakh students from Nashik district were presented certificates related to age, nationality, caste, non-creamy layer, temporary residence among others that were required for admission to higher education. The district administration, during a special programme since April 1, has ensured that the certificates were delivered to the students at their doorstep . There are 11 types of certificates that students need for admission to higher education. Generally, students have to take these certificates from the revenue officers after the Class 10 and 12 results declared. “We carried out a year-long campaign asking the students to get the certificates beforehand as they are not linked to their mark sheets. More than 2.5 lakh got their certificates after they applied online,” said a government official. “However, a large number of students did not get the certificates before April, following which a special campaign was launched by the administration to ensure the same are delivered to them at their homes,” added the official. The officials has urged students to visit the nearest Aaple Sarkar Seva Kendra (ASSK) and file the applications for certificates and avoid agents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/1-1l-students-delivered-certificates-at-home/articleshow/77727660.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Clubs resume with feeble footfalls||Ahmedabad: Two popular and oldest clubs in Ahmedabad, Rajpath Club and Karnavati Club, finally resumed operations after remaining closed for over four months. However, while clubs resumed operations with very limited activities and prior appointments, the response from members was lukewarm. Both the clubs saw roughly 5% footfall of members. While members ensured precautionary measures were taken, reluctance prevailed among members regarding visiting the club. “Close to a 100 people visited the club against a regular daily footfall of 3,000 people before the pandemic. Members are supposed to book their time slots and on the first day, many who had booked did not turn up. While there may be a general reluctance among members, the incessant rainfall through the day also played a dampener for attracting footfall,” said Jayesh Modi, vice-president, Karnavati Club. Clubs have started with limited activities. Karnavati Club has started with its gym, yoga and the sidewalk café. On the other hand, Rajpath Club has begun with its gym, yoga centre, food court and tennis. Jogging track will remain closed at both the clubs, though they tend to attract maximum footfall. “We have consciously taken a decision to keep the jogging track shut and will reopen only once the situation normalises. We had some 140 people visiting the club on the first day. Members are coming during a fixed time slot and that too based on prior appointment so that unnecessary gathering of people and crowding is avoided. We noticed that even at 30% capacity, the food court barely had people,” said Mishal Patel, secretary, Rajpath Club, adding that arrangements are made to ensure that only 30 members enter the gym at a time. Both the clubs have decided not to open swimming pools or indoor game facilities. The club management is expecting that the footfall may increase in the first week of September after a week to ten days of the reopening, as the word spreads about the precautions and procedures being strictly followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/clubs-resume-with-feeble-footfalls/articleshow/77730422.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Nashik||Manmad man dies after bike hits cow||Nashik: A 32-year-old man died in an accident after the motorcycle he was riding hit a cow on the Manmad-Yeola Road on Sunday afternoon. According to police, the deceased, Anil Misar, is resident of Vivekanand Nagar in Manmad. “We have registered an offence of causing death by negligence. Misar was riding his motorcycle from Malegaon junction towards Yeola on his motorcycle when the accident took place at 3.30 pm,” a police officer said. “After crossing the Manmad Amardham bridge, two cows came running on the road from the opposite direction. The deceased tried steering away from the cows, but ended up colliding with one of them. Misar fell from the bike and suffered serious head injuries, leading to his death,” he added. Sagar Khare (35), who was riding pillion, escaped with a minor injury in the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/manmad-man-dies-after-bike-hits-cow/articleshow/77727678.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Rajkot||Covid-19 patient jumps to death from 8th floor of hospital||Rajkot: A Covid-19 positive patient jumped to death from the eighth floor of Kalp Hospital on Junagadh bypass road in Junagadh on Sunday night. Police said the deceased, Ashok Chudasma (45), had jumped from the window of the bathroom of his room in the hospital. “Chudasma, a resident of Moti Ghansari village of Keshod taluka in Junagadh, had tested Covid-19 positive on Saturday. After he was admitted to the hospital, he went into depression,” said D K Gadhvi, assistant sub-inspector with Junagadh taluka police station. Chudasma was a farmer in Moti Ghansari village. He is survived by his wife and a son. “After he complained of cough and fever, he gave his swab samples for testing on August 21, the report of which confirmed Covid-19 infection on the next day,” added Gadhvi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-19-patient-jumps-to-death-from-8th-floor-of-hospital/articleshow/77727673.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Former skill development minister gets bail in YSRC politician murder case||VIJAYAWADA: Former skill development minister and TDP leader Kollu Ravindra was given conditional bail by the Machilipatnam court on Monday in a case related to the murder of a YSRC politician. The court ordered him to stay in Vijayawada for 28 days and should remain in quarantine. The judge also made it clear that he should not influence witnesses. Sources said that Ravindra will be released from Rajahmundry jail on Tuesday. The former minister was named as accused number four and was arrested by the district police for allegedly murdering YSRC leader Moka Bhaskara Rao on June 29 at Robersonpet police station limits. The cops had arrested three persons including the main accused identified as Chinni who happens to be the political rival of Bhaskara Rao. Krishna district SP M Ravindranath Babu cited call data and confessions of the other accused that they had committed the crime with the support of Kollu Ravindra. Ravindra’s advocates argued that Ravindra had no role in the murder of Rao and cited the state prisons’ department data of the highest number of Covid-19 cases in Rajahmundry prison to seek bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/former-minister-gets-bail-in-murder-case/articleshow/77729040.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Increasing incidence of post-Covid complications in kids worries Bengaluru doctors||BENGALURU: Children with a history of Covid-19 are returning to hospitals with hyperinflammatory and Kawasaki syndromes, doctors in Bengaluru say. Many of these children were not even tested for Covid-19 as they either showed no symptoms or just mild ones, but later developed serious complications. At the weekend, an 18-month-old boy was brought to Fortis Hospital with fever, vomiting, diarrhoea, rash, swollen lips, hands and feet and appeared puffed up and lethargic. He wasn’t taking his feeds, had decreased urine output and his heart functioning was abnormal. Multiple tests proved he had developed Covid-19 antibodies. The boy’s father had fever six weeks ago, but was not tested for the virus since his symptoms subsided. Doctors believe the boy may have contracted the infection from his father. The parents are also being tested for antibodies now. “We first thought it was Kawasaki disease, but it turned out to be hyperinflammatory syndrome which is more worrisome because of the risk of multi-organ failure,” Dr Yogesh Kumar Gupta, head of paediatric intensive care unit, Fortis Hospitals, Bannerghatta Road, said. Kawasaki syndrome is marked by acute fever and inflammation of blood vessels in the heart. Currently the boy is awake, stable, playful and taking his feeds. But his case is not an isolated one. Paediatricians in other hospitals say they have seen similar cases though antibody tests have returned negative in such cases. A 16-year-old boy is currently being treated at Rainbow Children’s Hospital, Marathahalli, for what could be hyperinflammatory syndrome. “The boy had acute inflammation in the hands, legs and poor heart functioning. The boy’s father tested positive for Covid-19 two weeks ago. The boy’s antibody test results are awaited. He is responding to treatment,” said Dr Chandrika Bhat, paediatric rheumatologist. Dr Bhat said two more similar cases were treated at her hospital but testes showed they were negative for Covid-antibodies, although, she said, it wasn’t saying much. “In India, we still don’t have an accurate antibody testing kit. There are several cases of false negatives,” she said, adding that all three cases of potential hyperinflammatory syndrome she treated responded well to IV-IG immunoglobulin medication. Eight children have been treated at Rainbow Children’s Hospital for Kawasaki syndrome since June. “Some of these children were negative for Covid-19 when they were brought in. In June and July, we didn’t have antibody testing available. There are chances that they had developed mild symptoms of Covid which may have gone unnoticed. At the moment, we cannot say which child who tests positive for Covid could develop complications later,” Dr Bhat said. She went on to say, “When antibodies for SARS-COV-2 develop, in some patients the body’s immune system fights more than it needs to, leading to complications like Kawasaki and hyperinflammatory syndrome,” said Dr Bhat, whose research article, hyperinflammatory syndrome associated with Covid-19, was published in Indian Paediatrics Journal in July. Paediatricians say parents must be watchful for Covid-19 symptoms in their children as there are chances, albeit rare, of them developing complications like Kawasaki and hyperinflammatory syndrome. “We are expecting more such cases in the coming weeks as Covid-19 cases in the state have probably reached a peak and post-Covid complications are likely to be seen,” Dr Yogesh said. Three Covid-19 positive children treated at Columbia Asia hospital, Yeshwantpur, recently also suffered from hyperinflammatory syndrome. A 14-year-old boy from Hoskote developed swelling in the abdomen along with rashes even as he was in the hospital for Covid-19 treatment. “Two girls, aged 13 and two, who were treated for Covid-19 returned with inflammation within 10-15 days. All three recovered. The girls were treated without steroids and recovered faster. I took advice from known paediatricians in Chennai who had treated such cases,” Dr Supraja Chandrashekar, paediatric intensivist, Columbia Asia hospital, Yeshwantpur, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/increasing-incidence-of-post-covid-complications-in-kids-worries-docs/articleshow/77728092.cms||Sunitha Rao R
August 25, 2020||Goa||Aldona murder: Vehicle used by accused attached||Saligao: Mapusa police investigating the Aldona murder case have attached the vehicle used by accused Mukesh Devsekar. Devsekar, 46, a resident of Quitla, Aldona, was arrested on Sunday in connection with the murder of Avinash Sankalkar, 27, who also hails from the same locality. The accused was remanded in five days police custody by a local court on Sunday. Police investigations revealed said that the murder occurred after a quarrel broke out between both the persons. Police said that Devsekar was returning home in his four-wheeler after fishing late Friday evening when an inebriated Sankalkar, who was riding his scooter, allegedly hurled abuses at the accused for driving with headlights on high beam. Both of them got into a scuffle, and in a fit of rage, the accused struck Sankalkar on the head with a stone, causing him serious injuries, police said. Officers at Mapusa police station managed to solve the case within 24 hours after a complaint was filed by the victim`s mother. On Friday night, local police were informed about a body with head injuries found in a drain near a sluice gate. The victim was later identified as Sankalkar. Five teams led by deputy superintendent of police Gajanan Prabhudessai, inspectors Tushar Lotlikar, Sandesh Chodankar and other personnel were dispatched to gather leads in the case. “Police worked throughout the night, gathering evidence and questioning several persons, which eventually led to the accused. He has confessed to the crime,” read a press statement by SP (North) Shobhit Saxena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aldona-murder-vehicle-used-by-accused-attached/articleshow/77731807.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Lucknow||Startup push to fulfill PM Modi’s ‘atmanirbhar’ vision: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: In yet another milestone in the state government’s initiative to promote start-ups in Uttar Pradesh, chief minister Yogi Adityanath laid the foundation stone of SIDBI’s Swavalamban Kendra in Lucknow on Monday. Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) is the designated manager of UP Startup Fund, a corpus of Rs 150 crore which has been set up by the government with the help of Abdul Kalam Technical University to fund start-ups at the stage of ideation and patent registration. Laying the foundation stone of the centre, CM Yogi Adityanath said: “The initiative is expected to help in the progress of MSME sector in UP and facilitate its growth. SIDBI is also managing the funds for Start-Up India programme. The bank has also provided a huge push to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Start-Up, Stand-Up and Make in India initiatives.” He said SIDBI had signed an MoU with the UP government for setting up of the ‘Startup Fund’ which would go a long way in helping people become self-reliant and fulfil the PM’s vision of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India). “With SIDBI’s support, schemes like ODOP will prove to be game-changers for the state’s economy, especially during economic slowdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. SIDBI’s new centre will start a new work culture,” the CM said. SIDBI’s Swavalamban Kendra will work as a training centre and provide enterprises, working under One District, One Product (ODOP) scheme and in MSME sector, access to working space, conference hall, board room, exhibition area and interaction with specialists in SIDBI. The centre, which will be developed as a green, eco-friendly building on 1 acre land, will be ready within a year. “With the opening of Swavalamban Kendra in Lucknow, where we are headquartered, we aim to bridge the skill gap and also provide micro and small enterprises access to co-working space, exhibition centre and meeting places,” chairperson and managing director, SIDBI, Mohammad Mustafa said. Under its start-up policy, the state government is preparing infrastructure for cultivation of start-ups. Around 100 incubators are being set up across the state with at least one in each district. The largest one in India is coming up in Lucknow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/startup-push-to-fulfill-pms-atmanirbhar-vision-yogi/articleshow/77731228.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Charotar village earns patent for ginger, turmeric||VADODARA/ ANAND: Innovators or institutes earning patents and intellectual property rights is common. But ever heard of an entire village securing the agri-products it grows? Charotar, the lush green belt of Central Gujarat, is home to such a village – Boriavi – where farmers have got their traditional ginger and turmeric varieties registered in the name of the village. The traditional spices gained popularity as immunity boosters in the Covid-19 pandemic have been registered with the support of Anand Agricultural University (AAU). “We have got the ‘Boriavi’ variety of ginger and turmeric registered from The Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers’ Rights Authority, Government of India,” said Devesh Patel, 37-year-old IT graduate and an organic farmer who exports close to six tonnes of both spices to the US and Europe. “Under The Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers’ Rights Act (PPVFRA) which introduced intellectual property protection in Indian agriculture, farmers as a community can get their important traditional crops registered. The ownership does not lie with an individual or a private firm but it is collective ownership of the village and the farmers who grow such crops,” he said, adding that collectively the farms have also been geo-tagged. AAU’s in-charge vice-chancellor Dr RV Vyas said that Boriavi farmers have been growing ginger and turmeric having special quality traits for generations. “The varieties of the local ginger and turmeric grown in Boriavi has special quality traits for which the land races were registered by the PPVFRA, New Delhi,” he said. Close to 400 farmers in Boriavi are engaged in ginger and turmeric farming that it cultivated in nearly 80 hectares. “The ginger grown in other regions has more fibres, which often results in waste. Ours is fibre-free with unique aroma,” said Amrish Patel, who took over farming from his father Jasbhai in 1980s. The farmers are now giving a push to their local ‘Boriavi’ brand as it would also mean earning royalty. “The Boriavi turmeric has longer shelf life. It is full of aroma and is rich in oil content. Presently, we have been successful in increasing the demand in Gujarat. Once, we raise the demand internationally, it would mean generating additional income,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/charotar-village-earns-patent-for-ginger-turmeric/articleshow/77727719.cms||Prashant Rupera
August 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Doctor feared dead after jumping into Krishna||VIJAYAWADA: A senior doctor working with Guntur Government General Hospital (GGH) is feared dead after he attempted suicide by jumping into Krishna river from Prakasam Barrage on Sunday night. The doctor was identified as A Srinivas (40), an assistant professor and a doctor. According to One-Town CI P Venkateswarlu, the doctor put his phone, wallet and ID card on the floor and took the plunge. After which, a passerby who saw the man jumping off and therefore informed the police. Cops immediately reached the spot with NDRF personnel. Officials said that the NDRF and SDRF were searching for his body. “We are yet to ascertain the reason for Srinivas’s extreme step but suspect work pressure to be one of them,” the cops said. The inflows in Krishna river which stands as 3 lakh cusecs has made the search operation more difficult for officials. Even the cops admit that it is well-nigh impossible for anyone to survive as both inflow and outflow currents stand high. The cops have alerted all police stations whose jurisdiction lie adjacent to the riverbanks in the district to keep an eye out for the doctor’s body. Meanwhile, a missing case was registered in this regard at One Town police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/doctor-feared-dead-after-jumping-into-krishna/articleshow/77729098.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Meerut||Out to collect fodder, minor Dalit girl gangraped in Baghpat, two arrested||MEERUT: A minor Dalit girl, a student of Class VIII, was allegedly gang-raped by two men when she had gone to collect fodder at the banks of Hindon river on Monday. The accused — aged 18 and 22 — who live close to her house, have been arrested. According to police, the accused had thrown the girl into the river before fleeing the scene, but she managed to save her life with the help of passers-by. Baghpat SP Abhishek Singh said, “A case has been registered against the accused, who were arrested. The accused live close to the house of the victim and they know each other. A probe has been set up into the matter. The girl has been sent for a medical examination and the report is awaited.” “I was shocked to learn that my sister was raped. Her clothes were drenched as she was thrown into the river. It is a matter of luck that she survived,” said her brother. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/out-to-collect-fodder-minor-dalit-girlgangraped-in-baghpat-two-arrested/articleshow/77727699.cms||Ishita Bhatia
August 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Warring fronts unite for Trivandrum airport cause||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state assembly passed a unanimous resolution urging the Centre to reconsider its decision on leasing out the Trivandrum International Airport to Adani Group. It has urged the Centre to hand over the airport to a special purpose vehicle in which the state government has majority stake. While presenting the resolution in the House, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said for the last two years, the state government has been opposing the move to hand over the airport to private players. “I had written twice to the Prime Minister on this. The state government had also informed that it was ready to offer the amount quoted by the private player. However, all our pleas were totally ignored,” Vijayan said. The state is well-experienced in running airports successfully with public-private-partnership. Cial and Kial are the examples for this. Hence, it had requested to consider this while handing over the Thiruvananthapuram airport. However, now the Centre has selected a bidder that has no experience in this field. The Centre’s decision is against the interest of the people and this was communicated to the PM after the Centre took the decision. The government has also made it clear that it was not ready to cooperate with the private player if the airport was handed over to them. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said, “Despite the differences, the opposition has decided to support the resolution.” However, he alleged that the government was having double standards while dealing with the Adani group. The government attacked the Adani group in public but had secretly helped them by consulting a law firm close to it. There was criminal conspiracy behind approaching this law firm having links with the Adani group, he said. He also asked why Cial (Cochin International Airport Ltd) was not appointed as consultant. “A conspiracy has been held to help the Adani group. However, keeping in mind the state’s interests, the opposition is supporting the resolution and we agree with its spirit,” he said. In reply to this, the chief minister said the government’s stand on the airport is an open book. The firm had only done legal vetting and had no role in deciding the amount quoted by the state in the bidding process, he said. However, the BJP alleged that the resolution was not unanimous as their representative in the House, O Rajagopal, was not allowed to speak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/warring-fronts-unite-for-trivandrum-airport-cause/articleshow/77729119.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Kolhapur||‘Fine patients violating home isolation’||Kolhapur: The corporators of the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation on Monday demanded the imposition of a hefty fine on the Covid-19 patients violating home isolation. The corporators raised their demands in the KMC’s general body meeting held on Monday through video conferencing. There is no check on the patients who have been home isolated and many have been found jumping home isolation thereby endangering the lives of others, said the corporators. So far, 780 patients have been granted home isolation and they have to stay in a separate room in their house for at least 14 days as per the guidelines. The KMC takes an undertaking from the patients to ensure they do not violate the rules. The corporators also suggested to install a tracking device in the patients’ mobile phones to trace their movement regularly. Jayant Patil, senior corporator said, “We have found many home isolated patients roaming around without taking any precaution. Fine of Rs 10,000 should be imposed on such patients. Mark of home isolation and Covid positive should be stamped on them for identification.” Speaking about the demand, civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti said, “I will order our staff to put the home isolated patients in institutional quarantine if he or she violates the rules. So far, we have observed that self-discipline is much needed to contain the spread of Covid-19.” Kalshetti said the local committee members and health staff will carrry out regular visits to the house of the home isolated patients  Asha workers will also be asked to step up the door-to-door survey for which they will be an given an incentive of Rs 1,000 each, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/fine-patients-violating-home-isolation/articleshow/77727691.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Nashik||Design of Kalmusthe dam to be presented soon: Bhujbal||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal said that the design for Kalmusthe dam near Dugarwadi village in Trimbakeshwar taluka was almost complete and would be presented to the state government very soon.Bhujbal was conducting a meeting with the authorities of the water resources department (WRD) to find out diversion schemes that would help bring water from the west flowing rivers into the Godavari and Tapi Valley. “I have asked the authorities to carry out all the works related to planning of the water diversion schemes and keep the detailed project reports ready. Currently, no new development work is being carried out but plans can always be finalised,” said Bhujbal. In all, there are 19 water diversion schemes that have been planned from the western region of the Sahyadris to prevent water from flowing from Nashik and the neighbouring Palghar districts towards the Arabian Sea or even to Gujarat.“The water will be harnessed from Vaitarna and Daman Ganga valleys from which the Auranga, Ambika, Naar, Paar, Daman Ganga, Ulhas and Vaitarna rivers flow towards the Arabian Sea. The 19 water diversion schemes will bring water to Tapi and Godavari valley which falls on the eastern side of the Sahyadris,” said the minister. One of the biggest diversion scheme is at Kalmusthe in Daman Ganga valley which is aimed at bringing 690 million cubic feet (mcft) water towards Godavari valley and this is where the dam is being planned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/design-of-kalmusthe-dam-to-be-presented-soon-bhujbal/articleshow/77727683.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 25, 2020||Chennai||Madras HC for Maharashtra-type law to curb crime in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu should come up with Maharashtra Control of Organised Crimes Act-type law to put down goondaism in the state, suggested the Madras high court, expressing concern at the increasing rowdy attacks on police. Citing last week’s bomb attack and murder of constable Subramanian in Tuticorin district, a division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and V M Velumani slammed political parties for their silence on the issue, adding: “If a policeman is attacked, society is not safe.” “This kind of attitude of political parties, including the ruling party, would demoralise the police force and they will not have any confidence to discharge their duties without fear,” the bench said. The judges observed that, “They should also have confidence that their family will be looked after not only by the government but also by the political parties and the representatives of the people, in case any unfortunate eventuality happens to them.” The judges also referred to the fact that since 2014 the National Investigation Agency (NIA) had arrested 127 ISI sympathisers across the nation and the highest number of 33 were from Tamil Nadu, and listed a series of Maoist activities and encounters on inter-state borders. Use of weapons by criminals and politicians too was cited by the judges, who said: “The happenings in Tamil Nadu for the past 25 years would fortify the impression of this court that more rowdy gangs are active and anti-social elements are already very vocal in the state.” The bench then raised 25 questions relating to organised criminal gangs in the state and sought the state government’s comprehensive response within two weeks, after the Centre said it was for the state to handle. In its order, the bench pointed to the public and political outcry when a father-son duo (Jayaraj and Benniks) who were tortured in police custody, jailed on false charges and then died while in jail. It, however, said similar outrage was not witnessed when constable Subramanian was killed in the bomb attack. “The custodial torture has to be necessarily condemned. But this case (constable murder) is no different from that case (Jayaraj, Benicks). Political leaders, particularly the local minister and the local MP, have not even offered their condolences to the family of martyred police constable Subramanian. Only the DGP and other police officials attended the funeral. The only political party representative, who attended the funeral is the local MLA,” the judges said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/madras-hc-for-maha-type-law-to-curb-crime-in-tn/articleshow/77730426.cms||Sureshkumar
August 25, 2020||Vijayawada||In a first, cyberbully sheets opened in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: In a first of its kind, the Andhra Pradesh crime investigation department (CID) has come up with a new concept of opening cyberbully sheets since the beginning of this month. Cops usually open a suspect-sheet, rowdy-sheet or a KD sheet against a habitual offender as per the Andhra Pradesh Police Manual (APPM). This would allow cops to keep a track of the crimes of the offenders. According to the additional director general of police, PV Sunil Kumar, around 562 cyberbully sheets have been opened. “The police manuals have several outdated crimes from the colonial era and the idea of coming up with cyberbully sheets is to keep us updated during the smartphone era. Most of the sheets have been opened against offenders based within the state,” Kumar told TOI. Explaining further he said, “If an offender who has a cyberbully sheet were to be caught committing a fresh crime, say online harassment of a woman, then the cyberbully sheet which contains his past offences would hold merit in the court of law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/in-a-1st-cyberbully-sheets-opened-in-ap/articleshow/77729105.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
August 25, 2020||Bareilly||Ramganga flows close to danger mark in Moradabad||Bareilly: Ramganga river is flowing close to the danger mark in Moradabad with incessant rain continues to lash the plains as well as neighbouring Uttarakhand hills. On Monday, the water level in the river reached 190.26 metres — just 34 cm below the danger mark. The river water has, meanwhile, partially submerged the Moradabad-Nainital highway near Kashipur bypass, giving a tough time to the commuters. According to locals, Islam Nagar and its neighbouring villages, such as Bhikanpur, Shahpur, Ghosipur and others, are at high risk of flood. Locals said the Ramganga water has entered agriculture fields in Islam Nagar, Kafiyabad, Peepalsana and a few other villages, destroying the standing crops. Raoof, a farmer and resident of Islam Nagar, said, “Though the water level in Ramganga increases during monsoon every year, it has been rising consistently this monsoon due to incessant rainfall in the region for over a fortnight. The water level in Ramganga has come close to the danger mark after years and the river water has reached to the main roads.” “Nearly 1.5 feet water has been accumulated in some of the sugarcane and paddy fields. If this continues, the crops will be destroyed,” added Raoof. “Commuters have a tough time crossing the Kafiyabad-Peepalsana connecting road that has been partially submerged. The narrow road adds to the commuters’ risk, especially during the night,” said Rameshwar, a resident of Moradabad. Commuters taking the Moradabad-Nainital road are also facing a similar problem with a portion of the road being submerged partially by the swollen Ramganga water. District administration, however, said there was no risk of flood in the district as of now, adding that they have taken necessary measures to deal with the flood — if the situation arises. Moradabad district magistrate Rakesh Kumar said, “Around 30 flood stations have been set up and nearly 200 officials have been deputed to keep a tab on the situation, especially in the risk-prone areas. Professional divers and arrangements of boats have also been made to deal with any adversity. If the water level rises further, the vehicular movement on the affected roads might be suspended temporarily.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ramganga-flows-close-to-danger-mark-in-moradabad/articleshow/77727685.cms||Maria Khan
August 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur officials want e-pass system to stay||Kolhapur: Scrapping of the permit system (e-pass) for entering and exiting Kolhapur district will obstruct the efforts of the health staff to contain the spread of coronavirus, said senior officials. The Centre has requested the state governments to do away with the permit system and deregulate movements within and outside the states Maharashtra government, however, is yet to issue any further order or notification to the district collectors in this regard. Kolhapur collector Daulat Desai said until any such a notification is issued, the permit system will continue to remain in place. The district authorities through district guardian minister Satej Patil will make a plea to the state government to continue the permit system for Kolhapur district. The officials also pointed out that Covid cases among people travelling to Kolhapur district are on the rise.  A senior official requesting anonymity said, “We are able to trace and track the people arriving from outside effectively with the permit system. We have issued over 1.5 lakh e-passes since the lockdown started. If the e-passes are scrapped, then we will not be able to break the chain effectively.” The demand to scrap the e-pass system is mainly made by people residing near the district border areas and those commuting daily for work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-officials-want-e-pass-system-to-stay/articleshow/77727703.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Nashik||Assistant sub-inspector succumbs to Covid-19||Nashik: A 55-year-old assistant sub-inspector (ASI) attached to the Ambad police station succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday, making him the second police personnel in the Nashik commissionerate to fall victim to the contagion. The ASI, Sunil Shinde, had tested positive for Covid-19 on August 19, following which he was admitted to the Adgaon medical college. He succumbed to the infection during the course of treatment. Shinde had health problems related to sugar and blood pressure, said officers at the Ambad police station. So far, 70 personnel of the city police commissionerate have contracted Covid-19. Police officers said that while 17 personnel were under treatment, 20 were in home-quarantine Police said that though they regularly screen the personnel and issue instructions on precautionary measures, policemen on the frontline in the effective management of Covid-19 are at a higher risk of contracting the viral infection as they come across a lot of people||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/assistant-sub-inspector-succumbs-to-covid-19/articleshow/77727712.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Constable caught on camera thrashing 13-year-old boy||Coimbatore: A police constable beat a 13-year-old boy using a lathi on Sunday after he caught the minor roaming in the city on a two-wheeler during the total lockdown. The boy suffered injuries on his thigh and knee. The photographs of the injured boy were shared widely on social media. City police commissioner Sumit Sharan has ordered an inquiry into the incident. The police constable, Durgaraj, has been directed to appear before the police control room.On Sunday, the 13-year-old boy from Surya Nagar at Ondipudur and two of his friends visited a friend. They were returning on a motorcycle when constable Durgaraj attached to the Singanallur (law&order) police station stopped them. The cop questioned the boys for roaming in the area during total lockdown.The Singanallur police said the boy managed to escape while being questioned by the cop. But the cop caught him. When the boy again attempted to flee, the cop beat him with his lathi. The boy returned home and told the incident to his mother. The mother demanded that police officials take stringent action against the constable.Singnallur police officials visited the boy’s home and pacified the family members. Later, the family refused to talk to media. However, city police commissioner Sumit Sharan ordered an inquiry into the incident. “I have directed assistant commissioner of police (east sub-division) Eswaran to conduct a detailed inquiry in connection with the issue. He will conduct an inquiry with the minor boys, their parents and Durgaraj. Further action will be taken based on the inquiry report,” said Sharan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/constable-caught-on-camera-thrashing-13-year-old-boy/articleshow/77729106.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Street vendors seek clarity on central govt scheme||Coimbatore: Street vendors in the city sought clarity on the procedures that need to be followed to avail bank loan worth Rs 10,000 under the central government’s Atmanirbar scheme. They submitted a petition at the district collector’s office on Monday. “The corporation should inform us about the eligibility criteria to avail the loan under the scheme and documents that need to be submitted. We still don’t know on what basis the beneficiaries are selected. We don’t know whom to contact at the corporation office to get clarity on the scheme,” said P Mani, district president of Coimbatore street vendor’s association. Even though many us have registered for the loan at the camps arranged by the corporation last month, only a few of us had obtained the loan till date, he said. Some vendors had even given up the hope of getting the loan for lack of clarity.“The loan amount would be of help to revive our business at this time of financial crisis. Officials should take necessary steps to implement the scheme properly so that many vendors could benefit,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/street-vendors-seek-clarity-on-central-govt-scheme/articleshow/77729114.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Nashik||Traders, citizens volunteer to observe 4-day curfew in Satana||Nashik: Residents of the Satana taluka decided to observe a four-day janata curfew (starting Monday) to check the spread of Covid-19 infection. The decision was taken by the people’s representatives, local traders and other prominent personalities following the recent spurt in Covid-19 cases in the taluka with a population of 4.20 lakh. During the janata curfew, markets would be closed voluntarily and people would also not venture out of their homes. Hospitals and pharmacies are exempt. Taluka medical officer Nirpur Ahirrao pointed out that the number of Covid-19 has been on the rise across the taluka in recent times. On Sunday, there were 15 new cases. The day before, there were 34. So far, 426 people have contracted the infection here and currently, there are 189 active cases. Health officials said 224 people have been discharged in the taluka while 13 people have succumbed. Given the situation, citizens have taken the correct decision, said senior medical officials. In various other places in the district, including Nashik city, traders have called for janata curfew. Officials said because a large number of people were violating social distancing and mask-wearing norms, the number of cases in the taluka have been increasing. During the four-day curfew all the establishments in the taluka and Satana, with the exception of hospitals and medical stores, would be closed, said people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/traders-citizens-volunteer-to-observe-4-day-curfew-in-satana/articleshow/77727695.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Admission process begins for Class XI||Coimbatore: Parents made a beeline for corporation, government and aided higher secondary schools with their wards after the state government commenced admission for Class XI on Monday.There are 108 government, corporation and adi dravidar welfare schools, and 42 government-aided schools in the district. Half of the seats were filled by Monday afternoon, said J Sathish Kumar, headmaster of the SRP Ammaniammal Girls Higher Secondary School in the city. “We offer five groups. Most of the students preferred Business Mathematics and Biology on the first day. Apart from private school students, girls from high schools at Kovilmedu, Kavundampalayam, Ramalinga Colony and PN Palayam were admitted. We followed the reservation norms for admission process,” he said.S Rajalakshmi, headmistress of the Government Higher Secondary School at Ashokapuram said, “Within a few hours, over 250 seats were filled. We had received 75 applications for the Science group and 100 for the Arts group. If there is more demand for the Arts group, we might have to talk to parents to enrol their wards in other groups, as it would become extremely difficult to handle such a large number of students in a single class. The number of students from private schools enrolling here remains almost the same as the previous years.”Schools located in remote areas like the one in Velliankadu had only a few tens of admissions, mainly due to the lack of public transportation. “We are confident that the admission process will pick up gradually,” said a teacher.Online classes will begin after the admission process is over, an education department official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/admission-process-begins-for-class-xi/articleshow/77729112.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 25, 2020||Bareilly||Man held for desecrating temple in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: A 30-year-old man was arrested and sent to jail for allegedly desecrating a temple at Madhotanda village in Pilibhit district on Monday. Dhanpal's act against the temple of Goddess Gomti near Phulhar lake from where the river Gomti originates caused tension in the area. The accused was caught by two guards at the temple. The police have lodged an FIR, arrested the man and sent him to prison. Puranpur CO Uttam Singh rushed to the spot and pacified some of the angry locals. The man used to visit the temple regularly to offer prayers, according to the locals. However, the motive behind his actions are yet not known. On Monday morning, he reached the temple with an axe in his hand and started desecrating parts of the temple. The accused has been booked under sections 307 (attempt to kill), 295 (making destruction, damage, or defilement of a place of worship or an object held sacred, with intent to insult the religion of a class of persons) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees or over) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-held-for-desecrating-temple-in-pilibhit/articleshow/77725310.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Police recover 6 stolen motorbikes||Aurangabad: A history-sheeter involved in series of burglaries and vehicle thefts was recently arrested City Chowk police. The police have recovered six stolen two-wheelers from the possession of the suspect — identified as Anis alias Baba Khan, a resident of Saeeda Colony. Inspector Sambhaji Pawar said that the suspect has over 20 offences of theft, robbery and dacoity registered against him at different police stations. “We have recovered six motorbikes, some cash and mobile phones that we suspect were stolen from different places in the city,” Pawar said. tNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-recover-6-stolen-motorbikes/articleshow/77858186.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Goa||Goa University invites applications for masters courses||PANAJI: As some seats to the MCom and the Masters in Travel and Tourism Management (MTTM) are still to be filled for the 2020-21 academic year, Goa University has opened up applications for Round IV of the Goa University Admissions Ranking Test (GU-ART) to these two programmes. The last day to receive applications online will be August 27 at 6pm, GU said. “Candidates who have completed their graduation or are in their final year of graduation are eligible to apply. Selected candidates who are in the final year of graduation shall be granted provisional admission. Their admission will be confirmed after the results are declared based on the eligibility. In case a candidate fails to clear the graduation examination, the admission shall be cancelled and the fees refunded,” GU said. The varsity said that candidates asked student’s to apply online much before the closing dates and not to wait till last date or for payment of application fees to avoid possibility of disconnection/inability/failure to log on to the website on account of heavy load on internet or website. “Goa University does not assume any responsibility for the candidates not being able to submit their application within the last date on account of aforesaid reasons or for any other reason beyond the control of the university,” it said. A GU-ART paper will be of 100 marks containing 50 objective Multiple Choice Questions of two marks each. “There shall be negative marking, where half a mark shall be deducted for each wrong answer. No marks will be deducted for unanswered questions. The duration of the test will be of 90 minutes,” GU said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gu-invites-applications-for-masters-courses/articleshow/77731821.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra University set to launch global BBA-MBA programme||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra University conducted its academic senate meeting on Monday. The senate gave its approval to introduce the international BBA-MBA programme from the 2020-21 academic year. The university will also launch a bachelor’s vocational programme in textile designing and a vocational diploma course in product designing from the 2021-22 academic year. Andhra University vice-chancellor, Prof PVGD Prasad Reddy said the syllabus of various courses will be revised to equip students with skills for the 21st century. “The academic senate also approved the varsity’s proposal of entering into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with BSNL to offer engineering students project works, internships and certificate courses. The senate gave its nod to launch 10 new courses from the AU Centre for Distance Education,” said Prof Reddy. “Even with the pandemic, the university continued to offer its academic services to students through online classes. The varsity has started planning to conduct full-time classes for students and conduct exams,” said Prof Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/au-set-to-launch-global-bba-mba-programme/articleshow/77729109.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Nashik||Nashik rural areas to get 3 more Covid care centres as cases rise||Nashik: The health department is planning to set up three more dedicated covid health care centres, equipped with all the required facilities, as the number of cases is steadily rising, senior district officials said on Monday.“The centres, which will have with minimum 30 beds each, will be established in Barham (Yeola), Peth and Igatpuri to treat patients with moderate Covid symptoms and save them the trouble to come to the district Covid hospital in Nashik city,” said officials. There are already 13 such centres in the rural areas of the district and the health staff over there has been instructed to get the patients checked from private physicians whose services can be taken on on-call system on a fee. The officials said that cases of coronavirus are increasing in the rural parts of the district and people should not face difficulty in hospitalization in their talukas.There are sufficient number of dedicated Covid centres, like Zakir Hussain, Bytco Hospital, Cantonment Board hospital at Deolali Camp in the city. Ministers, MPs, MLAs and senior administrative officials are constantly keeping a tab on the development about Covid cases in their respective areas. Meetings are being held with health officials on a regular basis to instruct them about the facilities that are needed to be put in place wherever necessary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-rural-areas-to-get-3-more-covid-care-centres-as-cases-rise/articleshow/77727742.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Concrete road coming up at Kovai Courtallam||Coimbatore:The forest department is laying a 1km long concrete road from Singapathy village to the car parking at Kovai Courtallam falls, to make it easier for visitors and tribals from the village to walk to the tourist attraction. Around two weeks back, the forest department and Thondamuthur panchayat had begun work on the road. “The parking lot earlier had a tar base, but it kept getting damaged during heavy rains. Same with the road from Singapathy to the parking,” said district forest officer D Venkatesh.Seeing tribals struggle to get around the forest to collect wood, the forest department decided to lay the concrete road, which can withstand more rain and vehicles. “It is a 450m road between the village and the parking lot and the parking lot in a circle can accommodate around 10 cars. Work is expected to be complete in three days,” said a forest ranger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/concrete-road-coming-up-at-kovai-courtallam/articleshow/77729143.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Major fire breaks out in hosiery unit||Times News Network Ludhiana: A major fire incident took place at a garment unit, “Vijay Vallabh Hosiery” in street number 6, Mahavir Jain colony. Eyewitnesses said the fire broke out at around 6pm on Monday. The cause for the conflagration was unknown till the filing of this report. No loss of lives was reported in the fire, but eyewitnesses said a raw material and goods were gutted in large quantity. The unit is located in narrow lanes with many small garment units located near and opposite the factory. The accident triggered panic in the area with people in adjoining factories fearing spread of the blaze. However, timely action by the fire department saved the fire from spreading to other factories. Still, officials struggled to douse the fire. Sub-fire officer Maninder Singh said, “The moment we received information regarding this fire, our teams were pressed into action. We are doing our best to douse the fire. It is a major inferno. Till now, five fire tenders have been used and more have been called to control the fire. The cause for the blaze is unknown but fortunately, there are no casualties.” Factory owners could not be contacted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/major-fire-breaks-out-in-hosiery-unit/articleshow/77727738.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad rural cops nab two, seize firearm||Aurangabad: The Chikalthana police of Aurangabad rural nabbed two suspects and seized a firearm, a live round and a sharp-edged weapon they were carrying, on Sunday late night. The accused have been identified Ganesh Phule (30) of Dhangar Galli, Harsul and Rahul Sonawne (29) of Kingaon in Phulambri. They were produced before the court on Monday, following which they have been remanded to two days police custody. Police have also seized their bike. Assistant inspector Mahesh Andhale told TOI, “The two have a series of serious offences including robbery, dacoity, arms act, kidnapping registered against them at different police stations of Waluj, Harsul, Cidco.” Citing preliminary investigation in the case, the officer said the accused were giving evasive answers about the source of the firearm. “They were probably on the move to target a person and make some money. But they ran out of luck and were arrested,” said Andhale. During their frisking, the firearm and a live round and a sharp-edged weapon were seized. Police suspect that there were at least three to four accomplices who fled the scene. Police said they had received a specific tip-off about the accused moving on Beed road between Chitegaon to Jhalta Phata. Following which, police teams rushed to the spot and police personnel deployed for bandobast at the entry points were alerted. When the two were spotted, the police asked them to stop but the suspects took a U-turn towards Beed and made a futile attempt to flee as they were nabbed following a brief chase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-rural-cops-nab-two-seize-firearm/articleshow/77727748.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Monkeys make life miserable for Bharathi Park residents||Coimbatore: Forest department officials are planning to place cages on the Bharathi Park Road to capture monkeys that have been straying into houses for the last few days. Five monkeys are raiding homes to steal food, residents said.“Five monkeys entered my house on Sunday and attacked my pet dog. When I tried to save my pet, they tried to attack me as well,” Saraswathi Ramesh of Raghupathi Layout told TOI. “They also ate grains kept for drying. The monkeys are a threat to us. We request the forest department to capture them.”The issue was brought to the knowledge of district forest officer D Venkatesh and assistant conservator of forest (ACF) M Senthil Kumar, who instructed the ACF (trainee) Prince Kumar to take necessary action.“Our frontline staff inspected the area thoroughly on Monday. If monkeys are getting enough food from the area, they won’t leave. We are planning to place cages to capture them,” said Kumar.The forest department's rapid response toll-free number (1800 4254 5456) can be used in case of an emergency, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/monkeys-make-life-miserable-for-bharathi-park-residents/articleshow/77729149.cms||A Subburaj
August 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Premature baby with heart defect undergoes successful surgery, thanks to Ladies’ Circle||Coimbatore: The three-month-old baby born at just 28 weeks was unable to breathe when wheeled into G. Kuppuswamy Naidu Memorial Hospital here.The parents, Jeganathan, a driver who had been out of work for the past three months and his wife, Revathi, could not explain what was wrong with their child.Investigations revealed that the baby had a hole in the heart.The baby weighed only 800gm when it was born and was facing trouble breathing and taking food. “It was only when she was three months old and 1.7kg that a doctor in Tirupur guided the family to our hospital,” said pediatric cardio thoracic surgeon Dr Vijayakumar Raju. “We realized that the breathing trouble was due to a hole in the heart. The parents said they had spent all their savings and were broke since the father was out of work.”That was when the surgeon contacted the Ladies’ Circle in Erode, Tirupur and Coimbatore and managed to raise around Rs 1.5 lakh for surgery. “It was a risky surgery because the baby’s other organs were also premature. We had to stop the functioning of baby’s heart for 60 minutes and attached her to a heart-lung machine. The baby’s muscles, especially diaphragm that helps breathing, was very thin,” he said.“We had to insert two to three tubes for blood circulation into extremely thin blood vessels, so any complication could have risen. The breathing problem had led to fluid accumulation in the lungs. But once the heart was rectified, the fluid drained out on its own,” Raju told TOI.Two weeks later, the baby is getting ready to go home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/premature-baby-with-heart-defect-undergoes-successful-surgery-thanks-to-ladies-circle/articleshow/77729156.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Chennai||CoP helps kids of cops busy with Covid duty get into college||Chennai: When her father, head constable P Murugan, died of during the pandemic, M Priyadarshini, 17, thought that was the end of her dream to pursue higher studies. That’s when city police commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal visited her home at the St Thomas police quarters on July 11. Priyadarshini fearfully stepped forward to ask him to allow her family to stay a little longer at the police quarters. The commissioner okayed the request on the spot. He then asked Priyadarshini how her studies were going. Moved by her tale, the commissioner asked her what she would like to study and where and noted down her choices. On August 20, he handed her the papers admitting her to a degree course at SDNB Vaishnav College for Women, Chromepet. She also got a full fee waiver for the whole course. “It was a dream come true for me. I was shattered. But this help from the comissioner changed my life,” Priyadarshini told TOI. It’s not just Priyadarshini, commissioner Aggarwal has ensured that 52 other children have got admission in various city colleges. Their parents — inspectors, sub-inspectors, head constables and constables — were busy dealing with the pandemic and could not focus on getting their children’s academics. “Our police personnel focused on duty during the pandemic without caring for their families. So I thought they deserved some help and it is also my duty to care for their families,” said Aggarwal. He hasn’t left it at that. The commissioner had sent requests to various educational institutions to provide admission to another 220 children of police personnel. So more children can expect good news. They won’t have to give up their dreams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cop-helps-kids-of-cops-busy-with-covid-duty-get-into-college/articleshow/77729171.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Refusing Covid treatment tantamount to desertion in battle’||Times News Network Ludhiana: Taking serious notes of reports of a few doctors and paramedics refusing treatment to Covid-19 patients, the district magistrate warned healthcare professionals across the city against doing so. An order by the district magistrate (DM) on Monday read, “Covid-19 is spreading very fast and has caused a serious threat to humanity. To tackle this serious war-like situation, the National Disaster Management Act has been invoked. Frontline soldiers in this war are doctors and paramedics who have been working tirelessly over the last several months. They need to be applauded. But sporadic instances of strike or refusal to do Covid-19 work have been reported in some cases. Though only a miniscule number of doctors and paramedics have refused to treat Covid-19 patients, such desertions in a war-like situation cannot be allowed in the larger interest of society.” According to the DM, this is a specialised job, which cannot be performed by other sections of society. He said that no civilised society could tolerate any callousness by even a miniscule number of professionals when the very existence of humanity is under threat. The order further read, “Keeping in view larger public interest and to save precious human lives, all doctors and paramedics working in all hospitals treating Covid patients in district Ludhiana are directed to not refuse treatment to any Covid patient. Any such complaint against any individual or institution shall be taken seriously and action will be initiated as per law under NDMA Act, 2005 and Epidemic Disease Act, 1897”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/refusing-covid-treatment-tantamount-to-desertion-in-battle/articleshow/77727768.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Dehradun||Now IAS, PCS officers to be day officers for CM in U’khand||Dehradun: The state government has decided that only IAS and PCS officers will be chosen as day officers to chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat from now onwards. Accordingly, specific days in the week have been allotted to the officers. Earlier, the charge of day officer to the CM was with his team of Officers on Special Duty (OSD). Now, according to the new order, IAS and PCS officers will be assigned for the same. As per the roster issued, Neeraj Kharwal will be the day officer on Monday, Eva Ashish Srivastava on Tuesday, PM Dakate on Wednesday, MS Bisht on Thursday, Pradeep Rawat on Friday, and Suresh Chand Joshi on Saturday and Sunday. The government has also announced that in case an officer can’t come on duty on his assigned day, some other officer (among these six ones) would act as link officers (relievers). Also, additional chief secretary Radha Raturi will now handle matters related to President, Vice President, Lok Sabha, and Niti Aayog. Amit Singh Negi will look into matters of CM announcements, externally-aided projects, housing, and revenue. Radhika Jha has been tasked with handling CM dashboard (monitoring updates and progress of works of all departments) and communication with the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/now-ias-pcs-officers-to-be-day-officers-for-cm-in-ukhand/articleshow/77726584.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 25, 2020||Chandigarh||5 containment, 31 micro-containment zones declared||Times News Network Ludhiana: Seeking to check rising cases of Covid-19, Ludhiana district administration, on Monday, came up with a list of five new containment zones and thirty one micro-containment zones in the district. All the containment zones already declared by the administration on August 22 have been retained in the list but the number of micro-containment zones has been reduced from 38 to 31. Providing information in this regard, health department officials said the five new containment zones include, Doraha (17 cases), Smailpura on Hambran road (16 cases), Dhandari Kalan near G 7 resort (39 cases), BRS Nagar B block (25 cases) and New Model Town, Sahnewal (16 cases). They added that the 31 micro-containment zones included Machhiwara (5), New Azad Nagar (5), Daulat Colony (5), Maya Nagar (5), Corton Woods Flats Jhammat (6), Street No 3 Basant Avenue (5), Daad village, Pakhowal, (5), Sant Enclave, Dhandra Road, Dugri,(5), Lotus Farm, Pakhowal Road, (5), 355-A, Model Town Extension, (5), Sector 32 A, Chandigarh Road (8), Atam Nagar (5), Basant City Pakhowal road (5), Alour, Manupur block (11), New Durgapuri Haibowal (9), New Moti Nagar (5), Ram Nagar Jagraon (11), Sector 32 A Chandigarh road, Tajpur road (5), Street number 10, Shimlapuri(6). Besides, there are Mohalla Bhogian, Jagraon, (6), Model House, Model Town (5), Kalakh Majri, Dehlon (7), Gurpreet Nagar, Daba Road (7), Manakwal village (5), Street number 3, New Shakti Nagar (6), Ashok Nagar near Bus Stand (5), Atalgarh village, Guru Ramdass Nagar (5), G block, BRS Nagar (5), Aggar Nagar A block (6), Issa Nagri (5) and Shivaji Nagar Durga Mata Mandir (12). Health department officials said that all these containment and micro-containment zones have been sealed and the departments concerned have been asked to take necessary action. DC Varinder Sharma said as per the directions of the health department, a district-level committee comprising ADC (D) Sandeep Kumar, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga, district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Kumar and medical college head Dr Clarence Samual, was formed to identify containment and micro-containment zones. He said containment and micro-containment zones are declared on the basis of this committee’s recommendations. Sharma urged residents to follow the directions of the Punjab government and stay indoors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5-containment-31-micro-containment-zones-declared/articleshow/77727752.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Meerut||Man asks drunkard to maintain social distance, beaten to death||Bijnor: Hari Singh (48) of Bijnor's Pilaana village, under Himpur police station, was allegedly beaten to death by a drunk labourer, Sohanlal, on Sunday evening, when he asked the lattet o maintain social distance. Singh slapped Sohanlal, who attacked him with a stick in retaliation. Singh died on the spot. Sohanlal was arrested, said Vinod Kumar Tyagi, SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-asks-drunkard-to-maintain-social-distance-beaten-to-death/articleshow/77727775.cms||Harveer Dabas
August 25, 2020||Delhi||Weekly markets in Delhi cautious in making new start||NEW DELHI: Excited and energetic, Rajkumar Gupta did not neglect to carry face masks and hand sanitiser while leaving his home after finally getting his first opportunity in five months to set up his stall at the weekly market in Pushp Vihar in south Delhi’s Saket. TOI was at the Pushp Vihar and Gandhi Nagar markets on Monday after Delhi Disaster Management Authority finally allowed one weekly market per day per zone in areas under the five local government bodies of the capital. Weekly market associations seemed aware of the fact that their hard-fought victory could come to nought if the special guidelines were violated. “The market has opened after five months and is on trial till August end. Unless we adhere to rules, it will be difficult to get permission for a permanent resumption,” said Ramesh Kumar, president of the Pushp Vihar weekly market association. A South Delhi Municipal Corporation banner demarcated the market area limits, with the entrance manned by a woman guard managing the sanitising machine for buyers. The stalls were erected around 6 ft of each other, and spaces in front had circles marked for customers. Most people were wearing masks, cautioned by constant public announcements about the required norms and repercussions of violating them. “Each vendor contributed to the effort to manage things successfully,” said a satisfied official of SDMC’s licensing department. Rajkumar Kataria, general secretary of the Pushp Vihar weekly market association, said the group planned to visit the chief minister’s office on Tuesday to thank Arvind Kejriwal for permitting the resumption of the market. In east Delhi’s Gandhi Nagar, things were as smooth as in Pushp Vihar. Like in south Delhi, EDMC has also marked 6x4 boxes in yellow for customers, but not everyone adhered to social distancing. Many of the buyers, especially at the vegetable vends, were not wearing face masks. Perhaps things weren’t organised as efficiently as in Pushp Vihar, because vendor Devender Singh claimed not to have got any circular or information about the anti-Covid precautions to be followed. “The municipal staff took a round of the area in the afternoon, arranged some things and left,” alleged Singh. “We didn’t get any circular, but we are taking all precautions. Yes, there are people who are breaking the rules and we feel the need for stricter implementation.” Another hawker, Rajesh Jain, explained that there was no local market association and that was why things were so haphazard. “I am worried the apathy of some customers will make us pay the price,” muttered Jain. An EDMC official, however, refuted any negligence and claimed the corporation staff had made the necessary arrangements. “We had meetings with the vendors, but the problem with these markets is that they are not organised or have authorised associations which can be made answerable for violations,” the official said. “From Tuesday, we will be more thorough. We will implement the Covid norms strictly and penalise violators. We will also make regular public announcements in the market to remind people to maintaining proper distance from each other.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/weekly-markets-cautious-in-making-new-start/articleshow/77730540.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid dampens spirit of Ganeshotsav in Solapur||KOLHAPUR: The fear of coronavirus has dampen the spirit of Ganeshotsav this year with several villages opting for the “Ek Gaon, Ek Ganpati’ concept in rural areas of Solapur district. Similar trend has been seen in Solapur city as many Ganesh mandals have preferred to stay away from celebrating the festival. According to information provided by Solapur police, 229 villages in the district have preferred the Ek Gaon Ek Ganpati concept, while 702 villages have decided not to celebrate Ganeshotsav because of possibility of spread of virus. “A total of 615 villages are celebrating the festivals as per government guidelines,” a police officer said. Meanwhile, Solapur rural on Monday recorded 260 cases of Covid-19 along with nine deaths, including seven men and two women. Most of the patients were identified from Pandharpur tehsil (221). Deaths were reported from Barshi (3), Mohol (2) and Mangalwedha, Karmala, Pandharpur and Madha (1 each) tehsils. The total number of positive cases in Solapur rural has increased to 9,716, out of which 6,844 have recovered. The number of active patients stands at 2,597. “Rural Solapur has recorded as many as 275 deaths.Pandharpur with 2,213 cases has the maximum number of cases in the rural district with 83 deaths,” a health official said. Solapur city recorded 34 positive cases on Monday. “The city also reported two deaths — a 65-year-old woman from Pachha Peth and63-year-old man from Railway Lines. As many as 118 people were also discharged on Monday,” the official said. “The number of active cases in Solapur city is1,086, while the total number of deaths have increased to 401,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/covid-dampens-spirit-of-ganeshotsav-in-solapur/articleshow/77727777.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Supplyco, KSEB & KSFE pulled up in CAG audit||Thiruvananthapuram: Out of the 118 functioning public sector undertakings (PSUs) in the state that finalised their accounts, 45 collectively earned a profit of Rs 383.91 crore, while 64 incurred a loss of Rs 1,973.42 crore and one had a break-even fiscal, as per the report of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) on public sector undertakings for the year ended March 31, 2018 that was laid on the table of the assembly on Monday. The report says that as on March 31, 2018 the state had 136 PSUs, consisting of 132 government companies (including 15 non-working companies) and four statutory corporations, which employed 1.21 lakh people. The functioning PSUs registered a turnover of Rs 28,917.68 crore. These include three power-sector PSUs that registered a turnover of Rs 12,382.68 crore. However, the three incurred an overall loss of Rs 1,852.91 crore. The report, that also included the performance audit on management of non-subsidized commodities in the Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation Ltd (Supplyco), found that absence of integrated software at outlets, depots and head offices resulted in improper assessment of requirement, accumulation of stock in outlets and issuance of multiple purchase orders in each month for same commodities at different rates resulting in extra expenditure of Rs 7.94 crore. It found that negotiations were conducted with all the bidders in 2,749 out of 8,172 cases (33.60%) instead of lowest bidders, and purchase orders were issued to bidders other than the original lowest bidder in 1,108 cases. The selling price for branded rice was fixed wrongly, resulting in loss of Rs 11.26 crore in revenue. Incorrect implementation of pricing circulars resulted in loss of Rs 39.53, the audit report found. The compliance audit on small hydro-electric projects (SHEPs) of the state electricity board found that against the envisaged capacity addition of 148 MW through commissioning of 22 SHEPs during the 12th five-year plan period (2012-17), actual capacity addition was 39.35 MW by commissioning seven SHEPs as of March 2018. Delay in diversion of forest land and acquisition of private land, defective detailed project report and non-synchronisation of civil and electrical and mechanical works led to extension of completion time and resultant loss of generation of 608.93 MUs of energy valued at Rs 313.59 crore. Also, the performance of commissioned units did not match projections due to failure of equipment, obstructions in free flow of water to the water conductor system, etc, it said. The compliance audit of Kerala State Financial Enterprises (KSFE) found that the company accepted public deposits in excess of government guarantee ranging from Rs 208.50 crore to Rs 2,991.82 crore. Loans were sanctioned without following norms applicable to the different categories of loan and gold loans were sanctioned to private money lenders in violation of the objectives of the company, the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/supplyco-kseb-ksfe-pulled-up-in-cag-audit/articleshow/77729175.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Vijayawada||TSCCL plans eco-friendly initiatives||Tirupati: The Tirupati Smart City Corporation Limited (TSCCL) advisory committee has approved several eco-friendly initiatives including setting up of battery charging stations, modular toilets and dormitories for RTC commuters. The proposed battery recharging stations at 13 points will meet the needs of e-bikes, e-cars and e-auto rickshaws that are already plying on the streets but lack adequate charging stations. TSSCL has proposed to purchase 40 e-bikes for police patrol. The corporation also wanted to create amenities like modular toilets and dormitories, multi-level car parking facilities for the convenience of RTC commuters. Similarly, the corporation proposed to modernise the Harishchandra Smasana Vatika (graveyard). A senior official said work for the modernisation of graveyard and for the construction of a gas burner crematorium, which were expected to be completed before September 10. The corporation has also proposed to build a 25 MLD drainage water treatment sewage plant, new cc roads in dwelling areas and sports facility at Nehru Municipal High School grounds. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tsccl-plans-eco-friendly-initiatives/articleshow/77729161.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
August 25, 2020||Lucknow||14% B’khand e-way ready before time||Lucknow: In what may advance the development of hitherto backward Bundelkhand region, the UP Expressway and Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) managed to complete nearly 14% of the construction of 296 km-long Greenfield Bundelkhand expressway by August 22. This was ahead of the scheduled completion target of 10%, despite the Corona-induced lockdown that hindered the construction activity and forced the labourers to migrate to their hometowns. Talking to TOI, chief executive officer of UPEIDA, Awanish Awasthi said that the construction was accelerated through day-to-day monitoring of the project which is being constructed in six phases. “We also received the help of district magistrates and divisional commissioners,” Awasthi said. The four-lane expressway — expandable up to 6 — is proposed to start from Bharatkoop in Jhansi and end at village Kudrail in Etawah district near Lucknow-Agra expressway. Data show that while package-1 (50.4 km) is 10.86% completed, package-2 (50.3 km) is 10.63% complete. Likewise, package-3 (49 km), package-4 (51 km), package-5 (50 km) and package-6 (45.2 km) have been completed by 13.75%, 18.07%, 14.29%, 10.15% and 13.04%, respectively. Awasthi said that had there been no Covid crisis, the authority would have able to achieve 20% of the target. With the construction of the expressway, the Bundelkhand area will be linked with fast and smooth traffic corridor through Agra-Lucknow expressway and Yamuna expressway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/14-bkhand-e-way-ready-before-time/articleshow/77731254.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid casts shadow on Mahalaxmi festival||Aurangabad: Just like with Ganeshotsav, Covid-19 has also cast shadow on the celebration of annual Mahalaxmi festival that begins from Tuesday. Every year, the three-day festival witnesses gathering of family and friends. But with certain travel restrictions in place along with fears associated with the spread of the contagion, the festival will likely be a low-key affair. Pranav Pathak, an IT employee who works in Pune, said he in two minds whether to travel to Aurangabad on the occasion of the festival. “Even if the state transport (ST) buses have started partially, I am not keen to travel in it with my family as it involves exposure to crowd. I have applied for e-travel pass for a private vehicle which is still in process,” he said. The local markets also wore a deserted look on the eve of the festival. Ujwala Katkar, a home-maker, said the pandemic situation has dampen the festive spirit. “The festival involves buying lot of things for different rituals and decoration. I, however, chose not to go to crowded markets due to Covid-19,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-casts-shadow-on-mahalaxmi-festival/articleshow/77727757.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Vadodara||Akshay Patra employee murdered, two detained||Vadodara: An executive of Akshaya Patra Foundation was found murdered at his house in Gorwa on Sunday evening.The 53-year-old victim Ramlal Patel’s paramour Kinjal Patel and her boyfriend Krunal Dulera were detained on Monday for the murder.Kinjal (22) had been living with Ramlal at his house in Jivabhai Flats in Gorwa since long. Ramlal’s family lived in his hometown Udaipur. Lately, Kinjal developed a romantic relationship with Dulera, a resident of Kheda, and they decided to get married. However, it was not possible for them to get married as Kinjal was living with Ramlal and he was not willing to break off their relationship. “The duo made a plan to kill Ramlal, so the woman called her boyfriend at Ramlal’s home and they killed him with a hammer when he was asleep,” said assistant commissioner of police B A Chaudhary.The murder came to light when Ramlal’s colleagues from the NGO went to his home and broke the lock on his son’s insistence. Ramlal had planned to travel to his hometown on August 22. But when he did not reach and his phone was out of coverage area, his son Shailesh asked Ramlal’s colleague to check at home. Since his bike was found in the parking, Shailesh asked Ramlal’s colleague to break open the lock and check inside.Ramlal’s colleagues told police that the body was in the bedroom. His head was covered with pillows and the bedsheet was completely stained with blood.Patel had been working in the foundation’s logistics department for almost 10 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/akshay-patra-employee-murdered-two-detained/articleshow/77727764.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand BJP MLA who danced with guns apologises, suspension revoked after 13 months||Dehradun: Kunwar Pranav Singh Champion, the MLA from Khanpur who was suspended from BJP for six years in July 2019 after a video of him dancing with firearms in hand went viral, rejoined the party on Monday. State BJP president Bansidhar Bhagat, at whose residence Champion was welcomed back, said the MLA had “accepted his mistakes and has assured the party that he will not repeat them and hence there is no harm in giving him a second chance.” “I promise that I will not repeat my past mistakes. I cannot imagine my separation from BJP as it’s the party of values and morals,” said Champion. The MLA had earned the wrath of the party brass when videos of him threatening media persons in Delhi, speaking ill of a few BJP leaders and the one which purportedly showed him dancing with guns went viral last year. He was suspended from the party in July last year initially for three months on charges of breach of party discipline which was extended indefinitely just a month later. Bhagat said the decision to revoke his suspension was taken collectively by the core committee of the party based on the legislator's conduct during the last 13 months of his suspension. According to party sources, Champion’s re-induction into BJP took place after the senior members of the party summoned four of its MLAs, including him, to present their side before the core committee. The core committee had also summoned MLA from Jhabrera, Deshraj Karanwal, Mahesh Negi who is an MLA from Almora and has been recently accused of raping a woman and MLA from Lohaghat, Pooran Singh Fartyal. “I am also announcing that the party is ready to welcome back MLA Deshraj Karnwal who was given notice for indiscipline as he, too, has accepted and realized his mistakes and has pledged not to repeat them,” added Bhagat. Notably, the simmering rivalry between the party’s two legislators came to fore in April 2019 when Champion – upset at being called a "fake man" by Karnwal – had challenged him to a wrestling bout at Nehru stadium in Roorkee. Champion, who is known to be a former wrestler, said Karnwal wouldnot be able to withstand even "one slap". Karnwal, who didn’t turn up, later said, “These are the times of weapons."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-bjp-mla-who-danced-with-guns-apologises-suspension-revoked-after-13-months/articleshow/77726613.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 25, 2020||Trichy||This cop has been feeding the homeless every Sunday during the lockdown||Trichy: The total lockdown on Sundays for the past two months across Tamil Nadu have left the homeless people on the roadsides, without food. In Trichy, a woman police inspector attached to the city police, noticing their plight, has been providing them with food during the lockdown on Sundays.Inspector V Jothimani of serious crime squad of Trichy police found a reason to extend her helping hand to the needy. “On the first Sunday of the lockdown on July 5, I was assigned a duty in Fort range. I was hungry but I could not avail food anywhere due to the closure of all restaurants. I also found destitute people on the road waiting for any donor to give them food. That moment I decided I should provide them food from the next Sunday,” Jothimani told TOI on Monday.Since July 12, Jothimani made it a point to donate packed food to the platform dwellers in Gandhi Market, Central bus stand, government hospital areas, Natharsha mosque area, Chathiram bus stand, Church road, Marakkadai, Amma Mandapam and few other areas in the city with the nod from the commissioner of police, Trichy city, J Loganathan every week.“I feel sad whenever I don’t get time to help them due to my work schedule. Last Sunday (August 23), I could not provide them food because of my duty for Ganesha Chaturthi. I make sure that my work and others should not be affected due to my way of helping others,” said the woman inspector. However, she distributed 60 masks to boys playing cricket in Marakkadai area in the city on Sunday.Jothimani said that an acquaintance of her makes either tomato rice or vegetable rice with a vegetable curry for the homeless people. On the reaction by the recipients, Jothimani said, “The happiness we obtain from seeing their happy faces is unmatched. They even wish us good health and long life but they actually have given me an opportunity to feed them humbly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/this-cop-has-been-feeding-the-homeless-every-sunday-during-the-lockdown/articleshow/77730466.cms||Gokul Rajendran
August 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Sambalpur girl’s underwater exploit earns her a junior scuba diving licence||Sambalpur: At an age when most children her age indulged in games and activities, Dubai-based 10-year-old Tisya Panigrahi was exploring the depths of the ocean, trying to fathom its vastness and the secrets it offered. This Sambalpur girl’s desire to dive deep helped her earn the junior open water scuba diver’s licence from the Professional Association of Diving Instructors (PADI), the world’s largest scuba diving training and certification organization. This Grade 4 student of Raffles World Academy School in Dubai (she will be in Grade 5 in September) recently dived into the Gulf of Oman, off Fujairah, on the east coast of UAE, to earn her stripes. Tisya started taking interest in scuba diving when she accompanied her father, Priyadarshee Panigrahi, who himself is a certified PADI open water diver, during his dives. “It is my father who got me interested in diving. I always wanted to join him in his underwater exploits. However, it was my mother who enrolled me in a swimming class and took an active interest in my training. Acquiring the junior open water diver’s licence is a dream come true,” said Tisya. Her certification process involved a 4-day training programme which consisted of classroom sessions, training in the swimming pool and finally four dives in the open sea. To be eligible for this training, she also had to pass a basic endurance test, which involved a 200-metre swim and staying afloat for 10 minutes. “Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, the Dubai and the UAE governments have been kind enough to allow scuba diving with proper measures and maintaining social distancing,” said Tisya’s father, Priyadarshi. He said he is extremely delighted for Tisya. Founded in 1966 in Illinois, USA, PADI has more than 6,600 dive centres and resorts and 1,37,000 professionals who have issued more than 27 million certifications around the world. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/sambalpur-girls-underwater-exploit-earns-her-a-junior-scuba-diving-licence/articleshow/77729178.cms||Subrat Mohanty
August 25, 2020||Bareilly||Interstate gang busted, five held with 28 stolen mo-bikes||Bareilly: Police arrested five people from Sambhal on Monday, who are accused of being involved in lifting motorcycles from Delhi, Haryana, Noida and other districts of Uttar Pradesh. Sambhal police said they set up a vehicle checkpoint at Bahjoi road near MGM degree college on Sunday, after being alerted that a bike-lifters gang was active in the area. Sambhal SP Yamuna Prasad said during the vehicle checking drive, four people on two motorcycles — Kamal, Tanveer, Pancham and Shaheen — were intercepted on suspicion, and illegal weapons recovered from them, at which they were arrested. During interrogation, they revealed they are part of a five-member gang, with the fifth accused being Umesh, the caretaker of a garage nearby where they keep the stolen motorcycles.” The SP (city) added, “Police later raided the garage and recovered 26 other stolen motorcycles and Umesh, the fifth accused. He revealed on interrogation that they used to keep a check on crowded public places such as malls, hospitals, railway stations, banks, etc, in order to target two-wheelers parked outside, and lift them when they saw their chance. The gang used to operate in Delhi-NCR and Haryana, to lift bikes which they later sold for Rs 15-20,000.” Police said the gang members had recently stolen several motorcycles from different places and kept them hidden in the garage while looking for customers. An FIR has been registered under sections 41/102 of CrPC, 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property), 414 (assisting in concealment of stolen property) of IPC and 3/25 and 4/25 of the Arms Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/interstate-gang-busted-five-held-with-28-stolen-mo-bikes/articleshow/77725356.cms||Maria Khan
August 25, 2020||Nashik||Leopard rescued in Niphad, to be sent back to its habitat||Nashik: A four-year-old male leopard was rescued on Sunday night after it was trapped in a cage installed by the forest department in Narayan Tembhe village of Niphad taluka. The cage was installed at a farm two days ago after the villagers complained about spotting the big cat in the area. “A health check-up of the leopard was conducted by a veterinary doctor. The fitness of the animal is good and it will soon be released after finishing the official procedure,” a forest department official said. With the rescue of this leopard, the total number of leopards trapped by the forest department in the last one-and-a-half month across the district has gone up to nine. There have been several incidents of leopards being spotted in Chadegaon, Deolali, Donwade, Babhaleshwar and Samangaon village belt in the past three months. Hence, the forest department has installed 17 cages at various locations for rescuing the leopards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/leopard-rescued-in-niphad-to-be-sent-back-to-its-habitat/articleshow/77727772.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 25, 2020||Lucknow||Govt to curb tagging of products with fertilizer||Lucknow: After launching crackdown on black marketing of fertilizer, the state government has raised the ante to check the practice of boosting sale of other products by illegally tagging them with fertilizer. In a letter to all district magistrates and divisional commissioners on August 21, additional chief secretary, agriculture, Devesh Chaturvedi said, “It is the season when farmers carry out dressing of top soil with fertilizer. There are chances that some unscrupulous elements may create artificial shortage through hoarding, sell fertilizer at higher cost and force farmers purchase other products by tagging them with fertilizer.” The department cited its earlier order, dated July 28, which said that the sale of fertilizer be done through point of sale (POS) machines and added that the sale figures would be matched with the data of POS machines. “Accountability needs to be fixed on district-level officers who should ensure sale of quality fertilizer to farmers at affordable prices. Officers will make sure that sale of fertilizer by cooperative or private agencies is made in a transparent manner,” Chaturvedi added. The department has pressed for keeping a strong vigil on tagging of other products along with Urea, DAP (Diammonium phosphate), NPK (nitrogen, phosphorous and potassium) and mixed fertilizer which are being purchased by farmers. To maintain transparency, the department has also asked vendors to verify the identity of farmers. The government has pressed for the formation of a joint team of officers from agriculture and revenue departments for surprise raids. In case of any anomaly, the sale of fertilizer would be done in the presence of district-level officers. The teams will be mandated to conduct checking of fertilizer wholesalers to curb artificial shortage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-to-curb-tagging-of-products-with-fertilizer/articleshow/77731280.cms||Pankaj Shah
August 25, 2020||Vadodara||Five create scene in Manjalpur police station||Vadodara: High drama was witnessed in Manjalpur police station on Sunday night when two persons detained for ruckus started banging their heads on the lock-up bars and getting into a scuffle with the cops.In all, five persons were booked and detained.According to police, a man named Ronak alias Lolo Gandhi was detained on Sunday night for a brawl near Makarpura GIDC. When he was being taken to the police station in a PCR van, he allegedly kept abusing the cops and threatened to get them suspended. An hour later, Gandhi’s friend Rajnikant Padhiyar reached the police station questioning Gandhi’s detention. As the police were trying to put Padhiyar too in the lock-up, he got into a scuffle with a constable. Cops said that the duo banged their heads against the rods of the lock-up to blame custodial torture.Later, Padhiyar’s brother Rajesh, sister Mital and another person named Narsinh Parmar too came to the police station and created a ruckus. “The trio threatened of registering a case in the court and suspension and even hurled abuses for detaining Gandhi and Padhiyar, so we booked them as well,” said a police official. A knife was also found from Rajesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/five-create-scene-in-manjalpur-police-station/articleshow/77727799.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Trichy||Forty booked for attending function||Trichy: Complete lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic on Sunday could not fully curtail the movement of vehicles and people in Trichy city. Cases were booked by police for violations by meat shops, tea shops, vendors and people who conducted a betrothal ceremony at Subbarayar temple at Tharanallur in Trichy city. The Gandhi market police booked M Arivazhagan, 37, of North Tharanallur on charges of unlawful assembly, disobeying the curfew, acting in a negligent manner to spread the disease endangering human life by holding a betrothal function on Sunday. Besides Arivazhagan, 19 men and 20 women were booked for attending the function. Special sub-inspector (SSI) of police Ragupathy said that they failed to maintain social distancing leading to the registration of cases against them under IPC, Epidemic Diseases Act, Tamil Nadu Public Health Act and Disaster Management Act. The city witnessed few such gatherings in marriage halls and the cases were registered against the organisers. It may be recalled that one such function in the Big Bazaar Street had led to formation of a cluster last month. Despite strict warning from the district administration against those roaming the streets except emergency purposes, vehicles were operating right from the morning on Sunday. The clandestine functioning of meat shops was found in several places in the city. Police registered ten such cases across the city on Sunday. The other violators were tea sellers, grocery shops and vegetable vendors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/forty-booked-for-attending-function/articleshow/77730430.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Goa||‘State can benefit from ideas of virtual innovation register’||Panaji: Goa State Innovation Council’s (GSINC) virtual innovation register (VIR) has received 320 innovative business ideas of which 43 ideas came from established startups. This, said chairman of GSINC Jose Manuel Noronha, is suggestive of the success in reaching out to innovators and tapping into their ideas for the benefit of the state. In its annual report for 2019-2020, GSINC said that 33 startups registered themselves on the innovation register. Identified as a significant tool to rope in entrepreneurial ideas, Goa’s virtual innovation register looks at integrating technology and entrepreneurial spirit to nurture a strong start-up ecosystem in Goa. “The virtual innovation register has successfully registered several path-breaking start-up ideas. Out of the total 363 ideas registered, 43 were from established start-ups and 320 were new ideas. The latter figure, which is significantly higher than the last year’s figure of 179, suggests the potential of entrepreneurship in Goa, and is also a reflection of VIR’s success in reaching out to people and tapping ideas,” said the GSINC report. During the last financial year, the council conducted a hackathon to identify challenges faced in solid waste management and its disposal. Among the 19 ideas proposed, solutions for disposal of tube lights, LED lights and sanitary pads also emerged at this hackathon from students of various engineering colleges. The council has also established a prototyping laboratory at Don Bosco college of engineering equipped with a 3D printer and laser-cutting machine besides other equipment for the benefit of innovators so that they may build prototypes of their ideas at the laboratory and later commercialise the product.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-can-benefit-from-ideas-of-virtual-innovation-register/articleshow/77731827.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Asked to bring flour, pharma executive beats, evicts wife||AHMEDABAD: A woman from the Paldi area of city on Sunday filed a complaint against her husband, a resident of Vastrapur, who works as a senior executive at a leading pharmaceutical firm in Changodar. The woman alleged that her husband had beaten and evicted her along with their eight-month-old daughter from their house when she asked him to bring flour. In her FIR with Vastrapur police, the woman, 32, alleged that her husband, 38, and in-laws began harassing her extremely after she gave birth to a girl child. She states in the FIR that she had been wed according to social customs and a few months after their wedding, her husband and in-laws began deriding her for not bringing sufficient dowry to their home. She alleged that whenever she sought clothes and other essential materials from her husband, he told her to ask her parents to provide them. In December 2019, she gave birth to a girl child and stayed at her parents’ place for two months. When she returned to her matrimonial home, her in-laws rebuked her for not bringing enough clothes and jewellery for the baby. She also alleged that her husband’s younger brother and his wife, who stay in the USA, provoked her husband to beat her and abandon her. Her mother-in-law also fought with her recently and shifted to another house in Bopal. On Sunday morning, she found that flour in the kitchen store had run out and asked her husband to bring some flour immediately. This did not go well with him who abused her and twisted her arm. She tried to save herself but was beaten badly by her husband who later pushed her and their daughter out of home. She then called up police control room and a team of Vastrapur police reached there and registered a complaint under domestic violence act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/asked-to-bring-flour-pharma-exec-beats-evicts-wife/articleshow/77730507.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Trichy||Quick recovery brings down active cases in Trichy city||Trichy: In a much-needed respite, the number of active Covid-19 cases in Trichy city has dropped significantly by 31% in the last three weeks. Compared to a month ago, the active cases are consistently declining in recent days, thanks to more discharges. Trichy Corporation attributed it to the consistent decline in fresh positive cases and a significant number of asymptomatic cases. On an average, Trichy was recording close to 900 active cases at the end of July and early August. The active cases peaked on July 30 with 904 cases. In the subsequent days, as around 70-100 fresh cases were recorded, the city was on the verge of breaching the 1,000 active cases mark. However, from the third week of August, the active cases dropped. On August 23, the active cases dropped to 558, one of the lowest in recent weeks. Ariyamangalam zone that has multiple hotspots including Gandhi market saw its active case tally dropping below 100. Except for K Abishekapuram zone, Srirangam and Ponmalai zones also witnessed active cases dropping by 10-20%. “We did not give any opportunity for fresh Covid-19 clusters to emerge. After an engagement cluster in June added around 100 positive cases, the city remains free from clusters,” a senior sanitary official said.Maintaining that the testing pace was not reduced, the civic body said that a minimum of 800 to 1,000 RT-PCR tests were conducted per day. “Around 30% of the fresh infections reported every day were asymptomatic. Most family contacts were also asymptomatic, so the recovery was quick in 3-5 days,” S Sivasubramanian, corporation commissioner said.Officials said that isolation of asymptomatic cases at their homes and at the Srirangam Yatri Nivas helped reduced fresh infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/quick-recovery-brings-down-active-cases-in-trichy-city/articleshow/77730479.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Quality control tests done by PWD inadequate: CAG||Thiruvananthapuram: The report of the comptroller and auditor general (CAG) on performance audit on quality control measures in maintenance of roads by public works department (PWD), tabled in the assembly on Monday, found that the quality control tests conducted by the department in works costing above Rs 15 lakh were inadequate. Out of the 92 works that were tested, it was found that in 85 works costing Rs 611.85 crore non establishment of field laboratory by contractors as mandated compromised the quality of works and led to undue favour to the contractors. Lapses in quality control works like absence of proper job mix formula, non-conduct of roughness index tests, non-deployment of qualified personnel by contractors for supervision of works resulted in defective execution of works, the report found. Works with larger estimates were split into smaller works of Rs 15 lakh or less, in 28 works costing Rs 8.16 crore, to avoid quality control tests. The audit also found that prior intimation of work site visits by the officials of quality control wing made the contractors and the field staff vigilant and the quality control tests conducted on such occasions always produced satisfactory results. Absence of monitoring mechanism led to non-review of quality control activities by superintending engineers and director (investigation and quality control) and resulted in the payment of work bills without ensuring the conduct of quality control tests, the report said. It further said that resurfacing work of roads could not be prioritised as most of the roads divisions did not maintain road charts showing the history of renewal of surface of different sections of the roads. Improper methods and unsuitable materials were used for road maintenance works, compromising the quality of roads and making them accident prone, the CAG found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/quality-control-tests-done-by-pwd-inadequate-cag/articleshow/77729199.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Carjacking suspect arrested in Osmanabad||Aurangabad: City police have arrested a habitual offender for stealing a car by assaulting its owner after he had stepped out of the vehicle to relieve himself. The incident took place on Thursday, while the offence was registered in the wee hours of Sunday. Acting on the complaint, Mukundwadi police arrested the accused and recovered the car as well as other belongings in the vehicle. “The accused, Sharad Pawar, is a resident of Vitthal Chowk of Mukundwadi area. He was arrested on Sunday from Osmanabad, where he was hiding with stolen car and cash. In this case,we have arrested him on charges of voluntarily causing hurt for committing robbery,” police sub-inspector Sandip Pawar said. As per the complaint lodged by Vishnu Shinde (42), the incident took place on Thursday night when he was on his way home in his car. “After driving for a couple of hours, I took a halt near a hospital on the busy Jalna Road. As I was relieving himself, the accused came to the spot and started assaulting me,” Shinde said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/carjacking-suspect-arrested-in-osmanabad/articleshow/77727809.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 25, 2020||Bareilly||UP: During fight over game, boy, 7, slits throat of 4-year-old cousin||BAREILLY: Too young to understand what he was doing, a seven-year-old boy allegedly slit the throat of his four-year-old cousin with a knife during a fight over a game they were playing outside their house in the Nawabganj area of Bareilly district on Sunday. The boy is battling for his life at a private hospital. The incident was reported from Chopula locality in Nawabganj town, where both families live in the neighbourhood and earn their living by working as labourers. On Sunday, when the fathers of the children had gone out to work, they fought while playing outside their house. Suddenly, the older boy went to his house only to return with a knife and attacked the younger cousin, said police, adding that the little one sustained a deep cut on his throat and chin and fell unconscious. The victim was rushed to the community health centre, where doctors referred him to a higher medical facility after preliminary treatment. The boy’s mother had lodged a complaint with police, alleging that her son was attacked on the instructions of her sister-in-law, but later retracted, said police. Nawabganj station house officer Surendra Singh Pachori told TOI, “Both families struck a compromise as it was a fight between their children. Both parents said the younger brother got hurt mistakenly and made a written declaration that they didn’t want any action.” “We have, meanwhile, sent a team to the hospital. They will inquire with doctors about the child’s condition. As of now, we are not taking a legal course, but if something happens to the boy, we will proceed by law,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/after-a-fight-over-a-game-7-year-old-boy-slits-throat-of-his-4-year-old-cousin-in-ups-bareilly-boy-critical/articleshow/77727753.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 25, 2020||Nashik||25% mandals celebrating Ganeshotsav this year||NASHIK: Very few Ganesh mandals in the city are celebrating Ganeshotsav this year as the threat of Covid-19 is still looming large. Going by figures provided by senior police officers, close to 75% of the total mandals in the city are not celebrating the festival. Senior police officers said that this year, only 41 big mandals and 147 small mandals had obtained permission for celebrating the festival, besides the 13 other mandals which worship idols of Lord Ganpati made out of valuable material like silver. This is in stark contrast to other years, where close to 800 mandals celebrate Ganeshotsav. Deputy commissioner of police (zone II) Vijay Kharat said that this year, mandals have responded favourably to the call of the police of having low-key celebrations. Even on the first day of Ganesh Chaturthi, there was no violation of any rule with respect to safety protocols and noise pollution. Ahead of the festival, the city police had conducted a series of meetings appealing mandals to keep simple celebrations. Police said that many Ganesh mandals had voluntarily decided not to use loud-speakers and keep the size of the pandals not more than 10ftX10 feet. Meanwhile, a large number of citizens too have decided not to venture out to see the tableaus put up by the Ganesh mandals since going in the public places may increase the chances of infection spread. Police said that the mandals were also adhering to all the government guidelines that have been stipulated to prevent the spread of Covid-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/25-mandals-celebrating-ganeshotsav-this-year/articleshow/77727802.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 25, 2020||Nashik||Immersion of idols at home ups NMC’s purchase of chemical||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has doubled the quantity of ammonium bicarbonate it buys for eco-friendly immersion of household Ganesh idols made of Plaster of Paris (PoP). The NMC has procured 9.25 tonne of ammonium bicarbonate this year against five tonne procured last year. On Sunday, 245 people collected ammonium bicarbonate from NMC for household immersion of Ganesh idols after 1.5 days of installation of idols at their homes. NMC has been providing ammonium bicarbonate to city residents free of cost to promote eco-friendly immersion of idols for the past three years. Ammonium bicarbonate is mixed in a bucket of water where idols need to be kept for 48 hours. After the complete dissolution of the idol, the remains can be used as manure or soil conditioner for garden areas. “This year, we are focusing and encouraging immersion of idols at home to avoid crowds at immersion points,” said NMC officials. The ammonium bicarbonate is available at all its six divisional offices free of cost. Residents may place their demand for ammonium bicarbonate online through NMC’s portal or they may directly approach the divisional offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/immersion-of-idols-at-home-ups-nmcs-purchase-of-chemical/articleshow/77727817.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 25, 2020||Vadodara||Duo tie up elderly temple caretaker, flee with cash||Vadodara: Two men broke into a temple near Samta crossroads early on Monday morning and carried out a robbery. The incident occurred in the presence of a 75-year-old woman who is caretaker of the temple. The police said that they are trying to get images of the robbers from CCTVs installed in the shops nearby.According to the police, the incident occurred at about 3 am in Amba Mata Temple. The robbers broke the lock of the temple’s door and entered inside. They spotted the caretaker Saroj Patel sleeping in the temple premises. “The accused woke her and then tied her up in the corner of the temple. They took away some cash and the ornaments that were fake,” said D H Chaudhary, Laxmipura police station.The accused knew that the temple is equipped with CCTVs so they also took away the DVR with them. “We don’t have any images of the accused or the incident as the robbers also stole the DVR,” Chaudhary told TOI. Patel was shaken up after the incident but she didn’t suffer from any injury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/duo-tie-up-elderly-temple-caretaker-flee-with-cash/articleshow/77727826.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Goa||Finally, road to Saljini, Verlem to be repaired||Poinguinim: Deputy collector Ajay Gaude on Friday said that the dilapidated road from Netravali to Saljini will be repaired by September end. The estimated cost of the work is pegged at Rs 35 lakh. The over 750 residents of Verlem-Tudov and Saljini in Sanguem taluka heaved a sigh of relief after deputy collector Ajay Gaude said that the dilapidated road to Saljini from Netravali will be repaired by September end. The estimated cost of the works is pegged at Rs 35 lakh. Gaude’s announcement comes two days after TOI in its August 19 edition reported that heavy rain had cut off the hilly areas of Saljini and Verlem as the road was flooded in several places. The Sanguem deputy collector said that a letter has been issued to the PWD under the Disaster Management Act to undertake the repair work on priority. He said that some days ago he had held discussions with the forest department who had given consent to the project. “The forest department officials have also given the green signal to reconstruct the two culverts along the 18km stretch,” Gaude said. “It is pertinent to note that the villagers for past several decades had been compelled to use the dilapidated road as the forest department was opposing moves for its development as it passes through Netravali Wildlife Sanctuary,” Gaude added. It may be recalled that the villagers had threatened to boycott the zilla panchayat polls if the road was not repaired. Gaude and South Goa collector Ajit Roy had intervened and persuaded them to withdraw their decision giving them assurance that the road would be repaired before the monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/finally-road-to-saljini-verlem-to-be-repaired/articleshow/77731828.cms||Albert Fernandes
August 25, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Now, teachers demand PPE kits||HUBBALLI: Primary and high school teachers, allegedly being forced to visit students’ homes every day under the Vidyagama programme, fear contracting Covid-19 and passing on the infection to kids. They are demanding PPE kits to keep themselves and the children safe. Chandru Nugli, general secretary, Karnataka State Primary School Teachers’ Association (KSPTA), said the Vidyagama circular has been misinterpreted by block-level officers and others. “The government has clearly said teachers can assign work to students and review it once a week. However, officials are forcing them to visit students’ houses on a daily basis. Though group activities are banned across the country, Karnataka teachers are engaging in them. They are not even provided PPE kits. If students get infected after coming in contact with teachers, who will be held responsible?” he said. Bheemappa Nayak and Venkataraddi Ramaraddi, office-bearers, Karnataka State Government Employees’ Association, Lingasugur taluk, said according to block-level officers, it’s not them but cluster resource persons who are forcing teachers to run ‘Vatara’ schools. “When the Centre has instructed all schools and colleges to remain shut till August 31, why are Karnataka teachers being forced to do this?” they added. They said three teachers have succumbed to the virus in the taluk and eight are admitted to the Covid hospital in Raichur. “If the government wants to run schools, it should provide PPE kits to teachers and masks to students,” they added. Pavadappa Kambale, state president, Karnataka State Rural Government High School Teachers Association, said even if one teacher turns positive, s/he will spread the infection to students. “One can’t expect sanitation and hygiene in streets. Many villages now have Covid-19 patients. The government should stop street schools with immediate effect in the larger interest of students and parents,” he urged. Primary and secondary education minister Suresh Kumar was unavailable for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/forced-to-visit-kids-homes-daily-teachers-demand-ppe-kits/articleshow/77728045.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
August 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Unlock 4: BMRCL prepares to roll out Namma Metro services||With the Centre likely to allow Metro services to resume post August 31, BMRCL is already preparing to resume operations as per safety guidelines. The Union ministry of home affairs is expected to issue guidelines in this regard. “We can get ready in four to five days,” said BMRCL managing director Ajay Seth. BMRCL is readying thermal scanners to screen passengers, while stickers are being pasted on seats and platforms to ensure social distancing norms. BMRCL has also decided to run trains with a maximum 65 passengers in each coach. “Metro will not carry more than 20% of its passenger capacity to ensure social distancing. A six-coach train will ferry only around 350 passengers for the next four-six months. Only alternate seats will be occupied. Stickers will be pasted on seats which are not to be occupied,” Seth had said. No tokens will be issued and users won’t be able to recharge smartcards at counters. This will have to be done online. Namma Metro has been closed since March 22. It is suffering a revenue loss of Rs 80 lakh a day or Rs 25 crore a month due to cancellation of services. It has been using project funds to pay salaries of its staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/unlock-4-bmrcl-prepares-to-roll-out-namma-metro-services/articleshow/77727844.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad 11mm short of 100% season’s rain||AHMEDABAD: The city on Monday received 9mm of rain from 10am to 12 noon. Ahmedabad has so far got 787mm of its annual seasonal rainfall of 798mm. Two persons were injured when a tree fell near Raipur Agiyari. The injured were rushed to the LG Hospital. “One Zubin Vora received head injury and a biker received injuries in his hand,” said M A Singh, police inspector of Kagdapith police station. Three complaints of wall collapse — one each in Bhanderi Pol in Kalupur, Pundit ni Pol in Khadia, and a chawl in Gomtipur — were received by the civic body. No one was injured in the incidents. A child was injured when a portion of house ceiling collapsed in Ekta Apartment in Hatkeshwar after heavy rain. The officials said that the city recorded nearly 90mm of rain in three days. On Monday, between 10am and 4pm Ranip area received the maximum 16mm of rain, followed by 13mm in Bodakdev and Viratnagar. The other areas received less than 13mm of rain. The city control room received five complaints of waterlogging, of which four were from the northern part of the city. Six complaints of tree uprooting were reported, including the Raipur incident late in the evening. Three complaint of road cave-in were reported from Vadigam and Navtad Mahakali Mandir in the central zone and on a service road in Thakkarnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-11mm-short-of-100-seasons-rain/articleshow/77731831.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly: Stepmom stabs 10-year-old 15 times and buries her, father helps cover up||BAREILLY: What had started out as an investigation into a "missing" child on Saturday took a turn when a chance remark by her younger sister led police on a different trail. Tortured with a baton and stabbed 15 times, allegedly by her step mother and aunt, the 10-year-old from Izzatnagar in Bareilly may have been buried while she was still alive. And her father is believed to have helped cover the tracks, investigation into the murder revealed on Monday. “It was a slow, enormously painful death,” Bareilly SSP Shailesh Pandey told TOI. “We had received information that a minor, who used to be physically abused by her stepmother, had gone missing,” a police officer said. Her parents — her father works at the municipal corporation — said she was “out”, visiting a relative. But her younger sister let slip that she had been beaten up and, later, killed. Police detained the parents and questioned them. Initially, they said it was an “accidental” death. “Their version at the time was that she fell off the roof, died and then they buried her inside the house,” the police officer added. On Sunday, police exhumed the body — it was severely bruised and lacerated. “The autopsy report on Monday confirmed the girl had been tortured with a baton and stabbed 15 times. The murder weapon, a knife, has been found. Her internal organs were severely damaged, faeces spilling out of her intestine,” Pandey said. Sources said she may have been alive when she was buried. “The cause of death was excessive bleeding,” the SSP added. The parents were questioned again. “This time, they confessed to the murder. Her step mother and aunt had killed her on Thursday and her father had helped bury the body,” the SSP said. A source added that her step mother had told police that the 10-year-old had been “asking questions about men frequenting the house when her father was not present.” The three have been booked for murder and concealing evidence. The parents have been jailed but her aunt is still missing. Neighbours said violence had been a disturbing recurrence in the household, more so since the step mother had a miscarriage last year. “We saw the woman beating up her step daughter often. Once, the girl had not finished some household chores and the woman kicked her in the face when she was sleeping on the floor,” said Kapoor Chand, a neighbour. “So when she went missing suddenly, it seemed something was not right. We informed the police.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/stepmom-stabs-10-year-old-15-times-and-buries-her-father-helps-cover-up/articleshow/77727783.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||2 UDF MLAs stay away from proceedings||Thiruvananthapuram: Two UDF MLAs — Roshy Augustine and N Jayaraj — stayed away from the no-confidence motion and also from the Rajya Sabha election, defying the UDF whip. Both the factions of the Kerala Congress (Mani) headed by Jose K Mani and P J Joseph have decided to approach the speaker seeking action against the MLAs for defying the whips issued by both the sections. Mani section had issued whip urging the MLAs to stay away from the no-confidence motion and the RS voting. Similarly, Joseph faction had issued the whip urging to vote for the UDF. “It has been decided to give a written complaint to the speaker against the MLAs who have defied our whip. We will seek their disqualification,” said Mani. Meanwhile, Joseph said he would plan the future course of action after consulting with the UDF leadership. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said the two MLAs have betrayed the front and it was against the interests of the UDF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/2-udf-mlas-stay-away-from-proceedings/articleshow/77729251.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Kochi||Training for CPO candidates yet to begin||Alappuzha: At a time when the police department is facing severe staff shortage to fight the Covid-19, training for 578 candidates who have received advice memo for the appointment to the post of civil police officers (CPO) in five battalions across the state in February is yet to begin. It was in 2017 that the Kerala Public Service Commission (KPSC) had invited applications for the post of civil police officers and the examination was scheduled to be held in May 2018. “But the examination was put off due to the Nipha virus outbreak. It was held later in June 2018. But the physical test again met a roadblock following the floods. After one year, the main list was published in July 2019. But the appointment got again delayed due to the exam fraud controversy. Later, the first batch got advice memo in November 2019 and they received the joining letter for training in February 2020. As their training got disrupted due to Covid-19, they were deployed for police station duty,” said a 31-year-old candidate from Alappuzha, who is waiting for a joining letter. “As many as 578 candidates also got advice memo for appointment in February 2020 and all of us have completed our medical examination,” he added. “If our training gets delayed, we have to undergo medical examination again as the validity of our medical certificate is six months. After we got the advice memo, all of us resigned from our private jobs and we are jobless. We want the state government to take steps to start our training at the earliest or deploy us for Covid-related duties,” said the candidate. “The excise department has decided to give online training classes to their trainees. We also want the higher authorities of the police department to utilize online platforms to conduct our training,” said another candidate. Armed police battalion deputy inspector general P Prakash, deputy inspector general said that the training of the first batch consisting of 2,200 people was going on. “The training for the next batch would begin after that. At present, we don’t have adequate space for conducting their training as per the Covid-19 protocol,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/training-for-cpo-candidates-yet-to-begin/articleshow/77727853.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Goa||Bio board visits Gulem heritage site||Poinguinim: The Goa State Biodiversity Board and the biodiversity management committee (BMC) of Shristhal recently undertook at trek to inspect the proposed biodiversity heritage site at Gulem. Situated atop a hill, the area has a variety of medicinal plants and wildlife. It is locally known as ‘Shree Ghodepaikakodil Thikan’, or a place where the village deity of the local tribal communities of Gulem village rests. Leading the team was Pradeep Sarmukadam, member secretary of the board, along with team member Ganesh Bhiva Gaonkar, Shristhal sarpanch Vinay Tubki, BMC chairman Deepak Bolwekar, zoology professor and incharge of BMC’s technical team, Shirish Pai, and members, Damodar Vasant Chari, Anjali Gaonkar and Govind Bhongo Velip. Locals with knowledge of medicinal plants assisted the team. Sarmukadam said the primary objective is to strengthen biodiversity conservation in traditionally managed areas. Such areas often represent a positive interference between nature, culture and society, he said, adding that the creation of a BHS will not put any restrictions on the usages of local communities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bio-board-visits-gulem-heritage-site/articleshow/77731830.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Kolkata||DHR conducts trial run after 5 months to check loco ops||Siliguri: The Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR), a UNESCO-recognised world heritage property, conducted its trial run on Monday. The DHR had suspended train services in March to staunch the spread of Covid-19. After five months, a train chugged on the narrow gauge, covering around 17km from Siliguri Junction to Rongtong and then came back to the originating station. The DHR officials said the trial run checked the locomotive and three coaches that had not been in operation since March due to the pandemic. “The train left Siliguri Junction at 10am on Monday to Rongtong and came back to the originating station. It was a trial run to check the rolling stocks so that we can resume services after getting an order from the government. Some locomotive repair work was carried out after testing,” said a DHR official.This is for the second time that the DHR has faced a long disruption in train services after the 104-day strike called in for the demand of Gorkhaland in 2017. Meanwhile, chief public relation officer (CPRO), Northeast Frontier Railway, Subhanan Chanda said, “The trial run is a part of maintenance. Though toy train services have stopped owing to the pandemic, regular maintenance is being done. We need to check the locomotives by running them”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dhr-conducts-trial-run-after-5-months-to-check-loco-ops/articleshow/77730548.cms||Roshan Gupta
August 25, 2020||Kochi||Kerala’s Covid-19 fatality per million population triples in three weeks||KOCHI: The state’s Covid-19 fatality per million population rose to 6.13 per million population on August 22 from 2.3 per million on August 1. Going by the present trend, it is predicted that Kerala would witness 90,000 cases and 400 deaths before mid-September. Till August 1, 82 people had lost their battle to Covid-19 in the state. The numbers jumped to 204 by August 22. The numbers would have been much higher if 30% of Covid-19 deaths since July 22 weren’t excluded from the state's fatality list citing comorbidities. More than 180 days into the pandemic, the 30-day fatality moving growth rate is fast increasing in the state with Thiruvananthapuram on top at 277%, followed by Kasaragod (250%) and Kozhikode, Wayanad and Pathanamthitta each at 200%. At 11%, Thrissur has the lowest fatality rate. “Lack of adequate tests by states, including Kerala, during the lockdown period has resulted in a higher number of deaths in the unlock period. Test, trace and quarantine play a crucial role in controlling the infection globally,” said Mysore Sanjeev, convenor, project Jeevan Raksha, a public-private partnership initiative involving Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI) and Proxima, a management consulting firm. The average per day testing in Kerala was 775 in April and 1,660 in May. Only recently the state ramped up its average per day testing to 27,000. A report by Jeevan Raksha using publicly available Covid-19 data reveled that Kerala has seen high positivity and mortality growth rate in August and projected 400 deaths in the state by September 12. In India, 32.45 lakh people would be infected, with more than 68,000 deaths by this period, it further noted. ”It is a fair estimate. From what we have seen so far, our main concern area is that we are unable to save the majority of critical patients who require ventilator support during the course of treatment. Critical care remains a concern as we will not have enough critical care experts as we expand the services to more hospitals,” said public health expert Dr S S Lal, who has also worked in WHO. In Kerala, about 1% of the total Covid-19 patients are critical and need ventilator support. “Whoever is dying now would have been in ventilator even without Covid-19. They have comorbidities that bring them to the brink and Covid-19 is like a passerby. As cases increase, the death rate may also increase but we are planning to step up our facilities,” said Dr Santhosh Kumar, chairman, State Medical Board that decides on the treatment protocol for Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/keralas-covid-fatality-per-millionpopulation-triples-in-three-weeks/articleshow/77727840.cms||Preetu Nair
August 25, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Hospitals to meet today, discuss panel’s Covid treatment plans||KOLKATA: Discount on medicines and revision of bed charges will figure high on the agenda of a committee meeting of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI) on Tuesday. There are plans to discuss the recent advisories from the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) as well. The AHEI has sought an appointment with the WBCERC chairperson. “We will meet on Tuesday and take a collective decision after discussing the possibilities and difficulties that we are facing now,” said AHEI president Rupak Barua. Hospital administrators said the margin on some medicines used on Covid patients is less than 10%. For example, high-end antivirals and antibiotics, including tocilizumab and ramdesivir, used on moderate and critical patients fetch them a margin of just about 10%, they pointed out. “We are already under a severe financial stress. Still, we are trying our best to offer concessions on medicines and consumables wherever possible. We are waiting for the decision AHEI takes on this,” said Sudipto Mitra, CEO of Peerless Hospital. “Our IT cell is also working on converting the hospital bed rates. It will take a couple of days or more to upgrade and put it in the system,” added Mitra. Most private hospitals, however, are unlikely to start complying with the commission’s advisory before the AHEI meeting and the subsequent interaction that has been sought with WBCERC chairperson Justice Ashim Kumar Banerjee. There are several aspects on which clarity is needed, said Barua. “First, we have no idea how to offer patients’ kin the option of buying medicines on their own. While several important drugs are not available in the open market, it will be difficult for families to hand them over to us when we need them. Interaction with family members is severely restricted and contact has been reduced to a minimum. So, it could be logistically difficult,” said Barua. He went on to add that clarity will also be sought on whether a hospital needs to intimate patients’ kin on every investigation that costs Rs 2,000 or more. “Almost every important investigation costs more than Rs 2,000 and it would be difficult to seek approval for each one. We will also request the commission not to seek a rollback of the bed charges to pre-April rates. Most hospitals revised the charges that came effect on April 1. It is an annual affair that is done to meet the inflation and has nothing to do with Covid treatment,” said Barua. “Negative pressure had to be created for Covid wards for which hospitals had to incur additional expenses. Healthcare workers working in Covid wards are being given incentives. Hospitals are already in financial distress,” said an administrator of another private hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hospitals-to-meet-today-discuss-panels-covid-treatment-plans/articleshow/77729234.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 25, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Bidhannagar active Covid cases at 3-week low||KOLKATA: The number of active Covid cases in the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area, including Salt Lake and Rajarhat, went below 30% for the first time on Monday. The recovery rate shot up from 51% to nearly 70% in the last 13 days. The Covid death rate also came down, with seven deaths reported this month till Monday compared to 17 Covid deaths in July. From August 12-24, a total of 1,073 persons recovered whereas only 794 new cases were reported. The total number of Covid cases under the Bidhannagar civic body area stood at 3,566 till Monday. Out of that, 2,491 persons have recovered. The number of active cases was 1,029 till Monday and 47 deaths from Covid occurred till date. “The last two weeks’ trend has been very encouraging. There has not been a single day that saw the daily cases cross the three-figure mark since August 8. The daily recovery figure, on the other hand, crossed the three-figure mark thrice during the same period,” a civic official said. The number of patients in Salt Lake has been less compared to that in Rajarhat. However, Duttabad that borders Salt Lake remains a worry for the civic authorities with the last two Covid deaths reported from the area. More than 65 persons from Duttabad have been affected with the disease so far and six have died. Civic authorities rued that many in Duttabad, a densely populated area with over 40,000 people, were still not following safety measures and some were not even following quarantine norms properly even after family members tested positive. Some of the Covid-affected people were refusing to move to safe homes arranged by the civic authorities despite the fact that they did not have adequate space at home to stay in isolation. “A few days ago, we had arranged for an ambulance to take two persons who tested positive for Covid-19 to a safe home. But they refused to go. I have been continuously urging and requesting people to follow safety protocols, but still many are not paying heed to our appeals. People are stepping outside without wearing masks or gathering without maintaining social distancing norms,” said Ward 38 councillor Nirmal Dutta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bidhannagar-active-cases-at-3-week-low/articleshow/77730543.cms||Suman Chakraborti
August 25, 2020||Rajkot||Woman stabbed to death over petty issue||Rajkot: A 44-year-old woman was stabbed to death by an assailant who also injured the woman’s 20-year-old daughter in Valasana village of Wankaner taluka in Morbi district on Sunday. Police said the accused, Vikram Fultaria (30), had allegedly stabbed to death Kanchan Fultaria after the latter refused to wake up her husband Ramnik Fultaria whom Vikram had come to meet. “Ramnik works as a witch doctor. Vikram wanted to know his future with the help of Ramnik. He went to Ramnik’s house on Sunday afternoon. Kanchan told him to come later as Ramnik was sleeping,” said an official from Wankaner taluka police station.“Vikram asked Kanchan to wake Ramnik up, but Kanchan refused. This angered Vikram so much that he took out a knife and allegedly stabbed her. When Kanchan’s daughter Kajal tried to intervene, Vikram allegedly stabbed her in the stomach,” added the official. Both Kanchan and Kajal were rushed to Rajkot Civil Hospital, where Kanchan succumbed to her injuries. Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt for Vikram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-stabbed-to-death-over-petty-issue/articleshow/77727857.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Trichy||Overflowing UGD troubles Khajamalai residents||Trichy: Staying home amid the pandemic has become a difficult task for the residents of Khajamalai in Trichy as the clogged underground drainage (UGD) chambers have led to frequent sewage overflow. Residents alleged that the design of the UGD network in Khajamalai has flaws and they sought the corporation to put an end to the ordeal. UGD connections were set up at Nehru Nagar and Crescent Nagar on Khajamalai main road in 2011. The sewage collected by the chambers is pumped to the sewage treatment plant (STP) at Panchapur. The low-lying area is facing frequent troubles as the blockages main road cause sewage overflow in residential streets. Many residents are forced to relocate to other places following backflow in the toilets. Trichy Corporation said that dumping of sanitary napkins and clothes by the residents and commercial buildings in Khajamalai into the UGD lines were causing the blocks. “Blaming all the residents is unfair, if people dump napkins, they should be identified. We have a doubt over a design failure in the UGD network,” K Pandian, a resident of Crescent Nagar, said. The level of main UGD chambers on Khajamalai Road is quite higher than the level of the chambers in the residential streets, which is leading to the backflow, locals said. “Identifying one particular house that dumps napkins in sewers is an impossible task. Behavioural change is needed among all UGD users. Existing UGD design is adequate to handle the volume of sewage in Khajamalai,” a senior official with the Trichy Corporation engineering department told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/overflowing-ugd-troubles-khajamalai-residents/articleshow/77730505.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Kolkata||Unlock 4.0: Bars in Kolkata take stock, hope for the best||KOLKATA: Buoyed by the buzz that the ministry of home affairs will allow bars in the fourth round of unlocking, establishment owners in the city are now confident that an excise circular will be issued soon. TOI had written last week that there was a series of discussion with excise officials and owners of bar and management of city premier clubs about the possible reopening from September 1. According to sources, some bars have already started preparations to start business after a gap of more than five months. “We have started accumulating stocks following verbal instruction from the excise department,” a bar owner said. Sources in the excise department said that a formal notification may come by end of this month. The excise commissioner had a four-hour-long meeting with representatives of alcoholic beverages manufacturers and the representative association on the new price regime. The International Spirits and Wines Association of India (ISWAI) and the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC), who between them account for most of the branded liquor industry in India, had submitted a joint representation to the state government about the concern of liquor companies following the proposal of a new tax regime. CIABC and ISWAI had pointed out that under this proposed policy, consumer prices of the fast-moving brands will go up substantially (translating to Rs 150 to Rs 450 per bottle rise). The state government had proposed to withdraw the 30% additional sales tax and roll out a slab based ad-valorem tax structure. CIABC director general Vinod Giri told TOI that the excise commissioner had asked for suggestions from alcobev manufacturers and its representative associations. “We have sought two weeks for submitting the suggestions. The new regime at the current form would disrupt the trade and we have conveyed this to excise commissioner. He has assured to convey this to higher authorities,” he added. Meanwhile, the manufacturers has requested the state government not to roll out the new price regime in next 14 days. It was supposed to be rolled out from September 1 along with the reopening of the bars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/unlock-4-0-bars-take-stock-hope-for-the-best/articleshow/77729255.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||M V Shreyams Kumar elected to Rajya Sabha||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: LDF candidate M V Shreyams Kumar of Lokantrik Janata Dal (LJD) was elected as the member of Rajya Sabha from the state on Monday in the vacancy created by the demise of LJD leader M P Veerendra Kumar.Shreyams defeated UDF candidate Lal Varghese Kalpakavadi with 88 votes against 41 votes. Of the total 136 votes available, 130 were polled, while six members did not vote. Those who did not vote are former chief minister V S Achuthanandan, C F Thomas, George M Thomas, O Rajagopal, Roshy M Augustine and N Jayaraj. While the first three absentees kept off due to health reasons, the lone BJP member Rajagopal and Kerala Congress (M) representatives Roshy Augustine and N Jayaraj did not vote for political reasons. One vote, that of P C George, was declared invalid. In the election that began at 9am in the parliamentary study hall, K Dasan of the LDF was the first to vote. The elections were conducted by adhering to Covid-19 protocols. Veerendra Kumar, who had contested and won the Rajya Sabha backed by LDF, had passed away on May 29. He had a term in Rajya Sabha till April 2, 2022. Karat Razak of the LDF and K M Shaji of the UDF could not vote as their appeals against the Kerala high court order, declaring their elections void, are pending before Supreme Court. Higher education minister K T Jaleel, who is in quarantine, cast his franchise, but did not participate in the assembly proceedings. In the 140-member Assembly, the LDF has 93 members, while the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) has 45. Besides, one member is nominated from the Anglo Indian community, but he does not have voting rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/shreyams-kumar-elected-to-rs/articleshow/77729278.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Delhi||Heart takes a beating too: Covid can damage conduction system||NEW DELHI: Doctors at GB Pant Hospital, one of the largest superspecialty hospitals in Delhi, have stated that Covid-19 can permanently affect and damage the heart’s conduction system. This revelation came after the hospital saw a sudden slowing of the heart rate in seven patients aged between 45 and 80. The normal heart rate of a healthy individual at rest ranges between 60 and 100 beats per minute (BPM). However, the maximum heart rate in these seven patients was 42 BPM and the minimum 30 BPM, which was very low. Dr Ankit Bansal, associate professor, department of cardiology at GB Pant Hospital, told TOI that further investigation showed that five patients had complete heart blockage. “Complete blockage occurs when electrical signal can’t pass normally from the heart’s upper chambers (atria) to the lower chambers (ventricles). We had to put the patients on a temporary pacemaker to restore the heart rate,” he added. Two other patients developed sinus node dysfunction (irregular heartbeat) and they, too, were put on temporary pacemakers. Because these patients had secondary symptoms, such as fever, cough or breathing difficulty, they were tested for Covid-19 and the result came positive. “The inflammatory markers of these patients were very high, which is not the case with non-Covid patients with slow heart rate,” Dr Bansal said. At present, all patients are stable. Five of them were implanted with a permanent pacemaker, while the heart rate of two others improved considerably with temporary pacing and medical management, he added. The case reports have been published in Indian Pacing and Electrophysiology Journal. “A definitive mechanism for the development of bradyarrhythmia (slow heart rhythm) in patients with Covid-19 has not been established yet. Furthermore, it is not known if the virus has any affinity for the receptors in the myocardial (heart’s) conduction system,” it stated. The report, authored by doctors from GB Pant Hospital and the cardiovascular division of New York School of Medicine, added, “As myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscle) has been reported in many Covid patients, it is plausible that myocardial inflammation and injury may affect the conduction system resulting in complete heart block.” Autopsies of patients who died due to Covid-19 showed the presence of viral RNA in cardiac myocytes (muscle cells) and epithelial cells, suggesting direct involvement of the myocardium or heart muscle in the disease. “The virus may enter the cardiac myocytes (muscle cells) via angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 receptor resulting in myocardial inflammation and injury,” the study stated. Dr Ashok Seth, chairman of Fortis Escorts Heart Institute, said the GB Pant Hospital study was interesting. “It shows that Covid-19 can permanently affect and damage the heart’s conduction system leading to complete heart block requiring permanent pacemaker as treatment. Also, this may occur in the absence of fever or severe pneumonia,” he added. The chairman of cardiac sciences at BLK Superspecialty Hospital, Dr Ajay Kaul, said Covid’s effect on heart function was an emerging concern. “We have also seen a few cases where heart function has been affected in Covid-19 patients,” he added. According to Cardiology Society of India, a majority of cardiovascular events in Covid-19 patients are the result of severe immune overreaction by the body called cytokine storm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/heart-takes-a-beating-too-covid-can-damage-conduction-system/articleshow/77730566.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
August 25, 2020||Kochi||34 health staff among1,242 new +ves; 11 deaths||Thiruvananthapuram: The state, on Monday, reported 1,242 positive cases taking the total number of active cases in the state to 59,504. With 11 more deaths, the number of Covid-19 fatalities have touched 235. As many as 1,115 contact cases were reported among the new cases of which 34 are health care workers. In 95 cases, the source of infection has not been traced. Among the new cases, 39 had arrived from foreign countries and 88 from other states. The deceased were Mohanan (71), Leela (60) and Isaac Sheikh (71) from Kasaragod, A M Mukundan (81) from Ernakulam, Ilyas (47) from Malappuram, Maria John (80) from Tirunelveli, Varadan (71) and Libis (70) from Thiruvananthapuram, Saramma (74) and Shaheer Kutty (50) from Kollam and T N Chandran (74) from Kottayam. Among the new cases, Thiruvananthapuram accounted for 182 cases, followed by Malappuram (169), Ernakulam (165), Kasaragod (118), Kollam (112), Palakkad (99), Kottayam (89), Kozhikode (81), Kannur (76), Alappuzha (60), Thrissur (46), Wayanad (20), Idukki (19) and six in Pathanamthitta. The district-wise details of those infected through contacts are 158 people in Thiruvananthapuram, 154 each in Malappuram and Ernakulam, 101 in Kasaragod, 94 in Kollam, 71 in Palakkad, 86 in Kottayam, 66 in Kozhikode, 65 in Kannur, 55 in Alappuzha, 42 in Thrissur, 18 in Wayanad, 11 in Idukki and six in Pathanamthitta. So far, 38,887 people have recovered from the disease and 20,323 patients are currently under treatment in the state. There are a total of 1,83,448 people under observation in various districts of the state with 1,66,411 at their homes or institutional quarantine centres and 17,037 in hospitals. As many as 1,877 people were admitted to the hospital on Monday. During the last 24 hours, 26,186 samples were analysed. So far, a total of 14,46,380 samples have been sent for testing, including 1,64,443 samples from high-risk groups as part of sentinel surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/34-health-staff-among1242-new-ves-11-deaths/articleshow/77727869.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Trichy||Traders pitch for Trichy as second capital||Trichy: Tamilnadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu, a federation of traders’ associations in the state have submitted a request to the chief minister urging to declare Trichy as the state’s second capital. State president of the association A M Vikramaraja and state general secretary Ve Govindarajalu and other office bearers on Monday met CM Edappadi K Palaniswami at his office. They said that the recent views expressed by the state ministers R B Udhayakumar and Sellur Raja to name Madurai as the second capital were against the aspiration of AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran. “In the past years, several welfare projects such as AIIMS and Madras high court bench actually intended at Trichy were relocated due to political reasons. Even now, the call to name Madurai as second capital is seen as another move to snatch away Trichy’s growth potential,” Govindarajalu said. The federation urged the chief minister to fulfil the vision of former CM MGR in making Trichy as state’s second capital. The traders in their written request substantiated that Trichy city has several education institutes that are centuries old and an ecosystem for multiple industries to thrive. They added that Trichy situated in the geographical centre of the state and with robust rail, road and air connectivity has an edge over other cities in the race to become the second capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/traders-pitch-for-trichy-as-second-capital/articleshow/77730513.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Rajkot||Five booked for abetting suicide||Rajkot: Five persons were booked on Monday for the abatement of suicide of a factory owner in Shapar Veraval industrial zone of Rajkot. Anil Jarsania (48) had ended life by consuming pesticides at his factory on August 20. Those booked included Jarasania’s business partner Naran Vala and his sons — Vijay Vala, Sharman Vala, Nikul Vala — and Ajay Sinh, an ex-army man. “Jarsania owned a showroom in partnership with Naran and Jarsania’s brother in-law Nilesh Rajpara in Talala. After Jarsania opened his factory, he and his partners decided to end the partnership by selling the showroom. The price of the showroom was fixed at Rs 90 lakh. However, Naran asked for Rs 2 crore from Jarsania,” said Kuldeepsinh Gohel, sub-inspector with Shapar Veraval police station. “The accused first locked down the showroom in Talala and then threatened Jarsania to lock down his factory, if he did not cough up Rs 2 crore. This depressed Jarsania so much that he took the drastic step,” added Gohel. Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt for the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-booked-for-abetting-suicide/articleshow/77727873.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Bravery award for youth who saved six from drowning||THANJAVUR: All it took was a momentof courage to save six lives. That selfless act of the 22-year-old youth from Thanjavur was recogised when he received the Union government’s Jeevan Raksha award on Monday. In 2018, R Sridhar had saved six people including four children from drowning in a lake. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami gave away the award to Sridhar on behalf of the governor in Chennai. Sridhar, a BTech graduate and a native of Okkanadu Melaiyur village near Orathanadu in Thanjavur district, was on his way to his agriculture field when he noticed some people were struggling for their lives in a lake nearby. Though Sridhar had no proper swimming practice, he jumped into the water without a second thought and rescuedtwowomen and four children of his village from the water. The district administration had recommended him for Anna Medal for gallantry and Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami gave away the award to Sridhar during the Republic Day celebration held at Chennai in 2019. The award comprises a certificate, medal andcashof ₹1lakh. Working on his ancestral land along with his father Radhakrishnan, Sridhar said it was a great honour for him and his family. “Despite being an engineering graduate, I have been doing agriculture proudly,” Sridhar told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/youth-who-saved-six-from-drowning-gets-bravery-award/articleshow/77730521.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Hundreds of farmers, vendors protest closure of KR Market||Bengaluru: Hundreds of farmers, vegetable vendors and fruit sellers staged a protest against the civic administration at KR Market on Monday for not allowing KR Market and Kalasipalya market to function as usual. The markets were partially open for a few days after the lockdown waas lifted but due to increasing cases they were among the first things that the civic administration shut down citing overcrowding. The closure, however, affected farmers and vegetable and fruit vendors, who were pushed into deep debts. They, however, moved thier business to Mysuru Road, creating an unhygienic situation. For a month now, farmers and vegetable and fruit sellers have set up stalls in the narrow roads branching off Mysuru Road. A fruit trader operating on Mysuru Road said that he is the only breadwinner of his family and continuing his sales is the only way he and his family can survive. “March, April, and May have affected my family largely. We have incurred a debt of Rs 25,000 to run my family and I cannot be raising more loans. If I have to sell fruits on the streets, I will do it,” said Shekaran M, the fruit trader. Another vegetable vendor Shanmugi KS said that people complain about the dust layer on her produce but there is little she could do. “I am selling vegetables sitting on this footpath near the Sri Bal Gangadhar Flyover towards Mysore road and nearly hundreds of cars, bikes and buses move here. I don’t have any other place to sell vegetables. Let the BBMP give me another place and I would do it gladly,” Shanmugi told TOI. Kodihalli Chandrashekar, the convener of the protest and farmer leader, said that the BBMP’s move not to reopen market is dictated by ulterior motives. “I have heard that BBMP has sold the market to a private company and I would like to believe that this is false. But it is utter nonsense of BBMP to stop the markets from opening,” Chandrashekar told TOI. “When everything is open in the city including malls, restaurants and other places, why is only the markets closed?” he added. The BBMP has assured the traders that the market would be opened from September 1 and would allow sales with certain rules in order to prevent spread of Covid. Mayor Goutham Kumar along with PC Mohan and other officials inspected KR Market on Sunday to ensure that social distancing and sanitisers would be placed at vantage positions. N Manjunatha Prasad, BBMP Commissioner, said that the protest was unnecessary as they had made a decision to open the markets soon. “These two places were in containment zones, but now since that has been lifted, we will re-open the markets and revive trade activities,” Prasad told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hundreds-of-farmers-vendors-protest-closure-of-kr-market/articleshow/77727885.cms||Nithya Mandyam
August 25, 2020||Goa||Local bodies to get share of mobile tower revenue||Panaji: Goa’s new telecom infrastructure policy may have removed local governing bodies from having a say in the decision about installing mobile towers, but revenue from the process will continue to be shared with local authorities, said officials. PWD, the body which has been authorised to grant permission to set up telecom infrastructure in the state, will share the revenue earned from the approval process with the local bodies, the Goa Telecom Infrastructure Policy 2020 said. As per the policy, local authority includes municipal corporations and councils and village panchayats. Telecom operators who wish to install mobile towers or lay optical fibre cables (OFC) will have to pay Rs 10,000 as processing fee and Rs 50,000 as a one-time payment for setting up the tower. PWD will also charge a licensee fee, restoration charges and other applicable charges if the OFC is being laid on government land. If the tower is being put up on government land then PWD will charge Rs 50,000 per tower for each month for an area up to 25 sqm. Payment for the entire year will be required to be paid by April 30, the policy said. “The one-time charge will be given to the panchayat or municipal body,” said an official. “PWD shall collect the amount for each mobile tower and then deposit it with the local body. The remaining fees and monthly rent will be collected and deposited with the government.” The government will charge Rs 20,000 per tower for each month for roof top towers or small size ground based towers which are on government land in urban areas. In rural areas, the applicable fees will be reduced by half. With the policy being notified last week, PWD will initiate the process to set up the online single window system, which has to be in place by November end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/local-bodies-to-get-share-of-mobile-tower-revenue/articleshow/77731422.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Kolkata||More New Town condos eye safe-home approval||KOLKATA: Greenwood Sonata, a housing complex in New Town, had shown the way and now more gated communities in the township are preparing themselves for their own Covid safe homes. Last Wednesday, the state government had given its approval for Covid safe home inside Greenwood Sonata, making it the state’s first housing complex to have a facility for housing residents with mild coronavirus symptoms. TimesViewThis is an ideal solution. There is no shortage of beds right now but housing complexes having their own safe homes solves the problem of too few beds for non-serious patients. All SOPs should be followed.As the news spread, New Town Forum and News (NTFN), the NGO that is facilitating the cause and working on several social welfare projects in and around New Town, started receiving requests from other housings to help them set up such safe homes. “While waiting for Greenwood Sonata’s approval from the chief medical officer of health (CMOH), North 24-Paraganas, we already had 11 proposals in the pipeline. Now, there are around 10 more apartment complexes willing to turn their community halls into Covid isolation centres,” NTFN chairman Samaresh Das said. Among those who approached NTFN is DLF Heights in Action Area III. Sameer Sharma, secretary of the residents’ association, said: “We have nine blocks with 2,000 people living in 500 flats. Five of our residents have already had Covid-19. A Covid-19 safe home is the need of the hour. We have quite a few in-house doctors ready with voluntary 24-hour service. Our infrastructure is sound, for at least three safe homes. There are club houses (community centres) in different blocks. Funds are no issues.” NTFN members visited DLF Heights on Sunday to advise on procurement of hospital beds (with hand cranks) along with other equipment. They also advised on how to operate the safe home and provided basic guidelines on 24-hour caregivers, who will need separate quarters, changing rooms and washrooms. Another apartment complex, PS Ixora, is readying itself for an inspection of its safe home by the health authorities. Beds, fans and television have been set up in the community hall. There are medical kits that have N95 masks, oxymeters and sphygmomanometer. A team from the CMOH office in Barasat, local WHO representatives and officials from New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) is due to visit shortly. PS Ixora director Parimal Ghosh said: “We hope the inspection team will like our Covid care centre and we will get the approval soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-new-town-condos-eye-safe-home-approval/articleshow/77729293.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
August 25, 2020||Goa||Salcete beach stretch sees heavy sand erosion||Colva: Large parts the Salcete’s beaches are being gobbled up by the sea. Fisherfolk and others residing near beaches agree that sand erosion is a normal annual phenomenon, but add that it has been unusually severe this season. The havoc inflicted by waves along the Colva, Benaulim, Varca coastline has resulted in the creation of a precipitous drop on the shoreline. A section of sand dune vegetation has been washed away. “At least 20% of the vegetation on this stretch of the shore has disappeared into the sea,” a fisherman said. A large number of casuarina and palm trees and other beach foliage have been uprooted and washed away. Villagers said that destruction of sand dunes due to tourism related economic activity is one of the causes for rapid sand erosion during the last couple of decades.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/salcete-beach-stretch-sees-heavy-sand-erosion/articleshow/77731836.cms||Nisser Dias
August 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Congress levels 3 new graft allegations||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Congress in the assembly levelled three corruption allegations against the government during the debate on the no-confidence motion. V D Satheesan, who moved the motion, fired the first salvo. He alleged that the consultant appointed by KSIDC for bidding on the Thiruvananthapuram airport project had leaked the bid amount to the Adani group. He said the consultant, KPMG, had recommended a bid between Rs 134 and Rs 151. Trivandrum International Airport Ltd (Tial), the special-purpose vehicle floated by KSIDC for the bid, quoted Rs 135 per passenger while Adani’s bid was Rs 168. Tial enjoyed a technical advantage called the right of first refusal. Only if a competitor outbid Tial by 10% would the project slip out of the latter’s hands. Even if Tial had quoted Rs 151, at the top of KPMG’s recommend range, it would have lost the bid. Tial would have won only if Adani had quoted Rs 166 or lower. As it turned out, the Adani bid was 19% higher than Tial’s offer. “This clearly proves that inside information was passed on to the Adani group about the amount the government was about to quote. That’s why Adani had quoted Rs 2 more than Rs 166. This must have been the handiwork of the consultant KSIDC had appointed,’’ alleged Satheesan. The Congress leader also alleged that the corruption involved in the Life Mission housing project was not Rs 4.5 crore, but Rs 9 crore. He challenged the government to probe who has pocketed the additional Rs 5 crore. “Unitac company authorities have made it clear that they had given out Rs 4.5 crore as commission. But I am saying that an additional Rs 5 crore was paid. This is linked to the owner of the virtual queue app that the government had picked for Bevco sales,’’ said Satheesan. ‘Private players over IOC’Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala alleged that there was an attempt on the part of the state government to hand over prime properties along national highways to private players in the name of constructing wayside amenities. He said the public works secretary has ordered the handing over of prime properties in 14 places to private players. Ramesh also alleged that a decision had been taken to reject Indian Oil Corporation’s proposal to set up these amenities. Replying to the allegation, PWD minister G Sudhakaran said no such decision has been taken and that properties along NHs are owned by NHAI. Only 10 such places have been identified for setting up amenities, of which seven are along the MC Road on land owned by KSTP. PWD owns the land for the remaining three. The government had invited tender, which are yet to be opened, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cong-levels-3-new-graft-allegations/articleshow/77729302.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Rajkot||‘Book BJP chief, other leaders for violating Covid norms’||Rajkot: Congress on Monday demanded that newly-appointed state BJP president C R Paatil and 16 other party leaders should be booked for allegedly not maintaining social distancing and violating prohibitory orders during his recent tour to Saurashtra.The party’s legal cell submitted an application to Rajkot police commissioner demanding a FIR against them.“As per your notification, there is a ban on meeting of more than four people to contain the spread of Covid-19. But Paatil had organized the rally of more than 5,000 people in your jurisdiction and organized a meeting of more than 1,000 people in a college on Kalavad road which is a clear violation of the notification,” read the application submitted by advocate Jignesh Joshi, who is state convenor of Congress’ legal cell and secretary of Rajkot Bar Association.Apart from Paatil, he has demanded that former home minister Gordhan Zadafia, BJP’s city unit president Kamlesh Mirani, Rajkot MP Mohan Kundariya and mayor Bina Acharya should also be booked.“Paatil’s grand welcome ceremony was organized at Gondal Chowkdi without permission of the police and police remained a silent spectator. We are ready to provide pictures and videos of Paatil committing an offence whenever police will ask. We also demand that the police should also collect the penalty of Rs 1,000 from those who were seen without wearing the masks including bar council member Dilip Patel,” he said.When contacted police commissioner Manoj Agrawal said that he was away from the office so hasn’t seen the application. “I will see what action can be taken after going through the application,” he said.Advocate Umesh Patel of Veraval town in Gir Somnath district has also submitted an application to director general of police and district superintendent demanding a FIR against the BJP leaders for violating social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/book-bjp-chief-other-leaders-for-violating-covid-norms/articleshow/77727891.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Goa||Ramponkars look to partner with govt||Colva: Niz Ramponkarancho Ekvott (NRE) has submitted a proposal to the fisheries department demanding a ‘tripartite partnership’ between the government, private investor and themselves in setting up a state-of-the art shrimp and fin fish hatchery at Benaulim. “We have proposed to the government to go in for a joint venture, such as a triangular partnership, taking the fishing community of Benaulim into confidence thereby setting up fishing activity village,” president of the NRE, Edel Baretto, said. Their demand is that the hatchery can be set up on 3-4 acres of land, instead of giving 10 acres of land to the private investor. “The government should help the fishing community with 4,000sqm to set up the fishing activity in the village by keeping Niz Ramponkarancho Ekvott as 20% partner,” Baretto said. This he said would boost the fishing community as well as generate interest among the existing and future generation of fishermen to do business in the village. He proposed a fishing boat parking shed, net and fish drying area, toilet and bathroom block for fishermen on duty, lockers, fish museum, training room for shrimp hatchery, NRE office and community hall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ramponkars-look-to-partner-with-govt/articleshow/77731847.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Kolkata||Ganpati gets a muted send-off as revellers keep immersions low key||Kolkata: The immersion of Ganesh idols on Monday remained low-key as the festival itself sans processions of revellers, music and bright lights mounted on vehicles. Most clubs decided to do away with long cavalcades of vehicles and wrapped up the immersion ceremony on a single vehicle. Individual households and residential complexes located on the fringes or away from the ghats immersed the idols in local waterbodies. But traffic at key thoroughfares like Central Avenue, SN Banerjee Road, Chowringhee and Ganesh Chandra Avenue came to a standstill with several vehicles lining up for immersion. Cops said the number of idols for immersions on Monday was much less than previous years. The arrangements at the ghats and the immersion routes were made accordingly. The arrival of the deity and the immersion are the highlights of Ganesh puja in many households. “The celebrations were absolutely muted this year due to the pandemic. We organized a very basic Ganesh puja to keep the tradition going. Only the immediate family was involved. Similarly, for the immersion, we decided to opt for a local waterbody without any fanfare,” said Avinash Patowari, a resident of Sreebhumi near Lake Town. The Kolkata Police preparation this year for the immersion of Ganesha idols, at best, has been a fraction from last year. The police has decided to keep a skeletal force in place this year. This includes the disaster management team at five ghats. But there will be only five personnel present at each of the bigger ghats like Babughat and two each in the other ghats. In all, around 60 men will be on duty across the ghats as compared to the 50-odd men who were present at Babughat alone last year. Most of the arrangements will be made by the North Port police. Unlike last year, cops are not deploying traffic guards for the immersions. “There will be no special arrangement. Our men were deployed on the roads on Sunday for the smaller immersions,” said an officer from Jorabagan traffic guard. Local cops will not be keeping their men at the local waterbodies. Only a periodic inspection will be done. So far, cops have no knowledge of any procession, a ritual which will not be allowed this year. Lalbazar said adequate arrangements had been made for safe and peaceful immersion. CCTV cameras have been installed at all the ghats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ganpati-gets-a-muted-send-off-as-revellers-keep-immersions-low-key/articleshow/77729309.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Delhi||Construction workers make beeline for Delhi govt’s camps in schools||NEW DELHI: Situated amid the congested New Seemapuri area in northeast Delhi, staffers of Government Boys Senior Secondary School were surprised to find nearly a hundred people eagerly waiting for them to open the gates early on Monday morning. The school, known popularly as the ‘bank-wallah school’ thanks to its proximity to a State Bank of India branch, is one of the 70 Delhi government institutes — one each in every assembly constituency — where the government has set up camps as part of its registration campaign for construction workers from August 24 to September 11. The camps will help construction workers who are not tech-savvy to register themselves and take advantage of nearly 18 financial assistance schemes. “Our school has been designated for registration of construction workers but we didn’t expect so many to turn up on the first day itself and that too even before we reached and opened the gates,” a staff member who was managing the queue said. Workers are allowed in only after thermal scanning at the gate and strict social distancing norms are followed inside, he added. “We have also distributed food and ration here during the lockdown and are adept at the drill.” “I read about the registration of construction workers in the newspaper and came here as I was finding it difficult to register online,” said Sunil Kumar, a painter. “I have brought all my documents, including voters’ ID, bank passbook, Aadhaar card.” Many of those who queued up were those who had already registered on the government portal but were awaiting verification. “I read that verification will be carried out at these camps, so I have come,” said Mukesh Pal, a mason. Delhi government officials manning the camp had to patiently inform workers about the process as many were confused about the documents required. Some also said they lacked certification of work, which was required for registration. “I have been out of work since the lockdown started and there is no work to show. I also don’t have any certificate from the jobs I did earlier,” said Avdesh Kumar, a carpenter. “I hope to get financial assistance after the registration,” he added. Officials at the camp told him that a certificate of working for 90 days in the past 12 months, issued by an employer or a trade union, was required. He is also allowed to give self-certification but he can face action if it is found wrong, Kumar was informed. For registration, the age of a worker should be between 18 and 60 years and they also need to submit a photograph, local ID proof, bank account number and the Aadhaar card.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/construction-workers-make-beeline-for-delhi-govts-camps-in-schools/articleshow/77730597.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 25, 2020||Ranchi||IMD issues alert for heavy rain across state beginning today||Ranchi: Almost the entire state is likely to experience heavy-to-very heavy rainfall beginning Tuesday. The Ranchi centre of India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued an orange category warning on Monday asking the authorities to remain alert. According to the met department a low-pressure area has developed over north Bay of Bengal. “The associated cyclonic circulation inclined towards south-west remain laid at 7.6km above the mean sea level. During the next two days, the system is likely to turn more intense and become a well-marked low pressure zone and head towards north west,” the IMD bulletin issued on Monday afternoon read. The director IMD Ranchi, Dr S D Kotal, said that under the influence of the low-pressure zone, southern and north eastern parts of the state are likely to receive heavy rainfall on Tuesday. “On Wednesday northern, southern and central Jharkhand, while on Thursday western, central and southern parts of the state would receive heavy-to-very heavy rainfall,” he said. The IMD bulletin cautioned that there was a risk of inundation in low-lying areas, overflowing of seasonal rivers, damage to kuchha houses and traffic disruption in urban parts. As per standards used by the met department, rainfall between 64.5mm to 115.5mm is categorized as heavy rainfall, whereas precipitation between 115.6mm and 204.4mm is considered very heavy rainfall. In the current monsoon season, Jharkhand has received close to normal rainfall. As against 762.2mm seasonal normal rain, the state has received 694.4mm indicating a negative departure of 9%. Out of the 24 districts, 15 have received either normal or excess rainfall while nine continue to be deficit districts. Met experts believe that the new system developing over Bay of Bengal would largely mitigate the deficit, particularly in the north eastern districts comprising Santhal Pargana division where the deficit is to the tune of 50% in Deoghar. While the level of water in Massanjore and Maithon dams is well below danger mark it was within safe limits at Panchet dam as well. Any extra water released from these dams impact low-lying areas in West Bengal. DVC officials said that as of now there was no requirement to release water but they would be on alert, given the kind of forecast issued by the IMD. The secretary of the disaster management department, Dr Amitabh Kaushal ,said that Jamshedpur is the only place where substantial population is affected whenever there is heavy rainfall. “Local administration is aware of the challenge and they also provide safe shelters to the people living by the side of the rivers. A couple of days ago, there was inundation in the low areas and once again preparations have been made to mitigate any such development,” he said. Three rivers in East Singhbhum — Kharkai, Subarnarekha and Domuhani — are already flowing in full spate and heavy rainfall is likely to submerge the low lands. The Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) and Mango Notified Area Committee (MNAC) have made arrangements but owing to lack of preparations in the Adityapur area, people are worried after the prediction of IMD. (With inputs from B Sridhar, Rajesh Kumar Pandey and Praduman Choubey)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/imd-issues-alert-for-heavy-rain-across-state-beginning-today/articleshow/77729748.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
August 25, 2020||Ranchi||Amid pandemic, ABVP demands offline admission at Ranchi univ||Ranchi: Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) on Monday staged a dharna outside the Ranchi University (RU) gate to highlight the difficulties faced by students in filling up the application forms through the Chancellors’ portal. The union demanded that students must be permitted to submit their forms offline as well. ABVP pointed out that the applicants are facing problems in submitting their forms. They said that it takes nearly two hours to complete the entire process online and many students in rural areas could not even apply since they do not have computers or are facing connectivity issues. The union alleged that in case a student gives incorrect information by mistake while filling up the form, the portal does not have an option to correct the mistake. ABVP further alleged that the helpline number issued by the university is not functional ABVP (district) secretary Pratap Singh said, “The number of applications received by RU is far less when compared to last year’s figures. Around 31,000 applicants have submitted their forms against the average of 1.50 lakh in the previous years. This reflects the problems in online application system.” ABVP members even met the RU pro-vice chancellor, Kamini Kumar, in this regard and the university assured them helpline number will start functioning soon, sources said. Meanwhile, the National Students Union of India (NSUI) blocked the entry gate of the Institute of Management Studies — affiliated to RU — at Morhabadi demanding partial waiver of tuition fees. NSUI (state) secretary Amarit said, “Vinoba Bhave University has waived off 25% of its management course fees. RU should follow suit. We will most probably meet the pro-VC on Tuesday in this regard.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/amid-pandemic-abvp-demands-offline-admission-at-ranchi-univ/articleshow/77729992.cms||Sanjay Sahay
August 25, 2020||Ranchi||Complying with central norms on interstate movement: Govt||Ranchi: State transport secretary K Ravi Kumar on Monday said the Jharkhand government is complying with all the norms prescribed by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) concerning the interstate movement of people and goods. Kumar, however, said any decision on the resumption of buses will be taken by the state government at an appropriate time Recently, the MHA had sent fresh directives to all states asking them to not unnecessarily impose restrictions at the local level thereby hampering the movement of people or goods. A letter written by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla to the states said e-permits or separate permission or approvals are required for any intra or interstate movement of goods or people. The letter also cited how local restrictions in some places are impacting the supply chain, resulting in disruption of economic activities and employment, besides affecting the supply of goods and essential services. Talking to TOI on Monday in response to the communiqué from the Centre, Kumar said, “The latest order doesn’t specifically imply for Jharkhand as we are following all the prescribed norms and currently no local restrictions are in place for any kind of movement.” Those coming to Jharkhand by any mode of transport, however, must register their personal details on the state government portal (www.jharkhandtravel.nic.in) either before arrival or within a day of doing so. “This is just to maintain a database and track the health of those coming to the state,” he said. Notably, the state government over a month ago blocked the movement of select trains from Bihar citing a surge in Covid cases. The transport secretary, however, clarified that the recent MHA order is not concerned with trains. Replying to another query about the resumption of bus services, he said, “The government will think about it when the appropriate time comes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/complying-with-central-norms-on-interstate-movement-govt/articleshow/77729933.cms||ASRP Mukesh
August 25, 2020||Ranchi||Criminal drinking with handcuffs on inside hosp tests -ve||Sindri: The arrested criminal, whose photographs of drinking with handcuffs on inside a Covid-designated hospital went viral on social media, tested negative within 24 hours of admitting to the hospital. Chief minister Hemant Soren had ordered a probe into the incident. Eight police personnel, including an ASI, were suspended on charges of dereliction of duty, after the probe. Accused Santu Gupta, who was arrested on extortion charges, was admitted to the BCCL Central Hospital in Dhanbad after he tested positive on Saturday but his samples returned negative in the second test on Sunday. Santu is now forwarded to jail. He and his friend Chhotu, who made the photographs viral, have been booked for forcibly obstructing government servants from performing their duty and violation of the Epidemic Act, the IT Act and the jail manual. Dhanbad civil surgeon Dr Gopal Das and DC Uma Shankar Singh could not be reached for their comments on the development, but a doctor said it could be a false positive case when the first positive test result came from a TrueNat machine and the subsequent negative result came from a confirmatory test on the RT-PCR machine. Meanwhile, the inquiry report submitted by the SDO and the DSP had found the eight policemen guilty. The suspended personnel are identified as ASI Surendra Ram, havildar O P Mishra, constables Bhagi Oraon, Kuldeep Oraon, Gulab Choudhary, Bhola Oraon, Dukhraj Oraon and chowkidar Bheem Karmakar. The suspended ASI, however, said he had handed over the criminal to the hospital management after a full check-up long before he was found consuming liquor and he should not be held responsible for the act. “Who provided him liquor should be investigated properly,” Ram said. The district administration has also directed the BCCL management to show cause doctor Sanjay Mishra, nurses Kiran and Sharda and ward boy Shankar who were on duty at the time when the accused consumed liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/criminal-drinking-with-handcuffs-on-inside-hosp-tests-ve/articleshow/77729371.cms||Anil Ashutosh
August 25, 2020||Ranchi||J’khand reports 15 deaths, 940 new cases take tally past 31k||Ranchi: Jharkhand on Monday reported 15 Covid-19 deaths from across the state, taking the total number of casualties to 335. The state also reported 940 new infections after which the cumulative caseload in the state stood at 31,118. Meanwhile, JMM president and chief minister Hemant Soren's father Shibu Soren and his wife Rupi Soren have been shifted to Medanta Hospital. Earlier, they were under home isolation after they tested positive for the virus on Saturday. Hemant, his wife Kalpana and the staff of CMO tested negative. Soren is under home quarantine after health minister Banna Gupta tested positive on August 18. Gupta had taken part in a cabinet. Later on August 22, agriculture minister Badal Patralekh tested positive. Most of Monday's Covid deaths were reported from East Singhbhum district (10) while two were reported from Dumka. One death each was also reported from Ranchi, Dhanbad and Koderma districts, the state health department said in its evening bulletin. Of the total deaths, East Singhbhum has the highest number of fatalities at 144 out of all the 24 districts followed by Ranchi at 51. The state also reported 889 recoveries, taking the total number of cured persons to 21,025. Till date, Jharkhand has 9,758 active cases of Covid-19. Among the fresh cases reported on Monday, Ranchi reported 160 new infections followed by East Singhbhum at 147 cases. Giridih reported 80 cases while Dhanbad reported 74. Koderma and Garhwa reported 64 and 42 cases while Ramgarh and Bokaro reported 39 new cases respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jkhand-reports-15-deaths-940-new-cases-take-tally-past-31k/articleshow/77729913.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 25, 2020||Ranchi||4 held for minor’s gang-rape & murder in Godda||Dumka: Four persons were detained for questioning in connection with the gang rape and murder of a 14-year-old speech and hearing-impaired girl, whose body was found from the campus of a government school in Godda district on Sunday. Balbadda police, however, said they are yet to achieve any breakthrough in the case so far. Godda SP YS Ramesh said, “We had detained four on Sunday on suspicion and their questioning is underway. In the absence of an eyewitness account, a breakthrough is awaited. We are trying to crack the case through scientific and forensic tests.” Police had also taken the services of forensic experts and a dog squad was called in to collect crucial evidence. Ramesh said the post mortem of the deceased has been conducted by a medical board under video surveillance and the report is awaited. The deceased was a student of Class IX and went missing on Saturday evening. Her body was spotted by locals on Sunday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/4-held-for-minors-gang-rape-murder-in-godda/articleshow/77729949.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Ranchi||Bokaro health workers raise concern over ‘poor’ PPE gear||Bokaro: Several health workers in Bokaro have raised concerns over the quality of PPE kits provided to them by the health authorities. Lab technicians and other frontline Covid warriors also complained about not getting the requisite amount of N95 masks. A few workers at the testing lab of sadar hospital said that there have been several instances in the recent past when PPE kits got torn. Jai Prakash, a multi-purpose worker at the hospital, said, “The situation is deplorable. We are carrying our own sanitisers as those provided by the administration are of poor quality.” Sushil Kumar Dwivedi, a technician at the sadar hospital’s TrueNat laboratory, said, “The size of PPEs is not adequate and the kits get damaged easily. Same is the case with the gloves and masks. We have requested the officials to provide good quality equipment but all in vain.” The other nine lab technicians at the sadar hospital, too, agreed with Dwivedi. One of the staff members of sadar hospital, who recently got cured of Covid-19 after being infected at work, said, “I am among the three employees who are testing Covid samples from Day One. While some safety kits provided by the state government are of superior quality, those procured locally by the administration here are not up to the mark.” he said. The district planning officer, Devesh Gautam, said the administration has spent around Rs 2 crore in containing the spread of Covid-19 since March. On being asked about the quality of safety kits, civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak denied that kits of poor quality were distributed by them but said they will check if there were any loopholes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bokaro-health-workers-raise-concern-over-poor-ppe-gear/articleshow/77729625.cms||Divy Khare
August 25, 2020||Ranchi||Withdraw virus-spread charge against Tablighi members: Ansari||Ranchi: Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee working president and Jamtara MLA Irfan Ansari on Monday urged chief minister Hemant Soren to withdraw the cases against members of the Tablighi Jammat group who were charged with spreading the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand under various sections of IPC, the Foreigners’ Act and the Epidemic Act. Accusing the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre for spreading false propaganda against the Muslim religious preachers, Ansari cited a recent observation made by an Aurangabad bench of the Mumbai high court which snubbed the government for making members of the Tablighi as scapegoat behind the poor Covid management. In Jharkhand, cases were filed against over a dozen members of the group at Ranchi, Bokaro, Jamshedpur and other areas. Majority of them are currently out on bail but barred from leaving the state as their cases are currently under trial. In a letter to Soren, Ansari said, “Going by the Mumbai high court’s recent verdict, it was clear that the Tablighi preachers were falsely blamed for the virus outbreak and charged with a conspiracy by the central government. I request the state government to review the situation and take back the cases against them in Jharkhand.” Jharkhand reported its first Covid-19 case on March 31 after a female member of the group, residing in a mosque in Ranchi’s Hindpiri area allegedly in violation of her visa rules, had tested positive. Subsequently, several cases emerged from this Muslim-dominated locality, making it a Covid hotspot in the early days of the virus outbreak in the state capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/withdraw-virus-spread-charge-against-tablighi-members-ansari/articleshow/77729527.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Nagpur||Low rates seen for crops in Vid over pandemic worries||Nagpur: Farmers in Vidarbha may have another year of low returns. According to a report on agriculture sector by CRISIL Research, rates of cotton and soyabean — the two main crops of the region — are expected to be down this year.This would be despite the area under cotton reducing in 2020 as compared to last year. Though good weather conditions are expected to increase the cotton yield.Cotton, which is the mainstay crop of majority of farmers in Vidarbha, is expected to fetch a price of around Rs5,000 a quintal. This is less than the minimum support price (MSP) fixed at Rs5,550. In that case, it would be another year in a row when cotton prices have not touched the MSP, affecting the farmers’ income.A note, shared by CRISIL, says in Maharashtra cotton cultivation is expected to be spread in 41 lakh hectares which is 7% less than the previous year’s acreage, when the area under cotton was at 44.5 lakh hectares.Even if lower acreage may bring down the overall output, it may not help in buoying the prices. CRISIL says a low demand, both for export and domestic, is seen due to the pandemic. The government too is sitting on huge stock of last year’s purchases. Out of 43 lakh bales purchased under MSP operations in the state, most of the inventory remains unused, which will keep the prices subdued.Soyabean is the next important crop for Vidarbha. CRISIL says soyabean acreage is expected to be higher on the other hand. At 42 lakh hectares, the area under soyabean is estimated to have gone up in the state by 9%. If low demand for cotton will keep its prices down, a bumper crop is expected to take a toll on soyabean rates. The area under soyabean has gone up because cotton growers in Vidarbha and Marathwada have shifted to the crop. They were encouraged by the better prices of last year. Now, as soyabean production is expected to increase by 15%, the rates may be down. A lower demand from poultry sector, and decline in soymeal exports may be the reasons, says the report.Tur, which is grown as an inter-crop, can bring some hope. The production of tur is expected to increase by 5% to 6% in Maharashtra. However, despite increased supply, the rates are expected to be only marginally down due an increased demand for pulses. Misinformation about Covid linking it with non-vegetation food had led to fall in demand for poultry. This in turn led to higher consumption of pulses as alternative source of protein.‘Acreage higher in Vid than five-year average’CRISIL has been relying on data from government and its own estimates on the acreage. Even as CRISIL has reported a fall in the area under cotton on year-on-year basis, officials in agriculture department say the area is still higher than last five years average, at least in Vidarbha.Amravati division, which covers west Vidarbha, has major area under cotton and soyabean. Cotton in the division has been sowed in 10.54 lakh hectares as against the average area of over nine lakh hectares. Soyabean is in 14 lakh hectares as against the average of nearly 15 lakh hectares.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/low-rates-seen-for-crops-in-vid-over-pandemic-worries/articleshow/77729432.cms||Shishir Arya
August 25, 2020||Nagpur||Amid flood gloom, elephant camp turns picturesque in G’chiroli||Nagpur: The silver lining in the cloud in the flood situation of Gadchiroli is the natural beauty of the Kamlapur elephant camp which is already attracting visitors with its raging waterfalls surrounded by trees and rocks, the wilderness of the Kolamarka reserve forest and the vultures. The visitors also get to have a brush with history with the first ashramshala in the state being set up by Rastrasant tukdoji Maharaj in 1958. The Kamlapur elephant camp in Aheri taluka was gaining popularity among the locals and even the outstation crowd when Maoists had targeted it earlier this year leaving it with considerable damages and also a trail of fear among nature lovers. Manuj Jindal, asst collector of Bhamragarh and Etapall, who visited the Elephant camp last week, said the rains had enlivened the waterfalls and added a fresh dash of greenery to Kamlapur. “The place is definitely looking more vibrant with the surrounding greenery and waterfalls coming alive in the monsoon,” said Jindal, who is also serving as the Project Officer of Bhamragarh. He said the collector’s office is contemplating restoring the damages done by Maoists in the coming days. Jindal said the road to Kamlapur, which is around three km away from Repanpalli, too has opened up after the flood water receded. “Around nine elephants, including two calves, are present at the camp which has a sprawling lake on the same premises,” he said. A resident of Bhamragarh, who visited the Kamlapur elephant camp last week, said the place also has a group of around 20 wild buffaloes in the Kolamarka reserve forest which frequently get sighted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amid-flood-gloom-elephant-camp-turns-picturesque-in-gchiroli/articleshow/77729455.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 25, 2020||World||Trump gets Republican nomination and claims election being rigged||CHARLOTTE (US): US President Donald Trump opened his bid for a second term after securing the Republican nomination Monday in typically combative fashion by claiming Democrats want to "steal" the election that polls currently show him losing. Minutes after the party completed the nomination vote confirming Trump as the candidate on November 3, he appeared at the convention in Charlotte, North Carolina, to deliver a rambling, often dark speech lasting close to an hour. From the opening words, he told Republicans to be on alert for what he claimed was a Democratic plan to rig the contest through increased use of mail-in voting- a measure Democrats say is needed to protect people from catching COVID-19 in crowded polling stations. "They are trying to steal the election," he told party delegates. "The only way they can take this election away from us is if this is a rigged election." Opponents say Trump's increasingly extreme resistance to expanded mail-in voting- a method already used widely in the United States- is an attempt to suppress voter turnout, while setting up an excuse to challenge the result if he is defeated. Polls show Trump losing to Democratic candidate Joe Biden, who had his Democratic convention last week, as Americans turn on his handling of the coronavirus pandemic and subsequent economic chaos. Trump hopes the convention, which concludes Thursday with his formal acceptance of the nomination, will shift voters' attention from the coronavirus to what he says is the "super-V" shaped economic recovery. As a veteran of reality TV, Trump is convinced that the more he gets on stage the better for changing the narrative in his favor. So while incumbents usually keep away from their party conventions until the final night, Trump immediately took over the event in Charlotte, which had been drastically scaled back due to COVID-19 precautions. He then flew to the North Carolina town of Mills River with his daughter Ivanka to give another speech, declaring "the great American comeback is underway." Trump is expected to make more live television appearances on each of the four days of the convention ahead of his acceptance speech at the White House. His children, including Ivanka and right-wing firebrand son Don Jr, will also be giving convention speeches. First Lady Melania Trump will address the nation from the White House's Rose Garden on Tuesday. In addition to suffering from broad unpopularity, Trump is weighed down by ever-growing turmoil and scandal around his administration. Former chief strategist Steve Bannon was arrested last week on fraud charges and a current top advisor, Kellyanne Conway, announced late Sunday that she is stepping down shortly to spend time with her family. The Republican insists, however, that he can replicate his surprise 2016 win -- and hopes the convention will put the wind in his sails. "This week we will take our case to the American people," Vice President Mike Pence told delegates ahead of Trump's arrival, promising to "make America great again -- again." Trump's use of the White House as a setting for the acceptance speech will be a dramatic show of political muscle, but it tramples over the custom of separating political campaigns from the office of president. In another move stretching etiquette, secretary of state Mike Pompeo will make a speech on his behalf while conducting an official trip to Israel. Biden is tapping into unhappiness with the president's handling of the pandemic, unrest over racial inequality and fear of longterm economic damage from the coronavirus shutdown. Beyond bread and butter issues, Trump's abrasive style, his habit of insulting people in public, his demonization of journalists and almost total inability to talk to Democratic leaders has left the country divided and exhausted. In a potential new flashpoint, protests erupted in the critical electoral state of Wisconsin after police there shot a black man in the back. While details were still unclear, Wisconsin Governor Tony Evers compared the incident to others where outrage has erupted over excessive use of force. Now, Trump is attempting to reclaim the high ground with an emphasis on restoring the economy and getting America back to work. But the sunny tone is already getting overshadowed by his usual lurid claims that Democrats want to take away Americans' firearms, unleash anarchy in the streets, encourage mass illegal immigration, and repress religious freedom. "They want no guns. They want no oil and gas. They want no God," he told the crowd in Charlotte.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/trump-gets-republican-nomination-and-claims-election-being-rigged/articleshow/77732238.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Nagpur||Vid recovery rate touches 60% mark again||Nagpur: Last week of August began with a good news of increase in recovery rate for Vidarbha region. On Monday, 1,349 patients from Vidarbha recovered against 1,255 new cases detected in the region. With this, total 26,601 patients out of 44,198 have recovered till date, which improved the recovery rate to 60%. This is for the first time since August 8 when the recovery rate is at 60%. For the last five days, the region has been reporting more than 1,000 patients recovering from Covid-19. Total 6,641 patients have recovered between August 20 and 24. On August 24, Nagpur reported 979 recoveries, followed by Buldhana (95), Amravati (67), Yavatmal (47), Chandrapur (45), Wardha (37), Washim (28), Akola (18), Gondia (14), Gadchiroli (14), and Bhandara (5). On the other hands, day’s new cases were 1,255. These include Nagpur (715), Amravati (110), Yavatmal (94), Buldhana (55), Akola (52), Chandrapur (47) Gondia (45), Bhandara (39), Wardha (39), Washim (37), and Gadchiroli (22). Death toll of Vidarbha, however, continued to remain a matter of grave concern. On August 24, total 41 deaths were reported in the region. Alarmingly, deaths reported from Nagpur division were 39. These include 32 from Nagpur, 3 from Wardha, 2 from Chandrapur, 1 from Bhandara and Gondia each. Except Gadchiroli, all districts in Nagpur division reported casualties. Total Vidarbha Covid-19 toll reached 1,215 with 830 of them reported in August alone. Wardha, for the first time, reported three deaths in a day. WARDHA: Three coronavirus patients died in the district, including a 64-year-old and 57-year-old men from Arvi and an 80-year-old resident of Pulgaon, while 39 new patients were registered and 37 got discharged on Monday. Total 212 reports were received in the day and 39 of them were positive — Wardha (18), Hinganghat (12), Selu (3), Karanja (2), Deoli (2) and each one from Arvi and Samudrapur. The total cases in the district reached 665, and patients under treatment are 217. Total recoveries are 432. CHANDRAPUR: District registered two deaths raising the toll to 17, and the spike of 47 cases took the Covid-19 total to 1,495 on Monday. The day also witnessed discharge of 45 patients helping the number of cured patients to climb up to 998. This has left 481 patients under treatment in district. Health authorities informed that a 53-year-old Covid patient from WCL Colony in Bhadrawati died on Sunday evening. He was admitted to Covid Hospital here on Sunday afternoon and he succumbed the same evening. Another 65-year-old patient from Jatpura locality in city also died of Covid-19 on Monday. Both the deceased were also suffering from pneumonia. This is first time when more than one death has been registered in the district in a day. Majority of newfound patients during the day came from Chandrapur. They include 29 from Chandrapur city, eight from Mul, five from Bhadrawati, three from Gondpipri and two from Bramhapuri tehsils. YAVATMAL: The district has recorded two more deaths on August 24. A 67-year-old woman from Yavatmal city and a 60-year-old man from Pusad died during treatment. With the two deaths, the Covid toll is now 68. Total 94 new patients were reported on Monday of whom 60 are men. Of the 94, Yavatmal city has 28 patients (19 men and 9 women) which is the highest number of patients reported in a day so far. Pusad with 21 patients (7 women) reported second largest spike of the day. As per officials, there are 592 patients admitted in various Covid-19 Care Centres across the district. A total of 47 patients were discharged from isolation wards. Total 196 are in home quarantine while 173 are in the isolation wards. On Monday, 130 swab samples were sent to the lab. The district has recorded 2,714 patients so far of whom 1,850 have recovered. Total 42,580 swabs were sent to labs of which 41,441 reports have been received. Total 38,727 reports were negative. Surprisingly, 1,139 reports are yet to be received. GONDIA: The district witnessed Covid-19 death for the second consecutive day on August 24. A 62-year-old patient, a resident of Vijayanagar in Gondia, died on August 23 night during treatment at GMC. Besides, as many as 45 new cases were diagnosed and 14 patients recovered in a day. Of 45 new cases, 33 are from Gondia tehsil alone. Now, 1,059 persons in the district have been found Covid positive so far, 756 citizens have recovered and 289 are under treatment. AMRAVATI: Posting the 12th 100-plus single-day spike this month and 14th overall, the district took its Covid count to 4,687 with 113 new cases on Monday. With no death reported today, the toll remained at 112, while 67 patients who got discharge took the number of recovered patients to 3,401. The rural belt reported 54 cases for the second successive day to take its count to 1,308. Anjangaon Surji with 21 cases and Nandgaon Khandeshwar with 14 cases accounted for most of the rural cases, taking their own count to 124 and 50, respectively. Dhamangaon Railway and Achalpur reported four each cases. Warud and Paratwada reported two each that took their count to 88 and 67, respectively. Lone cases came from seven other rural places. In city, Baku Colony reported seven Covid cases while four came from Devadartnagar and three each from Krushnagar and Gandhi Chowk. Two cases each were reported from Vivekanand Colony, Chaprasipura, Irwin Hospital and Sainagar. Single cases came from 27 other localities. AKOLA: The district received 350 reports of Covid-19 suspects in the last 24 hours. Out of them, 52 tested positive. Akola has been constantly conducting more than 300 Covid-19 tests daily and case positivity rate is going down here. On August 24, total 18 patients received discharge. The district has 3,520 cases, including 3,022 of them recovered and 144 deaths. Now, total 354 patients are under treatment. BHANDARA: District once again reported rise of 39 Covid-19 patients and 1 death. This took total number of Covid-19 cases in Bhandara to 859 and total deaths to 14. For last four days, Bhandara has been reporting daily Covid-19 death. Five patients recovered and were discharged on August 24. With 462 patients recovered, total 383 are under treatment. BULDHANA: Out of 220 reports received on August 24, 55 tested positive. Record 95 patients got recovered in the district. No death was reported on Monday. Now, Buldhana has total 2,635 cases, including 1,783 recoveries, 42 deaths and 810 under treatment. WASHIM: District reported 37 new Covid-19 patients on August 24 taking total cases to 1,468. Total 28 patients recovered. Now, Washim has 387 patients under treatment. No death was reported on Monday, so Covid death toll in Washim remained 27, including a suicide. GADCHIROLI: Covid-19 cases in the district reached 916 with 22 new cases on Monday. Along with this, 14 patients recovered taking the number of recoveries to 811. With 1 death reported in the past, Gadchiroli now has 104 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-recovery-rate-touches-60-mark-again/articleshow/77730791.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 25, 2020||Mumbai||Your expired driving licence is now valid till December 31: Maharashtra||MUMBAI: The state announced a further extension on the validity of motor vehicle documents on Monday due to the pandemic—an expired driving licence or vehicle fitness certificate will now be valid till December 31. Through an advisory issued in in June, the Centre had announced an extension on the validity of fitness certificates, licences, registrations, among others documents, till September 30. A state notification said due to the pandemic, citizens were finding it difficult to renew “various documents related to Motor Vehicles Act and Central Motor Vehicle Rules”, as the lockdown was in different stages across the country. “In view of this, the ministry has decided to extend date of validity... of fitness, permit (all types), learners, driving license, registration or any other concerned document whose extension of validity could not or not likely be granted due to lock-down and which has expired since February 1, 2020 or will expire by December 31, 2020, the same may be treated to be valid till December 31 2020,” the notification stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/your-expired-driving-licence-is-now-valid-till-december-31-maharashtra/articleshow/77732253.cms||Somit Sen
August 25, 2020||Nagpur||Over 100 positive in Amravati||Amravati: Posting the 12th 100-plus single day spike this month and 14th overall, the district took its Covid count to 4687 with 113 new cases on Monday. With no death reported, the toll remained at 112 while 67 patients who got discharge took the number of recovered patients to 3401. The rural belt reported 54 cases for the second successive day to take its count to 1308. Anjangaon Surji with 21 cases and Nandgaon Khandeshwar with 14 cases accounted for most of the rural cases, taking their own count to 124 and 50 respectively. Dhamangaon Railway and Achalpur reported four each to take their score to 60 and 92 respectively. Warud and Paratwada reported two each that took their count to 88 and 67 respectively. Single cases came from seven other rural places. In city, Baku colony reported seven cases while four came from Devadartnagar and three each from Krushnagar and Gandhi Chowk. Two cases each were reported from Vivekanand colony, Chaparasipura, Irwin Hospital and Sainagar. Single cases came from 27 other localities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-100-positive-in-amravati/articleshow/77730951.cms||---
August 25, 2020||Nagpur||Covid: State got Rs 541cr through donations but used only Rs 132cr||Nagpur: Maharashtra government has received donations of over Rs 541 crore for special fund under Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to fight the Covid-19 pandemic from March 28, an RTI query has revealed.The reply filed by Milind Kabadi, public information officer at CM’s secretariat in Mumbai, mentioned that of the total amount, Rs 132.3 crore was spent till August 3.While replying to senior activist Abhay Kolarkar’s queries, Kabadi informed that about Rs 1.2 crore were handed over to Nagpur district collector towards relief measures.Three hospitals were extended help from CM’s fund. These included St George Hospital in Mumbai (Rs20 crore), while district hospitals in Ratnagiri and Jalna were handed over Rs 1.07 crore each for fighting the deadly disease. On whether any hospital from Nagpur was provided financial help from this fund, the officer answered in the negative.Kolarkar had also sought information about the names of donors who had deposited money in the chief minister’s fund. However, the secretariat declined to provide this information saying it was facing staff shortage due to ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Kabadi also informed that the data received from the government didn’t contain names, and only cheque numbers were mentioned which makes their task of finding out individual donors more complicated.The officer informed that families of 16 migrant labourers who were killed after a goods train ran over them between Jalna and Aurangabad districts were provided assistance of Rs 5 lakh each from this fund. The workers had died while returning to their native state, Madhya Pradesh, on foot on May 8.CM’s Relief FundCollected — 541.2Spent — 132.3Given to Nagpur collector — 1.2St George Hospital, Mumbai — 20Ratnagiri district hospital — 1.07Jalna district hospital — 1.07Kin of 16 labourers crushed under train — 8(Figures in Rs cr)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-state-got-rs-541cr-through-donations-but-used-only-rs-132cr/articleshow/77729947.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 25, 2020||India||After a 10L high, daily Covid tests fall to 6L over weekend||NEW DELHI: After achieving the target of conducting 10 lakh tests on a single day, daily Covid-19 tests dropped significantly over the weekend with only 6,09,917 tests done on Sunday, resulting in a spike in positivity rate to 10%. While daily tests had dropped to a little over eight lakh samples even on Saturday, the number of samples tested on Sunday was the lowest in almost two weeks since August 10, when 4,77,027 samples were tested to detect the infection. With increased testing over the last fortnight, the average daily positivity rate during the last week (Aug 17-23) had dropped to 7.6% from 8.6% in the previous week (Aug 10-16) and 9.6% during the first week (Aug 3-9). In fact, at 10% the positivity rate was the highest since August 9. Despite the overall drop in daily testing, Uttar Pradesh tested 1.3 lakh samples in the last 24 hours, the highest among all the high-burden states. “The number of tests is usually low during the weekend and it should not reflect on our strategy. What is important is that now we have capacity in terms of 1,500 plus testing labs across the country and also surplus of testing kits. We are constantly advising states to ramp up testing and we will maintain increased level of testing till the positivity rate stabilises at around 5% as per the WHO norm,” a senior official in the health ministry said. With 61,408 new cases, the total tally of confirmed Covid-19 cases in the country has crossed 31 lakh. Of this, the active caseload was 22.9%, whereas over 23 lakh people have recovered from the disease so far. Helped by rising rate of recovery, the case fatality rate has dropped to 1.8%. “Focus on standard of care protocol, including use of non-invasive oxygen, better skilled doctors in the ICUs and hospitals, and improved ambulance services, have led to improved recovery rate among the severe and critical Covid patients,” the health ministry said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-a-10l-high-daily-covid-tests-fall-to-6l-over-weekend/articleshow/77732258.cms||Sushmi Dey
