August 26, 2020||India||Ghulam Nabi Azad, an unlikely rebel, stumps many||NEW DELHI: Leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad's key role in a group of Congress leaders demanding a "fully active and visible" leadership surprised many in the party given his long record as a loyalist and an astute reader of political tea leaves. Azad's decision to be part of the 'G-23' that signed the letter to Sonia Gandhi gave the project the heft that it might have otherwise lacked as was evident in the dissenters choosing him to deliver the missive and follow that up with a reminder. For someone with a well earned reputation as a power player, his seemed an unlikely mutiny. Read AlsoSonia, Rahul spoke to Azad after CWC meetingAfter the stormy CWC meeting that saw strong attacks on dissenting leaders, Congress president Sonia Gandhi is understood to have spoken to Ghulam Nabi Azad. It is learnt that Rahul Gandhi too spoke to Azad, one of the signatories of the letter. Interestingly, Sonia is also learned to have spoken toSome in the party said Azad felt let down when Congress failed to put up any significant resistance to the vote to do away with the application of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir and the bifurcation of the state into two Union Territories. He thought the party had taken a convenient position and thereafter felt increasingly out of the loop. Though a shrinking group, there is a disproportionate number of heavyweights in Congress ranks in the Upper House with former PM Manmohan Singh, ex-finance minister P Chidambaram, former commerce minister Anand Sharma, former I&B minister Ambika Soni, Sonia's political secretary Ahmed Patel as also influential lawyers Abhishek Singhvi and Kapil Sibal. Read AlsoAgenda for change can’t be brushed aside, says G-23NEW DELHI: Though they found themselves on the back foot at Monday’s meeting of the Congress Working Committee, the dissenting group of members believe their agenda for change cannot be brushed aside and the letter they wrote to Sonia Gandhi should be placed before the CWC. One of the signatories toTo this mix, the recent addition of veteran Mallikarjun Kharge has come as an unsettling development to many. The former leader of Congress in Lok Sabha could potentially disturb an already edgy order in the Upper House. Azad's fifth term in the House ends in February next year. Like several other leaders, Azad too might have been unhappy over Rahul Gandhi's distant behaviour, a Congress source said. Read AlsoRahul Gandhi must end ambiguity, feels partyThe CWC resolution promising an AICC session as soon as "circumstances permit" and the chorus that Rahul Gandhi resume the mantle of president reflects a growing sense of urgency in the party for the leader to end the ambiguity over his plans. Rahul had said that a non-Gandhi should lead the partyWhatever be the reason or a combination of factors, the Kashmiri politician, who won Lok Sabha elections in the 1980s from erstwhile Congress 'safe houses' like Washim, found himself in the crosshairs at the working committee meeting on Monday. A member from J&K wondered why a certain former CM was not placed under detention and another pointed out that Azad has been or is the ‘high command’, steering the party strategy in Parliament. Azad responded to the jibes by saying his record in Parliament spoke for itself and, later, was at pains to rebuff the charge that he had delivered the letter of revolt despite being aware of Sonia’s ill health. As things stand, more bloodletting might not be in the interest of either side. But Azad may have crossed a line that marks an improbable turn in his long career.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/azad-an-unlikely-rebel-stumps-many/articleshow/77749935.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra monsoon session for two days in September||MUMBAI: The state government on Tuesday decided to hold the legislative monsoon session for only two days on September 7 and 8 and adhere to social-distancing norms amid the pandemic. The government has instructed all members to undergo RT-PCR test on September 6 and only those who test negative will be allowed to attend the session in Vidhan Bhavan.  The decision was taken at a legislative assembly and council business advisory committee meeting attended by the CM. The panel also decided to make seating arrangements in the visitor’s gallery, if required, to maintain social distancing, and provide PPE kits to members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-monsoon-session-for-two-days-in-sept/articleshow/77750072.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
August 26, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai University issues notices to two officials over 140 crore mismanagement||MUMBAI: Mumbai University (MU) has served show-cause notices to its accounts and finance officer Madhavi Ingole as well as deputy registrar Rajendra Ambawade for financial mismanagement and depositing Rs 140 crore of the varsity in Yes Bank five days before the financial institution collapsed. Ambawade has been asked to proceed on leave till the inquiry is completed. At its online senate meeting on Tuesday, the MU decided to broaden the scope of the inquiry committee which will also look into the varsity’s investments and recommend ways to strengthen its financial position. “The committee may sanction the use of derivative products (and other financial instruments) provided every such transaction is considered to be economically appropriate,” said a senate member. Interestingly, MU had bestowed the best employee award to Ambawade just last month (see box) though an interim inquiry committee report had stated there was “gross accounting violation” in the transaction with Yes Bank. The issue pertains to the huge fixed deposit investment of the public university with Yes Bank. The university’s finance officers had claimed ignorance about the bank’s stock movement from Rs 245 to Rs 25 in a year at the time their investment was made. Also, Yes Bank does not figure in the list of private banks approved to make investments. Section officers could not produce any document authorising them to invest in Yes Bank, said a committee member. Also, as a public university, preference is given to nationalised banks for depositing money. Meanwhile, the senate meeting was yet to table the perspective plan at the time of going to press. The plan states only one night-college in the traditional streams of arts, science and commerce can come up in Dadar. In case of the city’s suburbs, one college can come up in Kherwadi and one in Malad (only for traditional streams). In the seven districts that encompass the MU jurisdiction, there is a requirement for merely 18 colleges, of which three are night colleges. The varsity currently has 823 affiliated colleges. “Even last year, the senate had invited managements to start colleges in Dadar and Kherwadi. But no one was interested. It seems very unlikely anyone will be interested in starting new colleges this year either,” said a senate member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mu-issues-notices-to-2-officials-over-140cr-mismanagement/articleshow/77750075.cms||Hemali Chhapia
August 26, 2020||Mumbai||31 medicos’ admission legal, can’t withhold degrees: Bombay high court||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Tuesday upheld the legality of admissions given in 2015 to 30 undergraduate physiotherapy students and one post-graduate student by an unaided private minority college which had conducted its own entrance exam. The high court held that the decision by the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) to withhold their eligibility and degree certificates was not justified. The students were admitted to MA Rangoonwala college of Physiotherapy and Research in Pune following an entrance test and admission process in 2015 undertaken by the college on the basis of an order of the high court. The court had, in subsequent orders, allowed the students to appear for examinations and have their results declared. “Having gone through the entire exercise on orders of this court, it is now not open to respondent numbers 3 and 4 (medical education admission committee and MUHS) and to question admission of those students,” a bench of Justice Ujjal Bhuyan and Justice Milind Jadhav said. The high court directed that students who had completed their internship should be issued certificates for it. The college had moved the high court last year as the MUHS withheld degree certificates of students on grounds of a pending court case. The high court said the MUHS reasons defied logic. “The ‘court case’ referred to is already over, disposed of way back on 26.08.2015,” the high court said. In January 2015, when the medical education admission committee rejected the college request to hold its own entrance test, it challenged the rejection before the high court. The high court heard several similar matters and by a common judgment in August 2015, allowed it as a one-time arrangement to hold its test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/31-medicos-admission-legal-cant-withhold-degrees-hc/articleshow/77750080.cms||Swati Deshpande
August 26, 2020||Mumbai||BJP using banned app, in love with China: Maharashtra Congress||MUMBAI: Nearly two months after the Centre banned several Chinese apps over concerns about the country’s “security and sovereignty”, Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant on Tuesday alleged the Maharashtra BJP was still using the banned app CamScanner. “After our soldiers were killed on the border, the NDA government had banned Chinese apps. But on Monday, the state BJP used CamScanner to release a press note. It reflects the BJP’s love for China,” the Congress leader said. The Central governmenmt had banned 59 Chinese apps on June 29 amid the tension with China. Sawant said the BJP had then announced that it was marching toward a self-reliant India. “All these announcements are an eyewash,” Sawant said. BJP’s chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye described Sawant’s allegations as baseless and false. “We have not used any banned Chinese app. The Congress should do more homework. Sawant is making allegations for cheap publicity,” Upadhye said. He said before launching an attack, Sawant should study the agreements between India and China when the Congress was in power. “On August 24, the BJP released a list of office-bearers of the OBC morcha, a frontal organization set up for the cause of OBCs. We sent the list through email. Sawant should check the mode of transmission of the email and then make comments,” Upadhye further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjp-using-banned-app-in-love-with-china-maha-cong/articleshow/77750084.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
August 26, 2020||Chennai||#IdhuMadrasMachi: The young crusaders are making Chennai a better place to live in||Halfway across the globe, teen climate activist Greta Thunberg might be trying to shift the world’s focus to climate change, but back home in Chennai, too, young green warriors have been proving that they are catalysts of change in environment conservation. Krishnakumar Suresh of Thuvakkam says today’s youngsters are aware that the planet is on the brink of a global catastrophe. “Youngsters realise that there is no planet B for us. They want to be part of any activity through which they could give back to the earth. If you notice, youngsters do not shy away from carrying a cloth bag to a store or a water bottle in hand, and are even reusing and recycling things,” he says, adding, “Our group predominantly consists of youngsters and we have been working extensively on increasing the green cover in the city. We have already created 17 urban forests in Chennai, Thiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Tuticorin.” Velmurugan Balasoundar, co-founder of Nanai, whose team worked towards cleaning and restoration of Nanmangalam Lake, agrees, “Chennai has been facing acute water shortage over the years, and so, it’s crucial that we increase the city’s green cover. We’ve been planting indigenous trees like maruthani (henna), malai vembu (malabar neem), karu nochi (five-leaved chaste tree), aala maram (banyan), arasa maram (fig), pungai (Indian beech), kadukai (haritaki) and vettiver (East Indian grass).” Leah Govias, who recently took part in a beach clean-up drive at ECR with her sister Sara Govias, says the experience was refreshing. “I’ve seen my father taking part in such drives and I joined him one fine day. It was distressing to see fish choking in mounds of plastic.” Sara says that reuse and recycle has become her mantra now. “Chennai’s youngsters have been at the forefront when it comes to eco-conservation, be it by spreading awareness on reducing plastic use, planting trees, reviving and restoring wetlands, getting involved in animal and birds conservation or practising sustainable living. Factors like better law and order situation, safety for women and government authorities lending a helping hand are a major shot in the arm for them,” says Arun Krishnamurthy of Environmentalist Foundation of India. Seconding him is Akila Balu, a volunteer at Student’s Sea Turtle Conservation Network, “Our group has been almost entirely managed by an army of students and youngsters. Some of them become so deeply involved that they go on to pursue careers in conservation.” But conservation activities have their fair share of challenges, too. “The biggest challenge has been breaking stereotypes in the society,” says Krishnakumar, adding, “It’s difficult to make people around you understand what you are doing is essential for a better future.” Arun chips in, “Though we get a large number of youngsters as volunteers, only a few do it regularly.” That said, these youngsters agree that it’s time to step up conservation activities. Krishnakumar sums up, “We can’t depend only on the government for everything. Unless every individual becomes environmentally responsible, there is no way we can be hopeful about the planet’s future.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/idhumadrasmachi-the-young-crusaders-are-making-chennai-a-better-place-to-live-in/articleshow/77750081.cms||P Sangeetha
August 26, 2020||Thane||Activists: Does Thane need new Covid hospitals?||THANE: Despite a recovery rate of 90% till date, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) is planning to set up more field hospitals, apprehending a possible spike in Covid cases after the festive season. The chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday, has directed civic bodies in Thane district to be prepared to handle any future spike. Activists have questioned the move. “TMC will only strain its coffers. It should optimise existing facilities instead of starting new ones,”said an activist. Currently, TMC has around 5,000 beds that will go up to 9,000. TMC chief, Dr Vipin Sharma, said that a new covid care facility will be set up soon at a defunct company premises in Wagle Estate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/activists-does-thane-need-new-covid-hospitals/articleshow/77750253.cms||Manoj Badgeri
August 26, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai crime branch make third arrest in fake influencer case||MUMBAI: City crime branch on Tuesday made a third arrest in the influencer racket for allegedly providing fake followers, views, subscribers and likes for profiles on social media platforms. A special investigation team (SIT) arrested Perminder Sharma (45), a resident of Mira Road, from Thane. Before running portals that allegedly provided fake followers, view and likes, Sharma had worked with two television channels’ creative and animation departments for 15 years.  Last month, a police team headed by inspector Sachin Waze had arrested two portal owners, Abhishek Dawre and Mansoor Kashif Tanvar. Sharma has been booked under the Information Technology Act and will be produced before the court on Wednesday. Police said Sharma had been operating portals such as www. yoyomedia.co.in and www. blowsmm.com. He is suspected to have completed around 25,000 requests for followers and likes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cops-make-3rd-arrest-in-fake-influencer-case/articleshow/77750263.cms||Ahmed Ali
August 26, 2020||India||Agenda for change can’t be brushed aside, says G-23||NEW DELHI: Though they found themselves on the back foot at Monday’s meeting of the Congress Working Committee, the dissenting group of members believe their agenda for change cannot be brushed aside and the letter they wrote to Sonia Gandhi should be placed before the CWC. One of the signatories to the letter said that the entire communication needed to be considered before the charge of disloyalty was levelled, adding that they had adequately noted the contributions of Sonia and Rahul Gandhi. There was no word against the Gandhis, the functionary said, arguing that the letter be placed before the CWC. While the finger-pointing over the leak of the letter continues, the G-23 (though they say there are many ex-MPs and ex-CMs who back them) feels the “script” that played out on Monday had been in the works well before the meeting was announced on Saturday. “This is not something that happened in a day,” a source said. The dissenters do not seem to have an immediate plan of action while insisting that their agenda remains relevant despite the forceful rejection of the CWC. They said they would wait to see how soon the promise of an AICC session materialised or the Covid-19 situation provided a reason for putting things off. Any delay will only reinforce the impression that Rahul is gripped with self-doubt over assuming charge of a duty that is in line with his legacy. The group defended itself against the charge of insensitivity, saying they waited for Sonia to return from hospital and that there would never be a good time to take up difficult matters. “Every day lost will hurt the party, we need some roadmap to 2024,” another signatory said. It does seem, however, that the bridge between the letter writers and Rahul will be hard to bridge. As a party functionary put it, those feeling neglected complain of the leader’s aloofness while Rahul sees many of them as beneficiaries in the past with little to contribute to the party’s future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/agenda-for-change-cant-be-brushed-aside-says-g-23/articleshow/77750299.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai police drop murder charge on Tablighis, Thane court frees them||MUMBAI/THANE: In an embarrassing turn for the city force, Bandra police on Tuesday filed a 300-page chargesheet against 12 Indonesian Tablighi Jamaat delegates (six couples) but after dropping serious sections under IPC – 304 (II) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) – for which they failed to collect substantiating evidence. At the same time, a Thane magistrate court also discharged 28 other Tablighis, including seven Indians, in two cases with Mumbra police station under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Foreigners Act and Disaster Management Act. Magistrate RH Jha, in her order, said, “No offence is made out against all, so they are entitled for discharge.” The discharged include 13 Bangladeshis and 8 Malaysians. Of 15 FIRs filed in the state against the Tablighis, those filed by Mumbai police — one in Bandra and two in DN Nagar — against 22 Indonesians and 10 Kazakh nationals were the only ones to invoke ‘attempt to murder’ and ‘culpable homicide’ charges. The Tablighi Jamaat religious congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin Markaz mosque in early March was perceived to be a coronavirus super-spreader event. Over 9,000 missionaries attended the congregation, the majority being from India and over 2,000 attendees from 40 other countries (see graphic). The uproar over the entry and free movement of the delegates despite restrictions imposed during the Covid outbreak led to calls for their arrest. In the ensuing weeks, police in several states tracked down and detained members of the ultra orthodox sect. A Bandra police probe showed that the 12 Indonesians in the city met at least 35 people during their stay. Police said they were booked because they did not follow procedures of informing police on reaching Mumbai on March 23. “They roamed around in different parts of the city and stayed at three places before relocating to Zarina Apartment in Bandra (West) on March 29. They visited a few mosques, including at Dharavi, and met many. During the tests two of them turned positive. This was the reason for applying the serious sections,” said a Bandra police officer, requesting anonymity. The public prosecutor argued that the foreign nationals, mostly preachers, were here on a tourist visa which does not allow them to deliver religious sermons and makes them liable for legal action, which may include debarring them from entering the country again. Defence lawyer Ishrat Ali Khan, however, told TOI, “The 12 foreign nationals came to Mumbai to study the culture of the community and was not involved in any preaching.” The crackdown and the cases against the foreign Tablighi delegates, which has prevented them from returning home for months now, led to greater scrutiny of the police action and a diplomatic row. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone IX) Abhishek Trimukhe said three FIRs were registered in Mumbai in April, but the ‘attempt to murder’ and ‘culpable homicide not amounting to murder’ charges were dropped as no evidence “was found during the probe.” Ishrat Ali Khan said, “Police have clearly said that they have not found any evidence, documentary or otherwise, to invoke either of the serious charges. I wish to add that even the section under 14(b) of Foreigners Act is not attracted as they had all entered with valid passport and visa and had come to India prior to lockdown advisories issued by the state or Centre including. Thus they had neither deliberately nor intentionally entered India to spread Covid disease. We will be approaching the Bombay high court very soon with a quashing petition against the FIR and chargesheet.” However, police say they have violated the terms of their visa, which may still prove to be a sticky point. (With inputs from Nishikant Karlikar & Swati Deshpande)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-police-drop-murder-charge-on-tablighis-thane-court-frees-them/articleshow/77750480.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
August 26, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai University sets framework for virtual classes 3 weeks after colleges reopen||MUMBAI: Upload notes and video lectures on social media sites, use simulation for experiments, create downloadable reading material, test students on a regular basis. These are just some of the activities for teachers Mumbai University has recommended in its first set of guidelines for online teaching. Almost three weeks after colleges reopened online, the university released a framework for conducting virtual classes. The recommendations, though, do not offer relief to thousands of students who are unable to log in to online classes due to lack of devices or internet connection, said teachers. Most colleges started their new academic session on August 7. While many have been devising their own teaching framework based on their experiences, the university’s circular makes it uniform and binding on all colleges. The university mentioned colleges can hold a maximum of three to five lectures every day with a break of 10-15 minutes between each. Many colleges currently hold three lectures, but the breaks given are random. “Five lectures could be a problem as students from economically weaker section are barely managing three lectures with their data packs,” said a teacher. Colleges are not clear on who can be appointed as mentors, as they are expected to form WhatsApp groups and obtain regular feedback. “Teachers are already on WhatsApp groups and are trying to mentor students on a regular basis. We can try and ask senior students to pitch in, the ones who are awaiting their final-year exams,” said the teacher, adding the personal touch required for counselling is missing on the virtual platform. For students who are unable to connect, the university has asked colleges to share recorded lectures, upload videos on Youtube and Facebook, call students to provide counselling, form smaller groups and discuss lessons. Teachers, though, pointed out that students with connectivity issues will not be able to access these social media sites. “If students cannot access lectures in the absence of smart phones or internet, how can the alternative be downloading lectures on these platforms, or even WhatsApp? The university is completely disconnected from reality as we have several students who are unable to afford data packs. It is a cruel joke on them,” said a representative of Bombay University and College Teachers’ Union. Some units of BUCTU have written to the university opposing the guidelines. For missing out on regular experiments, the university has recommended use of simulation that can help students reset different scenarios and try alternative approaches. While the circular’s emphasis was on making effective use of technology, many teachers said all colleges do not provide resources. The university asked colleges to send links of Google forms with MCQs on WhatsApp groups on a regular basis to help students practice. A teacher said some directives ask too much of them. “There are many teachers who are still not very savvy with technology. For them, uploading content and creating YouTube channels could be difficult".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mum-univ-sets-framework-for-virtual-classes-3-weeks-after-colleges-reopen/articleshow/77750705.cms||Yogita Rao
August 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata's fashion frat makes the most of the new normal with virtual shoots, ramp walks||When it comes to keeping up with latest trends, trust the fashion industry to take the lead. Though the lockdown and unlock restrictions have posed several challenges for those in the fashion fraternity – models, makeup artists, stylists, photographers, light men and others – they are slowly but surely getting back to business with new concepts to ensure adherence to safety norms. Digital shoots boomLike everyone else, technology has come to the rescue of the fashion industry, which swiftly adapted to the changes amid the lockdown and tried to make the most of the new normal. Soon after March, Zoom or FaceTime photo shoots and digitally generated fashion content were in vogue, replacing traditional shoots at studios or outdoors. Fashion photographer Siladitya Dutta, who conducted a few virtual photo shoots during the lockdown, recently had his first fashion shoot at a city hotel after months. Speaking about the transition, he said, “Before the pandemic, we used to meet up with models, makeup artists and stylists to plan the concept of the shoot and outfits. But now, the entire brainstorming has shifted to WhatsApp groups. Initially, I didn’t know how to survive the lockdown. But gradually, I got inspired by international and national photographers as well as celebs and started doing digital shoots with models. However, the magic of shooting at a real location is missing in virtual shoots.” Rise in digital fashion shows Launch of new collections and fashion showcases have seen a sea change post the COVID-19 outbreak. Designer Abhishek Dutta, who is working with French visual artist Livia for his spring-summer collection, said, “Recently, Paris Fashion Week showcased their ramp walk digitally. For digital broadcast, ramp walks can take place anywhere. In Paris, they did it on the farmland. Many designers are resorting to 3D and virtual models to showcase their collections. Also, due to the digital connection, more global collaborations are taking place now. My spring-summer collection launch will be digitally showcased simultaneously from India and France.” Designer duo Soma Bhattacharya and Eshaan, who recently showcased their collection through a photo shoot, are planning to make up for the lockdown losses by launching a more affordable line of collection online. “With the festive season round the corner, many designers are showcasing their collections through digital fashion shows,” said Soma. Stylist Anupam Chatterjee, who recently shot a national ad campaign with actor Parambrata Chatterjee, said virtual fashion shows can be conducted without much hassles. “All you need to do is book an auditorium and invite bare minimum workforce – a stylist, makeup artist, hairdresser, show director/choreographer, dresser and a photographer/videographer, apart from the models,” said Anupam. Fash frat ready to sweat it outMakeup artist and stylist duo Kaushik-Rajat are happy to be back at work. “The experience is of course not the same as before. We are going the extra mile to maintain all the safety norms. Wearing PPE suits for long hours makes you sweat profusely and sometimes also causes breathlessness, but we don’t have a choice. We are just glad that the shoots have started again,” said Rajat. Model Ankita Singh thinks that functioning in the new normal is definitely challenging but taking that risk is necessary to keep the fashion industry afloat. “My team and I are taking as many precautions as we possibly can. I’m doing my bit by carrying my own mascara, lipstick, comb, makeup brushes or pins. I adjust my clothes myself to avoid physical contact with the makeup artist and stylist. It’s not easy to work in these conditions but coordination with the team makes the process smoother,” she said, adding, "The belief that the new normal won't stay forever also helps in dealing with it."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkatas-fashion-frat-makes-the-most-of-the-new-normal-with-virtual-shoots-ramp-walks/articleshow/77750810.cms||Srishti Dasgupta
August 26, 2020||Mumbai||CBI grills Sushant Singh Rajput’s CA, summons cops||MUMBAI: CBI on Tuesday questioned late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s chartered accountant (CA) Sandeep Shridhar. The agency also summoned the Bandra police inspector and a sub-inspector, who had probed the actor’s alleged suicide, for questioning. However, one of the officers is recovering from Covid-19 and another is in quarantine. The CBI has collected most of the relevant material from the Bandra police for examination, including Rajput’s mobile phones, laptop, and his diary. The agency continued questioning Rajput’s friend Siddharth Pithani, and his staff members Neeraj Singh, Deepesh Sawant and Keshav Bachner. The four were in the apartment when the alleged suicide took place. They had called a locksmith to break open Rajput’s room. On Tuesday, the CBI again visited Cooper Hospital and questioned the doctors who conducted the post-mortem. A CBI official also visited the office of the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which is conducting a money laundering investigation in connection with the actor’s death. ED had examined Rhea, her family members and Rajput’s staff members till now. ED officials claimed to have found some information not relevant to the money laundering probe while examining some of their cellphones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cbi-grills-sushants-ca-summons-cops/articleshow/77751607.cms||Vijay V Singh
August 26, 2020||Navi-mumbai||NMMC faces ventilator, ICU bed crunch for Covid patients||NAVI MUMBAI: NMMC has admitted the shortage of ICU beds and ventilators. NMMC commissioner Abhijit Bangar told TOI on Tuesday, “Ventilators and the ICU beds under the government are nearly packed. We are adding more ventilators at the DY Patil hospital in Nerul.” The NMMC has also signed an MoU with the D Y Patil hospital for 200 ICU beds; while 50 are currently available, another 50 will be added later this week. The NMMC website will soon add information on hospitals where the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana would be applicable. The Navi Mumbai civic body, NMMC, has also activated a ‘Real-time updated dashboard’ on its website, which will provide details about the availability of beds at Covid health centres, Covid hospitals and Covid care centres in the city. All Covid hospitals have been instructed to update their data. “We have received many complaints on availability of hospital beds which prompted us to start the real-time dashboard,” said Bangar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/nmmc-faces-ventilator-icu-bed-crunch-for-covid-patients/articleshow/77751845.cms||SANJAY BANERJEE
August 26, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra govt plans Rs 6,000 crore relief for industries in MIDC areas||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra government is planning a slew of incentives and concessions worth Rs 6,000 crore for industries in Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) areas to help revive the sector affected by the coronavirus-induced lockdown. The package is yet to be cleared by the state cabinet which is expected to meet on Wednesday. Among the proposals are short-term leases for industries and ‘plug-and-play rentals’ for greenfield projects. This will mean that the basic shed for the factory or office space will be prepared in advance. The deferring of water bills and premium payments and concessions in MIDC charges are also on the cards. Also, the clearing of arrears due in the package scheme of incentives. Concessions for the Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector will also be under consideration. “The MSME sector has asked for relief including interest subvention, relief in electricity duty and support for wages to be dispensed during the lockdown,” state industries minister Subhash Desai told TOI. The state has 20 lakh units registered as MSMEs. Of these, six lakh units are in the manufacturing sector and the rest in the service sector. Industry representatives have been demanding support from the government to boost the flagging demand, and improve transport links and consumer sentiment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-plans-6000-crore-relief-for-industries-in-midc-areas/articleshow/77751848.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
August 26, 2020||Mumbai||Jobs given to over 21,000 locals registered on portal: Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik||MUMBAI: Skill development minister Nawab Malik on Tuesday claimed that his department has provided employment to more than 21,000 local youths who had registered on the portal,www.mahaswayam.gov.in, during the lockdown.  “Over 58,000 jobless youths from across the state have registered on the portal developed by the skill development department. So far, we have been able to provide jobs to 21,572 of them,” Malik, who is also NCP spokesperson, said. Between April and June, the portal received more than 1.7 lakh registrations. Among those who have secured jobs, 3,940 are from Mumbai regions, 1,321 from Nashik, 14,521 from Pune, 1,105 from Aurangabad, 414 from Amravati and 271 from Nagpur. According to Malik, the portal is a crucial link between jobless youths and industrial houses looking for manpower. In view of the massive success of the scheme, Malik said, the department will soon organise district-wise online job placement camps. “We need better coordination, then only it will be possible to provide jobs to youths.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/jobs-given-to-over-21000-locals-registered-on-portal-minister/articleshow/77751858.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
August 26, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Ramayan paintings, 600kg idol create magic at Andheri pandal||MUMBAi: Despite expecting few visitors, some Ganeshotsav pandals have taken extraordinary efforts to craft beautiful idols and sets this year too. Jiten housing society near Bhavan’s College in Andheri, which attracts long queues thanks to its ornate craftsmanship and artistic archway, has created a stunning pandal this year as well. “Art director Suyog Bhosle has replicated the Siddhivinayak concourse in the mandap. Artist Sagar Mhatre has painted events from the Ramayan by hand,” said organizer Uday Singh. His son Rohan said, “Moortikar Kedar Gothankar has fashioned a four-foot idol that is made of 100% clay. In fact, it weighs an entire 600 kilos. We will not have to worry too much about loading and unloading it, since we will not travel to Versova for visarjan, as we do every year. We have built an artificial pond within our building compound itself where we will perform the immersion. Also, arrangements have been made for live streaming darshan.” Meanwhile, Tejukaya Chawl, the creative neighbour of Lalbaugcha Raja, has crafted a 4-ft papier mache moorti in place of its towering 22-24-ft giant plaster-of-paris idol. Spokesman Rahul Dhumne said, “Our in-house moortikar Rajan Zad went to his village during the lockdown but carved all the idols there and dispatched them to Mumbai.” Tejukaya Chawl was demolished five years ago and residents are waiting for redevelopment to begin. They continue to install the idol each year, and arrive from far-flung places for seva and darshan. Meanwhile, GSB King’s Circle is preparing for Wednesday’s visarjan of its five-day Ganpati idol. This richest mandal of Mumbai had sought permission to host its regular large idol but was denied it, and consequently installed a small 4-ft idol. Trustee R G Bhat said, “This year it is a simple celebration. We have placed no jewellery on the idol, and no devotees are allowed either. We are granting only online darshan via our website, Facebook and YouTube from 7am to 9pm.” GSB mandal’s priests have been live streaming pujas and issuing advance instructions to devotees to keep durva grass and hibiscus flowers ready at home should they wish to follow suit. Wednesday’s visarjan will take place around 9pm with merely 10 volunteers in attendance. Parelcha Raja of Nare Park, which earned the honour of having Supari Baug Road named after its idol last weekend, is conducting blood donation camps on August 29 and 30. Trustee Milind Gawde said, “Blood donors will be called as per a list drafted earlier to avoid crowding. We are sanitizing our pandal three or four times daily and checking visitors’ body temperature and oxygen. Social distancing is a major concern. Our activists are being provided with face shields, masks and gloves. Sanitizer stands have been placed at all entry points.” Parelcha Raja darshan is also available online and visarjan will be performed in an artificial tank on site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ramayan-paintings-600kg-idol-create-magic-at-andheri-pandal/articleshow/77751860.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
August 26, 2020||Business||Interpol issues Red Corner Notice against Nirav Modi’s wife||NEW DELHI: The Interpol has issued a Red Corner Notice against Ami Modi, the wife of fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi in connection with the money laundering cases registered against her in the country. A Red Notice is a request to law enforcement worldwide to locate and provisionally arrest a suspect on the run. Ami Modi is facing allegations of laundering of funds generated through diversion of bank loans. The enforcement directorate had earlier approached the Interpol seeking assistance for her arrest as she is a US citizen and had been last spotted in New York. Her husband, Nirav Modi was arrested in the UK last year and is in jail awaiting his extradition to India. The ED had named Ami Modi as an accused in its chargesheet filed last February and had alleged her to be the beneficiary of a trust through which two apartments worth $30 million were purchased in New York City's Central Park area. Watch PNB fraud case: Interpol issues global arrest warrant against Nirav Modi's wife||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/interpol-issues-red-corner-notice-against-nirav-modis-wife/articleshow/77752648.cms||Rajshekhar Jha
August 26, 2020||India||Rahul Gandhi must end ambiguity, feels party||NEW DELHI: The CWC resolution promising an AICC session as soon as "circumstances permit" and the chorus during the deliberations that Rahul Gandhi resume the mantle of president reflects a growing sense of urgency in the party over the need for the leader to end the ambiguity over his plans. The crisis due to the extraordinary letter written by a group of 23 leaders has put the ball squarely in Rahul's court as the year since Sonia Gandhi was elected 'interim president' has only deepened faultlines and failed to stem organisational drift, seen as a factor in the loss of Madhya Pradesh followed by a close shave in Rajasthan. Read AlsoCWC meet: Gandhi loyalists view G-23 letter as revolt, crush call for changeThe seven-hour marathon meeting saw the dissenters, with only four of them in the CWC, being pushed on the back foot. They were charged with being inconsiderate in the timing of the letter and reminded that they had all enjoyed important posts with the confidence of the party leadership. MemberRahul's decision to quit in the wake of a second Lok Sabha debacle has been gnawing Congress's cadre, given the uncertainty it created. G-23's dissent may well be the catalyst in forcing action, feel sources who were part of the CWC meeting. They added that that a vacuum at the top was no longer acceptable. Rahul has all along appeared serious about not retaking the reins, which he left saying that the next chief should be a non-Gandhi. Now, senior Congress functionaries point out that continued reluctance will only invite more troubles. "It cannot be that Sonia Gandhi is not in a position or does not want to continue, Rahul does not make up his mind and no other person is appointed either," said a functionary. Read AlsoGhulam Nabi Azad, an unlikely rebel, stumps manyLeader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad's decision to be part of the 'G-23' that signed the letter to Sonia Gandhi gave the project the heft that it might have otherwise lacked as was evident in the dissenters choosing him to deliver the missive and the reminder. For someone with aOddly enough, both dissenters and loyalists agree on this, though with differing answers as the pro-Gandhi camp feels a letter of mutiny was not called for given Sonia's long contribution in leading Congress. A day after the CWC meeting, the chatter was about Rahul's decision. Partymen are making much of the fact that while the meeting on Monday saw every CWC member urge Rahul to take charge, the latter did not demur. While it was not seen as an affirmative gesture, it raised optimism among members exasperated at the ad-hoc leadership. Read AlsoAgenda for change can’t be brushed aside, says G-23NEW DELHI: Though they found themselves on the back foot at Monday’s meeting of the Congress Working Committee, the dissenting group of members believe their agenda for change cannot be brushed aside and the letter they wrote to Sonia Gandhi should be placed before the CWC. One of the signatories toRahul confidants expressed confidence that he will take back the presidency in the next three-four months. "We are sure of it happening now," a loyalist said. Given the way that the controversy triggered by the dissent letter unfolded, Congress members feel it was difficult to imagine any other outcome for the leadership position. Some key senior members were still doubtful of the possibility and they discussed one chief minister in particular as a possible option. Another junior CM is also being talked about. "It is all up in the air till it is announced. But the fact is that the onus of settling the issue now rests with Rahul Gandhi," a party veteran said. The appeal to Rahul was strong and those who made it included Ashok Gehlot, Amarinder Singh, Bhupesh Baghel, Ajay Maken, Ambika Soni, R C Khuntia, Harish Rawat and Asha Kumari. Watch Sonia Gandhi, Rahul spoke to Ghulam Nabi Azad after CWC meeting||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rahul-must-end-ambiguity-feels-party/articleshow/77752780.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Business||Lockdown hit 22% of salaried jobs: Study||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 pandemic has had a sharp impact on jobs for the youth while salaried jobs have borne the brunt of the lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of the deadly infection, according to CMIE surveys. "Cumulatively, between April and July 2020, 11 million jobs were lost compared to the average employment in 2019-20. But job losses in the workforce aged less than 40 were much higher, at 19.6 million," Mahesh Vyas CMIE MD and CEO said. He said that the age profile of workers due to the lockdown is shifting towards the relatively older workers as declining demand due to the economic slowdown has shut out the openings for the young to enter this space. Vyas lists several reasons for this decline in jobs for the youth. He said since the young workforce is less experienced, they are easy to part with. Firms invest in fresh labour during the initial period to make them useful later but the slowdown prompted them from making such investments. He also said that due to the lockdown companies cannot hire and train new recruits which has emerged as "very serious constraint." In an earlier post, Vyas said salaried jobs were estimated at 86.1 million in 2019-20. He said while informal jobs have returned and even increased after being hit by the lockdown, formal jobs have not. "Non-salaried forms of employment have increased from 317.6 million in 2019-20 to 325.6 million in July 2020. This implies a growth of nearly 8 million jobs or an increase of 2.5% in informal employment. However, salaried jobs have declined by 18.9 million by the same comparison. Or, declined by 22% during the lockdown," according to the CMIE MD and CEO. Citing CMIE data on listed companies, Vyas said the wage bill of these 1,560 listed companies recorded a 2.9% increase in the June 2020 quarter compared to the same quarter a year ago. Watch Lockdown hit 22% of salaried jobs: Study||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lockdown-hit-22-of-salaried-jobs-study/articleshow/77753028.cms||---
August 26, 2020||India||69% of Covid victims in India are men: Govt||NEW DELHI: Majority of the Covid-19 deaths in the country are among men who account for 69% of the total 58,390 deaths recorded so far, health ministry data show. The age-wise distribution remains largely unchanged from that reported in the beginning of the month with those above 60 years now contributing 51% of all deaths so far. Those in the relatively younger age band of 45-60 years are contributing 36%, as compared to 37% on Aug 4 and 32% on July 9. Just 1% of deaths were of people below 17 years, another 1% was among the 18-25 age group and 11% were aged between 26-44 age group. Indian Council of Medical Research director general Dr Balram Bhargava said that the results of the sero survey conducted in containment zones is in the process of publication and is likely to appear this week in the Indian Journal of Medical Research.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/69-of-covid-victims-in-india-are-men-govt/articleshow/77753093.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Business||Dividend cut on 30% balance sheet growth||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) transferred Rs 73,615 crore to its contingency fund as compared to last year when it took out Rs 52,637 crore as write-back of excess provision. This left the central bank with a lower surplus of Rs 57,128 crore, which was transferred to the government as dividend. The provisions are made in proportion to RBI’s balance sheet, and in 2019-20 the balance sheet expanded by 30% to Rs 53.3 lakh crore. According to the annual report, RBI’s income declined 22% to Rs 1,49,672 crore while total expenses (including provisions) rose more than five times to Rs 92,540 crore. One of the reasons for the increase in balance sheet size was RBI’s activity in the financial markets. This resulted in forex reserves increasing by $59.5 billion in 2019-20 as compared to depletion of $3.3 billion in the previous year. During the year, the RBI increased its physical holding of gold from 618 tonnes to 661 tonnes. The RBI has said that there has been an improvement in various external sector vulnerability indicators, which include the ratio of external debt-to-GDP and the nature of the debt. Despite these improvements, the current year is expected to be challenging and this is “due to a highly uncertain global trade and investment environment, and extreme fear and uncertainty about the intensity and spread of Covid-19”, the RBI said. While terms of trade gains may provide some respite, the outlook is uncertain for exports, remittance inflows and the tourism sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/dividend-cut-on-30-balance-sheet-growth/articleshow/77750437.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Business||Lenskart to invest Rs 380cr in 2nd plant, sales go past Titan Eyeplus||BENGALURU: Lenskart closed the financial year ending March 2020 with total sales doubling to over Rs 1,000 crore, taking a major lead over the sales of Titan’s eyewear business, which grew at 6% to Rs 544 crore during the same period. Sales of the SoftBank-backed unicorn (startup valued at over $1 billion) had stood at Rs 486 crore in the previous fiscal FY19 compared to Rs 511 crore by the Tata Group-owned company business, which primarily operates under Titan Eyeplus besides Titan and Fastrack brands as well. After tax, Lenskart’s revenues in FY20 stood at about Rs 900 crore, according to founder and CEO Peyush Bansal. With increasing sales, Lenskart plans to invest $50 million, or Rs 380 crore, in setting up its biggest manufacturing plant at an undisclosed location in India. Right now, it gets a significant supply through a plant in China besides a factory in Gurgaon. It has signed up for the new facility, which is expected to be launched in the next six months. This would be spread across 4-5 lakh sqft — five times the size of its current Indian facility, said Bansal. The Faridabad-based company sees at least a 20% growth in business in the ongoing financial year with plans to open 200-300 more stores, despite the pandemic that is forcing most speciality retailers to shut down outlets. Lenskart currently has 600 stores, out of which it has already reopened 550 by taking precautions like booking store appointments online to avoid crowding and sanitising frames after every trial with UV light ovens. “The consumer has become very price and quality conscious, which we are seeing as a very positive trend...right now we see a lot of opportunity for gaining market share,” said Bansal, a former Microsoft program manager who launched Lenskart in 2010. According to him, rentals are available at 30-50% cheaper rates and sales at open stores are already catching up to pre-pandemic levels. It has added 25 stores since the start of the financial year with another 82 in the pipeline, where leases are being finalised. “For us, there could not be a better time to expand stores and we may even take the 200 stores to 300, but haven’t finalised yet,” said Bansal. While Lenskart started out with a focus on online sales, over the years it has effected a rapid expansion of its offline stores, which work through a mix of fixed rental and revenue-share model. But with the pandemic, it has seen online sales increase from 20% to 40% of its business. And online is now driving 90% of its sales as compared to 70% before the pandemic, as customers short-list frames and book appointments online before stepping into its stores. “We are ramping up our manufacturing in India aggressively. We have adopted a lot of local partners, who are serving us now. Based on what has been happening in the past, we have definitely ordered a lot of equipment and are in the process of ramping up our manufacturing capabilities for frames,” he added. Compared to China, its frame purchases are spread across a higher number of local vendors here as Indian partners, on a standalone basis, are yet to be at the similar scale as their Chinese counterparts. “In India, the size of what a single manufacturer could give you will not be more than 20,000-30,000 frames. So, we have to definitely buy across multiple guys. So, at scale, to service our demand, we have to build in-house capabilities. Already, a large percentage of what we are selling is being made in India,” Bansal said. He added that he is seeing the cost benefit of manufacturing in India, compared to China, even though initial capital expenditure might be higher to set up ancillary services, which are often outsourced by manufacturers in China. “The mandate is clear — right now we are building all the ancillary support in-house,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lenskart-to-invest-rs-380cr-in-2nd-plant-sales-go-past-titan-eyeplus/articleshow/77750050.cms||Digbijay Mishra
August 26, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru police commissioner tests positive for Covid-19||MYSURU: A week after a superintendent of police tested positive for Covid-19, Mysuru city police commissioner, who was his primary contact and was under home isolation, has caught the virus. An assistant commissioner of police too has tested positive and has been hospitalized. Deputy commissioner of police (law and order) AN Prakash Gowda, a IPS officer, confirmed to TOI that the city police commissioner and ACP, NR subdivision have tested positive. The police commissioner was the primary contact of the SP, who contracted the virus on August 17. Since then, the commissioner was under home isolation and hasn’t come in contact with anyone. The commissioner is asymptomatic and continues to be at home. Both the commissioner and the SP had attended meetings of the district minister and had participated in the Independence Day programme. DC under home isolation Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar has isolated himself after one of his staff tested positive. This is the third time the DC is a primary contact. Twice earlier he had tested negative for the virus. Sankar told TOI that he has isolated himself because he is a primary contact. He will be undergoing a Covid test later this week. District minister ST Somashekar too had contracted the virus and recovered on August 10. Two MLAs, an MLC and an MP from the region have caught Covid-19 so far. So far, nearly 200 cops from the city police wing, district unit and KSRP have also tested positive. MLA gets virus Hassan: Arsikere MLA KM Shivalinge Gowda tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. He is being treated at a private hospital in Bengaluru. His wife had contracted the virus in mid-July and he was a primary contact. The MLA was subjected to a rapid antigen test on Monday night in the hospital. He has released a video on a social networking platform announcing that he has tested positive. “I am asymptomatic but have been informed to stay in hospital for a week,” Gowda has said in the video.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-police-commissioner-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/77748067.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Business||Banking frauds jump over 2.5x by value in FY20||MUMBAI: The value of money involved in banking-related frauds in India rose more than two and half times to Rs 1.9 lakh crore in fiscal 2020 from about Rs 71,500 crore in the previous year. In terms of number of fraud cases, however, the jump was a more modest 28% to nearly 8,700 cases from 7,000 in previous year, according to the RBI’s annual report. The report showed that 98% of total fraud value and 53% of such cases were related to loans taken by customers. Although internet- and card-related frauds are widespread, making up 31% of number of cases, the money involved was Rs 195 crore. Read AlsoRBI pushes lenders to raise funds over bad debt pile-upThe Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is pushing banks and non-bank finance companies (NBFCs) to raise capital to brace for a possible pile-up in bad debt in the coming months.However, the number of such cases jumped to 195 in FY20 from 71 in the previous fiscal. Unlike the government and corporates, which follow the April-March financial year, the RBI follows a July-June fiscal year. The central bank said that it assigns a particular year to an instance of fraud when such an incidence is reported and not when it had taken place. “The dates of occurrence of these frauds are…spread over several previous years,” it said. The RBI will study some large-value frauds to understand the reasons behind delays in identifying such incidents. It is also in the process of interlinking various databases and information systems to improve fraud-monitoring and detection. Read AlsoPrivate banks slap fees on use of UPI over 20x a monthAll the large private banks have introduced charges, ranging from Rs 2.5 to Rs 5, on person-to-person payments using the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) beyond 20 times a month. Although the government has said that payments using UPI would be free, bankers say that the charges have been introduced“A study on the large-value frauds with the involvement of select banks, NBFCs, urban-cooperative banks and domain experts will be undertaken for recognising the causes for delay in identifying frauds by supervised entities and suggest measures for early detection and timely mitigation of the risks arising out of frauds,” it said in the annual report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banking-frauds-jump-over-2-5x-by-value-in-fy20/articleshow/77750637.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Mangaluru||Ullal CMC’s lockdown initiative aims at zero-waste city goal||Mangaluru: A green initiative launched by the Ullal City Municipal Council (CMC) during the lockdown is aiming at making the city a zero-waste zone within the next six months. The CMC in association with progressive farmers had launched a scheme for the people to cultivate vegetables at home, institutions and business premises in the city. The CMC has already started converting the wet waste generated in the city into organic manure, and the same is being distributed to houses, schools, SHGs and business premises where vegetables are cultivated. The CMC has opened a compost making unit in its premises in Ullal, to process nearly two tonnes of wet waste, and it has plans to set up more units to process all the 15 tonnes of wet waste generated in the city every day. The CMC has created a kitchen garden growing ridged gourd on its premises, using unused refrigerator boxes. While kitchen waste from the city gets converted into compost, tender coconut shells collected from shops are used for the bottom layer of the boxes in the garden. CMC commissioner Rayappa told TOI that the CMC has already harvested vegetables twice, and distributed it among civic workers and staff. “Our goal is to make Ullal a zero-waste town by stopping the transportation of waste from the city to Mangaluru City Corporation’s dump yard. A drive to make waste segregation mandatory has been carried out in the town, and technical support is being given to families that grow vegetables using kitchen waste manure. They are also encouraged to convert kitchen waste into manure in their premises,” he said. The CMC has set up five more compost making units in its wards, where unused pre-cast concrete pump houses have been used to convert wet waste into manure. “The CMC also has plans to procure machinery that could increase the capacity to make manure, and income will be generated through dry waste collected from the city,” Rayappa said. Progressive farmer Vijay Uliya, who is giving guidance to the CMC, said 200 kg of compost can be manufactured using a tonne of wet waste. “In addition to ridged gourd, we also have plans to cultivate various other vegetables in the CMC premises,” he added. The pandemic did not stop the staff and SDMC members of the Government Upgraded Model Higher Primary School, Suribail, in Kolnad in Bantwal taluk from growing vegetables in the kitchen garden on campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ullal-cmcs-lockdown-initiative-aims-at-zero-waste-city-goal/articleshow/77748559.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Vadodara||Incessant wet spell leaves commuters high and dry||Vadodara: It is a familiar sight across the city as commuters grapple with potholes and even roads with washed away surface. The prolonged wet spell has only worsened things in the city as repairs have become difficult. Despite facing the situation every year, Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) is yet to find a permanent solution to the situation. It increased the guarantee period of the roads to ensure that new roads did not break, but the situation on roads not included in the guarantee keeps returning to a sorry state. Also, in many cases, digging of roads makes the guarantee void and the contractors are reluctant to accept the responsibility of repairing them. Citizens have been forced to put up with rough rides in several parts of the city. As compared to the main roads, it is the internal roads that have faced more damage. These have been the trouble spot since several years now, but there has been no change in their condition. Sources said that a major reason for the condition of the roads is that several smaller roads have not been resurfaced for the want of funds. Ideally, this work should be done every five years. According to the civic body’s in-charge city engineer Shailesh Mistry, a detailed survey of the damage to roads had been ordered and would be taken up soon at the zone level. “Owing to the incessant downpour, we also have not found a dry patch to repair potholes. The hot mix plant for bitumen too does not work during this season,” said Mistry. When asked about roads not being resurfaced for a long time, Mistry said that this could be done with detailed planning. He added that the potholes were being repaired with wet mix in different parts of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/incessant-wet-spell-leaves-commuters-high-and-dry/articleshow/77747829.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Business||As people WFH, cos bet on big lifestyle products||Chennai: Consumers can expect interesting deals in bigger lifestyle products such as television sets and refrigerators, as companies pad up for the festival season that is set to start across the country in a few days beginning with Onam in Kerala. With people spending more time inside their homes binge watching OTT platforms and making fewer visits to supermarkets, manufacturers are betting on large-format TV sets and bigger refrigerators. “For the upcoming festival season, we expect strong growth to continue, especially in mid and premium segments,” said Raju Pullan, Senior VP, Consumer Electronics Business, Samsung India “Since unlocking began, we have seen strong double digit growth across cities. With changing needs, consumers are upgrading to larger screens (55-inch and beyond) as well as smart TVs with personal computer mode to aid online learning for kids and WFH. Many are buying refrigerators, above 300-litre capacity to stock up more, and fully-automatic washing machines,” Pullan said. While some manufacturers are throwing in offers, others are holding back price cuts. Godrej Appliances has announced Onam offers, which includes cashback up to 3,000 with select bank partners and up to 10,000 off on select models, besides easy EMI offers with 0% interest and zero down payment. “However, there is no discounts on MRP of consumer durable products this year,” said executive VP, Kamal Nandi . Apparel maker Puma India, too, said it is not planning to offer festive discounts this year. Abhishek Ganguly, GM, Puma India & Southeast Asia said, “Our discounts have decreased this year as people are buying what they need. Also, we do not want to create heavy traffic derailing social distancing norms, so we are being conscious on how much discount we are giving.” Sanitaryware maker Roca is offering discounts on sub-brands of Parryware and Johnson Pedder while the premium variant Roca will not see any discounts, the company’s MD KE Ranganathan said. Bluestar too has said no to discounts, and has instead increased the warranty and is offering some waiver on installation charges. Ditto for Panasonic. “We are witnessing a huge demand for microwave ovens across rural markets and a good uptick of grooming products, while pent up demand for other appliances like washing machines, vacuum cleaners and refrigerators have started kicking in. Similarly, the rise in content across OTT platforms has led to the demand for smart LED TVs across smaller markets and metros as consumers prefer viewing these content over large screen TVs,” said Suguru Takamatsu, Divisional Head - CSD, CE-HO, Panasonic India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/as-people-wfh-cos-bet-on-big-lifestyle-products/articleshow/77749754.cms||Mamtha Asokan
August 26, 2020||Patna||Saran to get international waterways terminal||CHHAPRA: An international terminal will soon come up at Kalughat near Sonepur block under the Waterways Development Project on 1,400-km-long Varanasi-Haldia stretch. This terminal, after construction, would serve as a unified centre for repairing and maintenance of ships along with a differential positioning system and conservation of the river. For this purpose, acquisition of 13.17 acres of land at Murthan and Parmanandpur villages is on the card. Saran DPRO G Prakash said that the main purpose of this project is to clear the waterways from Kolkata to Nepal for movement of ships to reduce overloading on roadways, railways and airways. The Saran DPRO further said that these waterways would also be utilized for the purpose of transportation of container cargo. In fact, Patna and upcoming IWAI terminal at Kalughat will emerge as new hub for trade up to Nepal with river Gandak announced as National Waterways-37. Besides this, about 45.29 acres of land is to be acquired at Dumri Buzurg village under Sonepur block for the establishment SSB (Seema Surakasha Bal) Frontier. This project has been proposed by Saran commissioner in which about Rs 28 crore needs to be paid to affected landlords as compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/saran-to-get-international-waterways-terminal/articleshow/77749815.cms||H K Verma
August 26, 2020||Business||Jhunjhunwala invests in VA Tech Wabag||Chennai: VA Tech Wabag has raised Rs 120 crore from high networth individuals including Rekha Rakesh Jhunjhunwala, the wife of investor Rakesh Jhunjhunwala. The company issued 50 lakh shares to Jhunjhunwala on a preferential basis to raise Rs 80 crore. Basera Home Finance bought 15 lakh shares for Rs 24 crore and Sushma Anand Jain along with Anand Jaikumar Jain was issued 10 lakh shares for Rs 16 crore. The shares were issued at a price of Rs 160 per equity share including a premium of Rs 158 per share, the company said in a filing to the exchanges. Va Tech Wabag shares closed the trading day at Rs 227.3 on the BSE. The company had informed exchanges in July its plans to raise Rs 400 crore by issue of equity or issuing debt papers to explore new business opportunities and fund growth. “This is the first time the company has proposed to raise equity capital since its IPO in 2010 and we believe that this well timed equity infusion will provide the necessary growth capital for the company to scale greater heights,” Rajiv Mittal, MD & group CEO, VA Tech Wabag said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jhunjhunwala-invests-in-va-tech-wabag/articleshow/77749666.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Kochi||Iranian arrested for fraud tests positive||KOTTAYAM: Around 45 police officers in Pathanamthitta district and personnel from central intelligence agencies such as IB and RAW were at the risk of contracting SARS-CoV-2 after an Iranian national arrested for financial fraud tested positive on Tuesday. Hadi Abbazi, 42, who was remanded in judicial custody, has been sent to a Covid-care centre in Kayamkulam. Thiruvalla DSP T Rajappan said antigen tests conducted on around 45 police officers who had come into direct or indirect contact with Abbazi have tested negative. “We have asked five of the cops who had close contact with the person to go on quarantine,” the DSP said. More people who have come into contact with the accused will undergo test on Wednesday. Police arrested the Iranian national while he was attempting a fraud at a foreign money exchange centre in Thiruvalla on Friday. During interrogation, it was found that cases were also registered against Abbazi in Pathanamthitta station on July 31, 2018, for a financial fraud in a duty-paid shop. There was also a case registered against him in Vadakkekara station near Ernakulam also. After it was found that his name in the passport was fake, police informed central intelligence agencies whose officers then interrogated him. The accused often visited India and carried out financial fraud at different parts of the country, including Kerala. This time he had arrived in the country before the Covid pandemic and travelled from Delhi to Kerala in a car which he bought on his arrival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/iranian-arrested-for-fraud-tests-positive/articleshow/77748300.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Business||Sebi fines NSE for extra pay to former MDs||MUMBAI: Markets regulator Sebi has imposed a Rs 50-lakh penalty on the NSE for changing rules related to leave encashment for senior management without Sebi’s approval to pay extra to its former MDs, Chitra Ramakrishna and Ravi Narain. Sebi said that such a move on the part of the NSE led to non-compliance with the provisions of applicable rules, though the NSE had reversed the move and recovered the amount paid to the two former executives. The NSE, “being the leading regulated stock exchange in India, should have set higher standards of compliance, which is found missing in the present case”, Sebi said in its order. “Further, the material brought on record shows that the failure of taking prior approval from Sebi before making a change in its policy, which was approved by the compensation committee/NSE board of November 26, 2012, may be a single instance but it has led to violation on repeated instances,” it noted. The instances Sebi pointed out related to accumulated ordinary leave by Narain and Ramkrishna over and above the limit of 360 days after Narain’s retirement and Ramakrishna’s resignation. Sebi had conducted an investigation after it received a letter from finance ministry that mentioned these two NSE executives were paid above their entitlements. For Ramakrishna, the extra amount paid was Rs 1.5 crore, which was returned to the NSE. Sebi’s order doesn’t mention how much extra was paid to Narain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-fines-nse-for-extra-pay-to-former-mds/articleshow/77750086.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Mangaluru||Pandemic delays terminal building expansion work at MIA||Mangaluru: The expansion of the terminal building of Mangaluru International Airport (MIA), that was scheduled for completion in September, has got delayed due to the pandemic. Executed by the Airports Authority of India (AAI), the project entailed an addition of 10,000 sq mt to the existing terminal building, that is already spread over 18,000 sq mt. This work is now expected to be completed by April 2021. AAI has initiated the expansion work towards the city side of the terminal, abutting the existing international or domestic arrival area. The project will facilitate AAI to separate its arrival and departure operations at MIA, a norm at international airports globally, said airport director V V Rao. “Our initial estimation in October last year was that the work would be completed by September,” Rao said. As of now, nearly 70% of the work is complete. Arriving passengers will exit the terminal building directly through the car park level. Rao said arrival and departure that take place at the same level now, creates confusion, especially during peak hours. The new arrival hall will come up on the lower ground floor level, and be equipped with three conveyor belts as against the one now, and both domestic and international arrivals will have three belts each, he said. The expansion will also see the airport add two more aerobridges to take the total number to six, he said. Additional lifts and escalators will also be installed as part of this expansion project, said Rajeev Kumar Gupta, joint general manager (engineering-civil). Tensile fabric canopy will be installed at the new arrival hall. With suitable landscaping and food courts mooted, the new arrival hall will provide more comforts to the flyers, he noted. At present, the contractor is going ahead with the work with local labourers and locally available material. “We expect manufacturing of materials critical for the expansion work, picks up in manufacturing hubs in North India by September,” Gupta said. Return of skilled labour, critical for the work, too will help in the work gathering pace, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pandemic-delays-terminal-building-expansion-work-at-mia/articleshow/77748358.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
August 26, 2020||Patna||No gatherings on Muharram||PATNA: Mass gatherings and processions will be allowed on ‘Youm-e-Ashura’, which will be observed on the tenth day of Muharram (first month of Islamic calendar) on Friday owing to the Covid pandemic. It is the mourning period for devotees (Shia Muslims) in remembrance of the Prophet Muhammad’s grandson Imam Hussain and his family and companions, who were martyred by the Yazid army in Karbala in modern Iraq in 680 AD. Only some taziadaar committees and Imambadas in the city have prepared tazias. Abdul Rashid, member of Anjuman Naujavanaan Committee near Golghar, said they have prepared a 3-foot-high tazia that will be placed at a dargah near Pathar ki Masjid in Sultanganj on Muharram. “As the procession is not allowed this time, four of our members will carry the tazia on ‘thela’ and place it at Karbala,” he said. Mohammad Imtiyaz Quraishi, head of Langartoli Imambad, said, “The artists cleaned and painted the century-old tazia before Muharram. It will be put on display at Imambada for people. We will follow all the rituals, except procession and mass gathering.” Meanwhile, the district administration has asked the local police stations and sub- divisional magistrates to ensure that social distancing norms are followed during Muharram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-gatherings-on-muharram/articleshow/77748771.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 26, 2020||Patna||Places of worship face severe financial crunch||PATNA: Temples, gurdwaras, mosques and churches in the state capital are facing a funds crunch as donations are drying up due to the Covid-19 lockdown restrictions. Mahinder Pal Dhillion, general secretary of Takhat Sri Harimandir Ji (Patna Sahib), said donations through bank transfers or physical cash by visiting devotees have drastically decreased due to the lockdown restrictions imposed since late March. “Outstation devotees donate via bank transfer while local devotes deposit physical cash in the charity box. The amount of donation received post-lockdown has decreased by almost 60%. With the limited stock that we have, we are still serving 'langar' three times a day. But if things do not improve in the next few months, it will get difficult for us to carry out our daily gurdwara operations,” said Mahinder. Alam Quasmi, convenor of the Tanzeem Tehreek Aiemma Masajid, an association of imams in Patna, said on Monday, “There are around 150 mosques in Patna out of which only four are funded by the waqf board. Rest is funded by donations from the neighbourhood and local committees,” said Quasmi. He added, “Ever since the lockdown, donations have drastically declined. Some of our mosque staff, including imams and muezzins, are taking 50% salary cuts. Others have gone on unpaid leave and are waiting to resume service after mosques open to the public,” said Quasmi. Acharaya Kishore Kunal of Mahavir Mandi said due to restrictions imposed by the administration the collection of donations has fallen sharply. The Mandir trust is finding it difficult to meet maintenance expenses such as salary, electricity and sanitation. “Our funds are exhausted. We are having to encash our fixed deposits to carry out everyday operations at the temple. But despite the financial crunch, we are not cutting back on the facilities provided to our priests. We are paying full salaries to our employees,” said Acharaya Kishore. Not just their source of donations, the shutting down of the temple has also led to a fall in their daily income. “Our major sources of income are – offerings by devotees, conducting holy rituals like ‘rudrabhishek’ and ‘katha’ and sale of ‘ladoos’. All three of them are shut at present. Because of this, we are facing a loss of Rs five lakh every day,” he added. Father Pius Prashant SK, Parish priest at Kurji church, said, “Our church completely runs on donations from people. Since the last five months, the amount of donations we have received is almost negligible. We have taken some restrictive measures to cut back our expenses. We are somehow managing with god’s grace.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/places-of-worship-face-severe-financial-crunch/articleshow/77748667.cms||Arunima Lal
August 26, 2020||Patna||1.5 lakh migrant workers engaged in railway projects||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has engaged 1,57,633 migrant workers in 40 major railway projects being carried out in 32 districts of Bihar and paid them Rs 312 crore as wages from June 20 to August 14 under PM’s ‘Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan (PM-GKRA)’. These migrant workers had returned to Bihar from other states during the lockdown from May 1 to June 15. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the railways has shortlisted migrant workers in consultation with the district administration and preferred to engage them in railway projects of the areas they belonged to. Accordingly, the migrant workers have been engaged in at least six railway electrification projects in West Champaran, Darbhanga, Sitamarhi, Saran, Bhagalpur and Banka districts, he said. Similarly, migrant workers have been engaged in nine other track doubling projects being carried out on Samastipur-Darbhanga, Katihar-Kursela, Muzaffarpur-Sugauli, Sugauli-Valmikinagar, Patliputra-Pahleza, Chhapra-Balia, Hajipur-Bachwara, Gaya-Kiul and Rampur Dumra-Tal-Rajendrapul routes,” the CPRO said, adding railways has mostly engaged migrant workers of Samastipur, Darbhanga, Katihar, East Champaran, West Champaran, Patna, Saran, Vaishali and Gaya districts in these projects. Besides, migrant workers from Vaishali, Supaul, Samastipur, Khagaria, Nalanda, Gaya, Nawada and Siwan districts have been engaged in laying of new lines and bridge construction projects on Hajipur-Sugauli, Hasanpur-Kusheshwarsthan, Kusheshwarsthan-Khagaria, Biharsharif-Barbhigha, Daniyawan-Biharsharif, Islampur -Natesar, Bandhua-Paimar, Koderma-Tilaiya and Maharajganj-Masrakh routes. Likewise, migrant workers from Supaul, Madhubani, Purnia and West Champaran districts have been engaged in different gauge conversion projects on Saharsa-Saraigarh-Forbesganj, Sakri-Nirmali, Jhanjharpur-Loukha Bazar, Banmankhi- Bihariganj and Raxaul-Narkatiaganj routes, the CPRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1-5-lakh-migrant-workers-engaged-in-railway-projects/articleshow/77749351.cms||Kumod Verma
August 26, 2020||Business||8K Miles MD Venkatachari resigns||Chennai: Cloud computing firm 8K Miles said on Tuesday that its founder and managing director Suresh Venkatachari had resigned effective Monday. “We wish to confirm that he will be continuing as a promoter - director of the company,” the company said in a filing to the exchanges. In November 2019, the company’s statutory auditors Deloitte resigned after informing the central government about suspected fraud in the affairs of the firm. Subsequently, 8K Miles appointed Chennai-based audit firm K. Gopal Rao & Co Chartered Accountants as statutory auditors. In a sudden exit then, promoter director R S Ramani, and Gurumurthy Jayaraman also resigned from the company’s board. 8K Miles reported net loss of Rs 138 crore in the quarter ended March 2020, as against net loss of Rs 99 crore during the same quarter last year. The shares of 8K Miles are currently suspended from trading in stock exchanges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/8k-miles-md-venkatachari-resigns/articleshow/77749547.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Business||Cos must act like a startup that is short on funds but high on HR power||By James AgrawalThe novel coronavirus has moved from being a fringe news item first reported in December last year to a raging pandemic, affecting almost everyone on the planet. While initial responses worldwide were geared for a short-term impact, companies are now preparing for long-term changes in their way of working. Human resources (HR) has emerged as the front line for companies in managing their pandemic response. This is the time for HR to walk the talk and put people at the centre of all decision-making. They must ensure employee well-being while embracing changes that are needed to survive the pandemic and be prepared to bounce back when the time is right. HR leaders are seeing a silver lining in their fight against the pandemic — the chance to actually transform companies to achieve new possibilities. Employee safety, well-being is top priority The pandemic has disrupted everything for companies — the way business is done, and the way employees work & interact. Dealing with this potentially once-in-a-lifetime disruption and the pace of change has required companies to refocus on their core. Refocusing on their people has helped many companies to stay afloat and be ready to plan for the ‘new normal’ that will be the post-Covid era. According to a survey, less than 50% of companies worldwide were prepared for a move to remote working that the pandemic enforced overnight. Work-from-home (WFH) guidelines that help in establishing remote work culture are the first norms that HR has to draft and share to ensure business continuity. Many HR leaders are finding training programmes that focus on the softer aspects of WFH very useful. Allowing flexibility in employee response, dealing with technological hurdles and establishing online etiquette will allow time for everyone to settle down and adapt to the new way of working. Working from home, while dealing with the anxiety and uncertainty related to the pandemic and additional household/childcare responsibilities, is taking a toll on the mental health of employees. It is more important than ever that employee wellness programmes focus on overall health, including mental health. Companies should reach out to employees and provide various options — webinars on mindfulness, talks on how to manage anxiety, and various counselling avenues. HR may also find it useful to re-issue all guidelines related to employee health management with required changes that address the current pandemic. This will reassure employees and keep them abreast of things that can help in the worst-case scenario, that any employee has to encounter the virus. For businesses that are needed to operate during the pandemic and considered essential, like departmental stores and cab rentals, ensuring safety and putting protocols in place for possible disease spread are the first line of response. Walmart and Walgreens stores have set up drive-through coronavirus testing sites, so that their workers can get tested when needed. Alphabet (Google’s parent company) has created a Covid-19 relief fund that provides sick leave to affected workers globally, including all temporary staff, contractors, and vendors. Many companies have stepped forward with modified emergency sick leave guidelines, in response to a possible infection. Reimagining & transforming organisation Addressing revenue shortfalls and staying afloat during the crisis are top of the mind for many companies, but HR is in a unique position to turn this crisis into an opportunity. This is the time to refocus on the core objectives of the organisation and reimagine possible outcomes. Many leaders have found agile thinking and focusing on the basics to be very helpful to respond to the pandemic and chart a course to get back when economies are back up and running. Thinking like a startup that is short on funds but high on people power will help in prioritising goals and realigning the workforce to achieve these goals. HR should focus on talent management, re-skilling and up-skilling programmes to align to these focused goals. Moving employees between teams and reorganisation are going to be an uphill task, when working remotely, but clear communication that is two-way will go a long way in establishing trust. Since the pandemic has cast doubts on financial and job security, reinforcing HR commitment to employees will be a good place to start before communicating potential changes in organisation. If the current situation needs employers to look at layoffs, HR needs to address individual concerns and go out of their way to take care of employees. Some employers have extended health insurance benefits to ex-employees for up to six months after employment ends. Some others like Swiggy and Zomato, which have been hit very hard by the pandemic, have started outplacement teams to help their ex-employees land new jobs. Embracing ‘Future of Work’@‘The Office’ Remote work is here to stay and so is the requirement of rapid re-skilling to be prepared for a significantly altered economic landscape. So, when the crisis is over, and employees begin trickling back into offices, HR should be prepared for a very altered workplace reality. Basic protocols should be in place when you do plan to restart work as before to ensure safety of your employees. Manufacturing setups, especially, will have many compliance-related rules to be followed. The administration wing of HR has to step in to make sure that all safety protocols are being followed in terms of hygiene, mask-wearing and monitoring of the response. While ensuring that the basics are taken care of, don’t rush to get back to the way things were before the pandemic. Use technology to adopt to a future that will have more of your employees working remotely, around the world, and issue guidelines that allow you to maintain the company culture you desire with all employers. Focus more on achieving results over face-time with employees to enable them to work towards achieving their goals. And communicate even at the expense of repeating yourself with your remote workers, to ensure that everyone is on the same page. If employers can put their people first to see through these unprecedented times, there is potential for this upheaval to set in motion the wheels of change — a change that will set the company on a path to long-term sustainability, even as short-term forecasts look bleak. (The writer is MD, BTI Executive Search)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-must-act-like-a-startup-that-is-short-on-funds-but-high-on-hr-power/articleshow/77751518.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Ludhiana||PPCB directions to dairy units over waste mgmt||Ludhiana: For solving the problem of pollution by the dairy units outside the MC limits, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has issued directions to these dairy units to either make arrangements for management of their waste or they will seal these by October end. Earlier, they had issued this warning to 23 dairy units and owner of those units were given time till September end. The PPCB had already served notices to 23 such dairy units outside the MC limits while 15 units came on radar later on. Now, instructions have been issued to the owners of these 15 dairy units, where no arrangement had been done for the waste water coming from these units and flowing directly into the Buddha Nullah. Board’s member secretary has made it clear to the dairy owners that if they would not make suitable arrangements for the waste being generated from the units by the given time, then they would be forced to take action. He said they would have to cut their electricity and water connections. Meanwhile, while confirming the move senior environment engineer of PPCB Sandeep Behl said, “We have given them time till October end and after that there will be action against them.” He said they could not let Buddha Nullah get polluted within or outside MC limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ppcb-directions-to-dairy-units-over-waste-mgmt/articleshow/77749770.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Is Covid-19 causing neurosis in patients?||Visakhapatnam: Is Covid-19 playing havoc with patients’ neurological system? Doctors say in some cases, patients show neurological manifestations in the form of intracerebral haemorrhage, encephalopathy and neuropsychiatric symptoms. Even a patients on way to recovery or in quarantine are having insomnia, psychosis and in extreme cases depression and suicidal instincts. The most common neurological symptoms are loss of smell and taste, headache and dizziness related to peripheral nervous system. Some of the central nervous system manifestations include ischemic stroke, intracerebral haemorrhage, CNS vasculitis, non-specific encephalopathy, neuropsychiatric symptoms. Dr K Sarda, psychiatrist at Government Hospital for Mental Care (GHMC), said panic attacks, fear and anxiety are the most common psychological issues noticed among Covid-19 patients. The uncertainty surrounding the disease is adding to the insecurity. Dr S Nagaraju, associate professor of psychiatry at GHMC and nodal officer in charge of the Covid Care Centre at Marikavalasa, said: “One or two per cent of Covid-19 patients display anxiety and depression.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/is-covid-19-causing-neurosis-in-patients/articleshow/77749751.cms||Sulogna Mehta
August 26, 2020||Business||JSW to merge steel, cement, paints’ distribution & supply||Mumbai: The $12-billion JSW Group is merging the distribution and supply chain operations of its steel, cement and paints businesses in India for better synergies and to save costs. The conglomerate has already combined the distribution operations of the three businesses in east India and will roll out the initiative across the country in the coming months. All the three products have a common set of customers as they are essential in building a home. In order to reach out to these common consumers, an integrated effort is being mobilised through this initiative, said JSW Group. The move comes amid the Covid-19 pandemic that has disrupted traditional distribution and retail models and boosted growth of digital channels. The conglomerate has already been controlling costs by cutting capital expenditure and conserving liquidity amid uncertain market conditions triggered by the pandemic. In east India, JSW has 1,766 cement dealers and 950 steel distribution partners. Out of these, only 110 dealers currently sell both steel and cement, the group said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jsw-to-merge-steel-cement-paints-distribution-supply/articleshow/77751421.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Patna||Rs 226 crore for rubber dam on Falgu river||PATNA: The state cabinet on Tuesday approved Rs226 crore for the construction of a rubber dam on the Falgu near Vishnupad Temple in Gaya to retain water in the river throughout the year. It was also decided to provide 30 acres of land to the Dalai Lama Trust to set up an institute at Bodh Gaya. Cabinet secretariat department’s principal secretary Sanjay Kumar said the cabinet cleared 49 agendas in the meeting chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar. The cabinet also gave its nod to education department’s proposal to provide benefit of the 7th Pay Commission to the teachers and non-teaching staff of minority high schools. Education department’s additional chief secretary RK Mahajan said two proposals of his department were cleared by the cabinet. “Teachers and non-teaching staff of 72 minority high schools will be given the benefit of the 7th Pay Commission. Altogether 1,050 employees will be benefited,” said Mahajan. The cabinet also allowed the education department to release Rs249 crore for financial assistance to 93 private colleges in the state. In order to promote agriculture based industries, the cabinet approved Bihar Agriculture Investment Promotion Policy, 2020. It also decided to give incentives to the investors involved in wood based industries. Incentives to MBBS interns, PG students: The MBBS interns and PG students will get an additional one month’s salary. This decision was taken by the cabinet on Tuesday. As of now, all medical staff and doctors were being given additional one month’s salary for working in the Covid-19 pandemic situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs-226-crore-for-rubber-dam-on-falgu-river/articleshow/77749119.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Jaipur’s active cases cross 3,000-mark||JAIPUR: The state’s tally of Covid cases reached 73,325 riding on the biggest single-day spike of 1,370 infections on Tuesday. With 245 new infections, Jaipur’s active cases reached a new high of 3,074. With 137 new cases, Alwar’s tally reached 7,024. Bikaner too crossed the 4,000 mark with 146 fresh cases. A health department official said they are taking strict measures for preventing spread of the virus in areas which are reporting cases in clusters. “Cases are on the rise as we are conducting more tests than before,” the official said. In the last 24 hours, 13 persons lost their lives in the state taking the cumulative death count to 980. These include three casualties each in Jaipur and Kota, two each in Kota and Jodhpur and one each in Udaipur, Dungarpur and Ajmer. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (245), Jodhpur (243), Kota (177), Bikaner (146), Alwar (137), Bhilwara (133), Sikar (40), Ajmer (30), Udaipur (19), Pali (17), Karauli (16), Banswara (14), Nagaur (13), Bharatpur (13), Baran (12), Dungarpur (12), Chittorgarh (11), Sriganganagar (10), Sirohi (9), Jhalawar (9), Churu (8), Dholpur (8), Jhunjhunu (7), Sawai Madhopur (7), Rajsamand (5), Tonk (5), Dausa (4), Pratapgarh (4), Bundi (4), Jalore (4), Barmer (3), Hanumangarh (3) and Jaisalmer (2). In Jaipur, 54 different places reported 245 cases, including 49 from Jhotwara, Sanganer (21), Mansarovar (13), Vidhyadhar Nagar (12), Vaishali Nagar (9), while other 141 cases have been reported from 49 other places. Currently, Jaipur has 3,074 active cases followed by Jodhpur (2127), Kota (1374) and Alwar (1303).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipurs-active-cases-cross-3000-mark/articleshow/77751299.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Patna||Bus operations resume to a lukewarm response in Bihar||PATNA: Bus transport services in the state rolled off on Tuesday after 40 days to a lukewarm response from city as well as inter-district passengers. The state government suspended bus services on July 16 due to a spike in Covid cases. On Tuesday, the first bus left the Bankipore bus-depot near Gandhi Maidan for Danapur at 6.30 am with 14 passengers while the first inter-district bus left for Biharsharif with 10 passengers at 7 am. Altogether 85 city buses (out of 120) and 20 inter-district buses of Bihar State Road Transport Corporation were back on the roads on Tuesday. However, inter-state bus services have not resumed yet. Transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal told this newspaper that as the resumption of bus service notification was released late on Monday evening, many people were unaware that city and inter-district bus links have resumed. “We were expecting the buses to be overcrowded, but social distancing norms were followed diligently by the bus operators, people were wearing masks. The vehicles were sanitised after each trip,” Agarwal said. He added, “We are expecting that the footfall in buses would increase within the next few days. People who need medical treatment at hospitals in Patna have heaved a sigh of relief with the resumption of inter-district services.” People queued up at the Bankipore bus depot on Tuesday with each passenger getting a hand sanitizer before entering the bus. “We sanitized all seats and touchpoints after our first trip to Vaishali and allowed only 35 passengers, which is the seating capacity of our bus. Besides, we ensure that all passengers cover their faces with mask or gamcha,” said a bus driver Gopal Singh. Passenger count was low at Meethapur bus-stand as well. Md Shahid, a bus driver at Meethapur, said, “Passengers are less since it was the first day, we are expecting that the situation will improve in a few days. We are happy that the state government has allowed the bus services to resume, we have been out of work for months.” Sudhan Kumar, a resident of Anisabad said, “Bus ride is safer than the auto-rickshaw. Social distancing norms are not followed in autos.” Manoj Singh, who reached Patna from Motihari with his father for a health check-up on Tuesday afternoon, said his father was suffering from abdomen pain but due to bus ban he could not come. “We have come from Motihari and are going to PMCH for treatment,” he said. Eight buses flout norms: Patna: Eight bus drivers were caught for violating social distancing norms and overloading passengers in Patna on Tuesday. According to Patna motor vehicle inspector Mrityunjay Kumar Singh, Rs 1,07,000 fine was collected from the offenders. A bus leaving Meethapur for Ara-Buxar was caught at 12.45 pm. “Around 15 passengers were standing in the aisle after all the seats were full. Social distancing norms were not followed. There is also a permit violation and tax default. The violator will pay Rs 52,000, including Rs 3,000 for overloading, Rs 2,500 for violating the law, Rs 10,000 for permit violation and remaining for taxes,” Singh said. Another bus from West Bengal was caught at Transport Nagar for overloading and entering Bihar without a permit. The bus was impounded and the violator fined Rs 55,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bus-operations-resume-to-a-lukewarm-response-in-bihar/articleshow/77748708.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 26, 2020||Patna||Funerals in times of corona: No last glimpse, no goodbye||PATNA: Bidding final farewell to the loved ones has always been a difficult task and in case of death of a Covid-19 positive person, family members do not even get the opportunity to say goodbye or plant a last kiss on the forehead. A retired school teacher, Bina Prasad, 68, could not even see her husband and elder son for the last time, both of whom died at two different hospitals after being infected with coronavirus. Resident of Khagaul, Bina talks about the pain she is going through. "My elder son Sanjay Kumar and my husband Ram Kumar Prasad were admitted in a private hospital near Saguna More where my son died on August 6 leaving behind his seven month old child. My husband was then shifted to AIIMS-Patna on August 8 and within a few minutes he died there," said Bina, adding, "I got to know about my husband's death five days later." As Bina had also tested positive for Covid-19, she was admitted to another hospital on Bypass road. She said, "I was taken to the hospital on August 9, the day when my husband's last ritual was carried out at Bans Ghat. I was not even aware that when I will return home after recovering, I will not not be able to see two family members, both closest to my heart." Though two other family members who had tested positive for coronavirus have recovered, it is the loss of dear ones which is still haunting them. She said several of her close relatives could not come to console them. "But the situation is such that we can not judge who is with us and who is not. Earlier, during death or any happy moment, all relatives used to gather together, but this pandemic has changed everything, even the way we do last rituals," added Bina. Even 45 year old Krishna Nagar resident Siva Upadhyaya had a similar tale of loneliness. Her husband Upendra Upadhyaya died on July 29 early morning at AIIMS-Patna. Shiva said the deceased's two brothers were the only ones who went to Bans Ghat for final rituals and that too they were standing far away maintaining all protocols. Even Phulwarishahrif resident Nazma Khatoon (name changed) who died in August first week was directly taken to the graveyard from the hospital. As family members were quarantined, one relative went to the graveyard to see the final ritual and offered prayers. "Her family members wanted to have her last glimpse, but were not permitted as they were in home quarantine," said her neighbour. AIIMS-Patna Covid-19 nodal incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar recalled two incidents of July 30, in which male partners died while female partners were discharged the same day after recovering. He further said the dead body is wrapped following protocols and sent directly to crematorium or graveyard, and not at home. "Such has never happened earlier. Now only one family member is called to identify the deceased and the body is carried in the vehicle provided by administration," added Dr Sanjeev. Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi said though earlier people expressed desire to take the dead body home, they agreed after being explained from the administration. Ravi said families of such deceased are emotionally distressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/funerals-in-times-of-corona-no-last-glimpse-no-goodbye/articleshow/77748791.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 26, 2020||Patna||Extend six-lane bridge approach road to Vaishali: CM||PATNA: The north side approach road of the Kachchi Dargah-Bidupur six-lane bridge over Ganga river will be extended up to Vaishali in the west and Tajpur (Samastipur) in the east direction. CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday inspected the ongoing construction works on the six-lane Greenfield bridge project and asked the road construction department (RCD) officials to build two more six-lane approach roads in its north side to directly link Vaishali and Tajpur. “Vaishali is a very important historical place. The CM’s opinion was that this place should have direct access by the bridge. The CM also suggested for building a direct approach road up to Tajpur so that this bridge could be directly connected to the Tajpur-Bakhtiyarpur bridge, which is also coming over the Ganga near Bakhtiyarpur,” RCD additional chief secretary Amrit Lal Meena told TOI. Meena said, as per the CM’s instructions, now two six-lane approach roads would be built between Vaishali and the north side approach road and from Tajpur to the bridge. To a question, Meena said the total length of Vaishali approach road would be 40km while Tajpur approach road would be 45km-long. The commencement of construction work on the six-lane bridge was launched by Nitish on January 31, 2016. Once ready, this bridge will directly link the diara areas of Raghopur, the constituency of the leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, to the state capital by a six-lane highway. Accompanied by RCD minister Nand Kishore Yadav and chief secretary Deepak Kumar, the CM also inspected the ongoing construction works on the greater Patna’s approved ring road. The CM visited the Kanhauli-Ajma part of the ring road near Sadisopur in Patna district and asked the RCD officials to expedite construction works. The CM also heard grievances of some villagers of Ajma. The 137km-long ring road would be built at an estimated cost of Rs15,135 crore, Meena said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-extend-six-lane-bridge-approach-road-to-vaishali/articleshow/77749081.cms||Madan Kumar
August 26, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Survivors recall their fight against Covid-19||PATNA: From illnesses like fever, sore throat and breathlessness to mental stress because of isolation, Covid-19 has left a deep mark on the lives of people it affected. Many have recalled their battle with the disease and the way it changed their lives. While some recovered from the disease within 10-14 days, it took longer than usual for others to defeat the virus. For Somya Singh of Bahadurpur, who tested positive for Covid-19 along with her eight-month-old daughter, it took almost three weeks, four tests and a great deal of mental and physical struggle to beat the deadly virus. “The hardest thing was to watch the pain of my daughter. She ran high temperature and developed rashes around her body for almost a week. Although we both have tested negative and are doing fine now, the headaches I had developed during infection haven’t subsided yet,” Somya said. Rajendra Nagar resident Shilpi, a doctor, said the key to recovery is getting tested as soon as symptoms appear. In a family of six, Shilpi and her father had tested positive for the virus on July 20. “When my father and I developed fever simultaneously, I was alarmed. We had heard of a few cases being detected at my father’s workplace. Hence, we immediately got ourselves tested. Upon discovering that we had contracted the virus, I was very scared. More than myself, I was concerned about my father’s health as he suffers from a comorbidity,” Shilpi said. “Apart from the medicines and supplements prescribed by our doctors, we also took some home remedies like ‘tulsi kadha’ and ‘giloy’ juice. It was such a relief when our test results came negative after 14 days,” she added. While young and healthy people have been found possessing a good immune response against the Covid-19 virus, elderly are more vulnerable to it. Sukrit, a resident of Kankarbagh, recalls the horror he experienced after knowing that his 83-year-old grandfather had contracted the virus. “It was a nightmare. Even though he had mild symptoms, I was extremely worried because of his old age. I was only relieved after his x-ray reports came fine. The infection hadn’t spread to his lungs. He tested negative after 12 days. He is doing fine now.” It took almost a week for 34-year-old Rohan Jasywal, a resident of Kadamkuan, to figure out that he had contracted Covid-19. “My symptoms were not usual. I initially had loose motions and back pain for three days. I consulted my doctor and took medicines for stomach infection. After about five days, I encountered loss of smell and taste. That’s when it struck me that I might be Covid-19 positive,” Jasywal added. Even though Covid-19 patients are required to isolate themselves socially, emotional support of family is crucial to the patient’s well-being. Prashant Kumar, a stock market trader based in Patel Nagar, was diagnosed with Covid-19 on August 2. He chose home isolation as his symptoms were mild. “Staying under the same roof but not meeting your family is very difficult. I was not able to play with my niece or sit next to my parents. I spent the days watching movies or sleeping. It was a tough time psychologically,” Prashant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/survivors-recall-their-fight-against-covid-19/articleshow/77749295.cms||Arunima Lal
August 26, 2020||Patna||Patna: 23 organic waste composting plants OK'd||PATNA: The empowered standing committee members of Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday approved the proposal to set up the organic waste compost plants in major vegetable and fruit ‘mandis’ (markets) across the city. The proposal was passed in the standing committee meeting chaired by Patna mayor Sita Sahu. Deputy mayor Meera Devi was also present in the meeting. Altogether 23 compost plants will be set up in all six circles. The bidding process would start within a month. Sahu said as per the plan, organic waste like vegetable and fruit scraps, paper, timber among others would be collected by the sanitation workers. “These biodegradable wastes will then be taken to those plants for conversion into compost. It takes only 24 hours to convert the organic waste into fertilizers,” she said. In New Capital circle, the organic waste compost plants would be set up at Mithapur with 2,000kg capacity, Chitkohra (1,000kg), Punaichak (1,000kg), Anta Ghat (1,000kg), Raja Bazaar (1,000kg) and near Eco Park (500kg). “The other proposed plants will come up at Rajendra Nagar (1,000kg), Kankerbagh auto stand (500kg), Bhootnath (500kg), Karbigahiya (200kg) and Khemnichak (250kg) under Kankerbagh circle and at Gauri Das (500kg) and Morcha (250kg) road under Patna City circle,” the mayor said. In the Patliputra circle, the plants will come up at Digha (1,000kg), Rajapur Pul (500kg), Shivpuri (500kg) and Shastri Nagar (200kg). One plant will be set up in Mussallahpur Hatt (2,000kg) and Machhuatoli (1,000kg) under Bankipore circle. Four plants are proposed at Agamkuan (1,000kg), Gulzarbagh (1,000kg), Danka Imli (500kg) and Khajekala (100kg) under Azimabad circle. During the meeting, two proposed crematoriums at ward number 70 and Digha were also approved. Besides, the PMCH has decided to give Rs500 as reward money to each worker who handles the body of Covid patient. Sahu said the civic body would launch a programme, ‘Sabki Shiksha, Sabka Hisa’, for school kids on local cable TV channels by September-end. “On this programme, kids will watch two-hour documentary on historical events, places and culture of Bihar,” she said. The PMC is also going to constitute a slum development cell to look after the recreational, civic issues and development work of 150 slum areas across the city. It includes electricity, water supply, parks, toilet and sanitation (construction of toilets). The meeting also approved the plan to construct sewerage pipeline in 32 water chronic areas in the city. In addition, ward councillors have been asked to conduct survey for ‘nali-gali yojana’. Altogether 18 projects were approved at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/23-organic-waste-composting-plants-okd/articleshow/77749447.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 26, 2020||Patna||Four minor girls drown in Banka waterbody||PATNA: Four minor girls drowned while taking bath in a water body at Ghospur village under the Shambhuganj police station area in Banka district around 8.30am on Tuesday. SHO of Shambhuganj police station Umesh Prasad said the deceased girls were identified as Tapti Kumari (15), Neha Kumari (15), Neelu Kumari (10) and Savita Kumari (10). While Tapti and Neha were Class IX students of a government school, the other two girls were studying in junior classes. “At least 15 to 20 girls from the village had gone to the water body to take bath. The bodies of the four girls were fished out with the help of villagers and sent for postmortem. A case of unnatural death was registered with the Shambhuganj police station on the basis village chowkidar Subhash Paswan’s statement,” the SHO added. Locals told police that ‘karma-dharma’ festival would be celebrated in the village on Wednesday and the girls had gone to the water body to perform rituals and take bath. Shambhuganj circle officer Ashok Kumar Singh said the district administration had been informed about the incident. “We will recommend to the disaster management department to grant an ex gratia of Rs 4 lakh to the kin of each of the deceased after receiving their postmortem reports,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/four-minor-girls-drown-in-banka-water-body/articleshow/77749793.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 26, 2020||Patna||Gang-rape videos go viral in Siwan & Muzaffarpur, four held||PATNA: In two separate incidents, gang rape videos of two women went viral in Siwan and Muzaffarpur in the past 24 hours. In the first incident, a video of a 40-year-old woman went viral at Siwan on Tuesday. The incident took place at Jajor village under Andar police station area of the district. SHO Shahnawaz said police came to know about the video on Tuesday after which an FIR was lodged. “The victim in the video is aged around 40 years. At least five to six youths in their early 20s are seen in the clipping,” he said. SHO said the identity of the survivor is not known yet but the accused who are visible in the video have been identified and arrested. “Four of the accused were arrested till evening. Raids are on to nab others. The incident is four days old and took place on the outskirts of Jajor,” SHO said. He said the arrested youths were identified as Amit Kumar Gaur (22) of Hartolia, Abhay Kumar (20) and Anil Kumar Gaur (35) of Jajor and Chotu Chauhan (22) of Mehrauna village under Guthani police station area. In the Muzaffarpur incident, an eight-second clip of the gang rape of a 25-year-old woman went viral after which her husband lodged an FIR against five youths with Karja police station on Monday. SHO Saroj Kumar said the woman is the mother of three sons and two daughters. The SHO said Chunchun Kumar (20), Lalbabu Mahto (20), Shiva Kumar and Sajan Kumar, both 19 years, and Shriram Sahni (19) have named in the FIR and all of them are absconding. “The incident is around 12 days old when the husband was not at home. The youths had gang-raped the woman at her own home,” he said. SHO said husband got to know about the video on Monday after which he asked his wife about it. “She then narrated the incident after which he approached police,” he said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gang-rape-videos-go-viral-in-siwan-muzaffarpur-4-held/articleshow/77749627.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 26, 2020||Business||Shareholders slam Tata Motors for investor wealth crash||MUMBAI: Shareholders of Tata Motors lashed out at the company’s leadership at the annual general meeting on Tuesday for denying them dividends and questioned the deterioration in investors’ wealth. “When will the company be back on the dividend paying list?” asked a shareholder. Tata Motors last paid a dividend of 20 paise in July 2016. Another shareholder, while also raising concerns over the erosion in investors’ wealth, said, “The company’s market cap today stands at pre-Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) level. Shareholder value has been deteriorating.” One equity investor questioned the high compensation package of the management — CEO Guenter Butschek (Rs 16.44 crore) and CFO P B Balaji (Rs 10.23 crore) — when the company is making losses. A member suggested that Tata Motors should look at selling stake in JLR to private equity to reward shareholders, while another submitted sale of parent Tata Sons shares to unlock value. “I fail to understand the company’s vision, how do you plan to be profitable?” queried an investor. On a standalone basis, Tata Motors made losses in four of the last five fiscals. Responding to the shareholders, Tata Motors chairman N Chandrasekaran said that it pained the management that they haven’t been able to pay dividend for the last four years. Unfortunately, there wasn’t any room for this on a standalone basis. Dividend payout and value creation are the top most priority for the company, he said. The chairman pointed out that they are working towards improving the overall financials of the company. Plans include unlocking non-core assets and bringing the Rs 61,900-crore automotive debt to “near zero levels in three years”. The company is expected to generate free cash flows from fiscal 2022 onwards, said Chandrasekaran. “Overall investments of Tata Motors have reduced by 50% in fiscal 2020, and we will continue to manage this tightly.” The company has cut capex programmes of JLR and of the India business to 2.5 billion pounds (from 4 billion pounds) and Rs 1,599 crore (from Rs 4,500 crore) for this fiscal. The chairman confirmed that Tata Motors “is not in discussions” with the Boris Johnson-led UK government to get “any funding for JLR”. The statement comes after British media reported that the UK government had rejected the company’s request for a rescue package for JLR. The management expects the India passenger vehicle business to turn positive by fiscal 2023 even as they are in the midst of transferring the unit to a separate subsidiary for Rs 9,417 crore. The subsidiarisation proposal has been filed with the company law tribunal and the entire process is expected to be completed this fiscal, Chandrasekaran informed shareholders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/shareholders-slam-tamo-for-investor-wealth-crash/articleshow/77750348.cms||Reeba Zachariah
August 26, 2020||Patna||Plasma therapy to start at PMCH today||PATNA: The Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) to start the convalescent plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients from Wednesday onwards after it got the nod from the authorities to conduct the procedure. The decision was taken at the ‘patient welfare committee’ meeting chaired by the Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal here on Tuesday with the officials of PMCH. The hospital procured the equipment to conduct the therapy and the trial run was done by experts after the installation of the machine. The PMCH will be the fourth hospital to start the plasma therapy after AIIMS-Patna, NMCH, and Paras HMRI, which has received a good response so far. Convalescent plasma therapy involves the use of antibodies from the blood of patients who have recovered from Covid-19 to treat other infected people. Agarwal said to treat moderate and moderately severe patients with plasma therapy in PMCH, technical and all other arrangements have been made available in the hospital. “An adequate number of wards has been increased for this purpose. The team of doctor has been formed to carry out the plasma therapy procedure,” he said. He added, “A technical committee of the hospital will decide the treatment protocol and issue necessary guidelines regarding the plasma therapy. The hospital can reach out to find potential blood plasma donor or people can donate blood at IGIMS-Patna.” For plasma therapy at PMCH, the blood plasma would be collected at IGIMS, which is a non-Covid hospital. While the NMCH gets the plasma from AIIMS-Patna. Dr Bimla Karak, superintendent of PMCH told this newspaper on Tuesday that a moderately severe patient would get the first dose of plasma on Wednesday based on his symptoms. “The hospital has conducted the training session for the medical team for plasma therapy,” he said. He added, “We will also create awareness and encourage other recovered persons to come forward to save lives, by donating their blood plasma.” The PMCH is also giving hot water flask and utility kit (toothpaste and brush) to all Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/plasma-therapy-to-start-at-pmch-today/articleshow/77748829.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 26, 2020||Business||...RBI warns of long revival time for pvt consumption||TNN Mumbai: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Tuesday said that Covid-19 had caused a severe shock to consumption, which will take a long time to recover, and it is government spending that will support the economy. “An assessment of aggregate demand during the year so far suggests that the shock to consumption is severe,” it said in its annual report. “It will take quite some time to mend and regain the pre-Covid-19 momentum.” As a result, the contraction in the Indian economy is likely to get prolonged into the second quarter as the mild recovery seen in May and June has fizzled out due to the reimposition of lockdown. The RBI hinted at a continued soft interest rate regime to spur recovery. “Going forward, surplus liquidity conditions, coupled with policy rate reductions, are expected to instill confidence, easing financial conditions and incentivising the flow of funds at affordable rates so as to rekindle investment and lay the foundations of strong sustainable growth as the Covid-19 curve flattens and the economy repairs and revives,” it said. While the government has announced a Rs 21-lakh-crore stimulus to make up for Covid’s impact, most of these are on the credit side and do not create demand for goods and services. The RBI has said that private consumption (which is 57% of GDP), when it picks up, will be on non-discretionary spending. The report said that private consumption has lost its discretionary elements across the board, particularly transport services, hospitality, recreation and cultural activities and these will revive only when there is a durable increase in income levels. Agriculture is expected to provide growth, there is unlikely to be a full recovery in rural demand because of muted wage growth, which is still hostage to the migrant crisis and associated employment losses,” the RBI said. “High-frequency indicators that have arrived so far point to a retrenchment in activity that is unprecedented in history. Moreover, the upticks that became visible in May and June after the lockdown was eased in several parts of the country, appear to have lost strength in July and August, mainly due to reimposition or stricter imposition of lockdowns,” the RBI said. Rating agency ICRA on Tuesday said that the GDP (at FY12 constant prices) for the first quarter would have contracted by 25%. It has also forecast a 40-45% sector contraction in the gross value added in manufacturing in Q1FY21. While the lockdown has done severe damage to the economy, the RBI’s modelling a no-lockdown scenario reveals longer-lasting damage had there been no restrictions. “This (no-lockdown scenario) results in a more widespread pandemic, which peaks in the second half of January 2021 with a very slow recovery. This causes a persistent labour shortage and the supply shock produces a lasting impact on inflation and the output gap, which corresponds to a permanent upward shift in inflation and a downward shift in potential output, respectively,” the RBI said. The central bank has also reiterated the need for more capital in the banking system, warning that bad loans could rise. “Regulatory dispensation that the pandemic has necessitated in terms of the moratorium on loan instalments, deferment of interest payments and restructuring may also have implications for the financial health of banks, unless they are closely monitored and judiciously used,” the RBI said in its annual report. Acknowledging that the budgeted fiscal deficit numbers are challenging, RBI has called for a credible consolidation milestones and timelines from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/-rbi-warns-of-long-revival-time-for-pvt-consumption/articleshow/77750771.cms||Mayur Shetty
August 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Prakash Ambedkar backs reopening of temples||Kolhapur: Vanchit Bahujan Aaghadi (VBA) chief Prakash Ambedkar will be agitating in Pandharpur on August 31 to press for reopening of the Vitthal temple, which is a place of great significance among the Warkari sect in Maharashtra. Ambedkar will be participating in an agitation by the Vishwa Warkari Sanghatana, which has demanded immediate reopening of the Pandharpur temple. The Sanghatana announced that it would stage an agitation on August 31 even if the lockdown rules are in force. Confirming his participation in the agitation, Ambedkar told TOI: “A few senior members of the Warkari sect and other religious personalities approached me as their demand to open the temple was not being taken seriously by the government. I support their demand and will be participating in the agitation.” Ambedkar added that the agitation in Pandharpur was symbolic and all the temples in Maharashtra should be reopened immediately. Lockdown has made the citizens prisoners and we are opposing it,” he said. Asked about participating in an agitation of religious nature, Ambedkar said that the Constitution has ensured freedom of religion to every citizen and it was everyone’s duty to respect that freedom and right. Ambedkar’s stand has raised eyebrows in political and social circles as he had always distanced himself from any Hindutva-related issue. Known as a Hindutva critic, Ambedkar had joined hands with the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) led by Asaddudin Owaisi. VBA and AIMIM had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha and assembly elections together. Ambedkar contested for Lok Sabha from Akola and Solapur, but lost at both places. He had then openly said the Muslim community did not vote for him. He, however, strongly refuted that he was adopting soft-Hindutva. “We have a rich tradition and culture in the form of the Warkari sect, and it must be retained. No government can break this.” Solapur district administration had called a meeting over the issue on Monday. However, VBA leaders and Vishwa Warkari Sansthan boycotted the meeting saying that decision on opening of temple could be taken by chief minister. VBA spokesperson Anand Burghate said they would enter Pandharpur temple under the leadership of Ambedkar if temple is not opened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/prakash-ambedkar-backs-reopening-of-temples/articleshow/77749768.cms||Satyajit Joshi
August 26, 2020||Patna||VCs’ appointment: Academics against import of outsiders||PATNA: Even as the universities in Bihar are set to get new vice-chancellors (VCs) and pro-VCs soon, academics have expressed concern over the reported “import of outsiders” as the new incumbents. They have appealed to the chief minister to ensure appointment of only qualified academics of proven competence and integrity in the larger interest of the state’s higher education system. Former principal of Patna College, Nawal Kishore Chaudhary, says there are a good number of academic administrators in the state, who should get an opportunity to serve the universities and prove their worth. “When other states provide opportunities to their own people for ensuring their all-round development, why should Bihar lag behind?” he asks. Working president of the Federation of University Teachers’ Associations of Bihar, Kanhaiya Bahadur Sinha, points out, “Due care must be taken in selection of native people, as far as possible, for the posts of VCs and pro-VCs. We have had enough of outsiders under whom the universities have not moved even an inch. They have failed in regularizing the delayed academic sessions, ensuring timely promotion of the teachers and non-teaching staff and making regular payment of salaries and arrears.” President of the Patna University Teachers’ Association, Randhir Kumar Singh, also believes that outsiders fail to understand the local problems of academics and “fall prey to some vested interests”. “Most of the time they do not stay at the university headquarters, neglecting their primary duties. During the recent lockdown, payment of salaries to the staff could not be made in time as the VCs of the universities concerned were away. A number of VCs were served show-cause notices by the chancellor and asked to explain the reason for their long absence from the headquarters,” Singh adds. Bihar State Progressive Intellectuals’ Forum convener Shiva Jatan Thakur is in favour of selecting competent academics to head the universities. “There is no reason to unnecessarily call people from other states for governing the universities when a number of qualified academics are already available within the state,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vcs-appointment-academics-against-import-of-outsiders/articleshow/77749752.cms||B K Mishra
August 26, 2020||Patna||NDA will win 220 seats in Bihar polls: Union minister||PATNA: Union minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai on Tuesday claimed that NDA will form government in Bihar again by winning 220 seats in the upcoming assembly election. “2020 mein 220 seats ke sath Bihar me NDA ki sarkar banegi…,” the BJP MP from Ujiarpur, told mediapersons at the city airport. Rai also reiterated that Nitish Kumar would be the chief minister again. Reacting over LJP president Chiraj Paswan’s recent statements, he said there was no differences in NDA and no one had any resentment. “JD (U), BJP and LJP are together. This alliance is from the heart and has not been formed for self gains. There’s no scope for any controversy on this issue,” he said. When asked about the leadership issue in Congress, he said, “I have nothing to do with it as it’s their internal matter. But this much I am sure that nothing is left in the Congress.” He even took a dig at Rahul Gandhi and said the Congress leader doesn’t understand himself what he says. “Rahul only understands ‘made in China’ and what Pakistan says. Pakistan ki awaaz unko bahut pasand hai … (He very much loves what Pakistan says),” he alleged. Rai also took a dig at former deputy CM and RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. “He is no challenge for NDA in Bihar. NDA is very strong in the state,” he added. While supporting Jitan Ram Manjhi, who recently quit the grand alliance, Rai said the former CM rightly stated that RJD had always been anti-Dalit and anti-poor. “These people had insulted Manjhi as well Ram Vilas Paswan. They have even insulted Bihar and honoured the family only. This has always been RJD’s politics and the state knows this very well,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nda-will-win-220-seats-in-bihar-polls-union-minister/articleshow/77749737.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 26, 2020||Business||Rs 20k cr OMOs announced, 10-yr yield softens||TNN Mumbai: Trying to cool off the recent sharp hardening of bond market yields, the RBI on Tuesday announced two open market operations (OMOs) of Rs 10,000 crore each. The central bank will buy short and medium dated gilts and simultaneously sell treasury bills (T-bills) worth an equal amount. In 10 days, benchmark yields have jumped from about 5.9% to 6.22% on Monday, unnerving bond market participants. On Tuesday, after the RBI announced the special OMO, benchmark yield softened by six basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point) to 6.16%. The central bank said in its OMO of August 27, it will purchase gilts maturing between 2024 and 2032 while it will sell T-bills maturing between October and November of this year. It has not defined the amount for each of the gilts and T-bills it will purchase and sell in the OMO. The second OMO will be conducted on September 3, the RBI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rs-20k-cr-omos-announced-10-yr-yield-softens/articleshow/77750692.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Business||Cognizant to acquire Tin Roof Software||Chennai: Cognizant is acquiring Tin Roof Software, a private digital product development services company based in Atlanta for an undisclosed sum. The transaction is expected to close in the second half of 2020, subject to approvals. This is Cognizant’s sixth acquisition for the year and all have been in the digital services and cloud computing space. Tin Roof specializes in digital products that help companies improve customer experiences, and offers software design, development, DevOps, and delivery services, among others. Tin Roof’s software product engineering experts will be joining Cognizant Softvision. In 2018, Cognizant acquired Texas-based Softvision, a developer of custom digital products. Tin Roof works across sectors including telecom, media and entertainment, financial services, retail, and others. Cognizant expects the acquisition to expand its software product engineering footprint in the US. Cognizant’s digital revenue grew 14% year-on-year for the June quarter, and made up 42% of total revenue. “Tin Roof’s exceptional software product development and agile teams share our philosophy of customer-centricity and will strengthen our network of engineering talent in the US. We look forward to welcoming Tin Roof’s software product engineering experts to Cognizant,” Malcolm Frank, president of digital business, at Cognizant, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cognizant-to-acquire-tin-roof-software/articleshow/77749618.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Jaipur||3 beggars test +ve in random sampling||Jaipur: Health authorities have sounded an alarm after three beggars tested Covid positive here recently. The department is now planning to intensify its drive for random samplings of super spreaders. During random sampling, the health department had collected samples from five beggars from different parts of the city and found three of them infected. “The infected beggars have been shifted to Bagrana’s covid care centre,” said a health department official. The department has included beggars in super spreaders along with the others in the list such as maids, washer men, etc. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-beggars-test-ve-in-random-sampling/articleshow/77751297.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Delhi||Facebook ‘inaction’ over hate content: Witnesses for independent probe||NEW DELHI: The peace and harmony committee of the assembly on Tuesday examined a few key witnesses who insisted that a free and fair probe must be conducted by an independent agency into the “alleged inaction of Facebook in curbing hateful and palpably inflammatory content”. The probe is necessary “to ascertain if there was any complicity of Facebook officials in the alleged deliberate inaction”, they stressed. The committee, chaired by AAP legislator Raghav Chadha, has decided to summon the Facebook officials concerned for explanations as well as deposition. The committee has received multiple complaints alleging their inaction to enforce Facebook’s policies against such contents, “which were not only in bad taste but also have potential to erupt violence and riot-like situation”. The key witnesses included the co-author of a book on Facebook and a digital rights activist who was called to share his expertise related to the technicalities of the social media platform. A few journalists from various media houses who have covered the issue were also called by the committee. The witnesses have agreed that an immediate investigation is necessary to probe the role of Facebook’s alleged inaction in the aggravation of the northeast Delhi riots in 2020, the committee said in a statement issued on Tuesday. According to the statement, “Upon scathing revelations as well as depositions made by the witnesses alleging an unholy nexus between Facebook and the existing ruling dispensation, the committee has decided to summon the Facebook officials to ascertain the alleged complicity of (some) officials.” The committee unanimously decided to summon the officials soon following the revelations and insights gathered during Tuesday’s meeting. The decision was taken “with a view to examine them on record”. The committee will also expedite the proceedings to redress the issue at the earliest, the statement pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fb-inaction-over-hate-content-witnesses-for-independent-probe/articleshow/77751331.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur MP tests +ve, ‘will work from home’||Kolhapur: Kolhapur MP Sanjay Mandlik has tested positive for Covid-19 and said that he would continue to work from home and ensure procurement of drugs and testing kits for the city. “Two of my family members too have tested positive for coronavirus and are in home-quarantine,” Mandlik was quoted as saying by officials during a video conference. Three MLAs from district, ZP CEO Aman Mittal and several other officials have tested positive. Most of them are asymptomatic and are undergoing treatment at private hospitals. All the MLAs and officials have announced that they have tested positive on social media handles and appealed to those who came in contact with them to self-isolate. One of the MLAs, who has tested positive, has recently said, “I have been adiviesed isolation for two weeks and quarantine for one more week. During such a long period, we have to serve citizens. I keep in touch with the citizens and address their concerns through text messages.” Former MLA Rajesh Kshirsagar and other local representatives have taken to social media to wish the MP and others a speedy recovery. Kshirsagar himself has started meeting officials and helping them during the pandemic while burying political differences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-mp-tests-ve-will-work-from-home/articleshow/77749782.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Solid waste mgmt: MC commissioner warns staff||Ludhiana: A day after the NGT asked the MC to pay bank guarantees for its failure in implementing the solid waste management rules as per fixed deadline, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal conducted a meeting with the officials concerned on Tuesday. He clearly told them either to perform and achieve the targets or bank guarantees will be deducted from their salaries. The NGT panel has imposed bank guarantee for not achieving 100% source segregation, door to door garbage collection, proper disposal of garbage at the dump sites, upgrading of the sewerage treatment plants, construction of a boundary wall at the main garbage dump, etc. Now, officials have been told to pay attention towards the same and ensure that all these things should be implemented. Requesting anonymity, one of the officials claimed that they had achieved source segregation in many wards but the problem is of garbage dump sites, where floor is not concrete and unless there will be concrete flooring the segregation of waste would not be not possible. He said they do not have any power to impose challans on the defaulters and they could only issue a warning, which they are doing on regular basis. He claimed that there was no fixed timing for the lifting of garbage from households and then throwing garbage at secondary collection points as garbage collectors keep on bringing garbage the entire day, due to which dump sites remain full of garbage all the time. Meanwhile, the commissioner said, “The NGT panel is there for monitoring the ongoing works but it is our duty to provide better services to people. This is what I have said in the meeting to the officials that they should pay attention towards their work.” He said if required they would take strict action against erring officials if they failed in performing their duties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/solid-waste-mgmt-mc-commissioner-warns-staff/articleshow/77749777.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Jaipur||Edible oil samples being checked for quality in Raj||Jaipur: Samples of edible oil were collected for quality check from different parts of the state on Tuesday. Team of health department rushed to city’s Raja Park area and collected samples of six different brands of edible oil from shops, which were kept to be sold to customers. The health department launched the campaign as part of the pan-India surveillance for edible oil, which will conclude on Wednesday. It has been directed to all districts to collect 6 to 8 samples of edible oil from each district daily for two days. A webinar was held recently in which food safety officers were explained about the modalities for collection of edible oil. The drive is being spearheaded by Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI). Commissioner (food safety) Dr KK Sharma in his direction to all chief medical health officers explained that due to increase in demand of food items, there is possibility of food adulteration. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/edible-oil-samples-being-checked-for-quality-in-raj/articleshow/77751317.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Mumbai||Two brothers wanted for Mumbai builder’s murder||MUMBAI: City crime branch is looking for two builder brothers who allegedly gave the contract killing of Andheri builder Munaf Shaikh over a redevelopment dispute of an SRA project at Junaid Nagar. Unit IX, which took over the probe, had arrested shooter Nadeem Shaikh, his mentor Abdul Rahman Latif alias Sonu Shaikh and developer Wasim Khan Peshkar alias Munna Tanker, who are now in police custody. The contract was allegedly given by Wasim and Nasim Peshkar, who allegedly fled to their native place in UP. The Peshkars have business interests in development and tanker trucks. Sonu told police the Peshkar brothers promised him Rs 12 lakh and two SRA flats. Munaf and his partners were developing the project in Andheri. Sonu said he also wanted to take revenge against Munaf, who allegedly hoodwinked his father and bought a huge plot in 2010 at a throwaway price. “Sonu took the contract from Peshkars and sub-let it to Nadeem. Sonu promised Nadeem Rs 5 lakh for killing Munaf, though only Rs10,000 was given,” said an officer. He said they initially planned to kill a key member of the SRA housing society. Nadeem allegedly stabbed Munaf on August 17 while he was heading to Irla mosque in Andheri to offer morning prayers. Nadeem, captured on CCTV cameras running after the stabbing, told police he had done two recces before the attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-brothers-wanted-for-mumbai-builders-murder/articleshow/77750110.cms||Ahmed Ali
August 26, 2020||Bareilly||Husband, in-laws booked for torturing woman for dowry||Pilibhit: Four members of a family have been booked for allegedly torturing and forcing a 25-year-old woman out of home for dowry. In a complain at Jahanabad police station in Pilibhit, victim Arti has alleged that her husband Pawan Kumar and in-laws, all residents of Khanjanpur, had been demanding Rs 1 lakh cash and a motorbike “Even though my father fulfilled all of their wishes before the marriage, they still demanded more and started torturing me,” the complaint stated. Arti claimed that she kept “tolerating” for the future of their 8-month-old son. “On August 13, I was kicked brutally and abused my husband and in-laws and was thrown out from the house,” she said. Meanwhile, SHO Harish Vardhan Singh said the husband, his parents and younger brother have been booked under section 498 A (subjecting a woman to cruelty by husband or his relatives), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult to provoke the breach of peace) of the Indian Penal Code and section 3, 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/husband-in-laws-booked-for-torturing-woman-for-dowry/articleshow/77745346.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Rajkot||Stuck in flood, three spend night on tree||Rajkot: At least 33 labourers stranded in flooded farms were rescued from Bhimora and Laath villages of Upleta in Rajkot by National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) since Monday night. Three of these labourers, including husband-wife duo, were forced to spend the entire night on a tree in an inundated farm in Bhimora village after rescued operations had to be called off due to low visibility. They were rescued early on Tuesday morning. District officials said 30 were rescued late on Monday night from Bhimora and Laath village. Since the labourers live on the farm, they could not be alerted of the rising water level. These villages fall in the downstream areas of three dams on rivers Bhadar, Venu and Moj. On Monday afternoon, the district authorities had opened all gates of the dams on the three rivers leading to heavy flooding in several villages. At least 240 people from Majethi, Kundhech, Samadhiyala, Bhimora and Laath villages were evacuated on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/stuck-in-flood-three-spend-night-on-tree/articleshow/77748362.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Hubballi||Dharwad born Dr Madhuri, third woman to get three-star rank||Dharwad: Dr Madhuri Kanitkar, a paediatrician working for the Indian Army, has the rare distinction of being only the third woman officer in the country to get a three-star rank, and she is now a Lieutenant General. Lt Gen Puneet Arora and Air Marshal Padma Bandopadhyaya are the other two to be decorated with the three-star rank. The people of Dharwad are elated with her achievement, as she was born in Dharwad. Her great grandmother Saraladevi Khot, who was called by her maiden name Akkubai Chitnis, was a doctor in the 1920s, and was a major source of inspiration for Madhuri to pursue a career in medicine. Saraladevi’s story was very similar to Anandibai Joshi, India’s first female physician. “My grandmother was an orphan at two, child widow at eight, left to destiny, and brought up by Hingane Stree Shikshan Samstha in Pune, and went on to become a doctor,” Madhuri recalled. A brilliant student, Madhuri had cleared all three phases of MBBS with the distinction of being first in Pune University, and was the recipient of the President’s Gold Medal for the best outgoing student of the graduate wing in academics and extra-curricular activities in 1982. While becoming a doctor was her childhood dream, what made her join Armed Forces Medical College for an MBBS was a chance visit to the AFMC with a friend, whose father was an Air Force officer. “Impressed by the discipline and the environment in the college, where one could pursue academics as well as extra-curricular activities to develop one’s personality, I decided to join AFMC. The decision was much against the wishes of my father,” she says. Soon after becoming a graduate, she was commissioned in the Indian Medical Corps in 1982, and she did her postgraduation in paediatrics eight years later. In between, she got married to Rajiv Kanitkar, who retired as a Lieutenant General from the Indian Army. They are the first couple in the armed forces to have three-star ranks. Dr Madhuri has served in Udhampur, Pathankot, Ladakh and other places, and is decorated with the AVSM and VSM medals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dharwad-born-dr-madhuri-third-woman-to-get-three-star-rank/articleshow/77748313.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
August 26, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand HC suspends proceedings, closes premises after employee tests Covid positive||Nainital: All the judicial proceedings in the Uttarakhand high court (HC) were suspended on Tuesday and the court was closed till Thursday after one of its employees tested positive for the novel coronavirus. According to a notification issued by the HC’s registrar general Hira Singh Bonal, the decision was taken on the advice of doctors in the public interest and the court will reopen on Thursday after sanitisation. “One employee of the HC has tested Covid-19 positive. The doctors have advised that in the larger public interest, the HC should be closed for sanitisation. The Hon’ble judges of the HC are also of the same view. Therefore, all the judicial proceedings for the day are suspended. The HC premises shall be closed,” read the notification. The notification further added that all the cases listed for hearing on Tuesday will now be taken up on Thursday. The listed cases included IPS Barinderjit Singh’s plea against his transfer orders from the post of SSP Udham Singh Nagar as well as suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) on removal of religious structure from public land among others. As reported by TOI earlier, the HC had shut itself as well as all the subordinate courts in March last week amidst fear of the pandemic. However, the court initially started hearing of important matters through video conferencing, and later, all cases were listed for hearing before the judges. Notably, the matter of concern is that even though most of the lawyers and litigants joined the court hearings online, several justices, lawyers and the general staff were working in the HC premises. Earlier on August 6, the registrar general had issued an officer memorandum raising concern on the non-compliance of social distancing norms while also saying that some of the staff was not wearing face masks. The memorandum comprised of a series of guidelines to prevent the spread of the coronavirus within the court premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-hc-suspends-proceedings-closes-premises-after-employee-tests-covid-positive/articleshow/77748326.cms||Prashant Jha
August 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Over 900 cases emerge in Satara in a single day||Kolhapur: Satara district recorded 939 confirmed Covid-19 cases and 18 deaths in 24 hours ending on Monday night. While 443 patients were identified in the morning, 496 suspects confirmed positive for the contagion by late night. The highest number of patients were recorded on Monday ever since the pandemic hit the district. The district reported not more than 300-400 cases for over a week. The death toll is also rising in the district. With 115 cases, Karad tehsil recorded the highest number of patients on Monday, of which 77 alone were from Karad town. 15 new cases emerged in Malkapur. Satara tehsil identified 111 confirmed cases, of which 62 were from Satara town. Wai tehsil traced out 27 new cases. 42 patients were found in Khatav tehsil. Lonand and Shirval in Khandala tehsil identified 11 and nine cases respectively. Mahabaleshwar tehsil added 29 patients, of which 20 are from Sangam Nagar. Of the 43 patients found in Phaltan tehsil, 16 were from Phaltan town. Six new cases in Maan tehsil are from Mhaswad village. Koregaon tehsil and Patan tehsil recorded 13 and 21 cases respectively. Nine deaths due to Covid-19 were reported till Tuesday evening. While three of them were from Satara tehsil, two were from Khatav. One death each was reported from Maan, Koregaon, Wai and Phaltan. As per official information, Karad tehsil had the highest number of patients till Monday night with 2,628 positive cases. With 256 cases, Maan tehsil has the lowest number of cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/over-900-cases-emerge-in-satara-in-a-single-day/articleshow/77749794.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Kochi||CM Pinarayi Vijayan to open biggest CFLTC in Kerala||THRISSUR: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the biggest Covid first line treatment centre (CFLTC) in the state at Nattika in the coastal area of the district on Wednesday. The CFLTC with facilities to treat 1,400 patients is being set up at the Nattika Cotton Mill building complex, which was handed over by prominent NRI industrialist M A Yusuff Ali to the government for the purpose. Sixty doctors and 100 nurses will be deployed at the centre. Additionally, 200 specially trained volunteers will also be posted there. Service of clinical psychologists will also be provided to counselling the patients who are under mental stress. The CFLTC will have an ICU with 10 beds, and four ambulances which will be ready to offer services 24 hours will be parked there to shift the patients requiring critical care to the medical college hospital, said district collector S Shanawas. Incinerators will be set up to handle the waste from the centre. Kits containing articles for daiy use, warm water and waste baskets will also be provided. Highest number of single-day cases The district on Tuesday reported 227 Covid-19 cases, the highest on a single day. Among those who have tested positive, 223 have acquired infection through social contacts. The source of infection was not known in the case of 17 patients. Among those who have tested positive 28 people have acquired infection from Vadanappilli Janata cluster, while 11 from Chalakkudy cluster, and nine from Amala cluster. Five patients, including four health workers, have acquired infection from Daya hospital cluster. Two other health workers from private hospitals have also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cm-to-inaugurate-biggest-cfltc-in-state/articleshow/77748340.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Delhi||AAP alleges graft by corporations in dengue fight||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party functionary Durgesh Pathak on Tuesday alleged that the BJP-led municipal corporations had bought anti-dengue pesticides used for fogging at a price that was Rs 750 per kg higher than usual. While the pesticides were procured at Rs 3,256.8 per kg, the same was bought by Bhopal Municipal Corporation at Rs 2,500 per kg, claimed Pathak. Claiming that a corporation official had already raised an objection against this purchase, Pathak further alleged that Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta was a part of the standing committee when the purchase took place. He sought a reply from Gupta regarding this anomaly. “The deputy chief accountant had objected to the purchase and stated that when Bhopal Municipal Corporation could buy the same product at a lower price, then why did the capital’s corporations buy it at such a high cost. The objection was ignored,” Pathak alleged in a press conference. “The civic bodies are facing a financial crunch despite people paying their taxes. The corporations cannot pay the salaries of doctors and teachers. Despite this, the anti-dengue pesticides were bought at a higher price,” the AAP functionary stated. Leader of Opposition in north corporation Vikas Goel said, “BJP has been doing corrupt activities in the civic bodies for years, but AAP won’t allow it any more and dig out all such dishonesty.” Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor termed the allegations baseless. “AAP is working on an agenda to mislead people before the upcoming municipal elections. The purchase of the anti-dengue pesticides were made from a government company, Hindustan Latex Limited. This leaves no space for corruption,” he said. Gupta was not available for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-alleges-graft-by-corporations-in-dengue-fight/articleshow/77751374.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Private hospitals asked to increase capacity in Kolhapur as cases rise||KOLHAPUR: As many 470 new Covid-19 cases and 26 deaths were reported from the district on Tuesday, taking the tally of positive cases to 19,551 and the death toll to 589. As many as 360 patients were discharged on Tuesday. So far, 11,207 patients have been discharged while 7,755 are active cases undergoing treatment. Kolhapur city accounted for 110 cases and four deaths of the total number of cases reported on Tuesday. The case count was much lower than the daily average of 200 cases. Meanwhile, district collector Daulat Desai and commissioner of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation Mallinath Kalshetti jointly issued an order asking private hospitals in the city to increase the capacities at the expense of the hospitals. Currently, there are 37 private hospitals where 80% of the beds are reserved for treating Covid-19 patients. Around 920 beds are occupied in these hospitals. The order has fixed the number of oxygen and ventilator beds to be added by these hospitals within a week, failing which strict action will be taken. Total 381 more beds will be reserved for Covid-19 patients. The hospitals are likely to allocate some of the beds from the remaining 20% quota. The order comes in the wake of rising number of Covid-19 cases in the district. Meanwhile, the oxygen tank of 20,000 litre capacity installed around a week ago at the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje hospital Kolhapur was activated on Tuesday. 293 cases, 15 deaths in Sangli Sangli district reported 293 cases and 15 deaths on Tuesday. The Covid count in the district has reached to 8,970 while 360 have succumbed so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/private-hospitals-asked-to-increase-capacity-in-kolhapur-as-cases-rise/articleshow/77749802.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Jaipur||‘Students can’t claim NRI quota in med admission’||JAIPUR: Rajasthan High Court set aside a single bench order allotting two seats for PG medical under NRI quota at Mahatma Gandhi Medical College while bypassing merit and directed to complete the admission process purely on merit. The division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Pankaj Bhandari followed a DB special appeal petition.  The division bench set aside the single bench order of allotting Dr Nilay Gupta and Dr Surmil Sharma their choice of subjects for PG treating the seats under NRI/ management quota in the Mahatma Gandhi Medical College. The decision of the single bench on July 10, 2017, was challenged by chairman NEET PG Medical and Dental admission. The court order said the seat matrix submitted by the institution showed no seat was claimed under NRI quota. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/students-cant-claim-nri-quota-in-med-admission/articleshow/77752233.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Surat||Surat: Crematorium hikes fees, body cremated on roadside||SURAT: Not being able to afford the hiked charges of using the crematorium, kin of 45-year-old tribal labourer decided to perform his final rites on the roadside in Ena, an NRI village in Surat district, on Tuesday. The shocking incident happened after the administrators demanded Rs 2,500 as charges for using the crematorium. The community members didn’t have any option but to cremate poor farm labourer Mohan Rathod, who died from prolonged illnesses, on the road itself. “Mohan’s family is very poor and they cannot afford to pay the money in current post-lockdown crisis,” said Arjun Rathod, a neighbour. Mohan is survived by his 60-year-old mother Manu, his two sons Jayesh, 17 and Dev, 12. Rathod died at around 2 am on Tuesday. After taking the body to the crematorium at around 7 am when the neighbours went to get the keys of the crematorium, the administrator informed them that the fee has been hiked to Rs 2,500. “The family and friends then informed their Halpati community members and with wood contributed by each household, the body was cremated on the roadside in the afternoon after the villagers could not find a solution,” said Bharat Rathod, a businessman. In a population of around 3,500 in Ena, at least one member from each family stays abroad. While the village boasts of modern amenities like common water purification plant, concrete roads, cricket stadium and nationally acclaimed Navratri celebrations, it has all been developed with NRI donations. “The cremation charges were Rs 1,200 till a few days ago which has now more than doubled without informing all the communities in the village,” Bharat alleged.  Atul Patel, a member of Ena Seva Samiti, that manages the crematorium said that the management committee decided to increase charges as it was proving costly to manage the crematorium now as the regular donations from NRIs have stopped coming. “We don’t have any option but to increase the charges,” he said. Watch Surat: Body cremated on roadside as crematorium hikes fees||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/crematorium-hikes-charges-tribals-cremate-body-on-road/articleshow/77748350.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
August 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: C-zone warriors help with essentials, medical support||KOLKATA: Various groups of good Samaritans in the city’s pockets have turned saviours for a large section of residents — both in and out of containment zones — over the last few months, helping out with daily essentials, medical support and even acting as a liaison between government agencies and the people. At Bhowanipore, one of the city’s most Covid-prone zones, a group of young men volunteered to help out those stuck at homes. Several parts of Bhowanipore have remained under containment for days since the unlock stage had begun. “It had started during the lockdown, when some of our friends thought of reaching out to the houses with elderly and sick persons and volunteered to go to the market and do the shopping for them while asking them to stay at homes. Our local councillor backed us,” Dheeraj Chowdhury, a conservancy worker with Kolkata Municipal Corporation, who along with two other friends Sanjay and Sameer mostly do the work. “We gave our numbers to residents of housing complexes and high-rises and formed WhatsApp groups. Those in need of help, texted us the list of essentials and every morning and we would deliver those to them. I have even got people medicines after midnight and arranged for ambulances,” he added. At New Town, entrepreneur Samaresh Das and a group of 80-odd residents began feeding thousands of homeless people, labourers and street animals initially and then started delivering medicines and food supplies to the elderly and sick at their homes. “When the situation looked better, we upgraded our way of work in coordination with NKDA. We set up Covid testing centres, health camps, arranged for free ambulancesand delivered food and essentials to people in containment zones,” said Das, who has now become a household name in New Town. At Bally in Howrah, a group of friends — all professionals from different fields — are delivering food and other essentials to people. “We have been doing this since the lockdown and now it has become a regular affair. I have even adjusted my classes accordingly,” said Souvik Nandy, head of the mechanical engineering department at Hooghly Engineering College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/c-zone-warriors-help-with-essentials-med-support/articleshow/77749820.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana’s recovery rate 71%, doubling rate up to 19 days||Ludhiana: Finally there is some good news for Ludhiana residents on Covid-19 front as the doubling rate for the cases in the district has increased substantially. The doubling rate is the number of days it would take for the cases to double, based on the last seven-day growth rate. As per the state media bulletin on Covid-19 released by the government on Monday evening, the doubling rate for Ludhiana district has increased from 13 on August 10 to 19 on August 24. With the doubling rate at 19, Ludhiana has dropped to 15th spot among the 22 districts in state. Muktsar with a doubling rate of nine days tops the list whereas SAS Nagar and Kapurthala share No 2 position with rate at 12. Fazilka with doubling rate of 13 is at the third position and SBS Nagar with such rate at 45 days is at the bottom of the list.Another good news for the Ludhiana residents is that the latest state media bulletin suggests that cured percentage in the district has reached 71, which is higher than that of the state at 66. Increase in the cured rate has put Ludhiana at No 6 position among the districts with high cured rate with Hoshiarpur topping the list with 80%, followed by Amritsar (79%), Gurdaspur (78%), SBS Nagar (74%) and Pathankot (73%). Even as the doubling rate and cured rate have improved for the district, percentage of case fatality rate (CFR) continues to be a cause of concern for the health department. The district has a CFR of 3.5% which is higher than the state (2.6%). Tarn Taran has highest CFR in the state at 4.3%, followed by Amritsar and Kapurthala (3.7%) and Sangrur (3.6%).With an improvement in the doubling and cured rate, the district health authorities attribute it to various measures taken by them.“We are doing rigorous sampling and have managed to do maximum contact tracing that has resulted in improvement in doubling rate and cure percentage. Hopefully with the continuous efforts, we will further improve on these parameters in the coming time,” said Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga. He added that they were also trying to bring the fatality rates down in the district with early detection of Covid positive patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhianas-recovery-rate-71-doubling-rate-up-to-19-days/articleshow/77748344.cms||Shariq Majeed
August 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Faulty battery: Physically challenged man wins case against e-vehicle dealer||BENGALURU: A physically challenged man from Mysuru took an e-scooter seller to a consumer court after the batteries of his vehicle, which were under warranty, were damaged, resulting in poor mileage. The court ordered the seller to replace the old batteries with new ones within a month. Naveen VS, a resident of Agrahara in Mysuru, purchased an e-scooter from Srivardhini Ventures in Kuvempu Nagar, Mysuru in 2016. A physically challenged man, Naveen relied heavily on his vehicle, which suddenly got damaged in August 2018. An inspection by the dealer revealed the batteries weren’t working. The Mysurean purchased four new batteries paying Rs 12,000 and was promised that the cells came with a warranty period of six months. However, within two months, the new batteries too became weak and Naveen’s vehicle started giving only eight kilometres per full charge. Naveen approached the dealer, who, after much persuasion, took back the faulty batteries and gave temporary ones to use the scooter, stating he had ordered for new cells. However, according to Naveen, the new batteries never came and he lodged a complaint with the parent company regarding the faulty batteries. On February 6, 2019 , he approached the district consumer disputes redressal commission of Mysuru with a complaint against the e-vehicle dealer. While Naveen presented his case, the opposite party defended its stand saying the batteries were indeed faulty and therefore they issued the substitute cells till the new ones arrived. The dealer pointed out that the customer didn’t have patience, but approached the parent dealer and raised a complaint. The judges of the consumer forum in their August 6 verdict said there was deficiency of service on the part the dealer as it had failed to replace the batteries on time. However, the seller’s intention of replacing the new batteries and making temporary arrangement for the customer’s convenience had to be respected. But holding Srivardhini Ventures guilty of the lapses, the judges ordered the dealer give Naveen a new set of batteries within a month of their order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/faulty-battery-physically-challenged-man-wins-case-against-e-vehicle-dealer/articleshow/77749828.cms||Petlee Peter
August 26, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: This Gadag school harvests 20,000 litres of rainwater every day||GADAG: A government high school in Gojanur village is harvesting more than 20,000 litres on its premises every day. The school, which was bestowed the ‘Best Eco Club’ award by the Union ministry of environment and forests last year, is storing the harvested rain in two separate tanks – one of which has a capacity of 15,000 litres and the other 5,000 litres. Excess water is fed to the borewell to help recharge the local groundwater aquifers. Ravi Benchalli, the school’s headmaster, told TOI that the tanks were built in the 2011-12 and 2012-13 academic years with funds granted by the taluk and gram panchayats. “Funds from various miscellaneous sources have helped maintain the entire water storage network at the school. We are ensuring that not a single drop of rainwater falling on the premises of our school is wasted. We receive good rain for three months each year, and the water is stored in the tanks. Owing to the Covid-19 crisis, students are not coming to the school, and we are diverting excess water to the hand borewell on our premises. The borewell would dry up in the summer but we are replenishing them using recharge pits and they now supply water throughout the year. We have used the harvested rainwater to grow the Panchavati Garden on 1.2 acres of our school’s ground,” Benchalli told TOI. Former APMC chairman and Gojanur resident Shanmukhagouda P Patil said that the rainwater harvesting system at the school will serve as a very visible lesson for the younger generation of students. “Teachers and students have used the filter very effectively, installing at the tank using sand and coal. Water on the ground too is being used for drinking among other reasons,” he said. Former gram panchayat president Shivanagouda Patil is very pleased with the success of the initiative. Among others, Rajiv Shetty Charitable Trust in Bengaluru has donated a computer laboratory to the institution. “The school is equipped with CCTV cameras, smart classrooms, a television set et al,” Shivanagouda Patil said. In addition to the Union ministry’s honour, the school’s achievement has been recognised with several district and state awards. No SDMC Interestingly, the government high school at Gojanur has been functioning without a School Development and Monitoring Committee (SDMC), which is constituted for all state-run institutions for more than a decade. However, the lack of the panel has not hampered its operations or the efficient management of the school. “Since SDMCs have turned into a platform for political rehabilitation, the locals decided not to introduce politics to the functioning of the school. Parents can visit the school anytime and teachers are extremely cooperative to listen to suggestions on how the quality of education can be improved,” Shanmukhagouda Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/this-gadag-school-harvests-20k-litres-of-rainwater-every-day/articleshow/77748352.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
August 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Covid brigade ready, first team to work in Kerala's Kasaragod||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan flagged of the first Covid brigade to Kasaragod from the state capital on Tuesday. The 26-member Covid brigade will be taking charge of the first-line treatment centres there. The team completed the training at the Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, before embarking on the mission. Health minister K K Shailaja said the prediction is that the case load is all set to peak in September and hence, the health department had taken the initiative to constitute Covid brigade, which can help fight the pandemic. The minister said so far over thousand people have registered to become the part of the Covid brigade. The first batch of the brigade includes doctors, nurses, lab technicians and those from social work and business management backgrounds. A team led by Dr S S Santosh Kumar, deputy superintendent of MCH, Thiruvananthapuram, is providing the training for the Covid brigade. The training is given on infection control, basic life support, airway management, advance airway management, sample testing, medical protocols, Covid protocol and other emergency medical systems. The minister said Covid management requires large human resources at various levels of public health system, including hospitals, CFLTCs, care centres, surveillance and monitoring system. Corona first-line treatment centres with more than 50,000 beds have been started in record time to meet the demand for treatment and care facilities. “To power the human resources in CFLTCs, hospitals and public health system we have constituted Covid brigade, which will have a significant role in handling the pandemic situation,” said Shailaja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/covid-brigade-ready-1st-team-to-work-in-kgod/articleshow/77748377.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Goat ‘talks’, settles ownership dispute||UDAIPUR: In a bizarre incident, the cops at Kheroda police station of Udaipur district managed to settle an ownership dispute over a goat between two claimants. They let the goat do the talking, quite literally. The case came up before the cops on Monday when one Babru Ravat of Dholakot village and Unkarlal Ravat from Dangfala of Masingpura village claimed ownership over a goat. Babru told the police that he had gone to the jungle to graze his herd and one of the goats went missing. When he looked for it, the animal was found tied at Unkarlal’s home. When he asked him to return the goat, Unkarlal, who too had a similar colored goat, said it was his goat that had gone missing two months ago. The dispute intensified and police had to intervene. ASI Chatraram, beat constable Jeevaram and Udaisingh went to the village to settle the case. But, when both of the men remained adamant, the cops asked them for evidence in support of their claims. Both men said they had kids of the goat. Policemen asked both of them to bring the kids and goat to the police station. Both the kids were left near the goat. The mother went towards the kid brought by Babru and licked it while she pushed away the other kid which belonged to Unkarlal. The incident was witnessed by many villagers. The cops permitted Babru to take away his goat. Watch Goat ‘talks’, settles ownership dispute in Rajasthan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/goat-talks-settles-ownership-dispute/articleshow/77752236.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad rural cops hold online contest for children||Aurangabad: Aurangabad rural police have organised an online competition for children with categories like essay writing, rangoli, tableau decoration etc.Superintendent of police Mokshada Patil said the idea behind the competition was to provide a platform to the children who are missing out on all the grand Ganeshotsav festivities.Though the competition is open to people of all age groups, special focus is on children and teenagers. The competition has been organised in the categories of rangoli drawing, one-act play, essay writing, selfie with a tree, singing and Ganpati tableau. The participants are expected to send their entries along with the name, age, address, profession, college/school, if any.The participants have to take photographs of their creations and record videos of not more than three minutes. They have to share the same over WhatsApp to a given phone number. An independent competition has also been organised for the policemen serving with the rural police and their families.The last day for sending entries is August 30, following which, results would be announced online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-rural-cops-hold-online-contest-for-children/articleshow/77749823.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Dehradun||Unidentified youths, foreigners booked for obscene acts in public place||Haridwar: A case has been registered against unidentified Indian youths and some foreigners for allegedly indulging in obscene activities in public in the Tapovan area of Rishikesh. These foreigners had come to Rishikesh before the pandemic outbreak and are still staying in local hotels. RK Saklani, SHO Muni Ki Reti police station, told TOI, “Local municipal corporator Gajendra Singh Sajvan filed a complaint against unidentified youths and foreigners who were found indulging in obscene activities in Tapovan area. A case has been registered against them under section 294 (punishment for obscene acts or words in public). We are trying to identify them. A probe will be conducted and action will be taken accordingly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/unidentified-youths-foreigners-booked-for-obscene-acts-in-public-place/articleshow/77748371.cms||MS Nawaz
August 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Even-odd rule continues to create chaos on Day 2||Ludhiana: The second day of the even-odd system for opening of non-essentials’ shops was again marred by confusion. At some markets, all shops were open and at others, customers had to return empty-handed on finding the stores they were to visit closed. Traders were of the view that the even-odd rule had totally failed and it would be in the best interest of everyone if a complete shutdown was observed for 15 days. Else the government could extend weekend lockdown by one more day, they suggested. Kamal Gupta, president of Sabun Bazaar Market Association, said, “The even-odd formula is not going to yield any result. It is impossible to convince everyone to follow this rule because of competition. This will lead to infighting among the traders or open violation of the rule. We understand that the government wants to bring down the coronavirus cases, but it’s not possible by the even-odd system. It will be much better if one more day is added to the weekend lockdown or the government orders a complete shutdown for a week or 15 days.” According to Suresh Dhir Raja, president of the Dal Bazaar Association, “The even-odd system is not fruitful as the number of people coming to markets has not changed. The system is a setback to the traders, whose earnings will be affected badly as the customers who come to buy garments from outside cannot always change the dates of their visit according to the shop numbers. Considering all these factors, the government must stop this system immediately and instead increase a day more in the weekend curfew and allow all shops to open for four days at a stretch.”Sachin Kalra, a shopkeeper from Iron Market, Gill Road, said, “Neither shopkeepers nor customers are happy with the system that is causing multiple problems. In one month, no shop can open for more than 11 days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/even-odd-rule-continues-to-create-chaos-on-day-2/articleshow/77748356.cms||Mohit Behl
August 26, 2020||Jaipur||Woman, two children drink pesticide-laced water, die||Jaipur: A woman and her two children died after drinking water containing pesticides in Nagaur on Monday evening. Police are yet to ascertain if it was an accident or suicide. The incident is of Khari Karamsota village in Nagaur district’s Panchaudi police station area. According to preliminary investigation, the woman and her three children were alone at home when the incident occurred. They were found unconscious when the woman’s husband returned home. One child survived. The deceased were identified as Kani Devi (35), Rakesh Nayak (6), Urmila Nayak (3) while the survivor was identified as Sonu Nayak (5). Mohmad Nisar, SHO, Panchaudi police station, said, ”the woman and her children were alone at home when the incident happened. Prima facie, they had consumed water from the earthen pot which had few pieces of pesticide used in the fields to kill pests.” “When the woman’s husband Omprakash, who works as a daily wage labourer, returned home along with his mother, they found the family members in an unconscious state. They were immediately rushed to the hospital. Only one of them could be saved.” Officials claimed that Sonu, who was discharged on Tuesday morning, had low level of the poisonous substance in his blood due to which he could be saved. Elaborating further, the SHO said, ”we are still investigating if it was a suicide, accident or intentional poisoning. Though the woman’s family has not raised any suspicions about the deaths still we will probe further to find the real cause.” The bodies were handed over to the family members after postmortem on Tuesday. The deceased woman and Omprakash had been married for ten years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-two-children-drink-pesticide-laced-water-die/articleshow/77752239.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Devices using electron cloud, UV ray to contain coronavirus spread hit the market||KOLKATA: Devices using electron cloud and electrostatic charge to contain spread of novel coronavirus are fast gaining popularity in the market. On Tuesday, a Kolkata-based company launched an electron-cloud generating device that can disable transmission of the virus. This is the fourth such endeavour in Bengal — after those by IIT-Kharagpur, Jadavpur University and a private firm — to develop devices that use technologies like electrostatic charge and ultraviolet radiation to neutralize the virus. The instrumentation and electronics department of Jadavpur University has developed a mask made of triboelectric material that can generate enough voltage to incapacitate a virus. Triboelectric charges, often found on combs after brushing hair or fur, have been used in other countries to develop triboelectric nanogenerators or TENGs to repel or remove the virus. The mask has triboelectric layer that produces electrostatic charge from friction produced during movements or breathing. The charge is then stored via a charging circuit and transferred to the electrocution layer. Whenever a microorganism or virus comes in contact with the electrocution layer, it is incapacitated. The device is pending approval from the Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO). Bengal-based companies Cynosure Industries and Electro Plaza Projects have developed an electrostatic water spray device with technical assistance from IIT-Kharagpur. The device uses charged and ionized water droplets or mists that helps in oxidation of the protein layer of the virus that makes them harmless. “The technology uses atomized water droplets charged electronically. Once charged, these molecules tend to behave like oxidants and disinfect the surface. This is called electro-spraying and is now being widely used by aviation companies worldwide,” said Sudarshan Neogi, professor of chemical engineering at the IIT Kharagpur. Another Bengal-based company GSSG Tech Solutions has developed an ultraviolet radiation-based surface disinfector that uses ultraviolet-C light that can be used to remove the virus. “The device can sanitize any object in 4 minutes,” said company official Gautam Dasgupta. The device has been certified by Central Scientific Instruments organization, an ICMR-approved laboratory According to Bhaskar Narayan Chowdhury, consultant microbiologist with the Peerless Hospital, “UV ray is virucidal and bactericidal and is often used for bio-safety cabinets. The virus becomes harmless or weak if its envelope is breached or broken. It does not have residual or lingering effect so it does not affect the content after the UV lamp is switched off,” he explained. A Kolkata-based company Medwin healthcare has started manufacturing a device that uses negatively-charged electrons to neutralize S-protein on the virus. “Coronavirus uses spike proteins to enter host cells and the spikes are attached to the cell walls. The machine can disable spike proteins and release electrons to build an electron cloud,” said Rajah Vijay Kumar, chairman and scientific officer of Bengaluru-based Organisation De Scalene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/devices-using-electron-cloud-uv-ray-to-contain-coronavirus-spread-hit-the-market/articleshow/77749825.cms||Rohit Khanna
August 26, 2020||Bhopal||Congress disputes BJP claims to have inducted 76,000 workers||BHOPAL: In a battle of nerves ahead of the by-polls for 27 assembly the BJP seem to have dented the Congress – at least psychologically – by giving inducting over 75,000 Congress workers from the by-poll bound Gwalior-Chambal region in the last three days. Of the 27 assembly seats for by-polls 16 fall in the Gwalior-Chambal region. BJP state president VD Sharma said that Congress has no choice but to dispute the figures. "The joining of over 76,000 Congress workers in BJP would have a big impact in the entire region. Congress workers were feeling suffocated in the old party without any say. Now they will openly and unitedly work for the BJP," said Sharma. Sharma also challenged the Congress to explain its failures on farm loan waiver and job to unemployed youths. Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra said that BJP membership drive was conducted in front of the media and Congress workers who have joined the BJP will expose the old party. The BJP minister further said, "What will happen in the coming six months is already decided. If there would be democracy in the Congress, ‘Gulam' (Nabi Azad) would have become `Azad' (free) after the meeting. Leaders like Kamal Nath are among Sonia loyalists and he was aware that he has grown old," he ridiculed. The Congress had on Tuesday disputed the membership figures released by the state BJP that 76,361 Cong workers have joined the saffron camp. Congress state spokesperson, K K Mishra said, "We want BJP to provide us the list of Congress workers who have joined their party. We have gone through some names in the BJP list, but none of the Congress workers have joined the saffron party. The BJP claims are fake and a legal action would be taken against the party," said Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-disputes-bjp-claims-to-have-inducted-76k-workers/articleshow/77749835.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Four-year-old survives the nightmare ensconced in his mother’s arms||Navi Mumbai: A four-year-old boy was extricated alive 19 hours after the Mahad building collapsed at around 6.18pm on Monday. Mohammed Bangi was ensconced safely in his mother’s arms when the rescue team found them. However, the child’s mother, who seems to have shielded him from the falling debris, was found dead. His two siblings Ayesha (7) and Ruqaya (2) were initially missing, but later found dead. Among the survivors is another four-year-old, Ahmed Shaikhnag, who managed to run out of the building, from the second floor, in the nick of time. Ahmed’s mother Ismat (32) and 12-year-old sibling Adi, who were trying to save their 65-year-old maternal grandmother, died. Bangi, 4, lived with his mother and two sisters in the ‘A’ wing of the now grounded Tarique Garden building. Moinuddin Ukaye, Bangi’s relative, said, “I had spoken to them around three hours before the incident. His father works elsewhere.” NDRF 5th battalion deputy commandant Alok Kumar said, “The boy was found on the abdomen of his deceased mother, who provided a shield. They were trapped in a collapsed staircase area. It seems the boy’s mother tried to save the child’s life.” Mahad sub-divisional officer Vitthal Inamdar said, “The boy did not suffer any injury, but was sent to the sub-district hospital for a check-up. He has been released from the hospital.” I-T staffer survives: Mujahid Shaikh, 32, a staffer of the income tax department posted in Pune, had come a few days ago to help his brother. Shaikh along with Navid Zamane, 32, an employee of Shaikh’s brother, was in the parking area, when the collapse took place. Shaikh said, “ I was five feet away from Zamane, but while he moved towards me, the debris fell on both his legs and he did not survive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/four-year-old-survives-the-nightmare-ensconced-in-his-mothers-arms/articleshow/77752273.cms||Umesh K Parida
August 26, 2020||Surat||Katargam crosses 3,000 mark||Surat: With 22 new Covid-19 cases, the diamond hub in Katargam zone crossed 3,000 mark on Tuesday. With 3,004, Katargam now has the highest number of cases in the city followed by 2,167 in Rander zone. Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials said 169 new cases were reported on Tuesday while three patients succumbed. The Rander zone reported highest daily Covid-19 cases on Tuesday with 38 followed by 23 in Athwa, 22 in Katargam, 21 each in Limbayat and Udhna, 14 in central, 12 in Varachha (A) and eight in Varachha (B) zone in the city. Around 82 patients also got discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 12,821.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/katargam-crosses-3000-mark/articleshow/77748382.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Vadodara||Owner booked for letting cattle on road||Vadodara: Like every monsoon when two sites – potholed roads and stray cattle occupying roads – are common in Banyan City, this year too, the situation is of no different. Almost every area of the city has been witnessing the menace of stray cattle for several weeks now. However, it was only on Monday that two offences were registered against a cattle owner at Manjalpur police station for letting the bovine out on road posing danger to commuters. According to the complaint lodged by a health department official of Vadodara Municipal Corporation, Dharmendra Parmar, who lives at Makarpura GIDC, had let his six buffaloes, three calves and three cows out on road for grazing. VMC officials said that Parmar had let the bovine on roads on August 18 and 19 due to which commuters’ lives were put at risk. On both occasions, the civic body had seized Parmar’s cattle. Every year during the rainy season, the movement of cattle increases on roads and most of the time, the bovine occupies the entire road. In past, many commuters had died after they rammed their vehicles with the animals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/owner-booked-for-letting-cattle-on-road/articleshow/77747931.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Aurangabad||100 cases reported in Aurangabad dist||Aurangabad: The number of active Covid-19 cases in Aurangabad district on Tuesday went up to 4,380 with the addition of 100 cases. Till date, as many as 16,153 out of 21,171 people have recovered from the infection and got discharged from various hospitals across the district. A health official said that the rate of recovery across Aurangabad has been good. “Two deaths were reported on Tuesday at the dedicated Covid facility of the GMCH. With this, the death toll of the district stands at 638,” he said. “Out of the 100 cases, 61 were reported from areas falling under the jurisdiction of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) while the remaining 39 cases were reported from the rural parts of the district,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/100-cases-reported-in-aurangabad-dist/articleshow/77747154.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Rajkot||Five bodies recovered||Bodies of five people who were swept away by flood waters in Wankaner and Halvad on Monday were found on Tuesday. These include bodies of Jaydeep Kalia (32), Yogesh Bavaliya (32) and Narsinh Bavaliya (29) who were trapped in the car in which they got swept away near Wankaner. Two other persons in the car were saved by locals. The rescue team also recovered bodies of Naran Dalvadi (45) and his son Shripal (18) from near Halvad. This father-son duo were swept away while crossing a low-level bridge on a river on their way to Halvad where Shripal was to appear for GujCET exam on Monday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-bodies-recovered/articleshow/77748457.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Delhi||Viral clip shows cop beating up boy in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A video of a teenager being beaten up allegedly by a policeman on a road near RK Puram in southwest Delhi went viral on social media on Monday night. The video showed the accused hitting the boy lying on the ground twice with a stick and then threatening the person recording it. Delhi Police has started a disciplinary inquiry against two policemen allegedly present there. Around 3am on Saturday, a head constable and a constable patrolling near the Ekta Vihar JJ camp saw a group of boys loitering near a public toilet used by the women of the colony. As many women had raised safety concerns, the cops asked the boys to leave the area. But half an hour later, the boys were still there. One of the cops allegedly chased them, caught hold of one and hit him. Another policeman was seen standing nearby watching his colleague thrash the boy. The cop thrashing the boy then asked the person recording the incident to switch off the camera and ran towards him to snatch the phone. DCP (south-west) Devender Arya said the probe was being headed by an additional DCP-rank officer, who would also look into the circumstances leading to the incident. The incident didn’t come to fore immediately as no PCR call or detention was made, said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/viral-clip-shows-cop-beating-up-boy/articleshow/77751414.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Third phase of tribal relocation to start soon||UDHAGAMANDALAM: As part of the relocation programme under the Project Tiger in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) in the Nilgiris, the third phase of relocation of tribals is set to commence soon. At least 168 families, including tribals, are to be relocated to Iyyenkolli in Gudalur taluk. A sum of Rs 16.8 crore has been sanctioned by the central and state governments for this. Identification of land in Iyyenkolli is underway and the search will be completed by end of this month, according to Shenbagapriya, deputy director, MTR-core zone. There are about 701 families, including 139 tribal families, dwelling in deep forest in the core area of MTR. In the past two years, two phases of relocation have taken place. While in the first phase at least 235 families were identified, in the second phase it was 255 families. “But the proposals of 5 families in the first phase and 19 families in the second phase are still pending due to procedural formalities,” said Shenbagapriya. “The pending relocation cases will be carried out soon along with the 168 families in the third phase,” she added. As per the master list there are 211 families in the third phase who need to be relocated. “Around 40 families are not willing to relocate. Hence, the remaining 168 families will be relocated in the third phase,” said Shenbagapriya. However, the unwilling families will be evicted once the relocation programme is over, she added. The families in the third phase are from villages such as Mandhakarai, Bundiththal and Mudhugul located deep inside the forest. The government identified 398.47 hectares of land for relocation near Ayyankolli in Pandalur taluk in which 289.49 hectares fall under Gudalur division of forests. The process of dis-reserved forests was completed and the extent of land occupied by tribals and forest dwellers (701 families) inside the MTR stands at 299 hectares. Besides compensation, each family will get a monetary compensation of Rs.10 lakh for construction of houses. While the forest department is acting as a facilitator, the revenue department is carrying out the work of surveying the land and allocating as per norms. A district level committee headed by the Nilgiris collector will monitor the process. The funds received from both the governments in the ratio of 60:40 are deposited in a separate joint account in the name of the district collector and the beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/third-phase-of-tribal-relocation-to-start-soon/articleshow/77751422.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Goa||Shripad Naik stable, no need to shift him to Delhi: Goa CM||PANAJI: Ayush minister Shripad Naik’s health condition improved on Tuesday and a team of doctors from All India Institute of Medical Sciences and Armed Forces Command Hospital, who examined him, decided to continue his treatment in Goa. “His (Naik’s) health is stable and there is no need to shift him to AIIMS in Delhi,” chief minister Pramod Sawant said. Naik, who is also the junior defence minister, has been undergoing treatment at a private hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19 on August 12. “His oxygen saturation level is satisfactory. The team of expert doctors have told us that Naik will take at least three weeks to recover (from his lung infection),” Goa Medical College and Hospital dean S M Bandekar told TOI after the Delhi doctors had examined Naik. On Monday, Sawant had said Naik had contracted lung infection and the expert team of doctors will decide on the future course of action after examining him on Tuesday. The experts—critical care and pulmonary doctors—were air dashed to Goa after Naik’s oxygen saturation level dropped on Monday morning and had come prepared to medically evacuate him if needed. Naik, who had tested negative when he underwent a TrueNat test on Monday, underwent an RT-PCR test on Tuesday morning as per the protocol. Bandekar also said the team of expert doctors have advised against administering another dose of plasma therapy for Naik as he had tested negative under TrueNat. “Since the disease is not active, they said he is not required to be given plasma again,” he said. Naik, who was critical last week, was administered plasma therapy and had shown marked improvement. Health minister Vishwajit Rane had said last week that it was only due to plasma therapy that they were able to save Naik. “He is comparatively better than Monday and his breath holding time is also good,” Shekhar Salkar, chief of clinical services at Manipal Hospitals, where Naik is undergoing treatment, told TOI. “Naik continues to be on non-invasive ventilation (NIV), which will be tapered off slowly,” he said. Salkar said the experts have suggested that the state government could request AIIMS to send a specialist to monitor Naik’s health for at least a week. Naik’s son Sidhesh also expressed satisfaction about the treatment given to his father. “He is much better today,” he said. The team of doctors included Dr Rajeshwari, head of critical care medicine and Dr Anant Mohan, head of pulmonary medicine from AIIMS, and Lt Col Munish Kumar (transplant anaesthesiologist) and Lt Col M Shyam (critical care specialist) from Armed Forces Command Hospital, Delhi. The team is expected to leave for Delhi on Wednesday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shripad-stable-no-need-to-shift-him-to-delhi-cm/articleshow/77751423.cms||Bindiya Chari
August 26, 2020||Hubballi||Delay in completion of industrial park for women frustrates entrepreneurs||HUBBALLI: In a bid to encourage more women to take to entrepreneurship, the then Siddaramaiah-led state government had proposed the setting up of three industrial parks exclusively for women, one of which was to be established in Dharwad. However, there has been little progress by way of bringing the exclusive women’s entrepreneurial park to reality in the ensuing years. Unsurprisingly, businesswomen across the districts of North Karnataka, are upset with the inordinate delay in the setting up of the park. Some of the entrepreneurs said that they had sought land for their companies in November 2019, but the lack of any concrete action taken with regard to their proposals has, along with the protracted delay, only compounded their frustration. The Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) has earmarked a 30-acre plot in Gamangatti for the park in question, and work is under way at the site. Sources at the District Industry Centre (DIC), Dharwad said that work on the water supply network was pending, and would be completed in a few days. “The women entrepreneurs’ parks are being set up in Dharwad, Mysuru and Ballari. In Dharwad, only work on water and electricity supply networks is pending. The Covid-19 crisis delayed completion of all the pending work, else the park would have been completed by now,” said Mohan Bharamkkanavar, DIC joint director. Bharamkkanavar said that 385 women entrepreneurs had sought plots at the park, and submitted applications. “Since the Dharwad district administration is busy tackling the Covid-19 crisis, owing to which the allocation of plots has been delayed. While some of the applicants have sought 10 guntas, others have applied for 20 and 30 guntas,” said the joint director, adding that most of the entrepreneurs were keen on setting up engineering firms or food and garment factories. Founder of New Look Enterprises Nivedita Kahar, while lauding the initiative to have a dedicated industrial park for women, said that the government must ensure that the process of allocating land is hassle-free. “The applications must not be subjected to scrutiny and the authority has to check whether the land will be allotted to the genuine entreprenuer or their husbands or relatives will run the unit. “The authorities must see how much employment the units can generate. Ideally, for a company that offers jobs to 100 people, an acre must be allocated. There is no point if the project is delayed continuously,” said Nivedita.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/delay-in-completion-of-industrial-park-for-women-frustrates-entrepreneurs/articleshow/77748419.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
August 26, 2020||Surat||History-sheeter booked for forging documents||Surat: Police booked a history-sheeter and his wife in Chowk Bazaar police station on Monday for allegedly using forged papers in court to seek bail. The accused used fake health-related papers to prove his wife’s illness but fearing he will be caught withdrew the bail application. Police booked Rahul Piple alias Apartment and his wife Kajal in Chowk Bazaar police station for allegedly forging medical papers. The accused are booked for using fake evidence, forging papers and other charges. The complaint was lodged by Ketan Naik, resident medical officer, New Civil Hospital (NCH). Piple, accused in murder of gangster Surya Marathi, had approached a local court seeking 30 days bail for treatment of his wife. He submitted forged medical papers of NCH to prove that his wife is ill. Before the case came on board for hearing, the accused realised he will be caught in court and withdrew the application. The facts, however, came to the knowledge of public prosecutor Kishore Revaliya, who alerted the police. During investigation cops found Piple’s forgery after which police registered the offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/history-sheeter-booked-for-forging-documents/articleshow/77748437.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Dehradun||Govt is working fine, officers need to be more alert: Governor Maurya||Dehradun: Governor Baby Rani Maurya, who completes two years in office on Wednesday, told TOI that while the performance of the Uttarakhand government has been good in this period, government officicials need to be more alert and sensitive on local issues. The governor said that her plan is to ensure that at least one Scheduled Caste(SC) dominated village in each district is developed as a model village which should have good schools, proper internet facilities, good infrastructure, and also job opportunities for the youth and women. “I am going to soon talk to the ministers and MLAs concerned to focus on the project. It will take around three-month time period to develop one village into a model village.” Maurya, who took oath as the seventh governor of Uttarakhand in 2018, had a word of advice for government officials. “I feel that the officers in Uttarakhand need to be more alert and sensitive towards local issues since they are responsible for the timely and effective implementation of government schemes. Proper implementation of the schemes can also prevent reverse migration and encourage more people from the state to return to their roots,” she added. In the same breath, she said that while the state has a great potential in the field of Ayurveda and herbs, it needs to be tapped and promoted on national and international scales. Citing the example of Kerala, Maurya said that Uttarakhand, too, has a great potential in the field of Ayurveda and herbs. “There are written texts, dating back to the time of Ramayan, about the herbs available in this part of the world. Similarly, Ayurveda and Ayurvedic treatment also can become a thriving sector in Uttarakhand. We need to promote these nationally and internationally,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-is-working-fine-officers-need-to-be-more-alert-governor-maurya/articleshow/77748444.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 26, 2020||Delhi||Can’t expect 70% min attendance: HC to Delhi University||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Tuesday pointed out that Delhi University can’t expect students to have 70% minimum attendance to be eligible for examinations, if it isn’t taking classes for the entire period prescribed for a course. “You cannot say students have to have 70% minimum attendance while you teach only 40% of the prescribed study period,” a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan told DU while hearing the plea of a law student who could not sit for his first semester exams last year on medical grounds. The court also issued notice to the Centre, Bar Council of India and DU seeking their stand on the student’s plea seeking waiver of shortage of attendance and permission to sit for his first semester exams. Earlier, a single judge bench had dismissed his plea on the ground that there is a clear cut rule that in professional courses, the requirement of attaining minimum attendance was non-negotiable. During the hearing on Tuesday, the bench headed by Chief Justice noted that there should be some mechanism to take care of such students, who since March 2017 has been suffering from an illness for which there was no clear and certain diagnosis, “instead of creating a wall.” According to the plea of Abhishek Singh,while typhoid was suspected there was also a possibility that he was suffering from tuberculosis. Singh submitted through his counsel that representations were made to DU to allow himto sit for the first semester exams, despite the lack of attendance, in view of his continuing illness but no response was received from the university and later he was told his name would be struck off the rolls. Taking note of this, the high court told DU to confirm when the first semester commenced last year and when the exams were held. It also told the student’s lawyer to find out what was the minimum period of study prescribed/required for LLB course by DU and whether the same was being adhered to.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cant-expect-70-min-attendance-hc-to-du/articleshow/77751449.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Burglars’ night out turns into nightmare for 2 police stations||Aurangabad: Burglars targeted as many as 10 shops on the Jatwada road of Harsul area early on Monday morning, forcing cops from two police stations into action due to jurisdictional issue.Six of the shops burgled are on the right side of the road and come under the jurisdiction of Harsul police station while the remaining four on the left side fall in the Begumpura police station limits.The crime has obviously left cops red-faced as the burglars broke into so many shops without being noticed by any night police patrol. Senior police officers confirmed that both the police stations have been asked to investigate and arrest the culprits as soon as possible.Among the shops that were targeted were a photo studio, hardware shop, cloth shop, mobile outlet, vada pav centre, puncture stalls and a sanitary hardware shop. The image of the suspects has been captured in the CCTV cameras installed in a handful of the shops. The suspects walked away with trousers and T-shirts from the cloth shop. Citing that it was the first such case of bending the shutters of the shop to commit burglary in his jurisdiction, inspector Sachin Ingole of Harsul police station said, “We suspect that it is not the work of any burglar on criminal record.”Police said that the suspects stole money amounting to a few thousand rupees, including coins, that were left in the shops. The suspects have reportedly stolen petty articles including shampoo.Begumpura police inspector Sachin Sanap could not be reached for comment on the burglaries committed in his jurisdiction. During the lockdown, several shops in the limits of Begumpura area, most of them in Saeeda Colony in the area bordering Harsul police station, were burgled. Locals from these areas blame poor night patrolling for the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/burglars-night-out-turns-into-nightmare-for-2-police-stations/articleshow/77749881.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: Shivajinagar’s 2-week tally least among 15 civic wards||PUNE: Shivajinagar-Ghole Road and Dhole Patil Road reported least Covid-19 cases among the 15 civic wards in the last two weeks, following the effective control measures in slum pockets like Wadarwadi, Janwadi and Tadiwala Road. While the Shivajinagar-Ghole Road ward limits recorded 576 cases from August 9 to 22, a total of 629 cases were detected in the Dhole Patil Road ward areas. Civic officials said both the wards had huge slum pockets, which had emerged as the biggest hotspots over time. However, Covid-19 spread in these densely populated areas has been brought under control due to the sustained mitigation efforts, resulting in detection of fewer cases, the official said, adding that steps were being initiated to create awareness among the slum residents on following precautionary measures like wear of face masks and maintaining social distancing norms. In the Dhole Patil ward limits, the Tadiwala Road slum pocket and BT Kawde Road had become the largest Covid-19 hotspots, propelling the ward among the top three in terms of Covid-19 cases till June. “The spread of infection has been under control now at Tadiwala Road and BT Kawde Road. In fact, some localities from both these areas have now been removed from the list of containment zones because of the drastic drop in the number of cases. Now, new cases are coming up only sporadically. The ward has not reported any major outbreak in the last two weeks,” an official from the ward office said. A similar trend was observed in the Shivajinagar-Ghole Road ward limits where many areas of Wadarwadi slum, Gokhalenagar, Janwadi have been removed from the list of containment zones after drop in cases. All these areas are densely populated with smaller houses. Some areas of Pandavnagar are still sealed. Nitin Udas, deputy commissioner and zonal officer, said the administration was ensuring that the residents were following social distancing norms and not throwing caution to the wind. “We have been holding awareness drives, besides urging people to go for medical examinations in case they develop symptoms akin to Covid-19. People are told to avoid large gatherings. We have continued monitoring of senior citizens and comorbid patients in some localities,” Udas said. As per the data released by the Pune Smart City Corporation, eight wards reported more than 1,000 cases, while cases in seven wards stayed below 1,000 in the last two weeks (August 10 to 22). The Dhankawdi-Sahakarnagar ward has reported the highest (2,159) cases during the period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shivajinagars-2-week-tally-least-among-15-civic-wards/articleshow/77751419.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 26, 2020||Dehradun||Out-of-work tourism employees stage protest, demand Rs 10,000 per month grant||Dehradun: Members of Tour Operators Association and Taxi Maxi Association of Uttarakhand staged a sit-in protest in Haridwar against the Uttarakhand government on Tuesday. The agitating members, who followed the distancing norms during the sit-in, claimed that the incumbent government is doing nothing to revive the tourism economy, which has been hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. The protestors raised slogans and demanded Rs 10,000 per month grant for every person involved in tourism business in the hill state who is jobless since March. They also demanded a waiver on road tax and vehicle tax for next two years along with easy loans for tourism-related trades. Abhishek Ahluwalia, president of Tour Operators Association of Uttarakhand, and Girish Bhatia, chairman of Taxi Maxi Association, in a joint statement said that the government should pay attention to the demands of the tourism bodies. “It’s very much possible for the state government to waive off tax for hotel owners for two years and insurance of all private vehicles for a year. All drivers and those working in the travel industry must be paid Rs 10,000 per month,” said Ahluwalia, while adding that the government should think seriously on ways to welcome travellers to Uttarakhand and revive tourism business. The body of tour and taxi operators also demanded exemption in interests and bank installments for two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/out-of-work-tourism-employees-stage-protest-demand-rs-10000-per-month-grant/articleshow/77748434.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 26, 2020||Kochi||Aadhaar-enabled gate to check Covid in Kerala||KOCHI: Rizwin Azeez Naina, a software engineer based in Sharjah, returned to Kochangadi in Mattancherry four months ago like many non-resident Keralites who wanted to join their families in the midst of a raging pandemic. The ward no 9 in Mattancherry where his house is located is currently a containment zone. As a father of a young child, it was a happy family reunion for Rizwin, a time to be well spent in the company of his near and dear ones, but he chose not to sit idle. Working tirelessly and having developed a Proof-of-Concept for an ‘Aadhaar-enabled gate’, Rizwin on Monday wrote a letter to the Prime Minister of India with details of the technology he had developed that would help in opening up the economy. “This gate makes use of the QR code in the Aadhaar card and thus makes sure if a person is supposed to be on quarantine or at high risk. A temperature sensor attached to the gate is activated once the QR code is scanned,” said 32-year-old Rizwin. Rizwin, who works for Sharjah Charity, hopes that the Union government will adopt the technology and make it a feature in the Arogya Setu app to identify persons with Covid-19 risk. “Once we are able to find and isolate/quarantine persons who knowingly or unknowingly came directly in contact with Covid-19 positive people, a major work in prevention is done,” he said. Rizwin has also developed a mobile application for the purpose, which scans the Aadhaar card and informs about the risk status using colour codes of red, orange and green. “The QR code in Aadhaar card has only details like name, date of birth, location and pin code and capturing them would not be harmful provided the data is deleted after a certain period,” said Rizwin when asked about the risks and privacy concerns involved in using Aadhaar. For those people or shops who can’t afford this gate device will be provided with a unique QR code, which they can stick outside their shops. So the customer has to scan this QR code using the mobile application before entering the shops. Based on the status of his QR code, customers will be given entry to the shop and the data will be recorded on the centralized system, Rizwin said. “This is a non-profitable venture and the software needs to be developed in such a way as to support a nation of ours with such a large population. Companies would be interested only if there is money in it. If the central government takes an initiative, this can be realised,” said Rizwin who had earlier developed a glass for the blind, which processes visual information using an application and turns it into audio.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/aadhaar-enabled-gate-to-check-covid/articleshow/77748464.cms||Binu Karunakaran
August 26, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Containment zones become more compact||BHOPAL: Containment area norms in the city have changed again. It is no longer three houses — the ‘epicentre’ (the house where coronavirus patient is found) and the adjoining houses on both the sides — which was the practice the past couple of months nor it is one-km radius on both sides of the ‘epicentre’ as defined originally. Now, containment area is somewhere between the two. Besides, it is not being called containment area any more, but rather containment zone. About 20 to 25 houses in three adjoining localities are bracketed under one containment zone. This is the reason, why containment areas, which used to be around 200 in number earlier, are now reduced to 45 though coronavirus patients in the city have only increased. For example, houses covering 19 patients in three colonies in Jehangirabad — CI Colony, Barkhedi and Jogipura — have been kept under one containment zone or 13 patients of Marwadi Road/Lakherapura/Pirgate have been bracketed under a common containment zone. Similarly, 20 patients of three colonies in Bairagarh township -- Vitthal Nagar/ Om Shiv Nagar/Greenglobes Acres — have been kept under one containment zone. Besides, number of patients in an area is now being counted in terms of jurisdiction of 7 sub-divisional magistrates in the city and not in terms of jurisdiction of respective police stations as used to be the practice earlier. Also, earlier the district administration chart used to show how many patients are there in areas under different police stations, but now it shows number of patients in areas under the jurisdiction of various SDMs. According to latest chart, among 45 containment zones, nine are in areas under the jurisdiction of SDM (city), four under SDM Bairagarh, 14 in areas under the jurisdiction of SDM Govindpura, 9 under SDM TT Nagar, 3 under SDM Kolar, 4 under SDM M P Nagar and one under SDM Berasia. District administration spokesperson, Arun Rathore, said the area under containment areas has been enlarged and if a person is found infected in a colony, the entire colony is notified as containment area and not just 3 houses as the norm was for sometime. “As far as cluster of houses from different colonies under one containment zone is concerned, they are probably an aggregate of smaller containment areas in the whole region, which is being counted as one containment zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/containment-zones-become-more-compact/articleshow/77749867.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
August 26, 2020||Dehradun||Mosquito larvae found in over 100 houses during drive||Dehradun: A total of 19 teams of Asha workers and facilitators inspected 356 houses in various parts of Dehradun during the anti-dengue and anti-malaria drive on Tuesday. Out of 356 houses inspected, the teams found mosquito larvae in as many as 107 houses. These houses were sprayed with disinfectant solutions. Later, the teams also checked over 2,700 containers and found the presence of larvae inside 200 containers. These house owners were strictly asked to maintain hygiene to avoid water from getting collected in their surroundings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mosquito-larvae-found-in-over-100-houses-during-drive/articleshow/77748462.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Pune||Five volunteers in Pune to get India’s first doses of potential vaccine today||PUNE: Five volunteers will be administered the first doses of a potential Covid-19 vaccine on Wednesday. Doses of Covishield, developed by researchers at Oxford University and manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), arrived at Bharati hospital for phase-2 human clinical trials on Tuesday. The hospital is the first site in India to kick off the trial. Bharati’s medical director, Sanjay Lalwani, said, “Our hospital is the first site in India which has started the human trial by enrolling the first five volunteers from Pune. On Tuesday, we drew their swabs for an RT-PCR test to check for Covid infection and blood samples to find any past instances. These five volunteers will participate if they are found negative for both.” The Drugs Controller General Of India (DCGI) had earlier this month given SII the nod to conduct phase 2 and phase 3 human clinical trials of Covishield vaccine in India. About 1,600 people, all above 18, will be a part of the trials across 17 selected sites in India, including at four hospitals in Pune. From the 1,600 volunteers, 100 will undergo phase 2 human trials to assess the safety profile of the vaccine. The remaining 1,500 will participate in phase 3, which will determine if the vaccine can really induce immunity and is effective. Lalwani said, “The first 100 volunteers from the phase 2 trial will be monitored for a week after vaccination to check for any adverse reaction. The phase 3 trial will begin immediately after the vaccine is found to be safe among the first 100. Our hospital will be enrolling 30 participants for the phase 2 trial and another 320 volunteers for phase 3 trial,” Lalwani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/five-volunteers-in-pune-to-get-indias-first-doses-of-potential-vaccine-today/articleshow/77751433.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 26, 2020||Goa||Goa’s death toll crosses 150 as 9 more succumb to Covid-19||PANAJI: Nine Covid mortalities reported on Tuesday, took the death toll to 110 in August alone. The cumulative death toll since June stands at 157. Three of the nine fatalities were males in their early 50s from Dharbandora, Mangor Hill and Pernem and one 49-year-old female from Mangor Hill. The rest, also all males, were in their 60s and 70s from Pernem, Merces, Chandor, Borim and Malbhat-Margao. Dharbandora and Chandor reported their first Covid deaths. Five of the nine passed away at Goa Medical College (GMC) and four at the ESI Covid hospital, Margao. After a dip in cases over the Ganesh Chaturthi weekend, the number of fresh cases shot up from 129 on Monday to 392 on Tuesday with 446 reports still awaited. With close to 500 active cases under its jurisdiction, the Margao health centre has the most number in the state. Vasco with the highest cumulative positive cases has only 239 active cases. The Ponda primary health centre, Panaji and Mapusa urban health centres, and Porvorim, Corlim, Chimbel, Cansaulim and Navelim primary health centres all have more than 100 active cases each. Active cases in Panaji include businessmen, people working at the secretariat and private companies in Verna, students, bank employees, housewives, military and police personnel, journalists, court staff and health workers among others. August has been particularly worrying with an average of four deaths reported each day. Not a single day has gone by in the month without a Covid fatality. Forty deaths were reported in the third week of August alone. Last week, GMC dean Dr S Bandekar stated that patients are reporting late with Covid pneumonia when the virus has already reached their lungs. Health minister Vishwajit Rane had said that Covid is infecting people across strata, from the most wealthy to the poorest. Several of those succumbing have diabetes and hypertension as comorbidities make it a challenge for doctors to control Covid and the comorbidities. There are also a higher number of men compared to women who have succumbed to the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-death-toll-crosses-150-as-9-more-succumb-to-covid-19/articleshow/77751448.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Mahad building collapse: 13 dead, 2 rescued alive||Navi Mumbai: Almost 28 hours after a ground plus five-storeyed building collapsed in Mahad town, three persons are still missing, while a 4-year-old and a 55-year-old woman were rescued alive from the Mahad building collapse site on Tuesday. As many as 13 persons were extricated dead, while around 62 persons had managed to escape death in the nick of time before the Tarique Garden building collapsed at around 6.18pm on Monday. While rescue operations continue, the Mahad Police has booked five persons, including a Taloja resident, Faròoq Kazi, who had constructed the building, architect Gaurav Shah, consultant Bahubali Dhamane, former Chief Officer of the Mahad Municipal Council Dipak Zinzad and Shashikant Dighe, works department supervisor of the municipal council, for culpable homicide not amounting to murder and negligence causing death among others. Raigad Collector Nidhi Chaudhary said, “The building had 41 flats. The construction of the building began in 2011 and an occupancy certificate was issued in 2013. We have not come across any records to prove allegations of poor quality of work and structural audit. However, allegations will be probed as the building collapsed within seven years of construction.” Mahad SDO Vitthal Inamdar said, “The deceased will be recommended for Rs 4 lakh compensation each as per norms.” Raigad police PRO Suresh Yamgar said, “Mahad municipal council former chief officer and works supervisor have been booked as they had cleared the building by providing occupancy certificate. The three main accused have been booked for poor quality of construction. No one has been arrested so far, but search for the accused is on.” A local resident, Irfan Pevekar, is worried as his 80-year-old relative Habiba Hajwane, who had undergone an operation on one of his legs, was trapped in the debris and is untraceable. “Hajwane had nobody in the house to rescue him,” said Pevekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/mahad-building-collapse-13-dead-2-rescued-alive/articleshow/77752282.cms||Umesh K Parida
August 26, 2020||Pune||Private hospitals inflated bills by Rs 50 lakh: PMC & PCMC audit||PUNE: Private hospitals in the city inflated Covid-19 treatment bills in 75 cases, which involved an amount of Rs 50 lakh, the audit conducted by the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations has revealed.  Both the civic bodies have scrutinised 133 Covid-19 treatment bills issued by the private hospitals. Each of these bills was above Rs 1.5 lakh. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao shared the details about the inflated bills as well as the audit reports on Tuesday. “After we received complaints about inflated bills, we decided to carry out pre-audits of the bills. The civic body has set up a committee to cross verify the bills, which visited different hospitals and scrutinized the bills. Hospitals in PCMC and PMC were on the radar,” Rao said. He said around Rs 38 lakh were reduced from the bills given to the patients in the PMC areas, following the directives of the auditors. The amount of bills reduced in PCMC areas was Rs 12 lakh. Teams in Pune scrutinized 102 bills and those in Pimpri Chinchawad carried out audits of 31 bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pvt-hospitals-inflated-bills-by-rs-50l-pmc-pcmc-audit/articleshow/77751452.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Villages hosting weekly markets under scanner||Aurangabad: The district administration, in order to curb the spread of Covid-19, has decided to focus on 13 villages across the district that host weekly markets. “Testing would be conducted extensively in these villages,” said district collector Sunil Chavan. A meeting of people’s representatives was held on Monday evening during which it was informed that focusing on these markets will help curb the spread of the disease in rural areas where the cases are on the rise. “Currently, the Covid-19 cases are increasing in the rural areas. However, the number of Covid patients in rural areas is quite low as compared to the urban areas of the district. The recovery rate has also been encouraging as about 74.03% have been cured and discharged from various hospitals across the district,” the collector added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/villages-hosting-weekly-markets-under-scanner/articleshow/77747207.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: No murder charge for ‘killing’ husband||NEW DELHI: A murder charge was slapped on a woman for allegedly killing her husband. But a court has sentenced her to 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment on the charge of culpable homicide not amounting to murder while stating that she had “exceeded her right of private defence” on being attacked by him. The woman was being tried for killing her husband on September 11, 2014. It came on record that she had acted in retaliation to an attack by her husband, who died three days after the alleged assault on him. “After getting injuries on her head and face on one hand, the accused would have lost her temper and simultaneously, she would have become worried of her life and limb,” additional sessions judge Ajay Gupta noted in the conviction order. “Under these circumstances, the accused had a right to exercise her right to private defence and assault the deceased back but only to the extent which was necessary for saving herself from the further assaults of the deceased,” the court said. Things turned ugly when the man started hitting the wife with an iron rod. After having suffered injuries on her head, eyes and face, the woman struck back on the man’s head with the same object. The man had allegedly told her before the sudden assault, “I am very upset with you.” During an altercation, the deceased became aggressive and suddenly started to assault her, the court said. “It has already been held that on meeting with such a sudden fierce attack, the accused lost her temper and in a fit of rage, she assaulted back the deceased with the same object.” The woman claimed that she tried to snatch the rod from his hands but it fell on the floor. She also claimed she didn’t know how he got injured as she was in a semi-unconscious state. The court, however, called it a “false defence” for the man’s postmortem report showed otherwise. According to the judgment, the woman had not committed murder punishable under IPC 302, but under Section 304(1) relating to culpable homicide not amounting to murder. The court said she had committed the crime “with the intention of causing such bodily injury” that she knew was likely to cause. She also knew her act was “so imminently dangerous that it must, in all probability, cause death, or such bodily injury as is likely to cause death or without any excuse”. But the act “was not premeditated and she assaulted the deceased under provocation in order to save herself; however, she exceeded the right to private defence and caused serious injuries…which proved fatal”, the court held. The woman was also fined Rs 5,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-murder-charge-for-killing-husband/articleshow/77751503.cms||Aamir Khan
August 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Cases in Thiruvananthapuram clusters decline, as does testing||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The capital district’s coastal clusters, which have been an Achilles heel in the state’s Covid-19 response, seemed to be on the mend – with daily cases dropping sharply over the past week. However, authorities hardly find it encouraging because medical teams have been reporting reluctance on the part of residents to turn up for testing. Puthukurichi, which has been a major cluster, has not reported a significant number of cases for two weeks. And officials say that on many days even half the kits could remain unused because of the drop in testing. Even those who volunteer are neither symptomatic nor belong to a vulnerable group, but are there for the Covid-negative certificates for employment purposes. Over the period from July 1 to August 22, 4,895 positive cases were reported in 11 coastal panchayats. Nearly 28,769 samples were tested and average positivity rate was 17%. Four clusters reported a positivity rate above 20%: Poonthura (20.4%), Pulluvila (29.1%), Anchuthengu (23.6%) and Poovar (21.2%). District collector Navjot Khosa said the trend has been on the decline but it would be another week or more before they can think of delisting containment zones. The plan is to lower positivity rate to 5%. At present, except for Thiruvallom, all coastal clusters have positivity rates above 10%. Kadinamkulam panchayat president Felix P said home-based mobilization is being carried out to encourage people to get tested. “There is so much false news out there which drives people away from testing centres. We need to cover a very good percentage of our community before the area can be declared Covid-free,” he said. There were signs of transmission in all major clusters even in the first week of August. Anchuthengu, which reported 141 cases in July, saw over 300 cases in the first six days of August. Beemapally, which reported just around 100 cases throughout July, saw 41 cases early this month. Even Poonthura, which registered over 700 cases in July, continued to report sporadic cases. Medical officials believe a section of people may have acquired herd immunity but chances of infection and reinfection among vulnerable groups still remain a major challenge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cases-in-tvpm-clusters-decline-as-does-testing/articleshow/77748532.cms||Aswin J Kumar
August 26, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Cop’s first wife, kin to get lawyer over Covid payout||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Tuesday gave the first wife and daughter of a Mumbai railway police officer Suresh Hatankar, who died of Covid-19 in May, two days to engage a lawyer and posted to Thursday a claim by his second wife’s daughter, for her share in compensation and employment payouts. An HC bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and Madhav Jamdar had on Monday sought their presence. The first wife, Shubhada, and their daughter Surbhi, via video-conferencing claimed they were unaware of their father’s second family. Advocate Prerak Sharma, representing Shraddha, the second daughter from a second wife, said they were aware and referred to a social media post by the first daughter. After Shraddha’s lawyer pointed to a recent HC judgment, which held that a child from a second marriage, while the first still subsists, has rights to a share of her father’s assets, including retirement benefits, the bench said it would consider the matter keeping in mind the earlier judicial pronouncement. The HC also directed state lawyer Jyoti Chavan to deposit Rs 50 lakh compensation amount with the court registry on Thursday. DCP Pradeep Chavan said they would deposit Rs 16 lakh within a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cops-first-wife-kin-to-get-lawyer-over-covid-payout/articleshow/77750109.cms||Swati Deshpande
August 26, 2020||Pune||Pune Zilla Parishad launches ‘catch the virus’ drive||PUNE: The Pune Zilla Parishad has launched ‘catch the virus’ drive in all 13 tehsils to survey all comorbid people and senior citizens using pulse oximeter in a bid to reduce the death rate. Ayush Prasad, ZP chief executive officer, said, “Nine out of ten deaths are either senior citizens or people with comorbidities. In the first round, we identified 60 positive patients from this category. Now, the second phase is on.” According to the ZP records, rural Pune, which includes 13 tehsils and 14 municipal councils, recorded a total of 17,230 cases, of which 12,126 have been discharged after recovery, 560 succumbed to the virus, while 4,544 are active cases. To reduce the death rate, the ZP has taken measures such as increasing the number of oxygen beds, providing liquid tap oxygen to 5 sub-district hospitals and establishing Covid care centres (CCC) and dedicated Covid health centres (DCHC) at different places in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-launches-catch-the-virus-drive/articleshow/77751483.cms||Sandip Dighe
August 26, 2020||Pune||Single-day recoveries top infections, 95 more dead||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) recorded 225 more recoveries than new cases on Tuesday, bringing down its Covid-19 active case count to 30,906. Besides, 95 fatalities in the last 24 hours pushed up the region’s death toll to 3,742. As many as 2,730 patients were discharged in PMR in the last 24 hours as against 2,505 fresh cases. As for the mortalities, 44 patients succumbed to the infection in the PMC limits, while 31 in the PCMC areas. A PMC report stated that most of the patients who succumbed to the infection in the municipal limits, most were aged above 50 years and had comorbid conditions. PMC health officials said 796 patients were at critical stage, of whom 483 were on ventilator, while 2,648 were on oxygen support. The PMC has deployed 485 teams to conduct home-to-home survey to identify suspected patients. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao on Tuesday said the authorities had managed to increase the hospital bed capacity in the PMR. The capacity would go up further in the days to come as two jumbo facilities will start this week. Rao said that 45 worst-hit gram panchayats had been identified and concentrated efforts were under way in these villages to contain the spread of coronavirus infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/single-day-recoveries-top-infections-95-more-dead/articleshow/77751495.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 26, 2020||Bhopal||Onus on us to curb Covid spread, says cured patient||A walk in the park without a mask turned into a nightmare for 40-year-old Arvind (name changed) and his family. He was diagnosed with Covid-19 infection. What made matters difficult was when his family was required to go for institutional quarantine. More than two months on, he is now a proponent for community awareness through inter-personal communication and need for preventive and control measures, including social distancing to prevent Covid-19. “To be honest, I was careless. I did not wear a face mask on my walks in the garden. The whole process of being diagnosed with Covid-19 and the recovery has made me realise that infection spread has to be checked by us as a community. The evidence is very clear. We can reduce the viral load by 80% if everyone wears a mask when outside,” said the IT professional. Arvind now attends sessions and discussions on the contact tracing protocols, how to identify the contact, what are the guidelines for supporting people who are suspected, symptomatic or asymptomatic cases. “It is all connected. A bottoms-up approach will help us eradicate the virus. Simple steps for a larger solution,” said the father of two. Arvind admits that leading a sedentary lifestyle also added to his suffering during the hospitalisation. “The worst part was separation from my family. They were quarantined in a facility and not in the house. The whole situation added to the stress,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/onus-on-us-to-curb-covid-spread-says-cured-patient/articleshow/77749934.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Goa||Goa: For 1st time in over 300 years, ‘mahaprasad’ by Mhamai Kamats to be family-only affair||PANAJI: For 300 or 350 years now, the Mhamai Kamats open their historic Panaji-based home to devotees from across the state to partake of the ‘mahaprasad’ on Anant Chaturdashi. But this year, for the first time in living memory, they will limit the meal and observances on Anant Chaturdashi that falls on September 1 to immediate family members owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Over the past decade, at least 1,000-1,500 people are known to have enjoyed this holy community lunch offered by the family. “A large number of devotees would gather to witness the ‘aarti’ itself. But now, maintaining social distancing may be difficult. Major temples in Goa, too, have restricted even the ‘Shravan Sommar’ observances this year. Hence, we also felt duty-bound during the pandemic to follow the norms,” said Jyoti Mhamai Kamat. The family’s immediate members themselves comprise 30-35 people. As the centuries-old tradition couldn’t be put on hold due to the pandemic, the family held a discussion during which it was decided that the observances be limited to as small a scale as possible. “Anant Chaturdashi is a day of great joy for us to welcome so many people from different parts of the state. At the first serving of the mahaprasad itself, 500-600 people would be present,” Jyoti said. For the Mhamai Kamats, this event is bigger than Ganesh Chaturthi. Preparations go on for weeks,” Jyoti said. While the family would otherwise publish advertisements in the local newspapers inviting devotees on the occasion, advertisements this year will inform devotees that the Mhamai Kamats themselves will offer prayers on behalf of everyone on Anant Chaturdashi. “The elderly in the family do not have any memory of such a situation having occurred before, wherein Anant Chaturdashi celebrations had to be kept only within the family,” Jyoti said. The Mahale family of Mala, too, have been following a similar tradition for over 100 years, which will be restricted to the family this year due to Covid. “The Mahale family has been worshipping and conducting ‘Madanant Vrath Utsav’ on Anant Chaturdashi for at least 100 years. Devotees visit, offering ‘jayo’, fruits, etc. Couples who have difficulties in conceiving pray for a child and offer coconuts. And when they eventually conceive, they bring the child and offer dhoti, fruits and whatever else they like,” said Raghuvir Mahale. Over 1,000 devotees partake of the mahaprasad as well as ‘payasam’ as prasad on the day of Anant Chaturdashi at the Mahale household in Mala. “Due to the pandemic, we have decided to limit the ‘Vrath’ to our family to avoid crowding,” Raghuvir said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/for-1st-time-in-over-300-yrs-mahaprasad-by-mhamai-kamats-to-be-family-only-affair/articleshow/77751482.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
August 26, 2020||Dehradun||IIT-Roorkee researchers develop ‘preventive vaccine’ for candidiasis||ROORKEE: The researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee, have claimed to have developed a ‘preventive vaccine’ against candidiasis infection and tested it successfully on mice. The findings were published in the peer-reviewed American Society for Microbiology journal. Chief researcher Soma Rohatgi said, “In pre-clinical testing, we found the vaccine satisfactory and effective. It is a preventive vaccine like the one for polio and can be administered to humans.” The candidiasis infection is caused by the Candida fungus and is a serious life-threatening conditions. It refers to a spectrum of infections on skin or mucous membranes which can travel to various parts of the body like blood, heart, eyes, brain and bones. Common symptoms of the disease include fever and chills that do not improve with antibiotics. The researchers at the institute obtained a single isolated protein from Candida fungus to develop their vaccine and then injected a sub-unit of the vaccine in around 300 mice. Later, the same mice were exposed to candidiasis infection to check the effectiveness. They said that they took five years in developing the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iit-r-researchers-develop-preventive-vaccine-for-candidiasis/articleshow/77748516.cms||Tapan Susheel
August 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Private psychiatric clinics in Punjab to dispense buprenorphine||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government has finally allowed private psychiatric clinics to dispense buprenorphine and naloxone to drug addicts, albeit with riders. It has amended the Punjab Substance Use Disorder Treatment and Counseling and Rehabilitation Centres Rules 2011, paving way for private psychiatric clinics to dispense the detoxification medicines. Earlier, private drug rehabilitation centres and government run outpatient opioid-assisted treatment (OOAT) clinics and centres were allowed to dispense buprenorphine. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said private psychiatric clinics interested in dispensing buprenorphine will have to maintain minimum standards of infrastructure, including two beds, and prescribed manpower, which include full time psychiatrist, staff nurse/pharmacist, counsellor and data entry operator for online entry. He added that a cap has been imposed on the number of patients a clinic can examine in a day. The clinic should have a dispensing room with storage, a room for counselling patients and waiting room for OPD. To ensure that drugs are not misused, every registered clinic will have to maintain a proper record of stock, bills and invoices of procurements. They will also have to maintain medical records of patients. The health department will form special committees at district level to monitor the functioning of clinics regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pvt-psychiatric-clinics-to-dispense-buprenorphine/articleshow/77751522.cms||Vinod Kumar
August 26, 2020||Goa||Even as cases rise, Goa airport sees rise in footfalls||PANAJI: The rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state has failed to deter fliers with Goa International Airport witnessing a steady increase in passengers and air traffic since airlines took to the skies post the March 22 lockdown. Since May 25, the airport has handled 890 flights and 60,329 passengers, witnessing a near 30% increase in flights since then. From 14,778 passengers in June, the number of fliers passing through the state’s lone airport has risen to 23,672 as on August 24. Though still far from normal times, the emerging numbers are encouraging. When the Union ministry of Civil Aviation permitted domestic passenger flights to resume operations, flights from Goa were operating between Bengaluru, Delhi and Mysuru. As on August 25, Goa Airport is connected to Delhi, Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Pune, Hyderabad, Kannur, Mysuru and Bengaluru. Data provided by the Goa International Airport shows that there were 48 flight movements in May with 2,149 passengers either flying out or returning to Goa. The numbers steadily increased in June and July. June recorded 239 arrivals and departures with 14,778 passengers flying in and out of the state. In July there were 305 flight movements with 19,730 passengers taking to air travel through Goa International Airport. This number is all set to increase this month with 298 scheduled flights either landing or taking off from the airport as on August 24. As per Airports Authority of India’s (AAI) figures, Goa International Airport handled 3,401 flights in March just as the pandemic gripped the country. In 2019-20, the airport handled 53,636 flights, 76.5 lakh domestic passengers and 7 lakh international passengers. “On the surge for normalcy, Goa International Airport starts a new connection, Pune-Goa-Pune by IndiGo. The service initially shall be on Sunday, Monday and Friday,” said Goa Airport director Gagan Malik. Simultaneously, the AAI has taken up the upgradation work of the terminal. The false ceiling is being replaced in many sections of the terminal building, while local art forms and murals are being added to give a local flavour to the government-managed airport. In addition to the scheduled domestic flights, Goa International Airport has operated 46 relief flights which helped 9,741 international citizens fly out. Since the lockdown 36 repatriation and 10 Vande Bharat Mission flights brought in 6,962 and 1,250 stranded Indians. On Monday, yet another repatriation flight arrived from Dubai with 127 adults and an infant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/even-as-cases-rise-goa-airport-sees-rise-in-footfalls/articleshow/77751520.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Pune||Twin townships to get biggest ventilator add-on since March||PIMPRI CHINCHWAd: The civic body is set to add 40 new ventilator-supported beds this week in the single largest capacity expansion since the outbreak of the pandemic in the township in March. As on August 23, only 13 of the 110 ventilator supported beds dedicated for Covid care in the township, were vacant. All new beds will be in the jumbo facilities at Annasaheb Magar stadium and Auto Cluster. “Final checks are on and the facilities will open by this weekend,” civic chief Shravan Hardikar said. The operators, who will also provide for doctors, paramedics and staffers, were selected through a tender process. These will come up at a cost of Rs100 crore. In July, the local administrations had floated a tender for a jumbo facility at Rs25-30 crore at the top end of the estimate. On the difference in cost, Hardikar said, “The earlier tender was for a jumbo Covid care centre. However, we realised that just a care centre will not serve the purpose as we tied up with private hospitals and people are also opting for home isolation if found positive.” “The civic body is also adding 130 high-flow nasal oxygen therapy at Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial hospital and other health hubs,” said Santosh Patil, additional commissioner in the PCMC. According to the PCMC officials, 35% of the new patients are in home isolation. Of the 11,100 active cases, 9,340 are asymptomatic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/twin-townships-to-get-biggest-ventilator-add-on-since-march/articleshow/77751513.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
August 26, 2020||Dehradun||Met issues fresh alert of heavy rainfall in U’khand||Dehradun: The regional meteorological centre on Tuesday issued an orange alert of heavy-to-very heavy rainfall with intense spells in seven districts of Uttarakhand on August 25. According to the Met office, isolated places in Dehradun, Pauri, Haridwar, Tehri, Bageshwar, Pithoragarh, and Chamoli districts are likely to receive heavy-to-very rainfall during the next 24 hours starting from Tuesday night. Besides, incidents of lightning strikes could also occur along with intense rainfall at isolated places in Uttarakhand, the meteorologists said. Giving details, Bikram Singh, director of regional meteorological centre, “The monsoon activity is going to increase in Uttarakhand with heavy-to-very rainfall expected at isolated places in seven districts.” On Tuesday, several places in Uttarakhand received moderate-to-heavy spells with Chamoli receiving the maximum of 90 mm rainfall. Dehradun too was lashed by heavy spells of rain in the afternoon hours. The temperatures, meanwhile, are settling around normal-to-above normal levels in both hills and plains of Uttarakhand. For instance, Dehradun recorded the maximum temperature of 32.3 degree Celsius, almost three notches above normal, while the minimum temperature hovered at 24.2 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/met-issues-fresh-alert-of-heavy-rainfall-in-ukhand/articleshow/77748566.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 26, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Did 10-day lockdown help? Figures say no, officials yes||BHOPAL: The lockdown of 10 days imposed by the district administration in Bhopal from July 24 to August 3 appears to have had little or no impact as Covid-19 cases have increased continuously ever since. Officials on the other hand have a different take— they claim that lockdown and constant intervention has brought about significant progress and for the past fortnight the graph of positive cases has seemingly flattened, the slope of positive cases that was on upswing before the lockdown has come down, though marginally. Going by the official figures between July 1 and July 24 a total of 2,188 positive cases were reported and 53 deaths were reported which comes out to be 91 cases per day. During lockdown period between July 25 and August 31,816 positive cases were reported in just 10 days of lockdown averaging 181 cases per day which was double of that was reported before lockdown. Later, in August so far 2,620 positive cases have been reported, which average of 124 cases per day. District collector Avinash Lawaniya says, “If we go by total figures of positive cases before lockdown it may sound differently, but the graph was upwards, i.e., less cases were reported in beginning of July and it was increasing by second half of July when lockdown was imposed. That upwards rise was contained”. “Firstly, the rise in cases was controlled and secondly the curve seems to be nearly flattening in the past two weeks or so. The average number of cases are below 150, and it has remained constant despite a drastic increase in testing. The lockdown also helped us in capacity building for tackling any untoward situation,” he added. “And most importantly lockdown helped to instill a sense of fear and awareness among residents. Our teams be it sub-divisional magistrates, tehsildars, field staffers, health staffers everyone has worked day and night and are working even now for the prevention of spread of the disease and it is due to persistent efforts that the situation seems to be improving now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/did-10-day-lockdown-help-figures-say-no-officials-yes/articleshow/77749952.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Pune||Station out of bounds, travellers on train to Bihar face hardships||PUNE: Passengers arriving early at the Pune railway station to board the 8.55pm Pune-Danapur Express are facing immense hardships because they are prohibited from entering the platform till three hours before the scheduled departure of the train. Currently, only the Pune-Danapur Express originates from the Pune railway station. However, seven other passing trains stop at Pune. Many Bihar-bound passengers arrive in the city on these trains to take the Pune-Danapur Express, but they are told to leave the platform with the authorities locking the premises owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The gates are opened only three hours before the arrival and departure of trains. Saqib Anwar, a resident of Samastipur district in Bihar, had to wait outside the Pune station for close to 15 hours last week after arriving by the Hazrat Nizamuddin Express at 3am. He had no money to put up at a hotel. “We are daily wagers and going home on holiday. The station authorities told us to vacate the premises as soon as we got down from the train,” Anwar told TOI. “If passengers are not allowed to wait at the platform, the authorities should at least arrange for some basic facilities. There are no toilets and women passengers face a lot of inconveniences,” said another passenger. Many passengers waiting for the train are forced to take shelter at a nearby bus stop. “The railway authorities can at least arrange for mobile toilets,” said Nazuim Khan, another daily wage worker. “Most of us have medical certificates and there are temperature checks at the station during entry and exit. We should be allowed to sit at designated spots on the platform under supervision. We can then at least use the washrooms and buy food from the stalls,” he added. Pune railway division’s public relations officer Manoj Jhawar said, “The decision of not allowing anyone to enter the platform has come from headquarters. The railways cannot take the responsibility of passengers once they are out of the station. At present, there is no proposal to arrange facilities for waiting passengers on the station premises. The main entrance is opened three hours before the arrival and the departure of trains,” he said. Resident deputy collector Jayashree Katara told TOI that the district administration was not aware of the issue. “If this is the case, we will have to speak to the railway authorities,” she said. Harsha Shah, president, Railway Pravasi Group, said it was the duty of the railways to take care of their passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/station-out-of-bounds-travellers-on-train-to-bihar-face-hardships/articleshow/77751506.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 26, 2020||Mumbai||Two Mumbai cops among 5 in Maharashtra to die of Covid-19, August could be worst month||MUMBAI: Five more police personnel, including two from Mumbai, died of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the state toll to 144, of which 68 are from Mumbai. August could be the worst in the fight against Covid for state police, with 41 succumbing in 24 days. In July, 43 personnel died. A radio talkie constable of Mumbai Police was admitted to hospital when he reached his village in Jawahar to spend time with wife and family. On August 21, Shankar Sawaratkar (51) succumbed at Karnik Critical Care Hospital. Brother-in-law Bhajirao Pawar told TOI, “Sawaratkar reached in the evening on August 19 and within few hours complained of uneasiness, with severe cough and breathlessness. He was admitted around 10pm on August 20 and died the next day at 4.50pm. He did not have comorbidities. He went on leave but did not get to spend time with family.” He is survived by wife, an elderly mother and two sons, who are in the Army. Head constable Dipchand Pawar (51), from local arms division of Mumbai Police, succumbed on August 22, while his test report showed positive on August 24. He reported to work till August 18 before he went on leave after he complained of fever and breathlessness. He was admitted to a municipal hospital in Koparkhairne, where he died. The others are head constable Santosh Shelke (47), from Parner police station in Ahmednagar, assistant sub-inspector Sunil Shinde (56) of Ambad police station in Nashik city and one from Pune (rural). The Mumbai Police report showed 35 Covid deaths were aged 54-58, 14 (40-50), 15 (51-53) and four (30-40). The state police tally of cases is 14,067, of which 11,356 recovered and 2,569 are undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-mumbai-cops-among-5-in-maha-to-die-of-covid-19/articleshow/77750095.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
August 26, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Anti-tuberculosis drive boards Covid bandwagon||KOCHI: The state government plans to test people for tuberculosis using the Covid-19 platform. Thrissur has already initiated the process and other districts have been asked to follow suit. At present, there are about 24,595 TB patients in the state, with about 18,377 seeking treatment in government hospitals and the rest in the private sector. Kerala plans to eradicate TB by 2025. Both Covid-19 and TB test swabs are collected using the same procedure. As per the proposal, only those with symptoms of TB, such as coughing, chest pain and fever, besides contacts of TB patients, along with patients who are diabetic and at increased risk of developing TB will be tested. “The state’s TB elimination programme has, for the last two months, been hampered by the pandemic. Now, we are utilizing even the Covid platform to detect TB,” said Dr Sunil Kumar M, officer, state TB Cell. Compared to the rest of the country, the state’s TB burden is low. Estimated annual risk of infection is only one-fifth of national estimates. In districts like Idukki, incidence of TB is as low as 40 per lakh population. So far, only one TB case has been detected using the co-testing protocol. Kerala’s achievements in eliminating TB have been recognized by the World Health Organization and Government of India’s joint monitoring mission to review the revised national TB control programme. STEPS (System for TB Elimination in Private Sector), conceived and implemented by the state government, has been recommended for a countrywide rollout. Since 2019, Kerala has been talking about identifying latent TB infection, treatment and management. “Many of the initiatives for TB elimination in Kerala like airborne-infection control help desks at health facilities, handkerchief revolution for behaviour change, respiratory hygiene among school children, treatment support groups formed at every panchayat, molecular testing infrastructure like TrueNat and Xpert for TB testing have contributed to Kerala's fight against Covid-19 also,” said WHO consultant on TB, Dr Rakesh P S. Experts have welcomed the move but cautioned government against ignoring the stigma attached to both diseases. “In 2003, we launched a TB Combi plan in Kerala to attract more TB patients to hospitals. But it proved counterproductive. We have to be extremely careful as we move ahead and sensitize medical staff and patients,” said Dr S S Lal, director for infectious diseases at FHI 360, a USA-based health and development organization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/anti-tb-drive-boards-covid-bandwagon/articleshow/77748615.cms||Preetu Nair
August 26, 2020||Pune||‘Strain diversity’ study maps how SARS-CoV-2 entered India||PUNE: Multiple lineages of SARS-CoV-2, the virus which causes Covid-19, are currently circulating in India and have probably been introduced by travellers from Europe, the United States and East Asia. This has been revealed by a nationwide study of the virus’s genetic information, based on 1,000 ribonucleic acid (RNA) genomes from samples collected from Covid-19 patients. The study, currently in the pre-print stage, was jointly conducted by the Pune-based National Centre for Cell Science (NCCS) along with six other institutes under the Department of Biotechnology’s (DBT) SARS-CoV-2 RNA genome sequencing consortium. The experts said two predominant strains of the virus have emerged after frequent mutations. One strain, called 20A, is most abundant in the north of the country — across Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Uttarakhand — and the east (Odisha and West Bengal). According to the study, 20’ may have been introduced by travellers from Italy, Saudi Arabia, United Kingdom and Switzerland, the researchers said. Senior NCCS scientist Arvind Sahu, who was part of the study, said: “Another strain, called 20B, was found to be most abundant in the west (in Maharashtra) and the south (in Telangana and Karnataka). 20B may have entered these states from United Kingdom, Brazil, Italy and Greece.” Sahu said that predominance of a specific SARS-CoV-2 mutation was found to be emerging in almost all regions of the country. A predominant strain is one that transmits more and is, therefore, relatively more contagious. “This study provides an overall picture of what viral strains are circulating in India, which is important to know if candidate vaccines are expected to work,” he said. The scientists said “strain diversity” in India continued to increase until May. After that, it reduced drastically with the emergence of just two dominant strains which overtook the others by June. Samples for the research were collected from across 10 states. The consortium members, of which NCCS is a part, collected 1,062 clinical samples in the form of nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal swabs. Researchers said that 20A came from Italy and Saudi Arabia in all Indian regions, but came additionally from the UK and Switzerland in the case of eastern India. Another senior NCCS scientist Yogesh Shouche, a senior scientist with NCCS, said, “Similarly, 20B was introduced mostly from the UK in all regions but, in addition, from Brazil in western India. In southern India, it may have been introduced from Italy and Greece. Another parent strain may have been introduced from China in all regions while yet another was introduced from Oman to north India and into eastern India from China and Saudi Arabia."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/strain-diversity-study-maps-how-sars-cov-2-entered-india/articleshow/77751543.cms||Neha Madaan
August 26, 2020||Delhi||In the eye of Covid storm: Cornea transplants take a major plunge in AIIMS||NEW DELHI: In an unusual fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic, eye donations have seen a drastic fall at AIIMS. Data shared by the hospital, which runs one of the most active eye transplant programmes in India, shows only 450 cornea donations this year between January and July against 1,244 in the corresponding period of 2019. Nationally too, fewer donations have led to a serious shortage of the corneal tissue needed for transplants to restore vision in people suffering from loss of eyesight due to irreparable damage of the tissue. According to Dr J S Titiyal, chairman, National Eye Bank, AIIMS, eye banking has been adversely affected by the pandemic. “When the Covid outbreak started to peak in April, we had to temporarily suspend retrieval of corneal tissue and put all planned corneal transplants on hold. This resulted in a big reduction in donations and transplants conducted at the institute,” Titiyal said. The new guidelines for the retrieval of cornea require Covid testing and other measures, which are seen as disincentives to donors. Last year, between January and July, AIIMS conducted 934 corneal transplant surgeries. This year, this number slid to 339. Dr Titiyal said while planned or elective corneal transplants were put completely on hold between April and June, emergency cases were operated upon. “We did 17 emergency corneal transplants by using glycerine preserved tissues in the three months,” he said. Over July and August, both eye donations and transplants have resumed, but the numbers are very low. Dr Namrata Sharma, professor of ophthalmology at AIIMS, said, “From March to June, during the lockdown, only 1,125 cornea tissues were collected across 20 eye banks in the country. The number of corneal transplant surgeries was 515.” Dr Sharma, who is also the secretary of the Eye Bank Association of India, noted that the figures in the same period last year were, respectively, 6,991 and 2,374. More than 11 lakh people in India suffer from blindness due to impairment of the cornea. To remedy this, cornea donated by a deceased person is used to replace the impaired cornea in the patient. Dr Sharma said around two lakh corneas are required in India every year, but only around 55,000 corneas are available due to lax donations. The EBAI secretary appealed to people to donate the eyes of the deceased family members. “This act will go a long way in helping the cornea-blind tide over this hour of darkness,” she said. Dr Mahipal Singh Sachdev, president, All India Ophthalmological Society, and chairman, Centre For Sight Group of Hospitals, similarly pointed out, “Following the Covid-19 pandemic, the eye donation movement in India took a major hit. Despite the lockdown being relaxed, the number of corneas being donated remains extremely low. This has resulted in a rise in the burden of corneal blindness and prolonged waiting list. There is an urgent need to expedite efforts in this direction.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-the-eye-of-covid-storm-cornea-transplants-take-a-major-plunge/articleshow/77751586.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
August 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: Man steals smartphones from auto drivers, held||PUNE: Enraged after his girlfriend dumped him for an autorickshaw driver in Ahmedabad, a Camp resident took to stealing smartphones from autorickshaw drivers here. The police arrested 37-year-old Asif Shaikh (37) of New Modikhana on Sunday. He admitted to his crimes during question, was produced before a city court on Monday and remanded in police custody till Thursday. “We have recovered 12 smartphones, totally worth Rs1 lakh, from his possession. Our preliminary probe revealed that he had stolen over 70 smartphones from autorickshaw drivers across the city,” senior police inspector Chandrakant Bhosale of Cantonment police station told TOI. Police said Shaikh migrated to Pune with his girlfriend from Gujarat a year ago. “Shaikh told us that the woman, for reasons unknown to him, broke up with him and returned to Ahmedabad, where she eloped with an autorickshaw driver,” Bhosale said. “Shaikh is currently unemployed,” he added. He said Shaikh held all autorickshaw drivers responsible for his situation. “Shaikh said he said he couldn’t get it out of his mind that an autorickshaw driver was responsible for his misery; for his break-up. Following this, he decided to teach a lesson to all autorickshaw drivers by stealing their smartphones,” he said. Shaikh would dress smartly and scout the city roads. He would identify autorickshaws with smartphones mounted on the dashboard. “He would pose as a passenger and engage that autorickshaw for a short trip. After reaching his destination, he would request the driver to lend him his phone to make a call by claiming that his own smartphone had a technical glitch. Once the smartphone was in his hand, he would flee the spot,” senior inspector Bhosale said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-steals-smartphones-from-auto-drivers-held/articleshow/77751530.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Barnala MC accused of fraud in tenders||BARNALA: A group of labour and constructions cooperative societies has accused the Barnala Municipal Council authorities of causing huge loss to state exchequer by allotting tenders for development works of over Rs 8 crore against the norms. While the group has moved the high court, the authorities have denied the allegations. Barnala District Cooperative Labour and Construction Sangh, comprising of 31 cooperative societies, has alleged that the tenders were allotted at only 2% less than the tender rates whereas they were ready to execute the works at 15% less. The societies have further accused the authorities of imposing conditions for executing works which suited only to a few favourites. The Sangh has alleged the authorities accepted the work limitation certificate shown to have been issued from the office of Bathinda assistant registrar (AR) cooperative societies, while the AR office has denied issuing any such certificate. The societies have also claimed that the technical and financial bids for the works were opened in the night as online entries show which otherwise should have opened during office times. The societies on Tuesday sent complaints to the chief minister and the local government minister and have also filed an online petition in the Punjab and Haryana high court, which was accepted under mentioning number 47491. When contacted, municipal council executive officer Manpreet Singh refuted the charges and said some members of societies were making baseless allegations. “Tenders have been opened in fully transparent way by following norms. As far as accusation of fake certificate is concerned we are investigating it,” T P S Phoolka, Barnala DC, said, “The higher authorities in the local government department are looking into the issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/barnala-mc-accused-of-fraud-in-tenders/articleshow/77751541.cms||Neel Kamal
August 26, 2020||Pune||Two officers among 22 Pune cops dismissed so far this year||PUNE: Twenty-two personnel from the Pune police, including two officers, have been dismissed from service since January this year for various infractions. Among the main reasons for dismissal was their involvement in serious crimes like rape, kidnapping and extortion, bribery and gross misconduct, among others. Additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale, however, cautioned against concluding from these figures that policemen were increasingly prone to getting involved in criminal activity. “Many of these dismissals were the result of departmental inquiries initiated in as far back as 2014. The inquiries concluded and severe punishment was meted out this year,” Morale said. In comparison, only eight constables were dismissed from service in 2019. On an average, six to eight constables were dismissed each year over the past five years for reasons ranging from involvement in criminal activity, prolonged absenteeism, disrespect towards seniors and duty, and graft cases. Former director general of police and former Pune commissioner Meeran Chaddha Borwankar said the latest figures show the department’s intolerance towards misconduct by personnel. “The 22 dismissals in a year, if true, show that extreme misconduct has been firmly dealt with. This also means that a high number of departmental enquiries have been disposed of,” Borwankar said. She said transparency and accountability were key for a safe and healthy society. “It is essential that police are transparent and work for the welfare of citizens. There is no place for the corrupt and criminals in uniform,” she said, stressing on the need for proper procedure to be following while punishing misconduct. Otherwise, [the dismissed policemen] come back with court or Maharashtra Administrative Tribunal (MAT) orders,” she added. Former additional director general of police Rajendra Sonawane said constables or officers get involved in organized crime due to greed or a desire to make a quick buck. “Such criminal elements in the police force should be dealt strongly and cases filed against them, apart from the departmental enquiries,” Sonawane said. Additional CP Morale said courts will continue to hear criminal cases against these policemen, even though they have been dismissed from service. “In 16 different cases of gross misconduct and criminal acts, Pune police dismissed 20 constables. Two officers of the rank of sub-inspector and assistant inspector were dismissed after their role in criminal cases was probed,” Morale said. A lawyer, who represents policemen before MAT, said, “The dismissed constables and officers can approach the state government and MAT if they think justice has been denied to them or department enquiries were unfair to them. In many cases, the dismissed constables have been reinstated by the higher authorities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-officers-among-22-city-cops-dismissed-so-far-this-year/articleshow/77751546.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Gaushala head booked after seized cattle go missing||Aurangabad: The head of a gaushala in Hatta Naik of Sengaon (Hingoli district), around 220-km from here, has been booked by police after 18 cattle handed over to the cow shelter, after being seized from a trader, went missing. Hingoli superintendent of police Yogesh Kumar told TOI, “Around 10 days ago, the cattle were seized and handed over to the gaushala. Now, after the trader got an order from the court to get back the cattle, we found them to be missing from the shelter. Even the person heading the gaushala is missing. Suspecting foul play, we have registered a case of criminal breach of trust against the in-charge.” An offence under sections 403 (dishonest misappropriation of property) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code have been registered against the suspect at Sengaon police station. As per police record, on July 28, Hatta police had seized 18 bulls from Parbhani-based trader Shaikh Abdul Shafi Qureshi suspecting that the cattle was being illegally transported for slaughter. This was followed by registration of offence for violation of traffic norms as well as cruelty to animals. Soon, the seized cattle were handed over to Gopal Govardhan Adiwasi Sevabhavi Sanstha situated in Hatta Naik. It is one of the major NGOs in the district and is said to have received several funds from the state government. The trader moved to Aundha Nagnath based court and made an application for getting back his cattle — estimated at Rs 3.60 lakh. After examining the records submitted by the trader, the court on August 14 passed the release of property order under 457 of the CrPC following which the trader reached out to the area police station as well as the superintendent of the police’s office requesting execution of the court orders. After the police reached the cow shelter they found that the cattle were reportedly missing. Later, even the person heading the trust that runs the Gaushala has also gone missing. Police registered an offence against the person on Monday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/gaushala-head-booked-after-seized-cattle-go-missing/articleshow/77747287.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Min to farmers: Sell produce as vendors||Chandigarh: Haryana agriculture and farmers’ welfare minister Jai Prakash Dalal said farmers should sell their produce as vendors. He said the state is formulating plans as per which farmers can sell their produce through an FPO or by creating their own brand. Presently, a new plan is being formulated, according to which, the state will open 2,000 retail outlets in villages and cities in collaboration with the department of cooperation. These retail outlets will act as mini-super markets. Dalal said according to the two ordinances, ‘Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020’and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020’, a farmer can sell the produce anywhere in the country. Under contract farming, he can sell the produce to any person or bank and pursue an e-contract. With this, there will be no need for the farmer to mortgage land with the bank for a crop loan. He said these two ordinances have given farmers the liberty to sell produce in outside mandis if offered more than the minimum support price (MSP). He also said the government would purchase the farmer’s produce at minimum support price (MSP), failing which it would meet the gap under Bhavantar Bharpai Yojana. Registration date extended Chandigarh: Haryana government has extended the last date for farmers’ registration under the ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ (MFMB) scheme till August 31.Confirming this, Sanjeev Kaushal, additional chief secretary, agriculture and farmers’ welfare, said 25,65,730.44 acres have so far been registered by 4,83,760 farmers on the MFMB portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/min-to-farmers-sell-produce-as-vendors/articleshow/77751527.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Leadership: CLP to pass vote of thanks||Chandigarh: Two days after a furore in the Congress Working Committee (CWC) over party’s leadership issue at New Delhi, Haryana Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda and party MLAs on Tuesday passed a resolution of vote of thanks for officiating party president Sonia Gandhi for continuing on the post. The meeting was held at the Haryana assembly secretariat meeting room that was also attended by Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja. In the meeting, the Congress MLAs also resolved to take on the ruling BJP-JJP alliance over the issue of failure in controlling Covid-19 spread, scams during the lockdown and deteriorating law and order situation in the state. Putting forward the proposal, Hooda said Sonia Gandhi was the most accepted leader of the Congress and her decision to stay on the post would strengthen the party and had filled Congress workers with enthusiasm and lifted the morale of all. Notably, Hooda was among the signatories, who had sought change and signed letter that had created ruckus during the CWC meeting. The Congress MLAs also discussed in detail, issues of public interest to be raised in the ensuing Assembly session. The leader of opposition (LoP) said the adjournment motion would be brought forth by the Congress to discuss three new agricultural ordinances brought in by the Union government. The ordinances have created confusion about the future of the MSP regime that provide income security for the farmers, he added. Hooda said the government should ensure that crops were purchased at MSP and under the C2 formula as suggested by the Swaminathan Commission. He added that if a government or private agency bought crop at a lower price than the MSP, penal action should be taken against them. “The Congress demands that the investigation of the liquor scam should be conducted by a high court sitting judge or any central agency,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/leadership-clp-to-pass-vote-of-thanks/articleshow/77751550.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Vadodara||WRMS protests for long pending demands||Vadodara: The Western Railway Mazdoor Sangh (WRMS) on Tuesday staged a protest in front of divisional railway manager’s office at Pratapnagar to press for demands including withdrawing the decision to eliminate line boxes of loco and traffic running staff. “Our main demands include restoration of old pension scheme, stopping of anti-worker policies and ceiling limit of night duty,” said J G Mahurkar, general secretary of WRMS and vice-president of National Federation of Indian Railwaymen. Mahurkar added that the railway employees are also demanding that government should stop handing over 150 mail/express AC trains to private parties and also to withdraw railway ministry’s decision to handover 23 WR colonies to private parties. The union is also demanding extending the announced Rs 20 lakh assistance to Covid-19 pandemic to railway employees and to withdraw retirement decision of employees who complete 30 years in service or have attained 55 years age.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/wrms-protests-for-long-pending-demands/articleshow/77747966.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: 62-year-old man ends life due to Covid phobia||BHOPAL: A 62-year-old man, who allegedly lost mental equilibrium after retiring from job before lockdown and used to fear that he was suffering from coronavirus disease, committed suicide by hanging self at his house in Bajaria locality on Tuesday morning. No suicide note was recovered from the spot, but his wife told police that he used to repeatedly tell her that he was suffering from Covid-19 disease and would die soon. Bajaria police registered a case and started investigations. Investigation officer head constable Rajendra Yadav said that deceased Narayan Singh Thakur, 62, a resident of Shankracharya Nagar, retired from a milk dairy in February before lockdown. Yadav said that on Tuesday morning Narayan Singh’s wife spotted him hanging and informed the neighbours. Meanwhile, a 32-year-old man allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his home in Kolar locality on Monday night. Police said that the deceased was identified as Rahul Joshi, a resident of Avinash apartment B sector in Kolar. He used to work as an electrician. On Monday night his mother Geeta Joshi, 65, informed the cops that around 10.45 pm she found that her son Rahul had committed suicide by using her saree from a ceiling fan’s hook. She told police that her son was an alcoholic and on Monday night when he returned home from work, she found that he was drunk. She scolded him over his habit and went to her room. After some time when she went to his room, she was shocked to find him hanging. Police said a case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/62-year-old-man-ends-life-due-to-covid-phobia/articleshow/77749970.cms||---
August 26, 2020||India||Fire at Kerala secretariat; bid to destroy gold case files, says oppn||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A minor fire that broke out at the government secretariat here on Tuesday and was promptly put out, ignited a major political controversy, with BJP and Congress alleging sabotage by attempting to destroy evidence in the gold smuggling scam. The fire broke out in the political section of the general administration department of the secretariat that handles sensitive files, including ones related to the UAE consulate which is part of the ongoing gold smuggling case. The NIA and customs had recently sought certain details from this section and the assistant protocol officer appeared twice before NIA. According to government officials, the files handled by the section have already been migrated to the e-file system and the question of destruction of the files doesn't arise. As news of the fire broke, BJP and Congress leaders rushed to the spot and for around three hours, the secretariat premises turned into a battlefield with opposition workers staging demonstrations and trying to break through police barricades. Leader of opposition Ramesh Chennithala, who later met governor Arif Mohammed Khan and sought his intervention to order a probe into the fire, said, "The fire is an organised attempt to destroy all evidence in the gold smuggling case. The files were destroyed as they know that NIA and ED will reach the CMO soon". "It's possible that more files related to the cases got destroyed. There is an attempt to destroy all evidence as the investigators are inching closer to minister K T Jaleel and CM Pinarayi Vijayan," BJP state president K Surendran, who was arrested for protesting, said. Initial reports suggested an electrical short circuit as the cause of fire and sources said some files dealing with allocation of rooms in government guest houses and bundles of printed copies of government orders were among those that were burnt in the fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fire-at-kerala-secretariat-bid-to-destroy-gold-case-files-says-oppn/articleshow/77753195.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Pune||Cybercrooks dupe mechanical engineer of Rs 1.5 lakh||PUNE: A 47-year-old mechanical engineer has lodged a complaint on Monday, claiming that fraudsters duped him of Rs1.5 lakh on the promise of helping him start an ayurvedic products’ distributorship. According to the complaint, the incident occurred between May 20 and 22 this year. The complainant, Mandar Shejwalkar from Hingne Khurd, stated that he came across a fake website of an ayurvedic firm on a video-sharing platform and contacted the listed customer care number for details about a distributorship. Police said the suspects explained the procedure to Shejwalkar and, on May 19, sent him a link to fill up a form. They also asked him to pay a registration fee of Rs25,000 and a refundable deposit of Rs1.25 lakh. In the FIR, Shejwalkar stated that he received approval to start the dealership on WhatsApp and transferred Rs25,000 first and then Rs. 125 lakh via NEFT. “The crooks asked him to transfer Rs5-10 lakh for receiving products from the company. But Shejwalkar grew suspicious as the suspects did not share any details, such as firm licence or other documents with him, and decided not to transfer the money,” police said. Later, Shejwalkar visited the firm’s distributor near Rajaram Bridge on Sinhagad Road and found out that the firm never posts online advertisements for distributorships and also does not ask for money to supply products. When he realized he had been cheated, Shejwalkar filed a complaint application with the cyber police station on May 24. “After a preliminary inquiry, the case was transferred to us,” an officer from the Sinhagad Road police said. Police said a preliminary inquiry showed that the phone number and WhatsApp number used by the fraudsters were from West Bengal, while the account number was of a Pune-based public sector bank. A case has been registered under IPC and the IT Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cybercrooks-dupe-mechanical-engineer-of-rs-1-5-lakh/articleshow/77751595.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Pune||Meeting with deputy CM to fastrack Purandar airport project||PUNE: Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao on Tuesday said a meeting would be held with district guardian minister Ajit Pawar on to discuss land acquisition and options for payment of compensation to the landowners to speed up work of the proposed airport in Purandar. He said, “The most suitable proposal emerging from the meeting will be sent to the high power committee and then to the state government for final approval.” Rao also said steps have been initiated to speed up the land measurement survey for the Pune-Nashik rail link project. The project will require 1,470 hectare of land, of which 575 hectare will be taken from four Haveli, Khed, Junnar and Ambegaon talukas in Pune district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/meeting-with-deputy-cm-to-fastrack-purandar-airport-project/articleshow/77751581.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Pune||Pune airport may get 12 body scanners by December||PUNE: The city airport might get 12 full-body scanners by the year-end, a source said. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) is set to procure 168 body scanning machines for 63 AAI managed airports. “Last year in August, we had installed a body scanner at the Pune airport for a three-month trial run, after which it was removed. We are awaiting official confirmation to install it permanently. We expect a decision from the AAI by September, following which, the scanners could be at the airport by December,” a senior official of the scanner manufacturing company (in Delhi) said. “It is more important than ever to have these full body scanners at the airport amid a global pandemic. The machines will replace the door-frame metal detectors, hand-held detectors and the ‘pat down’ method of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel for frisking passenger. People will just have to stand in front of these machines after removing thick clothing, shoes and belts, among others. Further screening would ensue if there is a yellow spot on the scan,” an AAI official said. New essentials’ shop A shop selling different protective and safety equipment has been inaugurated at the city airport. “Products like masks, sanitizers and immunity boosters will be available at the shop at reasonable rates,” an airport official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-airport-may-get-12-body-scanners-by-dec/articleshow/77751569.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: MBBS, dental, nursing students to get Rs 500/day for Covid duty||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has once again made it mandatory for the MBBS, dental and nursing students to take part in the Covid-19 duties. The AMC has also decided to give a stipend of Rs 500 to the students who are roped in for Covid-19 duties. The Gujarat high court had on Monday rejected the petition filed by 3rd year MBBS students from AMC-run colleges against the mandatory Covid-19 duty assigned to them as ‘Corona Sahayak’. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala observed that there is no violation of fundamental rights of the students in this situation of Covid-19 pandemic, even if the executive order to join Covid duty is illegal in absence of any law operating in this field. But it is in larger public interest and hence fundamental rights of students cannot be said to have been violated. The high court had advised the students to join the duty and said that this is a historic opportunity for them. Rajiv Kumar Gupta, the additional chief secretary, forest, environment and climate change, who is in-charge of Covid management in Ahmedabad, said that after the meeting, which was attended by municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar and deputy municipal commissioners, it was decided to exempt students who were suffering from diabetics, heart ailment and other diseases from Covid-19 duties. However, such students have to get themselves checked by a team of doctors from SVP Hospital and VS Hospital. Gupta said that AMC will impart six-day training to these students before they were given the Covid-19 duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mbbs-dental-nursing-students-to-get-rs-500/day-for-covid-duty/articleshow/77749949.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Webinar on MSME Udyam registration tomorrow||Aurangabad: The Marathwada Accelerator for Growth and Incubation Council (MAGIC) — a business incubator of CMIA — will organise a webinar on MSME Udyam registration process on Thursday for the benefit of MSMEs, start-ups and women entrepreneurs in the Marathwada region. CMIA secretary Satish Lonikar, in a statement on Tuesday, said that as per the new guidelines issued by the ministry of MSME, all existing MSMEs have to complete the Udyam registration process. “This one-hour webinar has been arranged for providing the required guidance to MSMEs in Marathwada,” he said. “There is no participation fee for attending this webinar. However, prior registration is a must,” he added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/webinar-on-msme-udyam-registration-tomorrow/articleshow/77747300.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Mumbai||4th merit list: Mumbai colleges' cut-offs go up in few courses||MUMBAI: Some city colleges’ cut-offs went up in few courses in the fourth merit list for degree college admissions, as many fresh applicants participated in the second round. After many students failed to register on Mumbai University portal in the first round of admissions, the university opened the portal again after the third merit list last week. “Many students approached the university seeking an extension,” said a university official. Cut-offs at St Andrew’s College, which had few seats left in minority and open categories, went up in the fourth merit list. “We got fresh applications from students scoring higher marks in second round of admissions, so cut-offs went up,” said principal Marie Fernandes. At Ramnarain Ruia College, only a handful of seats were left in few subject combinations in science, which were filled in the second round. But cut-offs at the college did not go up in this round. Another principal said there were no seats for admissions to FYBA and FYBCom in the second round at their college. “As fresh applications were permitted in the new round, cut-offs went up in few categories,” said the principal. The fourth list for admissions at Kelkar-Vaze College is likely to be released on Wednesday. Some suburban colleges had vacancies in arts and commerce, which were allocated in the second round. After this round, colleges can fill seats at their level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/4th-merit-list-mumbai-colleges-cut-offs-go-up-in-few-courses/articleshow/77750067.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: From protecting lives to disinfecting homes, woman bouncer packs a punch||PUNE: When the lockdown was imposed, Deepa Parab (46), founder of Ranragini, an organisation which provides women bouncer services in Pune, knew that times ahead would be difficult. There was no work for the first couple of days, but she soon hit upon an idea. Sanitisation and fumigation services were picking up, but there weren’t many ready to work in areas where the number of Covid-19 positive cases were high. “So, I walked to the ward office and offered to provide sanitisation and fumigation services. I told them that I had bought fumigation equipment with my own money and all I needed was the liquid used for sanitisation, which the Pune Municipal Corporation, provided,” said Parab who started Ranragini, a female bouncer service in 2016, to help underprivileged women earn a living. For over three months, she has been fumigating offices, societies and even houses of Covid-19 patients. Soon, she learnt how to mix the solution for santisation and has been carrying a 16-litre can on her back, disinfecting multi-storied buildings. She said that she took up the work not to earn any pecuniary benefit and declined to accept any money for her services during the period of lockdown. “I always wanted to join the police force but could not due to personal reasons.As a bouncer, I protected people. Even now, by disinfecting their homes and surroundings, I am protecting people,” she said. She had been collecting groceries from people in lieu of her services and distributing them among five women at Ranragini. “Since July 1, I have started charging money, but that too from big societies. If it is a government area or a slum area where someone has tested positive, I do not charge anything ,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/from-protecting-lives-to-disinfecting-homes-woman-bouncer-packs-a-punch/articleshow/77751619.cms||Ardhra Nair
August 26, 2020||Surat||1,096 new Covid cases, 20 deaths in 24 hours in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Tuesday, 1,096 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Gujarat, taking the state’s total so far to 88,942. It was the second consecutive day that the state reported fewer than 1,100 new cases. These 1,096 cases included 250 in Surat, 157 in Ahmedabad, 122 in Vadodara, and 95 in Rajkot. The total number of cases in Surat has now crossed 19,000 (19,015), Ahmedabad’s figure has reached 30,604, with Vadodara (7,438) and Rajkot (4,144) following behind. Jamnagar added 546 cases in a week, which represents 27% of its total cases so far, 2,044. The state also reported 20 deaths of Covid-19 patients, taking the death toll so far to 2,930. These deaths include seven in Surat, four in Ahmedabad, two each in Amreli and Junagadh, and one each in Gir Somnath, Tapi, Bhavnagar, Rajkot, and Vadodara districts. The death toll in Ahmedabad has reached 1,692, whereas the figures for Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot are 603, 122 and 79, respectively. A total of 1,011 patients were discharged in these 24 hours, taking the total number of patients who have recovered to 71,261. The discharges include 173 in Ahmedabad, 146 in Surat, 74 each in Panchmahal and Bharuch, and 59 in Vadodara. The share of active patients of total cases in Gujarat so far is now 16.6%, with 14,751 cases, an all-time low.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/1096-new-covid-cases-20-deaths-in-24-hours-in-state/articleshow/77754065.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Dehradun||Haridwar faces sanitation crisis, just after rising in Swachh Survekshan ranks||Haridwar: KRL Waste Management (Haridwar) Private Limited, the solid waste management firm engaged to collect and dispose of the city’s solid waste, has served Nagar Nigam Haridwar (NNH) final notice for termination of its agreement. This, at a time when Haridwar has improved its ranking in the latest Swachh Survekshan to 244, from 350 in 2019. The city is likely to face a sanitation crisis from September 4, when the notice comes into effect, as company officials said they are in no mood to withdraw the notice unless dues, to the tune of Rs 44 crore, are cleared. But NNH neither has funds to pay the dues, nor resources to take up door-to-door collection and disposal of garbage on itself, in case its agreement with KRL is terminated, civic body sources said. Residents meanwhile are worried for the city’s sanitation, especially with the prevailing threat of coronavirus and dengue. Civic officials said they are “ready to face any eventuality.” Talking to TOI on Tuesday, assistant municipal commissioner Vinod Kumar said, “Residents need not worry in the least. NNH will mobilise its resources to carry out all municipal waste related work. The city’s sanitation will not be allowed to suffer.” He exuded confidence that NNH will further improve its Swachh Survekshan ranking by initiating all necessary measures. “As per rules, action will be taken against KRL if it executes the notice of the agreement’s termination,” he said, adding that the final notice served is in contravention of terms and conditions of the agreement. “In fact, the preliminary notice given by KRL on June 16, 2020, was extended by it the same month, saying it will continue to do the work until the Covid-19 threat is over,” Kumar alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwar-faces-sanitation-crisis-just-after-rising-in-swachh-survekshan-ranks/articleshow/77748636.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
August 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||GCCI staffer tests positive||Ahmedabad: A staff member of Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) tested positive for coronavirus infection on Tuesday. After the staffer tested positive, the entire building of GCCI is expected to be closed from Wednesday and resumed only after due sanitisation. Other office-bearers as well as members of the management who frequented GCCI office at Ashram Road are expected to be tested for Covid-19 in the coming couple of days, confirmed sources. The elections for key posts at GCCI are due to be held on September 5. However, inner circles of the industry body are abuzz with concerns that if more staffers or members test Covid-19 positive in the days to come, they may be quarantined for at least two weeks and thus, elections may once again be deferred. Despite a couple of attempts, GCCI president, Durgesh Buch could not be reached for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gcci-staffer-tests-positive/articleshow/77749960.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Krushi Bhawan listed for global award||Bhubaneswar: The Krushi Bhawan is in the race for the prestigious Dezeen Award-2020 instituted by Dezeen, the London-based international journal on architecture. It has been listed under the civic building category. The final list of shortlisted buildings for the prestigious award is expected to be announced in September first week, an official source said. “Glad to know that #KrushiBhawan, inspired by #SambalpuriIkat has become #Odishas first building to be listed for #DezeenAwards2020 by widely acclaimed @dezeen. Constructed with prize money of #KrishiKarmanAwards is symbolic of our farmer empowerment,” tweeted Naveen. The building designed and developed by Delhi-based architectural firm, Studio Lotus, is built over 1.3 lakh sq ft. It has an intricate brickwork façade made up of different colours of clay symbolizing the diversity of soils in different parts of Odisha. Around Rs 70 crore, including the Rs 17-crore prize money received from the Centre for the Krishi Karman Award for highest foodgrains production, has been spent on it. “The architectural marvel illustrates how a government facility can extend itself to celebrate local context, craftsmanship and sustainability and become a vital part of the social infrastructure,” said an official. It houses the administrative offices of the agriculture and farmers’ empowerment department. The building’s design is a blend of handlooms, handicrafts and agriculture - the three traditional livelihoods of Odisha. “A pleasure to have the offices in such an ambience, where spaces for the training and other capacity building activities for farmers take primacy,” tweeted agriculture secretary Saurabh Garg. The ground floor of the building comprises a learning centre, auditorium, training rooms, garden, public plaza, crop calendar, open theatre and exhibition hall. The rooftop too has also been opened to the public as a demonstration of urban farming. It has a garden with a pond that naturally cools the space, thus reducing energy consumption and air conditioners have been installed in only 20% of the area. Also, there is a demonstration garden that highlights the use of irrigation channels, rainwater harvesting, soil remediation and organic agricultural practices to improve crop yields. All the waste water generated is being recycled and reused. “We teamed up with over 100 highly-skilled local artisans to create a vibrant and contemporary narrative of traditional Odia craft, envisioned at an unprecedented architectural scale. By bringing the farmers and the people into the fold, the project focuses on inclusivity and community engagement and serves as an example of how the government can become a key patron of regional crafts, and sustain local communities and economies,” said Studio Lotus in a statement. Last year, the architecture marvel was selected for the World Architecture Festival award-2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/krushi-bhawan-listed-for-global-award/articleshow/77748620.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
August 26, 2020||Vadodara||1,096 new Covid cases, 20 deaths in 24 hours in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Tuesday, 1,096 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Gujarat, taking the state’s total so far to 88,942. It was the second consecutive day that the state reported fewer than 1,100 new cases. These 1,096 cases included 250 in Surat, 157 in Ahmedabad, 122 in Vadodara, and 95 in Rajkot. The total number of cases in Surat has now crossed 19,000 (19,015), Ahmedabad’s figure has reached 30,604, with Vadodara (7,438) and Rajkot (4,144) following behind. Jamnagar added 546 cases in a week, which represents 27% of its total cases so far, 2,044. The state also reported 20 deaths of Covid-19 patients, taking the death toll so far to 2,930. These deaths include seven in Surat, four in Ahmedabad, two each in Amreli and Junagadh, and one each in Gir Somnath, Tapi, Bhavnagar, Rajkot, and Vadodara districts. The death toll in Ahmedabad has reached 1,692, whereas the figures for Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot are 603, 122 and 79, respectively. A total of 1,011 patients were discharged in these 24 hours, taking the total number of patients who have recovered to 71,261. The discharges include 173 in Ahmedabad, 146 in Surat, 74 each in Panchmahal and Bharuch, and 59 in Vadodara. The share of active patients of total cases in Gujarat so far is now 16.6%, with 14,751 cases, an all-time low.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/1096-new-covid-cases-20-deaths-in-24-hours-in-state/articleshow/77754063.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Applications invited for SPPU’s MBA prog||Nashik: Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has invited applications for its flagship management course — executive MBA programme — for working professionals in Nashik. The Nashik sub-centre of the varsity had recently launched the programme online. The event was launched by vice chancellor of the varsity Nitin Karmalkar. The deadline for applying for the course is August 31. The online application can be made by visiting http://campus.unipune.ac.in/ccep/login.aspx. SPPU officials said that that the programme is designed to serve and nurture the professional expertise and skills among the working professionals of Nashik region. “The sub-centre of SPPU in Nashik will stick and maintain the standard of quality of executive education as followed by its Pune campus,” officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/applications-invited-for-sppus-mba-prog/articleshow/77747334.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Counsellors check in, help Covid patients at home beat the blues||Bhubaneswar: The counselling provided by clinical psychologists and psycho-therapists is helping Covid positive patients beat stress while in home treatment. The psychologists with their carefully chosen words also help allay their fears while also clarify their many doubts regarding the virus and its effects. With home isolation cases rising and crossing the 1800-mark, the role of counsellors is providing to be crucial. The home isolation cases are either asymptomatic and mild symptomatic in nature. The counsellors sit in the offices of Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) and Bhubaneswar Smart City Limited (BSCL) and work in shifts to attend to calls by Covid patients. The team of psychologists include Lipika Lopamudra Mallik and Susena Nayak, both clinical psychologists, and Smrutilekha Dash, a social worker with special interest in counselling. “People complain of loneliness, stress and anxiety. They also ask questions as to whether their conditions could worsen at home since many in their age-group are also admitted to hospitals. They often quote media reports of people in their age-group failing to beat the virus. We have to be extremely careful in explaining to them the situation while we also show data of recovery rate and recovery percentage of critical patients to boost their morale,” Mallik told TOI. Of the 1,828 Covid positive patients in home isolation, 988 have recovered. Dash said they also make calls to people in home isolation. “At times, it so happens that children pick up the phone. It then becomes a bit difficult to counsel each of the family members, starting from the children, their parents and the elderly. We keep talking to them till they feel confident and relaxed,” she said. A Covid positive patient, who lives in the city’s Sailashree Vihar area and is in home isolation, said, “While being at home, when you can’t stay in touch with other members, it becomes a bit disturbing. Negative thoughts crop up. It is during one such moment that I dialled the toll-free number (1929) to clear my doubts. I received very good response. For example, I am 60-year-old and I wanted to know when I should be shifted to hospital. I learnt from them that unless there is complications, I should not think about going to the hospital,” she said. At present, the city has 4,151 beds at Covid hospitals, Covid care homes and Covid care centres. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/counsellors-check-in-help-covid-patients-at-home-beat-the-blues/articleshow/77748632.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Rajkot||1,096 new Covid cases, 20 deaths in 24 hours in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Tuesday, 1,096 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Gujarat, taking the state’s total so far to 88,942. It was the second consecutive day that the state reported fewer than 1,100 new cases. These 1,096 cases included 250 in Surat, 157 in Ahmedabad, 122 in Vadodara, and 95 in Rajkot. The total number of cases in Surat has now crossed 19,000 (19,015), Ahmedabad’s figure has reached 30,604, with Vadodara (7,438) and Rajkot (4,144) following behind. Jamnagar added 546 cases in a week, which represents 27% of its total cases so far, 2,044. The state also reported 20 deaths of Covid-19 patients, taking the death toll so far to 2,930. These deaths include seven in Surat, four in Ahmedabad, two each in Amreli and Junagadh, and one each in Gir Somnath, Tapi, Bhavnagar, Rajkot, and Vadodara districts. The death toll in Ahmedabad has reached 1,692, whereas the figures for Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot are 603, 122 and 79, respectively. A total of 1,011 patients were discharged in these 24 hours, taking the total number of patients who have recovered to 71,261. The discharges include 173 in Ahmedabad, 146 in Surat, 74 each in Panchmahal and Bharuch, and 59 in Vadodara. The share of active patients of total cases in Gujarat so far is now 16.6%, with 14,751 cases, an all-time low.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/1096-new-covid-cases-20-deaths-in-24-hours-in-state/articleshow/77754064.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||1,096 new Covid cases, 20 deaths in 24 hours in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Tuesday, 1,096 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Gujarat, taking the state’s total so far to 88,942. It was the second consecutive day that the state reported fewer than 1,100 new cases. These 1,096 cases included 250 in Surat, 157 in Ahmedabad, 122 in Vadodara, and 95 in Rajkot. The total number of cases in Surat has now crossed 19,000 (19,015), Ahmedabad’s figure has reached 30,604, with Vadodara (7,438) and Rajkot (4,144) following behind. Jamnagar added 546 cases in a week, which represents 27% of its total cases so far, 2,044. The state also reported 20 deaths of Covid-19 patients, taking the death toll so far to 2,930. These deaths include seven in Surat, four in Ahmedabad, two each in Amreli and Junagadh, and one each in Gir Somnath, Tapi, Bhavnagar, Rajkot, and Vadodara districts. The death toll in Ahmedabad has reached 1,692, whereas the figures for Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot are 603, 122 and 79, respectively. A total of 1,011 patients were discharged in these 24 hours, taking the total number of patients who have recovered to 71,261. The discharges include 173 in Ahmedabad, 146 in Surat, 74 each in Panchmahal and Bharuch, and 59 in Vadodara. The share of active patients of total cases in Gujarat so far is now 16.6%, with 14,751 cases, an all-time low.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1096-new-covid-cases-20-deaths-in-24-hours-in-state/articleshow/77749976.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Mumbai||Gandhis Aadhaar card of Congress: Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut||MUMBAI: Shiv Sena leader and MP Sanjay Raut has called ‘Gandhi family’ the Aadhaar card of Congress, and said no leader, other than a Gandhi family member, could lead the party. Raut told the media, “Only Gandhi Parivar is the Aadhaar card of Congress, whether Sonia, Rahul or Priyanka. Rahul Gandhi led the party very well and helped it win assembly polls in states like Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. But after the last Lok Sabha polls, he surrendered the post. Even today, I feel Rahul has the ability to lead the party,” he said. “Though it is not appropriate for me to comment on Congress, as it is their internal issue, but Congress is the only party in the country which has activists in every village. Although it has become weak in the current political scenario, it should sort out internal issues as it is a prominent Opposition party. A strong Opposition always benefits the country, so the party should be ready to fight as an Opposition,” said Raut. The Sena leader also hinted that his party may contest Bihar assembly polls, likely in November 2020. He said his party leaders were in touch with Sena’s Bihar unit and will take a call soon. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/gandhis-aadhaar-card-of-cong-sena/articleshow/77750065.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad-Mumbai railway travel time to be cut by 45 minutes||AHMEDABAD: Soon, travel time to Mumbai by train will be reduced as Western Railway plans to increase train speeds from a maximum of 110kmph to 130kmph. The increase will likely to reduce the travel time of the Shatabdi Express by nearly 45 minutes. Divisional railway manager Depak Kumar Jha said the semi-high speed railway corridor between Ahmedabad-Vadodara is sanctioned and work will begin soon. The track is part of the semi-high speed corridor between Mumbai and Delhi. Once the track between Ahmedabad and Vadodara is upgraded, travel time will further reduce. Jha said work on laying the third track between Ahmedabad and Vatva is almost complete but there is a mazhar in the ways and a case is pending in the high court. The work cannot be completed till the final order of the court. He said the division is exploring the possibility of connecting the third line with the existing track so that it can be used. Officials said the third track will help the railways to give stops to several trains at Maninagar. This has been a long pending demand of daily communters. It will also ease of congestion at the station as several trains have to wait in the yard for a platform. With the third track, trains can be diverted to any platform and will save on wait time. Jha said the second broad gauge track between Ahmedabad and Mehsana will be operational by next year. Only the track between Mehsana and Palanpur is pending and is at the design state. Once the final estimate is prepared the railways will begin work. This is the only section waiting for a double track between Ahmedabad and Delhi. The Ahmedabad division has so far refunded Rs 72 crore for tickets booked for the lockdown and post-lockdown periods for trains that have been cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/soon-45-min-cut-in-travel-to-mumbai/articleshow/77751638.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Mumbai||Give Elgar case accused kin latest medical report copies: Bombay high court||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Tuesday directed state government to provide copies of latest medical reports from jail medical officers of Sudha Bhardwaj (58), Anand Teltumbde (68) and Vernon Gonsalves (61), accused in the 2018 Elgaar Parishad case, to their families and National Investigation Agency (NIA) before the next hearing on August 28. A bench of Justices R D Dhanuka and V G Bisht said the accused and their families had a right to know the status of their health, and can be given the reports without delay. The bench was hearing an interim bail plea by Bhardwaj. Her advocate Ragini Ahuja sought relief on medical grounds of co-morbidities in view of Covid-19 in crowded prisons. She is at Byculla women’s prison, while Teltumbde and Gonsalves are at Taloja central jail in Navi Mumbai. Following earlier court orders, the state had on August 21 submitted the latest medical report of Bharadwaj. The report stated her health was stable and medical facilities would be provided, if required. Ahuja said the report was not given to the family. Public prosecutor Deepak Thakre said it would done later in the day. Mihir Desai, Teltumde’s counsel, sought a fresh report on the accused as he and Vernon had been in close contact with co-accused Varavara Rao at Taloja. Rao, who tested positive, and is at Nanavati hospital, undergoing treatment since last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/give-elgar-case-accused-kin-latest-medical-report-copies-hc/articleshow/77750064.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||De-notify pvt hospitals from corona duties: AHNA||Ahmedabad: The office-bearers of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) on Tuesday represented the issue of de-notifying private hospitals associated with Covid-19 hospitals for more than three months to the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) authorities. In a letter dated August 17, the organization of city-based hospitals had already requested reducing the number of earmarked beds by AMC, which was done by the civic authorities last week. The letter mentioned that several of the city-based hospitals are treating Covid-19 patients for more than three months now. ‘It is time that these designated hospitals be given a choice whether to continue treating Covid patients or not,’ mentioned the letter, adding that the civic authorities should include hospitals and nursing homes which have not been part of the Covid duties so far as ‘policy should be applied to all hospitals.’ Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of AHNA, said that they are with the civic authorities in fight against Covid. “Resolution of our issues will help us serve the society better,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/de-notify-pvt-hospitals-from-corona-duties-ahna/articleshow/77750034.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Pune||Ganeshotsav: Dhol-tasha pathaks take the pulsating beats online||PUNE: The synchronized, energetic dhol-tasha beats played live are almost entirely missing from Ganeshotsav this year. An integral part of the annual celebrations, dhol-tasha pathaks are planning to take the online route to enthrall enthusiasts this festive season. While there are multiple challenges in gathering members of the pathak to perform with the dhol-tasha, some troupes are innovating to give enthusiasts a feel of the festivities in the comfort of their homes. Om Wadya Pathak, for example, collaborated with Bharatiya Digital Party (BhaDiPa) to release a ‘dhol-tasha a cappella’. “Public celebration and playing of dhol tasha has been called off this year due to the pandemic. With the aim to spread a message to stay at home while also providing a feel of the processions, we decided to have a virtual dhol-tasha performance. 11 members of our troupe participated in the a cappella performance, which involved creating tunes without any instruments using vocal cues and sounds,” said Ninad Vahikar, head of the pathak. Co-head Mandar Gosavi added, “The 11 performers included seven dhol players, two tasha players, one each for the zanj (cymbals) and dhwaj (flag), which includes three actors. We recorded the performance in Pune in pairs and sent it to BhaDiPa after editing. The track is about three minutes long in the video.” According to Parag Thakur, president of Dhol Tasha Mahasangh, some other pathaks from the city are planning virtual performances as well. “Troupes are trying to work out the modalities as dhol-tasha performances are group performances. We are trying to avoid gathering so many people. A Facebook Live event has been planned by the Mahasangh featuring classical music. We are working on incorporating the dhol-tasha taal chakra in the performance itself. Some are trying to use different objects available in their house, like tables, to create the same tunes for online performances,” he said. Thakur added that while taking a break from actual performances this year, many pathaks have immersed themselves in social service. “A lot of pathaks are taking up different social activities like blood donation drives, distribution of masks, and others. We have two different pathaks from Pimpri Chinchwad that are engaging in different social activities everyday,” he explained. Vahikar further stated that their troupe also engaged in providing relief material to members of brass bands in the city during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dhol-tasha-pathaks-take-the-pulsating-beats-online/articleshow/77751637.cms||Rujuta Parekh
August 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||No respite from rain till Friday: IMD||Bhubaneswar: There will be no respite from the incessant rain till Friday that has lashed the state over the last 24 hours under the influence of a well-marked low pressure over the Bay of Bengal. Nine districts will receive very heavy to heavy rainfall for 48hours, stated the India Meteorology Department (IMD) while issuing a red warning. These districts are Balasore, Bhadrak, Jajpur, Kendrapada, Jagatsinghpur, Cuttack, Keonjhar, Mayurbhanj and Dhenkanal. The low pressure has also brought rain to western Odisha, where showers are expected to continue in Sambalpur, Sonepur, Bargarh, Boudh, Balangir, Kalahandi, Jharsuguda, Sundargarh and Deogarh on Wednesday. Director of regional IMD centre HR Biswas said rainfall intensity would decrease after Wednesday. Official sources said following continuous torrential rain road connectivity in several districts got disrupted while fields got submerged when rainwater entered many low-lying areas. The IMD has warned of temporary traffic congestion, slippery roads, poor visibility during intense spells and waterlogging in low-lying areas and underpasses due to continuous rain in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. It suggested the civic bodies to make arrangements for drainage of water, avoid movement and take precautions of manhole locations and uncovered electricity wires. The water level rose in rivers Subarnarekha and Budhabalanga while river Jalaka was flowing above the danger mark and submerged parts of its catchment areas. The rainfall report of the last 24 hours recorded on Tuesday morning said Korei, Akhuapada and Rajkanika in Jajpur, Bhadrak and Kendrapara district respectively received the highest rainfall of 60 mm each. Similarly, Paradip received 89 mm rainfall by evening, the IMD report said. City recorded 28.2 mm rain. On Tuesday, the state government asked district collectors to remain prepared to meet any flash flood-like situation or landslide in hilly areas. “There may be no major flash flood due to the rain. However, the government is keeping a close watch on the situation and is prepared to face any eventuality,” said special relief commissioner P K Jena. The SRC asked collectors to keep a watch on low-lying areas and appealed to people to avoid inundated roads. Engineer- in-chief of water resources department Jyotirmaya Rath also ruled out chances of flash flood due to the low pressure rain. He said major rivers were flowing far below the danger mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/no-respite-from-rain-till-friday-imd/articleshow/77748642.cms||Siraj Mohammad
August 26, 2020||Pune||Immersion at public places sees a drastic drop in Pune||PUNE: Many devotees immersed the Ganesh idols at their homes due to the Covid-19 pandemic according to statistics provided by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). A drastic drop has been recorded in the number of idols immersed in the river as well as makeshift tanks. On the first immersion, held on the second day of the festival, not even 10% idols were immersed at public places as compared to the same day last year. The PMC records show that 13,858 idols were immersed or handed over to the collection centres last year. The number dropped to 1,289 this year. The administration ensure a number of restriction remain on immersion at public places. “Citizens have given a good response to the appeal. They have made use of the newly introduced mobile immersion tanks or collection centres,” said mayor Murlidhar Mohol. As per data collated by the PMC, 679 idols were immersed in mobile tanks, while 610 were given to collection centres. The civic officials said that in view of the spread of the virus, a public appeal was made to avoid venturing out of homes and crowding for immersion. According to PMC officials, the centres as well as tanks have been established in association with local ward offices. The civic body has set up 187 collection centres across the PMC limits and provided 30 mobile immersion tanks. Citizens can get information about the centre located in their neighbourhood at the ward office. Posters and banners, giving details about the local officials and locations of centres, have been placed across PMC areas. Mobile immersion tanks will be sent to different places including housing societies for immersion of idols. “The mobile tanks have been introduced for multiple purposes. They are an eco-friendly way of immersion. The effort is to make the facilities available at the doorstep,” said a senior PMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/immersion-at-public-places-sees-a-drastic-drop-in-city/articleshow/77751640.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
August 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Three good-air days make August cleanest month since 2015||NEW DELHI: Even with just three “good” air days, August has been the cleanest month in terms of air quality since Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has launched Air Quality Index (AQI) in April 2015. Overall, 2020 has also been the cleanest year with the maximum number of “good” air days. Air quality is considered “good” when AQI is at 50 and below. Delhi has already recorded four “good” air days this year — compared to two last year and none in 2018. According to the CPCB data, the highest AQI recorded this month was 87 on August 8, with no “moderate” day — between 101 and 200 — recorded so far. At 63, the average AQI this month has been “satisfactory”, when air quality oscillates between 51 and 100. “Delhi only recorded ‘satisfactory’ and ‘good’ air days this month. We may well see a few more days of ‘good’ air this year,” said a CPCB official. In 2015, when AQI was launched, Delhi recorded no “good” air day, with 2016 faring no better and again recording zero “good” day. It was only in 2017 that Delhi recorded a “good” air day — on July 30 and 31, when AQI was 43 and 47, respectively. In 2018 again, not a single day made the cut, but 2019 saw a fruitful August, with an AQI of 49 recorded on August 18 and 19, respectively. Long-term CPCB data shows Delhi’s air quality has been improving each year since 2016, with the average PM10 and PM2.5 levels recording a gradual-but-steady annual drop. While “good” air days generally tend to come in patches, often occurring back to back, owing to a spell of heavy rain, the spread has been over several days this August. The first “good” air day was recorded on August 13, when AQI fell to 50 after strong showers hit the capital. A week later, the second such day was recorded on August 20, when AQI was again at 50. While these two spells were impacted by rain, the third “good” air day on August 24 saw AQI at 45 — the lowest so far this year — which was primarily due to good wind speed. On Tuesday, Delhi’s AQI was recorded at 61, which was “satisfactory”. Agencies forecast a drop in the coming days, with a spell of moderate-to-heavy rain likely to occur from Wednesday onwards until Friday. In fact, Delhi may record even more good days before the month is over, forecasts show. “Fairly widespread rain is forecast for Wednesday. AQI is forecast to stay in the “good” to “satisfactory” categories for August 26, while the “good” category is forecast for August 27 and 28,” said System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research on Tuesday. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director of research and advocacy at Centre for Science and Environment, said a good monsoon had helped, but the low readings could also be due to the lockdown. “After the unlocking process began, the background emissions were on the rise again, but then the monsoon hit. While you generally do see low readings during the monsoon, the lockdown may have played a role this year. It will be crucial to see if readings in winter are reduced too,” said Chowdhury. Watch August the cleanest month since 2015 as Delhi records 3 good-air days||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-good-air-days-make-aug-cleanest-month-since-2015/articleshow/77751739.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rlys seeks nod for goods train to Bangladesh||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad division of the Indian Railways has sought permission from the ministry of railways for regular trains from Ahmedabad to Bangladesh. The division has sent a proposal to the ministry for approval. Divisional railway manager (DRM) Deepak Kumar Jha said that a city-based company Arvind Denim has been sending its clothes to garment manufactures in Bangladesh. He said that one train has already left from Ahmedabad and the second one will leave soon. “The company has requested for a regular train to Bangladesh. It has proposed four trains a month for the neighbouring country,” said Jha. The DRM said that goods from Ahmedabad are also sent to Pakistan and Nepal. “There are restrictions on movement of trains to Bangladesh. The goods to Pakistan and Nepal are being sent through North India,” the DRM said. Jha said that the railways has formed a five-member panel to tap business potential in areas that have not been covered so far. “We are also looking at the possibility of transporting soft drinks. This sector is yet to be tapped,” he said. Jha said that the committee will examine the proposals and sent them to the ministry for approval. He said the railways has decided to create better facilities at the goods shed in the division. The DRM said that so far three parties have shown interest in developing the goods sheds in the division. No lockdown blues here DRM Deepak Kumar Jha said that during the lockdown, the Ahmedabad division accounted for 32% of the total goods transported by the railways. In all, 56% of the goods were transported by the western division. “Total 364 Covid-19 parcel special trains were operated by the division, generating a revenue of Rs 13 crore,” said Jha. He said the division achieved a record loading of 5.46 crore litres of milk from Palanpur to Hind Terminal. “This is the highest for the Indian Railways during the lockdown,” Jha added. About 74 milk special trains were operated to ensure supply of milk. “The railways collected Rs 10 crore from this operation,” Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rlys-seeks-nod-for-goods-train-to-bangladesh/articleshow/77751644.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
August 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Modi govt helping improve quality of life: Pradhan||Bhubaneswar: Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Tuesday said the government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is committed to providing quality housing and living for all. Pradhan said that for the government, a house is not merely about four walls, it is a centre of happiness and dignity for people. “It is a place where dreams take shape and aspirations get wings,” the minister was quoted as saying in an official statement issued by his office on Tuesday. Highlighting the benefits of the welfare schemes introduced by the Modi government, Pradhan said improving quality of life, especially of the poor and disadvantaged, is a priority of the Centre. “More than 26 lakh houses have been constructed in Odisha under PM Awas Yojana. Since 2017, over 24 lakh households have been electrified under Saubhagya resulting in 100% electricity coverage in the state as well as providing comfort and convenience,” he said. Pradhan mentioned that a pucca house under PMAY not only fulfils the dream of owning a house, it also brings all-round government benefits such as a gas cylinder under PMUY, electricity, drinking water supply, toilet and more. “Over 5.22 crore LED bulbs have been distributed in Odisha, resulting in annual energy saving of 6.78 billion kWh. EESL has distributed over 1.70 lakh LED tube lights and 37,770 energy efficient fans under UJALA in Odisha, lighting up the lives of millions,” he said. Mentioning the achievements of Swachh Bharat, he said more than 77.14 lakh households in Odisha have been provisioned with toilets. “It is a matter of great happiness that all the 114 urban local bodies in Odisha have been declared open defecation free,” Pradhan said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/modi-govt-helping-improve-quality-of-life-pradhan/articleshow/77748661.cms||Sandip Mishra
August 26, 2020||Bareilly||Four cages set up in Amaria to trap stray leopard||Pilibhit: After coming to an agreement with farmers of Pilibhit's Amaria tehsil on August 22, forest and wildlife division authorities installed four cages with live baits on Tuesday to trap the lone stray leopard that has moved into this agricultural belt about a year ago. The big cat has has created havoc in the area by preying on farmers' livestock and pets. Surprisingly, the Amaria farmers have never seemed to have any problems with the presence of some 10-12 tigers in the area ever since 2012, when a tigress and three cubs from Pilibhit Tiger Reserve had moved into Deuni dam area along the Devha river. Now, foresters are in hot pursuit of the leopard, who was captured on CCTV camera on Monday at Katmati village, one of the five affected villages. The big cat's presence was also confirmed by the fact that it killed a goat at the village on Monday night, said divisional forest officer of forest and wildlife division Sanjeev Kumar. It prompted the foresters to immediately place the cages to trap it “We are setting up two cages at Surajpur village and another two cages at Katmati and Jagat villages, respectively, to capture it," he said. The field forest team has been deployed there for monitoring the leopard's movement, Kumar added. Farmet Paramveer Singh Perry of Surajpur village said the farmers would also keep a watch on the movement of the leopard and remain in touch with the forest officials to exchange latest updates in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/four-cages-set-up-in-amaria-to-trap-stray-leopard/articleshow/77745485.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Goa||Indian Navy to conduct firing drill on Sept 10 at Mormugao||Panaji: The Indian Navy will carry out firing drills of the coastal defence weapons on September 10 and has warned shipping and fishing vessels to stay clear of the area. The Navy will test fire the 105mm light field gun and the 40/60 anti-aircraft guns between 9am and 1pm on September 10 from Mormugao, the Indian Navy said in a statement. “The danger zone lies within an area bounded by 220 to 260 degrees from Mormugao Headland Flag Staff position, up to a distance of 15 nautical miles into sea and up to height of 7100 metres,” said the Navy. The Navy had carried out a similar practice firing on August 7. To ensure public safety, all shipping vessels, harbour craft, fishing and other vessels have been requested to keep clear of the Naval Coastal Battery and the danger zone during the period of firing, the Navy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/indian-navy-to-conduct-firing-drill-on-sept-10-at-mormugao/articleshow/77751646.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Goa||‘Fence off quarries to prevent drownings’||Panaji: Expressing concern over frequent drowning incidents at used and abandoned stone quarries in the state, GoaCan has urged the state to prepare an action plan to prevent such deaths, particularly of children. In a letter addressed to the director of mines and geology, Vivek H P, GoaCan coordinator Roland Martins has demanded that a comprehensive plan be put in place to fence off such sites. On Monday, a 10-year-old boy from Calangute drowned at a laterite stone quarry in Nanoda, Latambarcem. Martins has written to several government departments and asked for identification of all quarries where water has filled up. “There are many stone quarries, legal and illegal, in Bicholim, Pernem and Sattari in North Goa and Quepem, Sanguem, Canacona and Dharbandora in South Goa that are presently non-operational due to the ongoing monsoon. These quarries, which have been left unattended, without any fencing and filled with rain water, have become death traps for the local people,” Martins said in his letter. GoaCan wants the state to ensure that all quarries have protective fencing and public notices with emergency helpline numbers. They also want Goa police to provide details of all quarry-related drowning cases over the last 10 years and that of action taken. “The directorate of mines and geology must prepare a list of all legal and illegal quarries and submit the same to the respective taluka mamlatdars and village panchayats for their knowledge and to ensure that the residents of these villages are forewarned of the dangers of entering these quarries when filled with rain water,” Martins said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fence-off-quarries-to-prevent-drownings/articleshow/77751642.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Aurangabad||2 nabbed for involvement in series of thefts||Aurangabad: Two history-sheeters have been arrested by Pundaliknagar police for committing series of house break-ins and thefts in the city. According to police, several property offences that have been undetected for a while have now been cracked with the arrest of the accused duo. The accused have been identified as Akash Shinde (19) of Gautamnagar and Gajanan Makde (20) of Mukundnagar. The suspects were produced before the court on Tuesday following which have been remanded in three-day police custody. Assistant inspector Ghanshyam Sonawne said the two were detained from the limits of Mukundwadi police station and during preliminary investigation, they confessed to committing a series of burglaries in Mukundwadi and railway station areas. “They have also confessed to stealing six two-wheelers in the past few days,” he said. “The accused duo was recently released from the prison after which they started committing series of property offences After learning about the arrest of the two accused, one of their key accomplices has gone into hiding and efforts are on to nab him,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-nabbed-for-involvement-in-series-of-thefts/articleshow/77747356.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Married man rapes, impregnates beautician; booked||RAJKOT: A 25-year-old married man, who is father to two children, was booked on Monday for allegedly raping a 21-year-old beautician for over a year with false promise of marriage. Police booked Deepak Aal, resident of Ashapuranagar on Kothariya Road in Rajkot, after the girl, who is currently eight months pregnant, lodged a complaint with A Division police station late on Monday night. According to the complaint, the survivor, who is native of Bhavnagar, had come to Rajkot after enrolling for a beautician’s course at a private institute in January 2019. She was living at a private girls hostel during her training to be a beautician. At the same time she met the accused on Facebook who befriended her and both began chatting online. After about a month, they also met each other and entered into a relationship. Deepak promised the girl that he would marry her after divorcing his wife. The police complaint stated that Deepak allegedly raped the girl several times between March 2019 and January 2020. The survivor has alleged that after she got pregnant, Deepak not only stopped meeting her but even stopped taking her calls during the lockdown. Frustrated with Deepak’s behaviour, the girl reached his house on Monday night and confronted him. But Deepak refused to leave his wife and marry her. This prompted the girl to lodged a complaint of rape against Deepak at A Division police station. Investigating officer C J Joshi said that they have booked Deepak for rape, who, however, has gone missing ever since. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/married-man-rapes-impregnates-beautician-booked/articleshow/77748677.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Bareilly||20-year-old youth feared drowned in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: A 20-year-old youth tried to kill himself by jumping into a swelled Devha river on Tuesday morning near Brahmchari Ghat. The police, after being informed, sent a team of rescuers who are trying to trace him. As per eyewitnesses, Sushant Sharma, was standing on a spur made at the riverbank and then jumped into the heavy discharge of the river water. After being informed, station house officer of Pilibhit Kotwali police station Shrikant Dwivedi called the flood rescue unit of PAC (Provincial Armed Constabulary). As per victim’s parents, Shushant recently passed the intermediate examination from a local college this year. They are, however, in disbelief as to what drove Sushant to take this extreme step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/20-year-old-youth-feared-drowned-in-pilibhit/articleshow/77745478.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Kolkata||Bicycle thieves strike in Covid times, keep Kolkata cops on toes||KOLKATA: As pandemic grips Kolkata, bicycle thieves are on the prowl across the city, according to sources in Kolkata Police. So much so that the detective department is now taking keen interest in cycle thefts. Interestingly, there has been a sharp drop in theft of other two-wheelers. The comparative figures from previous years show that there is no hike in thefts of bike and scooter at all, said joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma. TimesViewThere has been a change in the pattern of crime since March, especially during the periods we have seen a total lockdown. Crime for gain, in particular, has become more innovative. It would help if some of us are a little less gullible. Much of this type of crime can be prevented by citizens being more careful.During the pandemic, the city has seen crime at an all-time low, said police sources. And the drop in the number of two-wheeler thefts is an indicator — from an average of as many as 16 a month, the numbers had come down to less than five in April and May. The numbers have seen a slight increase after the unlocking began (still less than the average). But it’s the theft of cycles and involvement of first-timers in the crimes that have drawn the attention of Lalbazar. Costly bicycles, scooterette and even their batteries have also become the targets. The Covid pandemic has led several people to bank on two-wheelers, particularly cycles, to maintain social distancing. “There has already been a few cases reported from Sinthee (a costly mountain bike), Behala and Sealdah-Muchipara areas.We used to note down bicycle thefts in the early phase of our policing career. The crime index board in police stations used to have the last row dedicated to theft of cycles. Motorcycles replaced the word cycles over the years,” an officer of the detective department’s anti-burglary wing said. “There were not even 10 bicycle thefts last year in the entire city. The figure is more than that this year,” he added. Arrest of two youths with a stolen two-wheeler at Shyampukur a couple of days ago is one such example. Sergeant Alok Ghosh of Maniktala police, during his night round, arrested two persons with a Honda Activa Scooty, which the duo had stolen from Gourio Math Shyampukur two months ago. Similarly, a minor was apprehended for allegedly stealing the two-wheeler of Tiljala’s Sk Irfan (21) on August 22. The police probe found that the minor had committed the crime after finding the two-wheeler parked in front of a restaurant on Beniapukur Road. Cops said all three had no previous records.  Detective department says those carrying out these thefts now have no links with gangs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cycle-thefts-in-cov-times-keep-cops-on-toes/articleshow/77750060.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 26, 2020||Pune||State govt against plying private buses without e-passes: Maharashtra transport commissioner||PUNE: The state government on Tuesday said it had no intention to allow private buses to ply without e-passes like the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation vehicles. “The private buses can operate provided the vehicle operators and the passengers have e-passes. Some private buses are running following the rules,” said state transport commissioner Shekhar Channe. The government had said last week a decision on the inter-district movement of private buses with passengers without e-passes was expected this week. “The issue might be raised in the cabinet meeting on Wednesday,” state transport minister Anil Parab told TOI. On Sunday, home minister Anil Deshmukh had said the state would be sticking to e-passes for inter-district and inter-state travel as the Covid cases were on the rise in the rural areas. “Why the MSRTC buses have been allowed to ply without e-passes then? We are also serious about the safety measures,” said Kiran Desai, the secretary of the Pune District Luxury Bus Association. Private bus operators claimed that procurement of e-passes was a big obstacle for them. “Many transporters can use whatever resources they have and start their buses. But the e-pass is a stumbling block,” said Balasaheb Khedekar, the president of the association, adding that the bus operators were currently getting only queries but little or no confirmed bookings. There are around 900 private luxury buses in the Pune district. The transporters earlier threatened to surrender their vehicles at regional transport offices on September 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-govt-against-plying-pvt-buses-without-e-passes/e-passes-a-must-for-pvt-buses-state-transport-commissioner/articleshow/77751645.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||As lockdown life goes digital, cybercrime shoots up in state||Bhubaneswar: The Covid pandemic and lockdowns, which prompted people to stay indoors and increased their dependency on online banking and financial transactions, have triggered a rise in cybercrime. Of the total 942 cyber cases registered from January 1 till July 31 this year, at least 650 cases were reported during the lockdown period between April and July. The cases included 73 offences for circulation of various false video/audio clips related to Covid outbreak on social media. Data shared by the state police said around 804 cybercrime cases were registered between January and July-end in 2019. “We found a rise of around 17% in the registration of cyber offences during January-July period this year as compared to the 2019 corresponding period. This can be attributed to the increasing use of the internet for online financial transactions during this time. Restrictions on movement of people, apprehension of virus infection through cash and availability of almost all types of services through online platforms made people vulnerable to cyber frauds,” a senior police officer said. An official source said almost all the victims found fraudulent withdrawal of money from their accounts after they clicked phishing and suspicious mails or links. In some cases the victims, who were not conversant with online transactions, shared their passwords after being tricked by the cyber crooks. “We have been sensitising people to take adequate precautions while making online transactions. Banks have been regularly sending messages to people not to share their credit/debit card details, OTP, CVV and passwords with strangers,” additional director general of police (Crime Branch) Soumendra Priyadarshi said. Recently, the Crime Branch issued a public advisory, asking people to remain alert about cyber frauds, who are out to cash in on the Covid-19 crisis. Crime Branch sensitised people about the modus operandi of cyber criminals and precautions required to thwart the evil designs of the anti-socials. The digital thieves had been sending phishing mails and asking people to download some malicious mobile applications to fight against novel coronavirus. Besides, the con men gave Corona-related online offers on the purchase of different products. Statistics said cybercrime in Odisha saw an alarming rise in 2019 as compared to the previous year. While a total of 867 cybercrime cases were registered in the state in 2018, the figure shot to 1,475 in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/as-lockdown-life-goes-digital-cybercrime-shoots-up-in-state/articleshow/77748675.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
August 26, 2020||Goa||Bail plea of murder accused, to care for ailing mother, rejected||Panaji: The North Goa district sessions court on Thursday rejected interim bail to a 25-year-old jailed accused who is facing murder charges. The bail application was filed on grounds that he had to take care of his 60-year-old bedridden mother as all his family members had tested positive for Covid-19. The accused stated that both his sisters, brothers-in-law, their children and his mother’s attendant had all tested positive for Covid-19. Further, he said his mother was aged and sick and there was no one to take care of her. The court noted that in the present case, it had been found that the accused’s mother was sufficiently fit enough to move within the house. “Granting interim bail and permitting the accused to travel out of jail and then return may create further complications for the accused, his mother and for the other inmates upon his return,” the sessions court held. The court observed that his family members had tested positive on August 7 and that 12 days had passed since. “The persons who tested positive may have recovered. It is not the case that the health of the accused’s mother is very bad and that she requires the attendance of her son,” the court observed. Public prosecutor P Bharne submitted that there was no proof that the mother was bed-ridden, and that 60 years of age could not be considered as old age. Sessions judge Irshad Agha added that the accused could in fact be exposed to the virus if he was permitted to go home and stated that the seriousness of the crime had to be kept in mind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bail-plea-of-murder-accused-to-care-for-ailing-mother-rejected/articleshow/77751650.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Vadodara||CISF security at SoU from Sept 1||Vadodara: From September 1, the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) will take over security of the Statue of Unity (SoU) in Kevadia town of Narmada district. Induction of the CISF was held in the SoU premises on Tuesday in the presence of district collector Manoj Kothari. Kothari said during the ceremony that the state government had written to the Centre and requested to hand over security of SoU to the CISF. Considering the importance of the monument, the central government had in February decided to give CISF security cover to the statue of the country’s first home minister, Sardar Patel. Over 272 CISF men will now guard the world’s tallest statue that has become one of the most popular tourist destinations in the country. Since the statue was inaugurated about two years ago, the Gujarat police was its security. The CISF guards all the airports in the country along with many important government buildings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cisf-security-at-sou-from-sept-1/articleshow/77748113.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Heritage theme for station dropped||Ahmedabad: Ahmedabad division railway authorities have dropped their plan to give a heritage look to the Kalupur railway station building. The idea to have entry gates that were replicas of the Teen Darwaja has also been dropped. Divisional railway manager Deepak Kumar Jha said the existing building is more than 60 years old and will not be able to bear the load of domes and hence the idea has been dropped. Jha said that after the domes were dropped it was also decided to also drop the entry gates that were to be replicas of the Teen Darwaja. The Ahmedabad Division is renovating the building and it will be ready by Diwali. Meanwhile, the Archaeological Survey of India has stalled the proposal for construction of a pit line near the Shaking Minarets on Platform 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/heritage-theme-for-station-dropped/articleshow/77750037.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||PUC centres ‘misread’ emission data||Hyderabad: While insurance companies were directed to renew vehicle insurance policies only after a valid pollution under control (PUC) certificate has been obtained, a ground check by TOI found that many illegal emission testing centres in the city were providing fake PUCs. The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI), had in a circular on August 20, 2020, told companies that a valid PUC certificate was mandatory for insurance renewal. A visit to some emission testing centres revealed that the readings on the computerised PUC certificates obtained from four different places for the same vehicle within a span of one hour showed different emission levels. Moreover, multiple centres were found to be charging commuters more than the prescribed rates. While the emission levels of carbon monoxide (CO) for a two-wheeler at one mobile testing centre in Erragadda showed 1.24%, the same reading at Moosapet was 1.46%, while centres at Kukatpally Metro Station and JNTU showed 1.24% and 0.87% respectively. Similar was the case with hydrocarbon emission levels. As per the prescribed standards under 115 (2) of CMV rules 1989, all vehicles that are tested for PUC should fall within the prescribed standards. For instance, for a four-stroke two-wheeler vehicle manufactured after March 31, 2000, the prescribed percentage of CO should be less than 3.5%, whereas the hydrocarbon emissions — measured in ppm (parts per million) — should be less than 4,500. As per RTA rules, two-wheelers cannot be charged more than Rs 35 and four-wheelers cannot be charged over Rs 50 for a PUC. However, TOI’s visit to these mobile emission testing centres revealed that rates are much higher than the prescribed fee, and vary from one centre to another. To make matters worse, it was also found that multiple mobile units, for instance the mobile PUC testing vehicle parked at Erragadda, and the one parked near Kukatpally Metro Station, are operating under a single license. P Nagesh Kumar, a cab driver, said: “There is no emission centre that complies with motor vehicle rules. They charge whatever they like, and the pollution certificate they provide is also not reliable. There are several vehicles running on the road that are PUC certified but are seen emitting black smoke that can almost blind you.” M Dayanand, general secretary, Telangana Auto and Motor Welfare Union, said, “If RTA gives licence for one emission testing unit at a particular location, the licence holder is setting up at least five to 10 vehicles illegally at different locations across the city.” He said, “The RTA needs to have a software that links every single mobile testing unit to a main centre to curb irregularities.” When contacted, RTA officials informed that to curb this problem, they will soon have their own pollution testing centres at all its offices across Hyderabad and Rangareddy districts. “There is a proposal to open pollution testing units in all 11 RTA offices. Once that is in place, the problem of mobile emission testing vehicles that are parked on roads will be reduced,” a senior RTA official told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/puc-centres-misread-emission-data/articleshow/77750078.cms||Moulika.KV
August 26, 2020||Nashik||Auditors shave Rs 31L off bills prepared by pvt hosps in 15 days||Nashik: The civic body’s decision to appoint auditors at private hospitals to check the Covid-19 treatment bills is yielding good results by effectively putting a check on overcharging. The auditors appointed by the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) have saved more than 400 patients almost Rs 31 lakh over the past 15 days. In the past month, they have slashed off Rs 58 lakh from bills prepared for 750 patients. The NMC has made prior checks of all Covid-19 bills prepared by the private hospitals in the city mandatory. The hospitals have to first get the bills approved by the auditors before they can present the bills to the patients at the time of the discharge. “Over the past month, we were able to save the patients Rs 58 lakh. Earlier, the difference between the actual and excess bill amounts used to be in lakhs. Since the deployment of the auditors, the difference has narrowed,” said NMC officials. “The state government has already fixed charges for treating Covid-19 patients in private hospitals. We have put up hoardings and banners displaying the charges at major Covid hospitals. However, some private hospitals are still charging more. We want these private hospitals to follow the government guidelines,” they added. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game had appointed one auditor each in all private hospitals in the city engaged in Covid-19 treatment following complaints of overcharging. There are more than 60 private hospitals that are providing treatment to Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/auditors-shave-rs-31l-off-bills-prepared-by-pvt-hosps-in-15-days/articleshow/77750070.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Telangana, Andhra Pradesh unlikely to resume inter-state bus services soon||HYDERABAD: The inter-state bus services between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh are unlikely to resume in near future as the road transport corporations (RTCs) of the two Telugu states are yet to finalise the ‘reciprocal agreement.’ The reciprocal deal allows plying of TSRTC buses in AP and those of APSRTC in Telangana. Post the bifurcation of the state, the reciprocal agreement has not been signed between the two states. The officials of TSRTC are of the view that APSRTC is earning more in Telangana compared to the revenue TSRTC buses are earning in AP. Though the officials of TSRTC and APSRTC met here on Monday, the meeting was mainly confined to discussions on arriving at a consensus on the reciprocal agreement. The inter-state bus services were suspended in March when the lockdown was announced and since then have not been resumed. Lakhs of people from Telangana travel to AP for business and other purposes, and many of them have their own houses in AP. Besides, a large number of people from Telangana also travel to AP to visit temples such as Tirupati, Durga temple in Vijayawada, Annavaram in East Godavari, Srikalahasthi and Kanipakam in Chittoor districts, to name a few. Contrary to the expectations of the people that the inter-state bus services between Telangana and AP would resume this week, the meeting of the TSRTC and APSRTC officials remained inconclusive. “The buses of APSRTC are plying 1.11 lakh more kilometres in Telangana compared to the distance being covered by TSRTC buses in AP. We have asked our counterparts in APSRTC to reduce their bus operations and bring it on par with TSRTC bus operations in their state. The distance being covered by TSRTC buses in AP is about 1.50 lakh km only,” said an official. The APSRTC officials said that they would come back for another round of talks to Hyderabad after four or five days after placing the TSRTC’s proposal before their senior officials. Telangana used to earn about Rs 4 per crore per day through its inter-state bus services to AP, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/t-ap-unlikely-to-resume-inter-state-bus-services-soon/articleshow/77756149.cms||Roushan Ali
August 26, 2020||Goa||Anjuna party main accused granted bail||Panaji: Kapil Jhaverri, accused in the Anjuna drug-fuelled party case, which has led to much political mud-slinging, was granted conditional bail by the Panaji sessions court on Tuesday. The small-time actor has been granted bail on condition that he will report before the investigating officer of the crime branch for 15 days starting Wednesday. He has also been asked to surrender his passport. Jhaverri, who owns a villa in Anjuna where the party was hosted, has been restrained from leaving Goa and from entering the Anjuna belt for six months. He was also asked to furnish a personal bail bond of Rs 50,000 and one local surety of a like amount. One of the conditions of the bail is also that he should cooperate with the investigations in the case.  The Crime Branch had raided Jhaverri’s villa while the party was on amidst the pandemic, earlier this month. Altogether 23 persons were arrested, which included three women of foreign nationalities. Drugs worth Rs 9 lakh were seized at the party. The police had earlier opposed Jhaverri’s bail plea stating that he is yet to disclose from where the drugs were sourced. A promoter linked to Sunburn EDM, Shailesh Shetty, was also held in the Anjuna case. Shetty was granted bail three days ago. Further investigations are under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/anjuna-party-main-accused-granted-bail/articleshow/77751682.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Bareilly||Controversial UP BJP MLA’s daughter set to join Samajwadi Party||BAREILLY: The daughter of a controversial BJP legislator, who had married a Dalit youth against her father’s wishes last year and later alleged threat to life from him, now wants to join the Samajwadi Party and work for the women empowerment. She has sought an appointment with party chief Akhilesh Yadav. Sakshi Mishra, the daughter of Rajesh Mishra alias Pappu Bhartaul -- a local muscleman and MLA from Bithri Chainpur constituency-- had a face- off with her father last year when she went against his wishes and married the Dalit youth, Ajitesh. Soon after the marriage, Sakshi went into hiding and posted a video on Facebook alleging threat to her life from “goons” of her father. The MLA has rubbished the allegation. Over a year after her marriage and brush with the controversy, 23-year-old Sakshi has decided to take a plunge into politics. On Tuesday, she expressed her wish to join Samajwadi Party (SP) saying that a lot of development work was done under the Akhilesh Yadav’s regime. “A lot of development work was done during the then chief minister Akhilesh Yadav’s tenure in UP. And the way the party works has influenced me to join politics. I always wanted to be a social worker and promote women empowerment. I want to work for the development of women in particular and to address their grievances,” she said. When asked what prompted her to join Samajwadi Party, Sakshi said, “Every party has its own way of working. And I am more influenced by the way SP works and I am inspired by Aksilesh Yadav, who is a youth leader. He had given a separate identity to UP during his tenure as a CM.” She added, “I have written a letter in this connection to the SP president and sought an appointment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/controversial-up-bjp-mlas-daughter-set-to-join-sp/articleshow/77746394.cms||Maria Khan
August 26, 2020||Goa||Not paid salaries for over 3 months: Margao civic workers||Margao: Twelve Margao municipality daily wage workers have complained to various authorities, including the Goa Human Rights Commission, over non-payment of salaries for the past three months. The workers, who have been employed for the past two decades, stated that they are facing hardship and were compelled to borrow and beg money from relatives to ensure their families’ survival during the Covid-19 pandemic when prices of essential commodities have risen. They have also found themselves in a “panic situation” over the fate of their jobs. They stated that for the past three months, the municipal council has not communicated about their appointments despite submitting all necessary documents as per request. “Even after giving the documents, the municipality in a letter dated June 10, 2020 has informed that my appointment dated December 24, 2019 has been kept in abeyance as per directives of the director of urban development,” one of the workers stated in his complaint. “The municipality has neither mentioned any reasons nor communicated any such time limit for keeping my appointment as worker in abeyance,” he stated. The council had taken a resolution to consider regularisation of their services, and the departmental planning committee meeting held on July 20, 2019 in the presence of the chief officer and additional director of urban development approved and recommended the regularisation. On December 24, 2019, a memorandum was issued to 15 individuals regarding their appointment. The workers accepted the appointment, provided a fitness certificate by Hospicio Hospital, accepted the post of worker, and submitted joining report to the council in January. Following this, an order dated March 2, 2020 was issued mentioning their appointments. The workers stated that their jobs are a health hazard as have been collecting garbage for years, making them vulnerable to infection and communicable diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/not-paid-salaries-for-over-3-months-margao-civic-workers/articleshow/77751657.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Nashik||Covid patient jumps to his death at A’nagar hosp||Nashik: A 33-year-old Covid positive patient, a software engineer, jumped from the third floor of the Covid critical care centre of Surabhi hospital in Ahmednagar early on Tuesday morning and succumbed to the injuries eight hours later. According to the hospital staff, Goraksha Mahadev Matkar, a resident of Javkhede in Pathardi taluka of Ahmednagar district, was admitted to the facility around 10 pm on Monday and quietly sneaked out and jumped from the building around 2.30am. Gandhi Rakesh, medical director of Surabhi hospital, said, “Matkar suffered serious injuries and was quickly brought under treatment, but died at 10.50am. I was informed that the deceased was a software engineer.” Gandhi said that the patient had been quarantined for 10 days in a rural hospital in Shirur. His relatives brought him to the Surabhi hospital after his condition became serious due to pneumonia. “The doctors hardly got time to find out the history of the patient because he committed suicide soon after being admitted to the hospital,” he said. The Topkhana police said that they would be investigating the case as it was too early to talk to the relatives of the deceased soon after the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-patient-jumps-to-his-death-at-anagar-hosp/articleshow/77750106.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Plus 2 arts result gets delayed after 2 staffers test +ve||Bhubaneswar: The Council of Higher Secondary Education (CHSE) postponed the announcement of higher secondary results of humanities and vocational streams to September first week after two of its officers tested positive for Covid-19. The results were supposed to be published in the last week of August. “Due to Covid-19, the result of plus two humanities and vocational courses will be published by the first week of September,” school and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Das said. Sources said after two of its officers got infected, the CHSE would have to sanitise its premises and need to send several staff who had come in contact with the two to home quarantine, leading to the delay in publication of results. Usually, the results of higher secondary exams get published in May or the first week of June. Due to the outbreak of coronavirus and subsequent lockdown-led disruption, the evaluation process got affected. The CHSE, though, managed to announce the results of science and commerce on August 12 and August 19, respectively. “The government should not discriminate between students of different streams. If science and commerce results could be announced, then what is the fault of humanities and vocational students?” asked Samir Patra, a student of Debray College in the city. Over 1.5 lakh students of humanities and vocational streams are waiting for their higher secondary results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/plus-2-arts-result-gets-delayed-after-2-staffers-test-ve/articleshow/77748686.cms||Minati Singha
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana, Andhra Pradesh unlikely to resume inter-state bus services soon||HYDERABAD: The inter-state bus services between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh are unlikely to resume in near future as the road transport corporations (RTCs) of the two Telugu states are yet to finalise the ‘reciprocal agreement.’ The reciprocal deal allows plying of TSRTC buses in AP and those of APSRTC in Telangana. Post the bifurcation of the state, the reciprocal agreement has not been signed between the two states. The officials of TSRTC are of the view that APSRTC is earning more in Telangana compared to the revenue TSRTC buses are earning in AP. Though the officials of TSRTC and APSRTC met here on Monday, the meeting was mainly confined to discussions on arriving at a consensus on the reciprocal agreement. The inter-state bus services were suspended in March when the lockdown was announced and since then have not been resumed. Lakhs of people from Telangana travel to AP for business and other purposes, and many of them have their own houses in AP. Besides, a large number of people from Telangana also travel to AP to visit temples such as Tirupati, Durga temple in Vijayawada, Annavaram in East Godavari, Srikalahasthi and Kanipakam in Chittoor districts, to name a few. Contrary to the expectations of the people that the inter-state bus services between Telangana and AP would resume this week, the meeting of the TSRTC and APSRTC officials remained inconclusive. “The buses of APSRTC are plying 1.11 lakh more kilometres in Telangana compared to the distance being covered by TSRTC buses in AP. We have asked our counterparts in APSRTC to reduce their bus operations and bring it on par with TSRTC bus operations in their state. The distance being covered by TSRTC buses in AP is about 1.50 lakh km only,” said an official. The APSRTC officials said that they would come back for another round of talks to Hyderabad after four or five days after placing the TSRTC’s proposal before their senior officials. Telangana used to earn about Rs 4 per crore per day through its inter-state bus services to AP, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-ap-unlikely-to-resume-inter-state-bus-services-soon/articleshow/77750107.cms||Roushan Ali
August 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: Two minors detained for murdering youth, dumping body in canal||PUNE: Two minor boys were detained on Tuesday for allegedly murdering a youth and dumping his body in a canal near Empress Botanical Garden around 1.30pm. Senior inspector Krantisinh Patil from the Wanowrie police said, “The minor boys brutally attacked the victim, Ayan (full name not known). We recovered his body from the canal.” Patil said, “Probe revealed that the boys killed the victim because he developed a liking for the sister of one of them".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-minors-detained/articleshow/77751684.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Dehradun||Cong working to form a pro-development alliance in Assam: Harish Rawat||Dehradun: Former Uttarakhand chief minister and Congress general secretary Harish Rawat, who is also the party in-charge for Assam, in an exclusive interaction with TOI, said that the party is bringing together forces which are in favour of Assam’s development and is not just putting up an anti-BJP alliance in the state. He maintained that though the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) and the Congress had collectively voted for a Rajya Sabha seat in March, the issue of a pre- or post-poll alliance has not been discussed. “We are not in conversation with Badruddin Ajmal-led AIUDF. Currently, we are focusing on small social organisations and are trying to bring them under one umbrella ahead of the 2021 assembly polls,” Rawat told TOI. “We need to strike a chord with some groups which got disconnected with Congress due to various reasons. Our focus now is to bring them on a common platform,” said the Congress veteran. When asked about the chief ministerial candidate, he said the party has several deserving members. “After the election results are announced, the elected representatives will decide on the chief minister,” said Rawat. Regarding poll issues, Rawat said the party is highlighting the failures of the Sarbananda Sonowal-led BJP government which include unemployment, corruption, poor law and order situation and lack of development in the Barak valley and the Brahmaputra valley. “The BJP government in Assam is busy dividing the people and creating a rift among them in the name of NRC and CAA. Development has taken a back seat. Serious efforts are required to revive the economy of the state. We are focusing on providing better facilities like electricity, health and education,” he said. On the issue of NRC, he said that “Congress would ensure justice to all genuine Indians whose names have not been included in the final list.” Rawat also asserted that CAA is unacceptable and that the party would continue to oppose it. For election campaign, Congress is focusing on three aspects – revamping the party set up by filling up the gaps, reaching out to groups which got disconnected with the party, and highlighting the failures of the Sonowal government. “By revamp, I do not mean sweeping changes but filling up all the posts, making the required changes and finding people best suited for party activities,” the former CM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cong-working-to-form-a-pro-development-alliance-in-assam-harish-rawat/articleshow/77744537.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||AMD seeks forest min nod for uranium mining||Hyderabad: City-based Atomic Minerals Directorate for Research and Exploration (AMD) has sought the Union ministry of forest and environment for forest clearance for uranium exploration in Kappatralla reserve forest to an extent of 468 hectares. AMD has sunk 20 boreholes so far and covered only 30% of the area and they have now decided to dig further to cover the remaining area in Kappatralla in Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh. Documents filed by AMD with the ministry of forest revealed, “Preliminary geological assessment and radioactive anomalies located in and around Kappatralla, hold positivity for having a high-grade uranium mineralisation. The forest land is one of the prime targets for exploration-related uranium mineralisation in India.” Incidentally, Kappatralla was once a faction-ridden hotbed. The Directorate said there were similarities in geological parameters to already established uranium mineralisation in Chitrial and Peddagattu of Nalgonda district in Telangana. “The department proposes to carry out survey and subsurface exploration by drilling in Kappatralla reserve forest,” the directorate said in its application, hoping to carry out uranium mining in 468 hectares in the forest reserve. In February 2018, director of mines and geology incharge B Sreedhar, in his letter to the department of atomic energy said, “GSI (Geological Survey of India) and AMD are empowered to take investigations without any permission. No permission is required from the state government.” AMD had sunk 20 boreholes so far and it covered only 30% of the area and they have now decided to dig further to cover the remaining area. Uranium Corporation of India Limited (UCIL) is currently mining uranium in Pulivendula in Kadapa district. Efforts of AMD scientists have resulted in locating significant and promising uranium deposits in the northern parts of the Cuddapah basin. Review of all areas of ongoing investigation and assessment indicates northern part of Cuddapah basin is most promising and potential area in country for high-grade, large tonnage uranium deposits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/amd-seeks-forest-min-nod-for-uranium-mining/articleshow/77751724.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 26, 2020||Goa||Mayor: CCP’s stand firm on not renewing casino licences||Panaji: After initially stating that offshore casinos would get permission for two more years, Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) mayor Uday Madkaikar on Tuesday evening said he had been misquoted and that CCP’s stand remains the same - not to renew casino licences. “The press misquoted me. We have not changed our stand,” he told presspersons later in the day. “The question of renewing licences of offshore casinos doesn’t arise at all. Our stand and that of Babush (Atanasio Monserrate) is firm. We don’t want casinos in Panaji. I was just telling the press what the taxi operators and prominent businessmen requested. They have been asking me not to stop casinos as business is already down due to Covid. Shutting down casinos will worsen the situation. They requested that licences be given at least for two years,” he explained. “This is a sensitive decision. I can’t take the decision alone. I will have to take permission from the councillors. A council resolution to renew their trade licences will have to be taken,” he stated. TOI last month reported that the corporation kept the trade licences of offshore casinos on hold after the latter approached CCP seeking renewal of their permits. CCP earns Rs 56 lakh in trade licence fees from the six offshore casinos on the Mandovi. Monserrate, who is the Panaji MLA, had promised to remove all the offshore casinos from River Mandovi within 100 days of winning the 2019 Panaji byelection. There are a dozen onshore and six off shore casinos operating in the state, which are currently shut due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The offshore casinos operate from vessels owned by Deltin Corp Ltd, Pride Group and Golden Globe Hotels Private Limited, and are moored in the Mandovi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mayor-ccps-stand-firm-on-not-renewing-casino-licences/articleshow/77751696.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Goa||Power dept staff earn mantri’s praise||Panaji: Power minister Nilesh Cabral on Monday felicitated engineers and line staff of the electricity department for working in adverse conditions to restore power supply to the island of Chorao by re-stringing a tower line that had snapped over the river after heavy rain this month. Such work is usually outsourced to a professional contractor. The team led by assistant engineer Nadim Baig and junior engineer Shivam Madkaikar was given a letter of appreciation by Cabral for re-stringing the 150-m-long conductor. “The achievement of you and your team of quickly rising to the occasion and restoring power by trekking through heavy vegetation and using a canoe to get across the inundated area is undoubtedly commendable,” Cabral said in his letter. The 11kV tower line between Chorao and Vanxim island snapped at 6pm on August 7 during torrential rain and strong winds. Staff had to first make an approach route to assess the fault at the location towards Vanxim island. They found that the 11kV conductor was found to be snapped in the middle of the river. Local canoes were hired and department line staff attached to the Chorao section then restrung 150-m-long conductor. Work was completed at 7pm on August 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/power-dept-staff-earn-mantris-praise/articleshow/77751706.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Goa||‘E-assessment a paradigm shift, but concerns remain’||Panaji: The new faceless e-assessment taxation system will ensure uniformity of approach and uniform application of law-making and will put an end to the possible harassment of honest tax-payers, said chairman, Confederation of Indian Industries (CII)-Goa, Blaise Costabir. He hoped that the new system would remove the “undesirable practices” that occur when assessing officers use individual discretion and subjective judgement. Joint commissioner, Income Tax, Bengaluru, Vinod Sharma said that, henceforth, a taxpayer would not need to meet the assessing officer and that the removal of human interface is one of the big reforms being brought in by the Union ministry of finance. Sharma and Costabir were speaking at a webinar on ‘Faceless E-Assessment: Honouring the Honest’ organised by the government. “Now there will be no manual scrutiny, it will be only computer aided. There will be a focus on knowing the law, on skill, rather than knowing the officer or the networking ability of a particular tax consultant,” said Costabir. At the same times, Costabir expressed concerns over the implementation of the new system. Along with training and awareness, the use of multiple languages across the country could make e-assessment difficult. “A tax filer may file in one language which has to be understood for an assessment in some other part of the country,” said Costabir. Sharma said that the department is looking into the issue. Sharma also said that a lot of nitty-gritties of the scheme are being resolved and stakeholders are encouraged to submit their suggestions for consideration by the Income Tax Department. This faceless assessment program focuses on three big reforms; faceless assessment, faceless appeal and taxpayers’ charter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/e-assessment-a-paradigm-shift-but-concerns-remain/articleshow/77751722.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Driving schools struggle despite easing of lockdown restrictions||HYDERABAD: The days before the Covid-19 pandemic hit the state used to be very busy and hectic for Madhu Kiran, 32, an instructor at a motor driving school at Kukatpally. Kiran used to teach car driving lessons to at least 15 to 20 people on any given day. However, since the pandemic hit the state, the situation seems to have changed completely. “People are still reluctant to start the course due to the fear of contracting the infection. This is despite telling them that I clean the car after every customer finishes the class,” Kiran said. Driving school owners and instructors say that the relaxations in lockdown restrictions have done little to ease their burden. After being hit by the sluggish economic activity and no clients, many say that they are on the verge of surrendering the vehicles to the financiers after the moratorium ends on August 31. Functionaries of Telangana Auto and Motor Vehicle Union said that there are schools with over three or four vehicles bought through loans. “Though a moratorium has been announced, the debtors have to pay the entire interest and pending instalments in a month or two,” said M Dayanand, general secretary of Telangana Auto and Motor Vehicle Union. Owners and instructors of driving schools said they are expecting government intervention. “We are going to submit a representation to the government requesting financial aid to driving schools or at least a waiver on insurance premiums and road tax until year-end,” said Mohammed Majid, a driving school owner at Shalibanda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/driving-schools-struggle-despite-easing-of-lockdown-restrictions/articleshow/77750132.cms||Moulika.KV
August 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gold ETF AUM surges, but few fresh investments||Ahmedabad: With gold prices rising and providing handsome returns, the yellow metal is the apple of investors’ eyes. However, in July, when gold prices rose sharply to hit record highs, few investors invested in gold exchange-traded funds (ETFs). Total assets under management (AUM) for gold ETFs went up by 9.24% from Rs 310.6 crore in July against Rs 284.4 crore in June, according to data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI). Even though the AUM climbed sharply, the increase is nearly proportional to the increase in gold prices, which rose by 9.5% in July. Analysts said the growth in AUM was thus due to the increase in net asset value of existing investments. “Indian investors typically invest in physical gold more than in bonds and ETFs. The upward trend of gold prices has certainly lured investors but more towards physical gold than ETFs. The rise in AUM is clearly visible with the increase in net asset value of existing investments,” said Mumukshu Desai, director of an Ahmedabad-based financial advisory firm. “Some investors have also pulled out money from gold ETFs in profit booking as prices rose,” Desai added. The price of gold stood at Rs 53,500 per 10g in Ahmedabad on Tuesday. Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion and Jewellers’ Association (IBJA) said, “The fresh wave of Covid-19 cases reported in July in various parts of the world fuelled greater economic uncertainty. This was already at a time when there were geopolitical uncertainties propelled by escalating tensions between US and China. This pushed gold prices up in the international market to a new record high and consequently in the domestic market as well.” The high price of gold may have excited investors but has completely robbed jewellers of retail demand. “Demand for jewellery is barely there and did not revive during the festive season. However, the monsoon has remained good this time and the kharif harvest has been good too. Therefore, it is expected that jewellery demand may revive around Diwali,” said Jigar Soni, vice president, Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-etf-aum-surges-but-few-fresh-investments/articleshow/77751735.cms||Niyati Parikh
August 26, 2020||Nashik||No water cuts needed in Nashik city, assures mayor||Nashik: Mayor Satish Kulkarni on Tuesday ruled out the possibility of water cuts in the city given the rise in the water sticks in the dams. The mayor, who performed the ‘jalpujan’ ritual at the Gangapur dam here on Tuesday, said the water levels in the dams had increased after the monsoon’s revival in the past couple of weeks. Kulkarni performs the traditional ritual at the dam every year after the dam fills up beyond 90% of its capacity. The revived monsoon has caused the Gangapur dam water storage to cross 94%. “As the monsoon is expected to continue for more than a month, the water stocks in the dams are expected to increase further. Therefore, there is no need to implement water cuts in the city,” said Kulkarni. On August 14, the general body of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) had turned down the civic administration’s proposal to resort to water cuts with immediate effect due to inadequate stock in the Gangapur dam complex. At that time, the mayor had said that a decision on water cuts would be taken in the last week of August. Speaking to TOI, the mayor said he has called a meeting of all-party group leaders on Friday to take a call on signing an agreement on water reservation with the state Water Resources Department (WRD). Leader of the opposition Ajay Boraste, leader of the House Satish Sonawane, chairman of NMC’s standing committee Ganesh Gite and others were present at the jalpujan. Gangapur dam complex includes three dams – Gangapur, Kashyapi and Gautami. While Gangapur provides 75% of the city’s water requirement, the remaining 25% of water comes from Mukane and Darna dams. The water levels in Darna and Mukane dams have also increased to 93% and 73%, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-water-cuts-needed-in-nashik-city-assures-mayor/articleshow/77750129.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Puja committee moves court of Durga idol making||Cuttack: The Balu Bazar Puja Committee of Cuttack on Tuesday moved the Orissa high court seeking its intervention for start of construction of the clay statues or ‘Mrunamayi murti’ for Durga Puja. This year, the festivities will start from October 21 and continue till October 27. Clay from the river banks for the idols were brought by the puja committee members on Janmastami and Nanda Utsav on August 11and August 12 respectively. There was no procession as four persons per committee were allowed to participate in the rituals. The making of the idols was supposed to start on Radhastami, which this year was celebrated on Tuesday (August 25). But this year, the district administration is yet to give permission for start of idol making. Balubazar Puja Committee president Suryakant Sangneria (69) said till now the deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Cuttack, has only allowed us to bring the clay. “There is no word on the construction of the clay idols. As a result, the work could not be started on Tuesday,” he said. Sangneria has filed the petition along with two secretaries of the Balubazar Puja Committee Rajendra Samal and Ramesh Chandra Behera. They have sought the court’s direction to allow construction and worship of goddess Durga as it is more than a five-century-old tradition, but without the pomp and ceremony as per the pandemic guidelines of Government of India and Government of Odisha from October 21 to October 27. The puja committee has been worshipping the goddess since 1509.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/puja-committee-moves-court-of-durga-idol-making/articleshow/77748777.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
August 26, 2020||Kolkata||Contract push for Joka depot work||Kolkata: In a major breakthrough for Joka-Esplanade Metro project, the letter of award for the Joka Metro depot has been issued to ISGEC Heavy Engineering Limited that emerged as the lowest bidder after a thorough technical evaluation. Significantly, Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), the executing agency for the project, carried out the entire process online during lockdown. The awarding of the contract for such a big project happened in a record time. Seven bidders had participated in the bidding process while four were chosen for the technical bid. The Noida-based ISGEC won the contract for the project that holds the key to truncated Metro operation from Joka to Taratala in 2021. The construction of the entire elevated Metro corridor has been completed till Taratala. ISGEC will have to finish the depot work within two years, said an RVNL officer. The land acquisition issue of the Joka depot had almost derailed the project, with villagers of five moujas refusing to part with their land at the price announced under Metro Rail Act. The state government intervened and announced viability gap funding to make the compensation attractive as per with the prevailing market price. Till now, RVNL has acquired nearly 90% of the depot land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/contract-push-for-joka-depot-work/articleshow/77750149.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hamalis threaten to go on strike||Hyderabad: Talks between officials of Civil Supplies Corporation and hamali unions remained inconclusive on Wednesday, following which the union leaders said that they will go on strike from August 28 if their demands are not met. The strike will bring rice distribution through the public distribution system (PDS) to a halt. The unions had gone on strike earlier this month but called it off on the assurance of Civil Supplies Corporation chairman Marredy Srinivas Reddy that the government is positively looking into their demands and that they would be invited for talks once the corporation commissioner is back from leave. The hamalis are demanding an increase in wages, accident and health insurance, regularisation of services as grade IV government staff and safety gear to prevent Covid-19. The unions had given time to the government up to November 22, in view of Vinayaka Chavithi festival, which was on August 22. “We went for talks with the officials of the corporation on Monday but the talks remained inconclusive. The commissioner of the corporation has not returned from leave. We were told to wait as a new officer will take over soon. But we have told the officials that we will go on strike from August 28 if our demands are not met,” said Telangana Civil Supplies Hamalis Worker Union state secretary Paladugu Sudhakar. Meanwhile, officials said that they expect the issue to be resolved before August 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hamalis-threaten-to-go-on-strike/articleshow/77750138.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Goa||Armed with docus, Khaunte alleges Jhaverri-BJP links||Panaji: Alleging close links between BJP and actor-cum-businessman Kapil Jhaverri, Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte on Tuesday released documents and pictures that link Rajya Sabha MP Vinay Tendulkar to Chandrakant Appasaheb Bhoje Patil. Patil is seen in several pictures with Jhaverri, BJP MLAs and MPs, including chief minister Pramod Sawant. Crucially, Patil is a director in a company that has Tendulkar’s son Vinil Tendulkar as a co-director. Public records also show that GKP Services Private Limited and Shantiveer Enterprises Private Limited have the same registered office, a flat in Bhanudeep Apartment at Curti, Ponda. Jhaverri, Patil and Gurmeetsingh Bhambrah are directors of GKP Services, while Patil and Vinil Tendulkar are directors of Shantiveer Enterprises. Khaunte said that that there is a clear network of companies floated by businessmen and senior BJP elected representatives. These companies, said Khaunte, are used for various activities, especially to launder money. “The entire clique is about lethal cocktail drugs, hawala, betting, Bollywood, and underworld, which has been run through a network of companies floated in the state with BJP leaders as its directors,” said Khaunte. Vinay Tendulkar rubbished Khaunte’s allegations, and said that Khaunte was showing his frustration on being dropped from the cabinet.“The man who was arrested at the party had just come to wish us in the last week of December and he also met the chief minister. There is no link between us. I will serve a notice on Khaunte or he will have to apologise,” he said. Jhaveri and Bhambrah are on the board of directors at Tirumala Tirupati Multi State Cooperative Credit Society, where Bhambrah is the chairman. Khaunte also said that Sarvodaya Global Sports Private Limited, a cricket club, has Patil and Sanvordem BJP mandal president Vilas Desai as directors. Khaunte said that a BJP politician and a “high profile Goa minister” have invested in Sarvodaya Global Sports. The Rajya Sabha MP said he has no investment in Sarvodaya Global Sports Pvt ltd. “I am clean. Let him show any document to prove his allegations,” said Tendulkar. Sawant also refuted Khaunte’s allegations, and said that Jhaveri had cropped pictures and put them up on social media multiple times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/armed-with-docus-khaunte-alleges-jhaverri-bjp-links/articleshow/77751733.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong for criminal cases against CS, Waqf chief||Hyderabad:Congress leaders on Tuesday lodged complaints at Saifabad police station demanding that an FIR be filed on the demolition of a temple and two mosques on the premises of the secretariat. Another 500 Congress workers will lodge police complaints on different dates regarding the “illegal demolition of places of worship”. The two mosques were protected under various central laws, said TPCC minorities wing chairman Abdullah Sohail. Congress will also explore legal options for the reconstruction of the places of worship at the original site. “The Telangana State Waqf Board should have lodged a complaint against those responsible for the demolition of the two mosques, but it didn’t,” Sohail said. Referring to Waqf Board chairman Mohammed Saleem’s statement that a new temple and mosques would be constructed, Sohail said: “Our demand is that a temple and two mosques be reconstructed at the original sites.” “We have lodged complaints demanding registration of a criminal case against chief secretary Somesh Kumar, Waqf Board chairman Mohammed Saleem and others holding them responsible for the demolition of places of worship on July 8,” Sohail said. City Congress president M Anjan Kumar Yadav, Youth Congress president Anil Kumar Yadav, TPCC spokesperson Syed Nizamuddin, city Congress minorities wing chairman Sameer Waliullah among others lodged the complaint in person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-for-criminal-cases-against-cs-waqf-chief/articleshow/77750180.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Five Didayi tribals infected by corona||Koraput: For the first time, five persons, including three women, of the Didayi community, a particularly vulnerable tribal group (PVTG), were among the 101 Covid-19 positive cases detected in Malkangiri district on Tuesday. Currently, the caseload of the tribal-dominated district stands at 1,959. Official sources said the five cases were detected when antigen test was conducted on 124 persons at the Kumarput swab collection centre under Khairput block on Monday. “While one patient belongs to Muduliguda village, the remaining are from Oringi village. They don’t have any travel history and have been infected by local contacts as they frequent the market at Kudumulugumma,” said Hruda Ranjan Sahu, special officer, Didayi Development Agency, a micro-project functioning since 1986 for the overall development of the primitive tribe. All the five have been shifted to the Covid Care Centre at Malkangiri and have been placed under medication, he added. According to the 2011 census, 7,650 Didayis live in Rasbeda, Kudumulugumma, Andrapalli, Jantri and Nakamamudi panchayats in the district’s Khairput, Chitrakonda and Korkunda blocks. They eke out a living through minor cultivation and fishing in the Balimela reservoir. Sources said the administration is working round the clock to contain further spread of the disease among the tribals. The officer said the administration has already conducted the contact tracing of the tribals. They have been advised to wear masks, maintain social distance and frequently wash their hands to stop spread of the virus, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/five-didayi-tribals-infected-by-corona/articleshow/77748765.cms||Satyanarayan Pattnaik
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Union minister G Kishan Reddy’s personal website hacked||HYDERABAD: Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy’s personal website was hacked by unidentified persons. After the issue was brought to the notice of Hyderabad police, a case under the IT Act was registered by the cybercrime police on Tuesday. It is suspected that the hackers could be from Pakistan and an investigation is conducted by the cybercrime sleuths of Hyderabad to ascertain the origin of the hackers. The site -- http://kishanreddy.com -- was believed to have been hacked on August 15 and has been down since then. But, his office people realised about it only a few days ago. Kishan Reddy’s website is temporarily unavailable. When contacted, a senior police official confirmed that a case had been registered under relevant sections of the IT Act. Initially, information about the hacking was passed on orally by the office of Kishan Reddy and later, a formal complaint was filed, sources said. After hacking the website, the offenders took control of the website and posted some objectionable comments. Some of the comments were directed against India, police sources said. In the past too, Kishan Reddy had lodged complaints that he got threats from some persons, who were believed to have rang him up bearing international code +92. Kishan Reddy and a few BJP leaders have been facing security threats in the last couple of years and Telangana police had provided him security. After he became the MoS, his security was beefed up significantly. Last year, a person from Kadapa district in AP was arrested for threatening Kishan Reddy over phone. “BJP condemns the cowardly act of Pakistani hackers to play rouge on Indian websites. Targeting MoS home affairs’ personal website also exposes the design of the hackers to make a statement reflecting the origin of Kishan Reddy’s leadership in Old City being the hot-bed of anti-national elements who are supported by non-state actors to indulge in this kind of nefarious activities,” said K Krishna Saagar Rao, party chief spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/union-min-kishan-reddys-personal-website-hacked/articleshow/77750178.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Goa||Asked to sort out trash, undertrial escapes jail||Mapusa: An undertrial escaped from central jail, Colvale, on Tuesday during the daily routine of waste segregation. Hemraj Baradwaj, 28, from Himachal Pradesh, who was arrested by Pernem police earlier this year, was deployed to sort out garbage at a spot close to the jail’s outer wall. “He escaped after seeking to answer nature’s call,” said a senior jail official. After his escape, a jail guard, Prakash Naik, has been placed under suspension “for prima facie dereliction of duty”. As per jail protocol, waste segregation is always assigned to convicts, not undertrials. On Tuesday, Naik didn’t obtain permission to deploy an undertrial for the job. “So, we have reason to believe the jail guard may have helped him escape,” the senior official said, adding that as per rules, the North Goa district collector and superintendent have been intimated about the escape. The waste collection bins are placed in the open, at a distance of around 150m from the prison walls. Police security is not deployed here, since waste disposal is considered an internal jail matter, and prison authorities must monitor this exercise. Inmates deployed for waste segregation usually have to cross three gates, accompanied by a single guard, to exit the jail compound. While convicts (who usually carry out this exercise) are always dressed in jail uniforms, undertrials wear civilian clothes. Thus, on Tuesday, once Baradwaj — who was arrested under provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act — was outside the jail wall, he used the pretext of relieving himself and walked ahead of the waste collection point. Then, he sprinted away. The jail is in close proximity to the national highway, behind which are open fields, non-residential areas and hills. The jail currently has around 450 inmates, and 400 of them have mobile phones. Sources said that incidents such as these are often planned using these devices, and that the civilian clothes undertrials wear make it difficult for police to identify them during a chase. In February 2016, the inspector general of prisons had approached Mapusa municipality requesting it to assist Colvale jail in the disposal of waste. MMC had then resolved to collect segregated waste against the payment of a fee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/asked-to-sort-out-trash-undertrial-escapes-jail/articleshow/77751751.cms||Keshav Naik
August 26, 2020||Rajkot||Liquor worth Rs 21 lakh seized in Patan||Palanpur: A total of 5,760 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 21.60 lakh were seized from Patan on Monday night. The liquor was seized from a truck that had entered Banaskantha district from Rajasthan. The liquor cache was impounded based on directives of J R Mothaliya, IGP-Border Range, Bhuj and B S Suthar, police inspector range police office, Bhuj. A team headed by sub inspector P D Zala from the rapid response (RR) cell under Border Range at Bhuj chased the truck from the jurisdiction of Sami police. The truck was on its way to Ahmedabad. The truck driver Dayaram Vishnoi, a native of Nawada in Rajasthan’s Jalore district, has been held under various provisions of the Prohibition Act. Cops have registered a case at Sami police station. Police is probing the source of the liquor cache and the destination to which the smuggled bottles were headed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/liquor-worth-rs-21-lakh-seized-in-patan/articleshow/77748843.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Kolkata||Majerhat ROB issues resolved||Kolkata: The issues related to the design of the bearings for Majerjhat bridge have been resolved. Eastern Railway (ER) has informed the state public works department (PWD), the agency implementing the bridge reconstruction project, that the permission for installation of bearings will be given soon. The reconstruction of the bridge, a rail overbridge (ROB), had stopped last Saturday because of the pending clearance for installing the bearings in the girder. Nikhil K Chakraborty, chief public relations officer (CRPO), Eastern Railway, said, “There were three issues about the design submitted by PWD for ER’s clearance. The issues were resolved during a meeting on Tuesday and ER is going to grant its permission for installing the bearings soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/majerhat-rob-issues-resolved/articleshow/77750199.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Take action for posts: VHR||Hyderabad: AICC secretary V Hanumanth Rao on Tuesday demanded that the party’s disciplinary committee and senior leaders, including TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy and CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, take action against those posting comments against party interim president Sonia Gandhi on social media. Expressing happiness over Sonia Gandhi’s continuation as AICC interim president for six more months, Rao said followers of some of the party activists were posting inappropriate comments against her at the behest of a Congress MP from the city. “I am receiving threatening calls from the followers of this MP. But, I will not get intimidated. Action should be taken against all those responsible by the disciplinary committee,” he demanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/take-action-for-posts-vhr/articleshow/77750197.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana governor Tamilisai Soundararajan bats for online education||HYDERABAD: Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Tuesday said that online has become the lifeline of education and called it a ‘blessing in disguise’. Speaking at the inauguration of a national webinar ‘Online Education – The Opportunities and Challenges’ organised by the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Warangal, she said, “In these difficult times, digital education and online education will fill the void for classroom education while minimizing the chances of any infection to students until classes resume.” The governor said that online education can act as an enabler of inclusive education by facilitating learning across diverse geographies, and insisted on the need to consider socio-economic challenges of the students and focus on their mental health along with physical health. “Education and economy are the two sectors severely affected by the pandemic. Bringing the economy back on track is in the hands of the government, but bringing the education sector to the normal state is in the hands of the educators,” she said. NV Ramana Rao, director, NIT-Warangal, stated that the institute is leaving no stone unturned in preparing the students for the workforce system with knowledge, skills and abilities by leveraging technology and ensuring safety in Covid times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/online-is-lifeline-of-edu-guv/articleshow/77750190.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Isro to help VSSUT set up space innovation centre||Sambalpur: The Veer Surendra Sai University of Technology (VSSUT), Burla, on Tuesday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) for establishment of a space technology innovation centre at the premier technology university. It will be the first of its kind in the country, said a VSSUT official. The MoU was signed during a virtual ceremony in presence of chairman, Isro, Dr K Sivan, director, capacity building programme officer (Isro) P V Venkitakrishna, secretary, skill development and technical education, Odisha, Sanjay Singh and vice-chancellor of the VSSUT, Atal Chaudhuri. Sivan said he has a great hope that the VSSUT space innovation centre would promote advanced space knowledge among the students and create conducive space culture in India. He also expressed hopefulness that the students would be more interested for space research and application in future. The Isro had announced to set up the space innovation centre on the premises of VSSUT in January last year. The Isro will release Rs 50 lakh for the development of the space technology innovation centre at VSSUT. The centre will function in the third floor of the new building, where the incubation centre of the university is functioning. Necessary equipment will be procured for setting up the centre there. Once completed, Isro will also start giving projects to the students. The centre will also pave the way for new start-ups in space technology, said a VSSUT official. Chaudhuri said, “It is a joint venture of VSSUT and Isro. Isro is now planning to expand its laboratory beyond its office. And the space technology centre at VSSUT is a part of the plan. The space technology centre at VSSUT will be a first of its kind in India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/isro-to-help-vssut-set-up-space-innovation-centre/articleshow/77748789.cms||Subrat Mohanty
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Pune bizmandupes city man of Rs 3.6 cr,arrested||Hyderabad: A Pune-based businessman was arrested by Hyderabad central crime station sleuths in Pune for cheating another businessman of Hyderabad to the tune of Rs 3.60 crore . CCS officials said Kapil Rajendra Kumar Baheti collected the money from Hyderabad-based Vijay Kumar and his brother Raj Kumar with a promise to bail them out in connection with a case of the duo arrested by Cyberabad cops for illegally transporting 10kg of ammonia. “He told the brothers that he has connections with police higher-ups and would manage them to drop the case against the duo,” officials said. Kapil runs an explosives manufacturing and trading business in Pune, while Raj also has explosives business here. RGI Airport police arrested Raj last year on the charges of transporting the ammonia. Upon coming to know about Raj’s arrest, Kapil came in touch with his family. He demanded Rs 1 crore by assuring the family that he would help Raj come out unscathed in the case. “The family handed over Rs 60 lakh through a hawala agent. Later, for closing the case, Kapil demanded another Rs 2 crore, ’’ joint commissioner of police, CCS, Avinash Mohanty said. “He even told Raj that anti-terrorist squad, Bihar, had made enquiries about Raj’s business. It was only when he had realised that he was being duped, that he approached police,” officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pune-bizmandupes-city-man-of-rs-3-6-crarrested/articleshow/77750187.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Rape case transferred to CCS||Hyderabad: Days after a 25-year-old woman approached Panjagutta police claiming that she had been sexually abused allegedly by 143 persons, the investigation of the case was transferred to Hyderabad Central Crime Station (CCS). Since the number of accused mentioned by the complaint is 143 persons and the police has to probe the case in a systematic manner, the investigation is transferred to Central Crime Station. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rape-case-transferred-to-ccs/articleshow/77750192.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Crooks impersonating customer care professionals dupe people||Hyderabad: Cyberabad police on Tuesday sounded alarm on cyber criminals pretending to be customer care professionals and duping people after a series of similar cases came to light. “The fraudsters post fake customer care service numbers on their websites. The sites contain almost all products and services available on Google. The crooks pretending to be customer care professionals dupe customers when they call them,” said a Cyberabad police official, adding that at least 10 such cases were filed in August alone. In one such instance, Fatima (name changed) from Nizampet who purchased groceries online through Grofers called a number she found online thinking it was of the company’s customer care services when the delivery was delayed. The person who picked up the call told her the items were unavailable and she would soon receive a link to claim a refund. She followed the link and downloaded an application in which she disclosed all her financial details, only to lose close to Rs 2 lakh. Rahul (name changed) a resident of Balanagar lost Rs 72,000 while attempting to reach out to Phonepe customer care professionals. He was asked to download Any Desk App and enter his bank account details. A housewife from Bachupally trying to reach DTDC Courier customer care service lost Rs 99,000. “Cyber fraudsters are hoisting several fake websites containing their contact numbers as the customer care numbers,” said the police official. The offenders have been traced to Punjab, Haryana, UP, Bihar and Jharkhand, added the officer. The fraudsters post fake customer care service numbers on their websites. The sites contain almost all products and services available on Google. The crooks pretending to be customer care professionals dupe customers when they call them||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/crooks-impersonating-customer-care-professionals-dupe-people/articleshow/77750216.cms||Aditi Mallick
August 26, 2020||Vadodara||MSU’s science faculty postpones all entrance exams||Vadodara: All entrance exams of M S University’s Faculty of Science have been postponed till further notice. Nearly 3,000 students were supposed to appear in the entrance exams for admission in select bachelor programmes and master programmes in all subjects in first week of September. The entrance exams for admission in MSc microbiology, geology, statistics, physics, biochemistry, medical biotechnology, botany, information technology, botany, zoology, geography, mathematics, environmental sciences, chemistry apart from five-year integrated MSc in cell and molecular biology were earlier scheduled between September 3 and September 5. Entrance exam for Bachelor of Computer Applications and BSc (honours) environment science were also scheduled in the same time period. “The dates of entrance test for bachelor courses are clashing with the JEE (Main) exam schedule which the National Testing Agency will be conducting from September 1 to September 6,” said professor Kauresh Vachhrajani. “In the case of entrance exam for MSc courses, the dates are clashing with the semester-end exam schedule of third year BSc students who are appearing in the exams at different universities of Gujarat,” he said. He added that the merit list for admission in BSc (honours) programme for which aspirants have already filed up their forms online will be declared shortly. “The students will also be informed through their registered email and sms,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msus-science-faculty-postpones-all-entrance-exams/articleshow/77748140.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Bareilly||Dudhwa deputy director booked for sexually harassing Tharu woman||Bareilly: Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (core) deputy director Manoj Sonkar has been booked for allegedly harassing a Tharu woman sexually in Gaurifanta area of Lakhimpur Kheri district.Sonkar, an IFS officer, has recently restricted the entry of the Tharu community members in the DTR core area and reportedly taken action against a few tribe members for violating the law, said DTR sources.“The FIR seems to be a result of Sonkar’s honestly performing his duty and protecting the flora and fauna of the reserve. He is regarded as one of the most efficient forest officers in the country,” said DTR field director Sanjay Pathak.According to well-placed sources with DTR, a man was arrested by the department recently that sent the community members on a rampage and they even attacked forest teams. Later, complaints were lodged by both parties.“We are extremely disappointed,” Pathak told TOI, “a Grade 1 officer has been booked for honestly performing his duty. SHO Ramesh Chandra Yadav was present on the spot when Tharu tribe members had attacked Sonkar and his team. Now, the SHO has registered an FIR of sexual harassment against him, which is beyond our understanding. How we will protect the forest if such actions are taken against us without an investigation? In case of a complaint against an IFS officer, a senior police officer should have probed the matter before ordering an FIR.”When TOI contacted the SHO, he said, “I acted on the instruction of circle officer Kuldeep Kukreti and registered an FIR under section 354 (assault to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) and relevant sections of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act against the officer.”The CO, however, told TOI, “I received verbal instructions from my senior officer and following his instruction is my duty, so I ordered an FIR.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dudhwa-deputy-director-booked-for-sexually-harassing-tharu-woman/articleshow/77747503.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid tour by Cong from today||Hyderabad: Stating that the government has failed to contain Covid-19 spread, CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka on Tuesday said teams comprising party leaders which will visit government hospitals from Wednesday onwards have been formed. The tour will go on till September 5. The teams will visit the hospitals in districts to exert pressure on the government to take measures to check the spread of Covid-19. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-tour-by-cong-from-today/articleshow/77750212.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Jaipur||Suspected Barmer double agent active in espionage for two years, visited Pakistan twice||JAIPUR: The suspected double agent, Barmer resident Mushtaq Ali Khan (40), had visited Pakistan twice in 2014 and 2018, including the headquarters of Pakistan intelligence, and has been an active spy for at least two years. This was revealed in the interrogation by the Joint Intelligence Centre (JIC), which began on Tuesday. Mushtaq was detained by the state intelligence agency, based on a report by the Rajasthan Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS), a day earlier. While the accused confessed that he visited the neighbouring country in 2014 with both his parents, in 2018, he visited Pakistan with his mother on a valid passport. According to sources, he also met a cousin there with whom he had kept in touch through WhatsApp. On the Indian side, he was apparently in touch with a BSF official with whom he shared information on cross-border movement and other sensitive details. The bug planted by the police in his phone also revealed that another person had access to its camera while the accused was in the police station, establishing the fact that he was involved in illegal activities, including spying, sources said. Officials also observed that Mushtaq was cunning and smart as he evaded most questions feigning ignorance or forgetfulness and gave contradictory information about his contact with Pakistani nationals and visits to Pakistan. He also refused to admit that he supplied sensitive information to Pakistan, though he allegedly assured his supposed relative in Pakistan that he would arrange for money in lieu of sensitive information from that country With JIC completing his questioning on Tuesday, he will now be handed over to the Central Interrogation Centre (CIC) for further interrogation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/suspected-barmer-double-agent-activein-espionage-for-2-yrs-visited-pak-twice/articleshow/77751783.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops seize Rs 1 cr worth ganja, 2 held||Hyderabad: Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) sleuths seized 955 kilos of ganja worth over Rs 1 crore and arrested two peddlers at Hayathnagar on the outskirts of the city. Acting on specific information, NCB team, led by assistant director Venugopal G Kurup, intercepted a truck bearing Maharashtra registration number at Pedda Amberpet near Hayathnagar. The team found 40 gunny bags, containing 955 kilos of ganja. During interrogation, the duo confessed to have procured the ganja from agency area in Visakhapatnam district of Andhra Pradesh. “The ganja was meant to be transported to Pune in Maharashtra,” said an NCB official. The accused were produced before the magistrate and sent to judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-seize-rs-1-cr-worth-ganja-2-held/articleshow/77750251.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt ‘misleading’ poor on 2BHKs||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy alleged that the state government is misleading the poor by promising to give them double-bedroom houses and demanded that the government issue a white paper on the status of over 2.5 lakh 2BHK units sanctioned by it. Reddy also demanded that the government explain to the people the status of over 20 lakh applications it received from the poor seeking 2BHK units. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-misleading-poor-on-2bhks/articleshow/77750234.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Kolkata||This Muharram, Dawoodi Bohras in Kolkata go for online sermons, food delivery||KOLKATA: During Muharram, a 10-day period of remembrance and meditation to mourn the martyrdom of Prophet Muhammad’s grandson Husain ibn Ali, Dawoodi Bohra families in Kolkata normally gather for the daily sermons at Topsia’s Burhani Masjid and Brabourne Road’s Saifee Masjid and then have shared meals prepared at the community kitchen. The more financially well-off members vie for the privilege of hosting these meals known as Niyaaz e Husain. This year, though, the pandemic has forced the community to suspend the annual discourse at the mosque. Instead, the sermons are relayed online live from 10.45 every morning and conclude around 1.15 in the afternoon, following which they break for lunch. The meal isn’t cooked at individual homes but prepared at the community kitchen known as Faiz al-Mawaid al-Burhaniyah and distributed to 900-plus homes in Kolkata and Howrah through a delivery network that starts at 6.30am and completes by 9am, well before spiritual leader Syedna’s sermon begins. “Due to the current situation, we have organised a contactless niyaaz this year to ensure that there is no congregation of people at a single location while continuing with the tradition of shared meals. Irrespective of the social status, every single member of the community (there are over 4,000 in Kolkata and Howrah) have the same meal that is prepared at the community kitchen and distributed through four mini-trucks, 12 auto rickshaws and even delivery platform Swiggy,” said Mufaddal Hanif who is among those coordinating the operations. With two meals delivered to each family member, virtually no cooking takes place in the 900-odd homes during Muharram. The kitchen is managed by 28 cooks and 50 volunteers who work in groups of three for two hours each before being replaced. Cooking starts at midnight and ends at 5.30am, followed by packing the meals into tiffin carriers for two, four, six or eight members according to the family size. All hygiene precautions like wearing a hair net cap, masks, gloves and aprons are taken. Thereafter, the tiffins are dispatched to six locations across the city and beyond the river to members in Howrah. “Menu for the day provided on WhatsApp with guidelines on nutritional value, storage and treatment of food (600 kilocalories per person). The menu is centralized and common to 114,000 Dawoodi Bohra homes worldwide. On Wednesday, the meal — suji halwa, chicken barista gravy with mutton biryani — will be hosted by the Syedna across the world,” said Dawoodi Bohra Kolkata vice-president Mudreka Jamali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/this-muharram-dawoodi-bohras-go-for-online-sermons-food-delivery/articleshow/77750255.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Kolkata||Too many cooks slow down road repair work in potholed Kolkata||KOLKATA: Multiplicity of government agencies responsible for upkeep of Kolkata’s major roads is getting in the way of repair of some of battered arterial roads. A recent survey by Kolkata Municipal Corporation roads department revealed that the spate of rains has wreaked havoc on city’s roads. But, the KMC can’t take up all stretches of roads, which have been damaged due to rains. For example, large stretches of Taratala Road, Paharpur Road, Garden Reach Circular Road in the south-western parts of the city and several stretches of EM Bypass are crying for a repair. The KMC roads department engineers cite a ‘jurisdiction protocol’ for not taking up these arterial roads for repair while the civic body’s road repair team has been engaged in a city-wide drive to fill potholes created by continuous showers. According to a KMC source, while repair drive at different areas of Taratala and Garden Reach was being hampered because of a dispute between the Kolkata Port Trust (KoPT) and state Public Works Department (PWD), the repair of large stretches on EM Bypass was left unattended as the KMDA, and not the KMC, is the custodian of arterial road. According to a PWD official, the state agency had repeatedly told the central agency that it (PWD) had the requisite infrastructure for conducting a drive for repair of major roads that fall under port’s jurisdiction. But, the PWD would raise a repair bill for such a drive which the KoPT needs to pay within a stipulated time. On the other hand, the KoPT authorities claimed they had started road repair in port area and would need time to wrap it up. A KoPT spokesperson said a tender was awarded to a contractor for repair of roads under its jurisdiction. A KMDA official said some stretches off Bypass such as the one between Science City and Panchannagram and the one at Ruby intersection were heavily damaged and the agency was in the process of assessing the damage. Ratan De, the member of the KMC board of administrators (in charge of roads department), said the KMC had initiated a major road repair drive across the city to set right several battered roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/too-many-cooks-slow-down-road-repair-work-in-potholed-city/articleshow/77750301.cms||Saikat Ray
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Army doctors impart medical lessons to constable recruits||Hyderabad: A team of army doctors, nursing officers and paramedics of Military Hospital Secunderabad conducted a training programme for police constable trainees. The training, comprising theory and practical classes, was conducted on the request of the principal of Police City Training College at the Shiv Kumar Lal Police Stadium in Gosha Mahal. A total of 233 stipendiary cadet trainee police constables (civil) were trained in basic first aid including Cardio Pulmonary Resuscitation, application of various types of bandages and drills involved in evacuation of casualties. This training to constables is of paramount importance as police invariably are the first responders to any accidents or adverse situations. A basic first aid trained constable can save many lives during the golden hour of the casualties, army officials said. In view of the Covid-19 situation, all the precautionary measures were followed during the training programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/army-doctors-impart-medical-lessons-to-constable-recruits/articleshow/77750302.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Ganja seized in Bhadrachalam||Hyderabad: Bhadrachalam police arrested four ganja peddlers and seized 637 kg of contraband worth Rs 95 lakh from their possession on Tuesday. Police intercepted a DCM van and a car at Ambedkar junction in Bhadrachalam. Police seized 637 kg of ganja concealed in the two vehicles and arrested four peddlers. The accused procured the contraband from agency areas in AP and were transporting it to North India. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ganja-seized-in-bhadrachalam/articleshow/77750298.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Women’s groups seek SIT probe into Ameenpur orphanage rape case||HYDERABAD: Accusing police of delaying probe in the Ameenpur orphanage rape case, a joint action committee of women’s organisations on Tuesday demanded a probe by SIT led by a woman police officer. Several women’s organisations like AIDWA, POW, Bhumika, Rainbow, etc, which undertook a fact-finding mission, said the proposed SIT should investigate the inaction of the staff of Bharosa centre for not referring the girl for medical treatment soon after she was raped. “The SIT should also investigate inaction and negligence of the staff of CWC, Rangareddy, and its chairperson under the provisions of section 29 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015,” the JAC said. “The girl was examined in the Bharosa centre and her statement was recorded. When a family member requested that she be given medical treatment immediately, the centre instead asked the relative to take her back home. The girl had said in her complaint that another girl too had suffered a similar fate,” said JAC in its report. Two days later (on Aug 3), the girl was handed over to CWC, Rangareddy, by the relative. “The staff and chairperson of CWC did not immediately get her admitted to a hospital. They instead sent her to an observation home at Nimboliadda,” the report said. An orphan home, Maruthi Orphanage Home, is located in Ameenpur, falling under CWC, Sangareddy. “Surprisingly, the chairperson of CWC, Rangareddy, asked that the girl be produced at Neredmet Sakhi centre, which comes under Medchal-Malkajgiri jurisdiction. It is puzzling as to why CWC, Sangareddy, did not take charge of the situation,” the women’s organisations observed. They also said it was equally shocking that CWC, Rangareddy, filed a complaint at Jeedimetla police station without referring to the earlier complaint (FIR No. 218/2020). (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/womens-groups-seek-sitprobe-into-ameenpur-case/articleshow/77750283.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Fire in Kerala building housing files on gold smuggling racket||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A minor fire that broke out at the government secretariat here on Tuesday evening and was promptly put out, however, ignited a major political controversy, with BJP and Congress alleging a sabotage attempt. The fire broke out in the general administration department (political) section situated in the north Sandwich block of the secretariat that handles many sensitive files, including ones related to the UAE consulate which is part of the ongoing gold smuggling case. The NIA and Customs had recently sought certain details from this section and the assistant protocol officer appeared twice before NIA. According to senior government officials, the files handled by the section have already been migrated to the e-file system and the question of destruction of any crucial document doesn’t arise. As news of the fire broke, BJP and Congress leaders rushed to the spot and for around three hours, the secretariat premises turned into a battlefield with BJP and Congress workers staging demonstrations and trying to break through police barricades. Police used water cannons several times to disperse the protesters. Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala later met governor Arif Mohammed Khan and sought his intervention to order a proper probe into the fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/secretariat-blaze-sabotage-or-adding-fuel-to-the-fire/articleshow/77750307.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||India’s 1st memory garden planned in Hyderabad, to improve brain power of old||HYDERABAD: A unique memory garden, which will help improve the brain’s capacity in the elderly, is being built at the multi-generational park planned at Miyapur. The park which is being made at a cost of Rs 2 crore will have facilities to cater to all age groups, with special attention to the elderly. “A unique memory garden will have aromatic plants which can be smelt, touched and recalled, to improve brain’s capacity in the elderly,” confirmed V Krishna, additional commissioner, urban biodiversity wing of GHMC. On Tuesday, the Mayor visited the site to check the progress of work. Lung space is among 50 theme parks that have been envisioned by civic body across the city. The park, touted to host India’s first memory garden, will be “dementia friendly”. Interested people can also get involved in ‘gardening for memory’. This would include deciding which plants to grow, prep the bed and get involved in plantation. Officials said allowing the elderly to grow their own produce would help in several aspects including improving focus, ensuring active engagement with others, restoring confidence by allowing them to take charge. The elderly can also play board games as well as be part of fun activities such as sculpting clay, solving crossword puzzles and a game to trace the map of the city would be made available. “At present the entrance and compound wall with yoga postures has been completed. Work is going on at memory garden, open gym and tiled footpath,” said Chinna Reddy, executive engineer, GHMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indias-1st-memory-garden-planned-in-city-to-improve-brain-power-of-old/articleshow/77750316.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Jaipur||Barmer court sentences 10 to life in prison for receiving arms from Pakistan||JAISALMER: A special court in Barmer on Tuesday sentenced 10 people to life in jail and imposed a penalty of Rs 10,000 each on charges of receiving a huge quantity of RDX, ammunition and weapons from Pakistan in September 2009. Four accused are still wanted in the case. Around 11 years ago, terrorist organisation Babbar Khalsa had ordered the consignment from Pakistan for carrying out serial explosions across the country. Then Barmer SP Navjyoti Gogoi, who is currently an IGP, and his team along with the SOG recovered the explosives and ammunition from the possession of the accused. After the trial, the court of judge Vamita Singh sentenced the accused under the Explosive Substances Act and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Arms Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/barmer-court-sentences10-to-life-in-prison-forreceiving-arms-from-pak/articleshow/77751798.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Nashik||Civil hosp gets ICMR nod for plasma centre||Nashik: The Nashik civil hospital will soon have plasma centre at its premises after it received all the necessary permissions for the same from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Monday. MP Hemant Godse said that the plasma centre was awaiting approval since a few days. He had also followed up with the authorities concerned about the same. All the equipment for the plasma therapy had been put in place at the metro blood bank of Nashik civil hospital a few weeks ago. However, the permission from the Food and Drug Administration of the centre was pending. Godse, during his recent visit to to Delhi, met the officials of the FDA and emphasized on the importance of setting up a plasma centre in Nashik. Meanwhile, MP Hemant Godse was also instrumental in setting up the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RTPCR) testing lab at the Nashik civil hospital. Taking note of the importance of availability of (RTPCR) testing facility in view of the rising number of coronavirus cases, the MP made available Rs one crore from his fund to set up the RTPCR lab in Nashik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civil-hosp-gets-icmr-nod-for-plasma-centre/articleshow/77750313.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Bareilly||UP: ‘Missing’ Dalit girl, 18, found dead, body partially eaten by wild animals||BAREILLY: The partially eaten body — possibly by wild animals — of an 18-year-old Class XII girl who had gone missing on Monday when out to fill online scholarship form was found near a pond in Kheri’s Neemgaon area on Tuesday. She was strangled, said police, who recovered her handbag, a mobile phone and a blood-stained knife from the spot. The autopsy — conducted by a panel of three doctors on Tuesday — found bruises near her private parts and a slide was prepared to confirm whether the victim was assaulted sexually, said police. District magistrate Shailendra Singh and senior superintendent of police Satyendra Kumar, meanwhile, visited her village and met the bereaved family. The girl had gone to Behjam town to fill an online scholarship form on Monday. When she didn’t return home by the afternoon, her family members tried to establish contact with her over the mobile phone, but all their calls went unanswered. The family, then, approached police who launched a search operation based on her mobile phone location only to find her dead the next morning. Ruling out enmity with anyone, the girl’s aunt said, “It appears my niece was raped and then killed by the accused. We have requested police to arrest the killer and take strict action against him.” Neemgaon SHO Gajendra Singh told TOI, “An FIR was registered under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and appropriate sections of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act against unidentified accused. The section of rape will be added to the FIR after the autopsy report confirms it. It appears the accused was known to the victim. Based on the girl's call details, we have identified a few suspects. We are hopeful that the case will be resolved within 24 hours.” “A circle officer will conduct the investigation and he will ensure that the accused is arrested soon,” said the SSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/missing-dalit-girl-18-found-dead-body-partially-eaten-by-wild-animals/articleshow/77747537.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Promote scientific study: Nobel laureate||Hyderabad: Nobel laureate Sir Richard John Roberts on Tuesday said it was time political leaders realise the importance of science and promoted research in science to mitigate the problems of the world. Participating as a speaker at the Nobel laureate lecture series organised by the Institution of Green Engineers (IGEN), Chennai online, he said the role of science was greatly realised during the pandemic.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/promote-scientific-study-nobel-laureate/articleshow/77750324.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||42-year-old man killed at petrol pump||Hyderabad: A man who works in a petrol pump at Balkonda village in Nizamabad district was murdered while he was sleeping at the pump late on Monday night. Nizamabad police said that K Ram Kishan, 42, went to the petrol pump to do night duty on Monday. After the petrol pump was closed and he went to sleep, some unknown persons came and attacked him on his head. “We do not know what weapon they used to hit the victim’s head since the accused did not leave the weapon at the scene of offence. It was found that the accused did not make any attempt to steal the cash. So, we suspect that personal enmity could be the motive behind the murder,” Armoor rural inspector Uday said. According to police, there are no CCTVs at the petrol pump, which has been under renovation. A case was registered under section 302 of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/42-year-old-man-killed-at-petrol-pump/articleshow/77751807.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Nagpur||Scindia, Sakshi Maharaj pay quiet visit to RSS bigwigs||Nagpur: Former Congressman Jyotiraditya Scindia made a quiet visit to the city, calling on RSS functionaries. Scindia, who shifted to BJP in March this year citing disgruntlement, is said to have made his first visit to the city after changing sides. It is learnt that the local BJP leadership was also not aware of the visit and Scindia straightaway went to see the home of late Dr Keshav Baliram Hedgewar, founder of RSS and the campus at Reshimbagh grounds. There are speculations he also paid a visit to RSS headquarters in Mahal, where the Sarsanghchalak Mohan Bhagwat was available. Later Sakshi Maharaj, BJP MP from Unnao in Uttar Pradesh, also reached the headquarters and was inside for more than an hour. Bhagwat was present in the headquarters at that time. Bhagwat drove out in his cavalcade soon after Maharaj left. RSS officials remained tight-lipped about the visits. Political observers said both leaders may have visited eyeing berths when expansion of Central cabinet happens. The visit is more significant for Scindia to gain acceptability in the party due to his family’s long affiliation with Congress. Replying to newspersons, Scindia only said developments in Congress were the party’s internal matter. Maharaj talked to the media after coming out of the headquarters and said he had made a courtesy visit to RSS as he had come to visit one of his associates in Nagpur. On political situation in Uttar Pradesh, he said, “things are at their best and the state’s chief minister is ranked ahead of all. Soon a grand temple will be built.” On speculations BJP might be fuelling divide in Congress, he said Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi were enough to ruin the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/scindia-sakshi-maharaj-pay-quiet-visit-to-rss-bigwigs/articleshow/77750274.cms||Shishir Arya
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||NFC chief allays fears over nuclear fuel supply, says new facility at Kota by 2022||HYDERABAD: A new facility of the city-based Nuclear Fuel Complex, with a capacity to produce 500 tonnes of nuclear fuel bundles, will come up in Kota, Rajasthan, in July 2022. “We are planning to produce nearly 500 tonnes of fuel but we have made a provision wherein we can expand it in three years to produce 1000 tonnes,” NFC chairman and chief executive Dinesh Srivastava told TOI in the city. In all 1,500 engineers, technical people and workers will be employed at NFC-Kota and approvals are expected soon from the union ministry of finance for this. Nuclear Fuel Complex in the city is the only place in the country where nuclear fuel bundles are produced for supplying fuel to nuclear power reactors in the country. “At NFC Hyderabad, we have already demonstrated the capacity to produce 1,500 tonnes of fuel bundles in a year but we produce only as per our requirement. However, in the next few years, if need be, the capacity will be increased to produce 2,000 fuel bundles a year,” Srivastava said. The fuel bundles production, as needed now, is 1,200 tonnes and is being supplied to nuclear power reactors. The fuel bundles, which will be produced at NFC-Kota, will serve the needs of the nuclear power reactors in the vicinity and also elsewhere. “We are absolutely comfortable on our production and will be able to supply whatever demand will arise. Nuclear fuel supply will never be a problem,” Srivastava said. “We have made huge progress and there is very good physical progress. We expect that in another three to four months our civil work may be nearly complete. We have been able to able to spend nearly 35 per cent of our budget on equipment,” the chairman and chief executive said.  As many as 30 engineers have been placed at the site and are working there. “The DAE head office and personnel of NFC in Hyderabad have been on the project with passion. We are hopeful of commissioning it in July 2022,” Srivastava said. The Atomic Energy Regulatory Board (AERB) has also give approval for the NFC-Kota facility. All the systems and technologies that NFC itself has devised will be used at NFC-Kota. NFC at Hyderabad was established in the year 1971 by the Department of Atomic Energy. As part of the ‘AtmaNirbhar’ initiative, NFC is also setting up a Niobium metal production plant for Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). The metal can be imported but the plan is to indigenously produce it. ISRO will be supplied with the Niobium metal for which NFC technology would be used for production. “NFC is setting up the plant on our own land. We will also manage it,” Srivastava said. As part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative, NFC is also setting up a niobium metal production plant for Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). ISRO will be supplied with the niobium metal for which NFC technology would be used for production||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nfc-chief-allays-fears-over-nuclear-fuel-supply-says-new-facility-at-kota-by-2022/articleshow/77750335.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 26, 2020||Chennai||More women at risk of cancer in Chennai, deaths higher among men||CHENNAI: More women across the city are increasingly being diagnosed with cancer, but more men die of it, the National Cancer Registry Programme Report 2020 has pointed out. Released by The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Centre for Disease Informatics & Research (NCDIR), Bengaluru, it estimates that in Chennai one in eight men and one in seven women are at risk for cancer. The data was culled out from the Chennai-based registry at Cancer Institute in Adyar. Between 2012 and 2016, 14,468 men (46.3%) and 16,803 (53.7%) women were registered for cancer, but the crude mortality rate in Chennai was 36.3 for men and 30.5 for women. “More men die of cancer because lung and oral cavity cancers among men are usually detected at a late stage,” said epidemiologist Dr R Swaminathan, principal investigator from Chennai. “Most cancers in men are related to tobacco or alcohol. We come across patients at an advanced stage of the disease, so they are tough to treat.” Between 2012 and 2016, cancers of the breast, cervix, ovary, corpus uteri and stomach were the top five cancers among women. Cancer of the corpus uteri (endometrial cancer), arises from the epithelial lining of the uterine cavity. Among men, lung and stomach cancers top the list, followed by those of the mouth, tongue, and prostate. “But if you combine mouth, tongue and larynx, the number exceeds lung or stomach cancers.” More lethal cancers like those of the lung or liver are common in men, largely because they have higher rates of hepatitis C infection, smoking and excess alcohol consumption. By, end-2020, the report estimated, the number of cancer cases in the country will be 13.9 lakh and could rise to 15.7 lakh by 2025, based on current trends. These estimates are based on information related to cancer collected from 28 population based cancer registries (PBCRs). Health experts say the national health policy should focus on increasing early diagnosis and treatment. “We screen for cervical, breast and oral cancers across the state to make early diagnosis. Methodologies for early diagnosis of cervical cancer are better and effective compared to oral cancers,” said Tamil Nadu National Health Mission project director K Senthil Raj. “In absolute numbers, we screen and pick more women. Treatment at government hospitals is free, but many people don’t want to travel to medical colleges from their villages.” TN has allowed district and sub-district hospitals to initiate chemotherapy at local hospitals. Senior oncologists connect with duty medical officers in these hospitals. “We also added machines such as linear accelerators and hope the number of deaths will drop soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/more-women-at-risk-of-cancer-in-city-deaths-higher-among-men/articleshow/77750354.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Fake medical certificates for bail facilitated via jail||RAJKOT: The Amreli police have busted a sinister racket of fake medical certificates being issued to the family members of notorious incarcerated prisoners to help them get temporary bail and then escape. The entire scam was being operated from inside the VIP barrack of the local jail by smuggling in mobile phones in collusion with some jail staffers. On Tuesday, police booked 12 persons and detained six of them including a Rajkot-based doctor who allegedly issued the medical certificates without carrying out the necessary checks of criminals' family members. “The intention behind getting the medical certificates of family members was to enable the history-sheeters get bail which is difficult for those booked in serious offences. They wanted to produce fake certificates of their family members to secure bail. The history-sheeters then planned to escape once released," Nirlipt Rai, superintendent of police, Amreli, told TOI. In the last one year or so, 10 prisoners have jumped bail and the police are now investigating if they did so using this modus operandi. At the same time, the gang facilitated calls for other inmates to their known people outside the jail. They used to charge hefty from the inmates, many of whom were even threatened of dire consequences if they did not shell out the demanded sum.  “It was as if they were running a public call office (PCO) inside the jail barrack,” added Rai. Police found 40 IMEI numbers and 17 sim cards from the accused. “The calls were made not just in Amreli district, but also to prisoners in other districts including Surat jail,” said RK Karamta, in-charge police inspector, Amreli local crime branch (LCB). Those detained were Dr Dhiren Gheewala of Rajkot, Naresh alias Narsinh Vala, Shivraj alias Munno Ramkubhai alias Rambhai, Bal Singh Boria, Naresh alias Natu Khuman andh is adopted son Gautam. Except Dr Gheewala, all are natives of various villages of Amreli district. Of these, Shivraj, Boriya, Khuman and his adopted son Gautam have been booked under the stringent Gujarat Control Of Terrorism and Organized Crime (GujCTOC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/history-sheeters-ran-pco-inside-jail/articleshow/77748918.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala's Wayanad farmers brew an Immune Coffee||KOZHIKODE: In tune with the times, a farmers’ collective in Wayanad — Waywin farmer producer company — has launched Immune Coffee, a blend of the local Robusta coffee with a bouquet of nine herbs and spices like ashwagandha, long pepper, black cumin, dry ginger, black pepper and coriander, long known for their medicinal properties. The Covid-19 pandemic had led to an increase in demand for “immunity-boosting” products across the world and the farmers’ initiative hopes to cater to this market. “Chukku (dry ginger) kappi has been in the market for long; the Immune Coffee has more herbs and spices with medicinal properties,” Waywin FPC CEO Jinu Thomas said. He said the product, which has ajwain seeds, thulasi and dried ginger also as ingredients, was aimed at providing the benefits of value addition to farmers. The Immune Coffee has also been made available for online sale to reach out to multiple markets. Thomas said the Waywin FPC has 81 members from whom coffee beans are procured for sale in the open market while coffee beans are collected from select farmers to prepare coffee powder so as to maintain the flavour. Waywin had been in the retail coffee powder segment for the past three years. Thomas said the FPC could procure coffee at higher prices with its value addition avenues. "We could provide Rs 138/kg for coffee beans to farmers when its price in the open market was Rs 128/kg," he said. As per the estimates of the Coffee Board of India, Wayanad had produced 58,450 tonnes of coffee during 2018-19. Wayanad is a predominantly Robusta coffee growing region and makes up for over 80% of Kerala's coffee production. The coffee sector in Wayanad had seen many farmer-led value addition initiatives recently, with the Brahmagiri Development Society (BDS) opening a coffee processing plant in Wayanad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/wayanad-farmers-brew-an-immune-coffee/articleshow/77750346.cms||K R Rajeev
August 26, 2020||Nagpur||Collector bans some Muharram activities||Nagpur: District collector Ravindra Thakare on Tuesday directed Muslim community to observe Muharram activities in simple and restricted manner, mostly indoors, in the wake of spike in Covid-19 cases in the city. The 10th day of Muharram, first month of the Islamic calendar, is observed as Ashura commemorating the battle of Karbala. It falls on August 30 as per local religious bodies. Citing the epidemic and disaster management Acts, Thakare prohibited any procession, waaz, tajia, majlees, alam beside limiting gatherings to four persons. The collector has appealed to the community to hold blood donation, plasma donation and health camps on the day. Jamia Arabia secretary Maulana Mohammad Abdul Aziz Khan said no social event has been planned by any sect this time. “The community is already following norms and offering daily and Friday prayers at home. During both Eids, no celebration was held. We have appealed to people to pay homage to Karbala martyrs on Ashura day at home only. People would be fasting and offering prayers too at home,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/collector-bans-some-muharram-activities/articleshow/77750326.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Nagpur||Mumbai returnee woman, hubby booked for violating q-order||Nagpur: A 60-year-old woman, who had returned to Armori in north Gadchiroli from Mumbai, was booked by the police along with her 65-year-old husband for violating the quarantine order. Both have tested Covid-19 positive. Police said the woman had returned from Mumbai on August 4. She was advised institutional quarantine but refused to toe the line. It’s learnt the couple had visited several places and met people until the local civic body was alerted by citizens. Following this, the civic body officials shifted the couple to institutional quarantine centre and sent samples for testing. On August 8, the couple tested Covid positive. Following a complaint by civic officials, Armori police have registered an offence against the elderly couple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mumbai-returnee-woman-hubby-booked-for-violating-q-order/articleshow/77750330.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Revenue officials transferred to other mandals||Hyderabad: A day after transferring 12 tahsildars in Medchal-Malkajgiri district on Monday, district collector Vasam Venkateshwaralu transferred revenue inspectors (Giridawars) working in the various mandals as many of them had been working at one place for several years. The transfers have been made in mandals like Keesara, Shamirpet, Gandimaisamma, Ghatkesar, Uppal, Malkajgiri, Medchal, Medipally, Balanagar. The senior assistants working in the revenue divisional offices and collectorate were shifted to other mandals as well. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revenue-officials-transferred-to-other-mandals/articleshow/77751822.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Nashik||No improvement in no. of critical patients in city||Nashik: Though the recovery and doubling rate of Covid-19 patients have become better, the number of critical patients in the city for the past 15 days is not showing any sign of improvement. The number of critical patients had increased five-fold from 141 patients on July 29 to 815 on August 9. But there has been no let up in the number of critical patients during the last 15 days and the number has now increased marginally to 823. Currently, the city has 520 patients on oxygen support, 74 on ventilators and 229 patients in the intensive care units. The doubling rate of the patients that was around 18 days around a couple of weeks ago, has now improved to 22 days. Moreover, the recovery rate, which was around 72% in the first week of August, has also increased to 85%. “We have increased the survey of Covid-19 suspected patients in the city along with the number of antigen tests for early detection of cases. We are also tracing comorbid patients. This is the reason the number of the critical patients have increased to some extent in the city,” an NMC official said. “The infection level has also increased in some asymptomatic patients and sometimes they are moved to oxygen support or to the ICU,” he added. The official said that the number of beds with oxygen and ventilator support were very less earlier, but the infrastructure has improved drastically. “Earlier, we would shift patients on oxygen only if needed. Now, we are giving oxygen to those patients who are below or near the border line. These are also the reasons the number of critical patients are around the same for the past 15 days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-improvement-in-no-of-critical-patients-in-city/articleshow/77750413.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Khammam reports 551 Covid-19 cases||Hyderabad: As many as 551 Covid positive cases were detected in Khammam district on Tuesday. According to the ‘Daily information on Covid-19’ for the district, this was from the 2,513 Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) that were done. On Aug 24, the number of positive cases reported were 528. On Tuesday, tests were done in 34 primary health centres, urban primary health centres, District Hospital at Khammam, and at other places. The most number of positive cases were detected at the District Hospital, Khammam. Out of the 204 tests done, 79 were positive. At the M V Palem primary health centre, out of 95 tests done, 36 were detected positive. At the Madhira community health centre, 31 positive cases were reported from 72 samples. In Eknoor PHC, 113 tests were done out of which 17 were positive. According to the bulletin issued by the director of public health on Tuesday, giving details of the cases detected on Monday, there were 161 cases in Khammam, next only to GHMC with 295 cases and Rangareddy district with 186 cases. It has been observed that there is a variation in the number of Covid cases reported in the state bulletin. While the figures according to the state bulletin for Aug 24 as reported on Aug 25 were 161, local authorities in Khammam on reported that 528 positive cases were detected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/khammam-reports-551-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77751976.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 26, 2020||Nashik||620 new cases, 14 deaths in Nashik district||Nashik: As many as 620 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, including 470 from the city, have been reported in the district in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of positive cases to 31,058. Twelve of the 14 people from the district who succumbed to Covid-19 infection were from Nashik city. The death toll stands at 454 in the city and 799 in the district. As many as 643 patients were discharged from across the district on Tuesday, of which, 383 were from the city. At present, the district has 4,918 active cases. Of these, 2,787 are from the limits of Nashik Municipal Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/620-new-cases-14-deaths-in-nashik-district/articleshow/77750425.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Chennai||Gastric problems up as WFH upsets diet plans||CHENNAI: Ever since work from home began, IT professional Niveditha Gopal’s diet has been erratic. “I have a lot of instant noodles and ready-to-eat packaged food because of mounting work pressure. I snack at least twice a day. One day, I had shortness of breath and I got scared thinking I had contracted Covid. However, I didn’t have the other symptoms. I had gastritis and figured my diet was the culprit,” she said. Work from home-led stress combined with eating more rice and snacking more often for five months has led to stomach-related disorders among city residents. Dr Srimannarayana, gastroenterologist, said the number of monthly cases he sees has doubled in comparison to pre-lockdown times. “We used to have 100 cases a month. Now, it has gone up to 250 and most of it is caused by stress, sudden drop in outside activity and having low-fibre and oily food. Even the stairs that one climbs at workplace are not there. One needs to keep a tab on the diet and keep these issues at bay,” he said. Online portals are seeing a rise in gastroenterology consultations. MediBuddy-Docsapp has reported a 78% growth in such complaints after the onset of Covid in India. Consultations pertained to a variety of problems like abdominal pain (17.01%), constipation (8.10%), loose motion (19.26%) and nausea (10.11%). Gastritis was the most common problem (45.26%) and thyroid the least (0.25%), findings from the portal added. Besides stomach-related problems, people are complaining of weight gain. In households with children, availability of biscuits means adult snack more often. “Initially, we purchased snacks and goodies for my children, but now I have cream biscuits every day and I have gained 3kg in the past 5 months,” said Varun M, a designer in an agency. Diet and fitness experts said midnight snacking and a jump in consumption of biscuits and noodles have upset the system of several professionals working from home. They recommend switching to having more juices, soups and rasam. “Having protein-rich food makes you feel full. Black chana is ideal and sprouts work best as snacks. Have solid good meals that help keep you full, have water if you have the urge to snack. Sometimes, even a cup of curd works wonders as snacks, but it works best without sugar. Not only does it make you feel full, it also helps digestion,” said Anjali Anand, a low-carb expert and a fitness mentor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gastric-problems-up-as-wfh-upsets-diet-plans/articleshow/77750430.cms||Aparna Desikan
August 26, 2020||Lucknow||Dreams of studying abroad held hostage by Covid-19||LUCKNOW: Bagging a seat in top-ranking international colleges was a dream come true for these high scorers but coronavirus pandemic has left them in a quandary. Students who secured admission in coveted global universities fear they would be forced to compromise by attending online classes sitting back in Lucknow. Now, their stress levels have increased as they see no way to reach their preferred global campus. “I made it to University College London, but I will not be able to join this year due to the pandemic. Students from countries where the pandemic is stable will be beginning with their classes from September-end. However, I will have to begin my higher education journey at a leading foreign university sitting back here,” said Sonali Agarwal, who scored 96% in class XII. She said: “I chose statistics and management for business BSc, a course that is hardly available in India. I will miss the campus exposure and the opportunity of face-to-face discussion with reputed international faculty.” “The subject combination I have opted is very diverse which gives me the flexibility to study computer science and art business. I have no such college or university option back home. I’ve made it to the University of Arizona, US, but don’t know when will I get the classroom exposure as everything is tentative at present,” said 95% scorer Yash Agarwal of City Montessori School. Another student from the same school Aditi Singh, who scored 98% in class XII, said, “I have opted to join in January, hoping that things will hopefully improve and the pandemic will not deprive us of international exposure and getting a quality education.” She said: “Even after qualifying for the reputed institute, I am stressed about when international flights will resume and I will get on-campus education.” “I can’t celebrate the joy of making to the London School of Economics and Political Science, since I don’t know whether this pandemic will allow me to travel,” said Anitya Singh of Rani Laxmi Bai School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dreams-of-studying-abroad-held-hostage-by-covid-19/articleshow/77751872.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai reports fewest Covid-19 cases (587) in 105 days, Maharashtra crosses 7 lakh||MUMBAI: Maharashtra crossed a grim milestone of 7 lakh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday that saw Mumbai reporting fewest infections (587) in 105 days. This comes just a day after adding its lowest fatalities (20) in 105 days. The city had on May 12 reported 426 cases. Mumbai’s contribution to Tuesday’s 10,425 cases in the state was 5.6%. With this, Mumbai’s count has risen to 1,37,683 and state’s tally touched 7,03,823. Mumbai has 17,938 active cases now, while the state has 1,65,921. Civic authorities attributed the hefty dip to a glitch in downloading case details from the ICMR website. BMC chief IS Chahal told TOI, “We should wait and watch before coming to any inference (about the drastic drop in cases). We cannot be complacent and lower our guard.” The state has been making a steady addition of 10,000-plus cases every day, and its latest one lakh cases were added in just 8 days. Maharashtra had crossed 6 lakh cases on August 17. Of the 7 lakh cases in the state since March, 2,82,144 have been added in August alone. A state official said the spread of the infection in Pune, Akola and Nagpur circles continue to be aggressive. With over 7 lakh cases, Maharashtra surpassed South Africa’s tally of 6.11 lakh, which was the 5th highest in the world. A day after a dip in deaths in the state and the city, Maharashtra was back to reporting over 300 deaths on Tuesday. With the addition of 329 deaths, the total Covid-19 fatalities in the state now stand at 22,794; Mumbai contributed 35 of Tuesday’s deaths. Of the 329 deaths, 241 were from the last 48 hours, 44 from last week and 44 from a period before that, state officials said. Meanwhile, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region that had been witnessing a surge in cases is showing signs of recovery. Mumbra ward reported zero Covid cases on Tuesday – the third time in a month -- making the suburb that was once a hotspot a model for others to emulate in Covid management. MLA Jitendra Awhad attributed the record to sustained civic surveillance and alertness shown by local general practitioners in identifying suspect patients and giving them prompt treatment. He also believes that residents developing herd immunity has aided in the fight. The suburb first reported zero cases on August 9 and tehn on August 22. In another positive development, following Ulhasnagar where the recovery rate is 93.5%, the recovery rate in two more neighbouring civic bodies - Ambernath and Badlapur -- went above 90%. Within the Badlapur civic body’s limits, where cases have been constant with 30 to 50 detections daily, the recovery rate reached 93.3%. On Tuesday, Badlapur reported 31 new patients, taking the tally of patients there to 3,867, of which only 190 patients are taking treatment. Similarly in Ambernath, recovery rate has reaches 91.3% as out of a total of 4,733 patients only 180 (3.8%) are still under treatment. In Kalyan- Dombivli too, which has been the second worst hit city in MMR after Mumbai, recovery rate went up to 86%. On Tuesday, the twin cities reported 101 patients, taking the tally there to 26,918, with 573 deaths. For the second day in a row, recoveries in the state were higher that daily additions. The state saw 12,300 recoveries on Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 5.14 lakh. The rate of recovery of the state is now nearly 73.1%, below the country’s average of 75%. (Inputs by Pradeep Gupta and Manoj Badgeri)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-reports-fewest-cases-587-in-105-days-state-crosses-7-lakh/articleshow/77752439.cms||Bhavika Jain
August 26, 2020||Meerut||12k acres of animal corridor in Corbett, Rajaji grabbed by land sharks? NTCA seeks report||Meerut: The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) has asked the UP government to submit a report on a complaint alleging that nearly 12,000 acres of forest land — parts of which serve as a critical wildlife corridor — has been encroached upon by private players using fake documents of ownership. The corridor, which is part of Bijnor’s Najibabad forest division, borders Corbett National Park and Rajaji National Park in Uttarakhand and records frequent passage of animals, including tigers and elephants, between the two protected reserves.The move comes following a complaint by lawyer Gaurav Bansal to the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) alleging land grabbing in UP forests. "Despite the fact that wildlife corridors provide a crucial pathway for animals, including tigers in this region, authorities have failed to protect them from the threat of human encroachment,” said Bansal.In its letter to the chief wildlife warden of UP and Bijnor divisional forest officer (DFO), the NTCA — a statutory body under the MoEFCC — has directed authorities “to furnish the factual status and take appropriate action” on the complaint.Manoj Shukla, divisional forest officer of Najibabad (Bijnor), confirmed to TOI that they have received a letter from the NTCA in this regard. "Since all the revenue land records are with the district administration, we have asked them to conduct a thorough inquiry into the matter."According to Kishan Chand, a stenographer posted at the office of sub divisional magistrate of Nagina tehsil, who blew the lid off the alleged land grab last year, huge tracts of forest land around 12 villages, including alongside river Kho, a tributary of Ganga, have been transferred to private players, mostly businessmen from Punjab, Assam, Rajasthan and UP. “While looking into a complaint by a resident in Islampur Qutub village last year, I found that land records had been fudged to pass off forest land near 12 villages as revenue land. The title was then transferred to individuals who used fraudulent papers to apply for government mining tenders or lease the land for farming. The entire scam was pulled off in collusion with local officials and the land grab is expected to be around 12,000 acres,” Chand told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/12k-acres-of-animal-corridor-in-corbett-rajaji-grabbed-by-land-sharks-ntca-seeks-report/articleshow/77747643.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 26, 2020||Meerut||2 kids’ fight over sharing of PUBG’s ID leads to clash between elders, 4 injured||Meerut: A children’s squabble over sharing of online game PUBG’s ID brought their families face-to-face and soon swelled into a full-blown street fight in which shots were also exchanged in UP’s Shamli district. At least four persons of both the sides were injured in the clash which took place on Monday evening.The incident occurred in Hasanpur village of Shamli district when two children took up fight over sharing of the ID of the game as both wanted to play it. The fight reached the families and they confronted each other, a police officer said, adding that soon tempers flared up and both the sides attacked each other with roads and sticks. Illegal firearms also came out and four persons including two women were injured. Station house officer (SHO) of Kotwali Satypal Singh said, “It all started with the children. Both of them wanted to play PUBG. And it swelled into a clash between two families. Firing did take place and we are also investigating the use of illegal arms. All the injured were sent to a hospital from where they were released later.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/2-kids-fight-over-sharing-of-pubgs-id-leads-to-clash-between-elders-4-injured/articleshow/77747646.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 26, 2020||Meerut||Illegal liquor units busted in M'nagar, Shamli; 6 held||Muzaffarnagar: Four people were arrested in Muzaffarnagar and two in Shamli for their alleged involvement in making and selling illicit liquor on TuesdayIn Muzaffarnagar, a team from Civil Lines police station raided an illegal liquor unit in Indra colony and arrested four people. A number of holograms of branded liquor, bottles, caps and wrappers were seized from them.In Shamli, two persons were arrested and around 3,000 litres of raw material was seized in a raid on an illicit liquor unit in a forested area of Barnavi village near the UP-Haryana border. Hundreds of litres of illicit liquor was also seized from the spot. The two arrested men, Kawal and Maniram, are residents of Kairna in Shamli district. Vineet Jaiswal, superintendent of police, Shamli, said the duo was being questioned and a case was registered against them at Kairna police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/illegal-liquor-units-busted-in-mnagar-shamli-6-held/articleshow/77747658.cms||Mohd Dilshad
August 26, 2020||Delhi||The weed of crime bears bitter fruit: Smuggler’s luck runs out after 2 years||NEW DELHI: Dressed as an army or paramilitary personnel, 26-year-old Rohit Kumar would travel to the interiors of Visakhapatnam and Odisha to pick up marijuana from Naxal-infested belts. He would then pack them in black trunks and travel to Delhi on train. The science graduate made scores of such trips in the last two years smuggling contraband worth crores, police say. However, it was his last such journey on Monday as Delhi Police personnel busted him at New Delhi Railway Station. The cops got suspicious about his identity after noticing that there was nothing written on the trunks, which usually have the name and other details written in white on them for easy identification during movement in groups. Thirty-five packets having around two kg of ganja in each were seized after the cops checked his luggage. According to DCP (railways) Harendra Singh, Rohit was impersonating a Railway Protection Force cop this time. Around 11.35 am on August 24, the patrol teams were keeping watch on passengers coming out of trains when they noticed a huge black trunk being carried by a hired coolie. The accompanying man was carrying two bags. On suspicion, he was stopped and enquired about his credentials. He produced his identity card, which mentioned him as Rohit Kumar working as a constable in RPF and the card was issued from Allahabad. On being further questioned about his journey, he replied that he was going to Gwalior on transfer. But contrary to his reply, the train ticket showed his journey from Hijli (Kharagpur, West Bengal) raising doubts. The cops then opened his luggage and found drugs. “He was arrested with 72.5kg ganja packed in iron box, trolley bags by the alert police staff. He had brought the contraband substance from Visakhapatnam and was arrested while deboarding the Bhubaneswar Rajdhani express and leaving the railway station,” DCP Singh said. Another fake ID issued at Hazrat Nizamuddin Railway Station was also recovered from him. He disclosed that he was a resident of Mathura. He was married and had two kids. He earlier worked at a refinery in Mathura but later took to crime to make big money. After leaving home in 2018 in search of a job, he briefly worked with a company and travelled a lot via trains during this. He noticed that security personnel underwent little security checks at stations. On one such trip, he met with a marijuana supplier and joined him in his trade. He has been found to be a key member of an inter-state gang operating in Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi-NCR. He was to deliver the latest consignment in Delhi on the direction of the Gwalior, MP-based kingpin of the drug racket. The cops are now looking for other members of this syndicate. Watch Delhi: Drug smuggler’s luck runs out after 2 years||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/the-weed-of-crime-bears-bitter-fruit-smugglers-luck-runs-out-after-2-yrs/articleshow/77751874.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Rajkot||How the lid was blown?||The entire racket was busted after detailed investigation into the recovery of a dual sim mobile phone on July 27 outside the wall of yard number 5 by the surveillance squad. Suspecting a bigger racket, SP Nirlipt Rai handed over the probe to a special investigation team (SIT) led by RK Karamata. “We found 40 IMEIs and 17 mobile numbers. The racket has been operating for at least a year now,” Karamta said. The accused used to charge anything between Rs 2,000-Rs 3,000 depending on the length of the call for each inmate. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/how-the-lid-was-blown/articleshow/77748996.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Nagpur||Convert GMCH into 3,000-bed Covid centre: VHA||Nagpur: Even as private hospitals struggle to start Covid treatment, talks of converting GMCH into a jumbo hospital with the support of equipment and multiple teams from the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and Vidarbha Hospitals’ Association (VHA) have revived. On Tuesday, the VHA again requested the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to reconsider its original plan of treating all Covid patients at GMCH, which was dropped in April-May for unexplained reasons. Last week, the NMC had asked 17 private hospitals to start Covid centres within 48 hours, but not even half of them have been able to shift their patients. During their meeting with additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma, the member hospitals said that still the entire Covid load can be shifted to one place rather than the risky spread of infection across the city. No assurance was given, but another meeting has been organized with the district collector on Wednesday. In April, the VHA and IMA had submitted a detailed list of doctors, ventilators, beds, monitors, trolleys and all other gear needed to treat Covid patients at GMCH. VHA secretary Dr Alok Umre told TOI that the most successful model in containing coronavirus was seen at Wuhan where all patients were treated in one place. The administration has planned a jumbo hospital at Mankapur with 1,000 beds but is yet to initiate the process. The GMCH has 2,000 beds with 600 already in the dedicated Covid hospital (DCH). Dr Umre said that one big Covid centre on government land like GMCH is a far better option. “GMCH has a sprawling premises beside sufficient infrastructure to treat 2,500 to 3,000 Covid patients as well as offer lodging facility for the staff. Both patients as well as the staff can stay on the campus which helps in effective containment as well. We had suggested the same in April-May and we are again making the same appeal to the administration,” he said. Dr Umre is of the opinion that multiple teams can be formed. “One big hospital and multiple teams instead of multiple hospitals would benefit all,” he said. Asked about non-Covid patients, Dr Umre said GMCH’s patients can be treated at different private hospitals under government schemes. When informed about VHA’s proposal to NMC, dean Dr Sajal Mitra said as a tertiary care centre and teaching institute, GMCH is accountable to thousands of non-Covid referrals and those needing super speciality care. “As a government institute, we are the largest with 600 beds for Covid patients, ahead of Mumbai and Pune too. A new facility, if developed, should be temporary, like jumbo hospital projects in Pune and Mumbai. We have a teaching liability of thousands of students which can’t be compromised. Going by the Mumbai, Delhi and Pune experience, private hospitals should be immediately roped in at all places,” he said. Corona is not the disease of 20% population, that the government hospitals caters. He wondered, if the major health care provider, the private sector is not roped in, the situation may go beyond control. NMC officials had said that the administration preferred the Radha Saomi Satsang campus on Kalmeshwar Road. The unilateral move had surprised both IMA and VHA which was under the impression that the entire medical fraternity would support the administration at GMCH’s jumbo hospital. “The following day, we were surprised to read in the newspapers about the Radha Saomi plan,” a doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/convert-gmch-into-3000-bed-covid-centre-vha/articleshow/77750396.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 26, 2020||Meerut||Woman plunges into canal with 3 kids, 2-year-old rescued, search on for rest||Bijnor: A 28-year-old woman jumped into the Gang Nahar canal with her three kids – the youngest just 3-months-old - on Tuesday morning in Bharaiki village under Kiratpur police station area. One of the children, two-year-old Deepak, has been fished out but his condition is critical. The woman and the two other kids are still missing, even as rescue operations are on. Cops suspect marital discord to be the reason behind the woman’s extreme step.“The woman has been identified as Sunita Devi and her kids as three-month-old Akanshu, two-year-old Deepak and four-year-old Lalit,” said Bijnor superintendent of police (SP) Dharamveer Singh.“Devi did not get along with her husband Gaurav Kumar. On Tuesday, she left her house with her three kids and headed for Gang Nahar canal. A passer-by who saw her jump informed police,” added SP Singh. No FIR has been lodged yet, as no complaint has been filed. Police believe Devi took a spur-of-the-moment decision after a fight with her husband.Police roped in local divers as part of its rescue operation. After a nearly two-hour long operation, Deepak washed up near an edge of the canal and was rescued. He was taken to the district hospital and later referred to a private hospital as his health deteriorated.“Police personnel and local divers continue to look for the missing woman and the two kids using nets but they haven’t been traced yet. Rescue efforts are on,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/woman-plunges-into-canal-with-3-kids-2-year-old-rescued-search-on-for-rest/articleshow/77747651.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Pune||Mumbai reports fewest Covid-19 cases (587) in 105 days, Maharashtra crosses 7 lakh||MUMBAI: Maharashtra crossed a grim milestone of 7 lakh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday that saw Mumbai reporting fewest infections (587) in 105 days. This comes just a day after adding its lowest fatalities (20) in 105 days. The city had on May 12 reported 426 cases. Mumbai’s contribution to Tuesday’s 10,425 cases in the state was 5.6%. With this, Mumbai’s count has risen to 1,37,683 and state’s tally touched 7,03,823. Mumbai has 17,938 active cases now, while the state has 1,65,921. Civic authorities attributed the hefty dip to a glitch in downloading case details from the ICMR website. BMC chief IS Chahal told TOI, “We should wait and watch before coming to any inference (about the drastic drop in cases). We cannot be complacent and lower our guard.” The state has been making a steady addition of 10,000-plus cases every day, and its latest one lakh cases were added in just 8 days. Maharashtra had crossed 6 lakh cases on August 17. Of the 7 lakh cases in the state since March, 2,82,144 have been added in August alone. A state official said the spread of the infection in Pune, Akola and Nagpur circles continue to be aggressive. With over 7 lakh cases, Maharashtra surpassed South Africa’s tally of 6.11 lakh, which was the 5th highest in the world. A day after a dip in deaths in the state and the city, Maharashtra was back to reporting over 300 deaths on Tuesday. With the addition of 329 deaths, the total Covid-19 fatalities in the state now stand at 22,794; Mumbai contributed 35 of Tuesday’s deaths. Of the 329 deaths, 241 were from the last 48 hours, 44 from last week and 44 from a period before that, state officials said. Meanwhile, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region that had been witnessing a surge in cases is showing signs of recovery. Mumbra ward reported zero Covid cases on Tuesday – the third time in a month -- making the suburb that was once a hotspot a model for others to emulate in Covid management. MLA Jitendra Awhad attributed the record to sustained civic surveillance and alertness shown by local general practitioners in identifying suspect patients and giving them prompt treatment. He also believes that residents developing herd immunity has aided in the fight. The suburb first reported zero cases on August 9 and tehn on August 22. In another positive development, following Ulhasnagar where the recovery rate is 93.5%, the recovery rate in two more neighbouring civic bodies - Ambernath and Badlapur -- went above 90%. Within the Badlapur civic body’s limits, where cases have been constant with 30 to 50 detections daily, the recovery rate reached 93.3%. On Tuesday, Badlapur reported 31 new patients, taking the tally of patients there to 3,867, of which only 190 patients are taking treatment. Similarly in Ambernath, recovery rate has reaches 91.3% as out of a total of 4,733 patients only 180 (3.8%) are still under treatment. In Kalyan- Dombivli too, which has been the second worst hit city in MMR after Mumbai, recovery rate went up to 86%. On Tuesday, the twin cities reported 101 patients, taking the tally there to 26,918, with 573 deaths. For the second day in a row, recoveries in the state were higher that daily additions. The state saw 12,300 recoveries on Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 5.14 lakh. The rate of recovery of the state is now nearly 73.1%, below the country’s average of 75%. (Inputs by Pradeep Gupta and Manoj Badgeri)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/city-reports-fewest-cases-587-in-105-days-state-crosses-7-lakh/articleshow/77754349.cms||Bhavika Jain
August 26, 2020||Nashik||NMC allots 66 spots in city for Ganesh idol immersion||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has allotted 66 spots in the city where residents and mandals can immerse Ganesh idols on the fifth day of the 10-day-long festival. These include 33 natural spots and an equal number of artificial ponds. The civic body has provided an online facility for residents and mandals to book time slots of their choice for immersion of Ganesh idols. These slots will be made available in half-an-hour format. The municipal corporation has appealed to people to use ammonium bicarbonate during immersion of idols at their homes. They have requested people to collect the same from the divisional offices of the civic body. “We have identified 66 immersion spots, including 33 natural spots and the same number of artificial spots for Ganesh idol immersion. We have urged people to book their time slots online on the portal of civic body for immersion of Ganesh idols to avoid large crowds in view of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said NMC officials. “We have also appealed to people to donate Ganesh idols to NMC employees deployed at the immersion spots. We had collected over one lakh Ganesh idols last year,” said civic officials. Panchavati division has 18 immersion spots, Nashik West division has 13, Nashik division houses 11 immersion spots while there are 10 spots in Nashik East division. Satpur division has eight spots while Cidco has six.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-allots-66-spots-in-city-for-ganesh-idol-immersion/articleshow/77750433.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 26, 2020||Meerut||Edu dept to track progress of student schemes via video conferencing on Sep 9||Meerut: The state education department has instructed all government schools to give a rundown of the various schemes for students being run at their institutions via videoconferencing on September 9.Authorities said that it has become all the more imperative to keep track of the status of various schemes as schools are closed amid the Covid-19 crisis. State project director of Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan Vijay Kiran Anand, in an order issued to schools, stated that a district-wise virtual inspection of all schools would be done via videoconferencing on September 9. It said, “A 11-point agenda has been fixed for the purpose. These include an evaluation of the progress of distribution of textbooks and school uniforms, and inspection of electrification and other basic necessities.” “There will also be a discussion on whether the mid-day meal incentive has reached the students via direct benefit transfer or not,” it added.The department has asked the school authorities to submit all the relevant details in this regard by September 3 to facilitate a smooth video conference on September 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/edu-dept-to-track-progress-of-student-schemes-via-video-conferencing-on-sep-9/articleshow/77747654.cms||Ishita Bhatia
August 26, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Retailers cite poor business, want Sunday restrictions lifted||CHENNAI: With 45% of a week’s entire business done on Saturday and Sunday, the Retailers Association of India has said it has become a struggle to get back to its feet with constant roadblocks being faced at the state and local levels amid weekend curfews and partial lockdowns. These lockdowns continue to hurt retail business and dampen consumer sentiment. Over 10 states continue to impose “irrational weekend lockdowns”, including Tamil Nadu, where it's worse with malls still shut. “Partial closures and keeping shops closed during weekends are detrimental to social distancing as customers have no choice but to throng stores during restricted hours,” Kumar Rajagopalan, CEO of Retailers Association of India said. “Weekend and partial lockdowns continue despite orders from the ministry of home affairs (MHA) to keep retail open on all days, suggesting a lack of coordination between centre and states.” Local authorities in some states continue to impose strict lockdowns on weekends, which are becoming a huge setback in the path to recovery of businesses. After facing losses for over four months due to lockdown, it is also grossly inconvenient to customers, who after a busy workweek, wait for the weekend to do their shopping, especially in homes where both partners are working. “I live in T Nagar and given the Sunday lockdowns, it’s jam-packed on Saturdays, making movement difficult,” said Lakshmi Natesan, a resident of T Nagar. “Weekdays, it’s a battle to get the work completed and whatever we need to buy, it has to happen on Saturday. We tried online, but either we don’t get what we want or we end up buying larger packs as smaller packs aren’t available always,” R Balasubramaniam, a resident of Kalakshetra Road in Thiruvanmiyur, said. Other states which have weekend lockdowns include Punjab, Haryana, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir and Nagaland. “In times like these when the business is inelastic, it is crucial to keep stores open on all days and for extended hours. Only this will help retailers crawl back from the financial distress they have been facing and encourage social distancing,” Rajagopalan added. “These are knee jerk reactions that are crippling the sector and gravely affecting the economy. We have urged the Centre and the states governments to collaboratively work towards supporting the revival of the retail industry,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/retailers-cite-poorbiz-want-sunday-restrictions-lifted/articleshow/77750435.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
August 26, 2020||Varanasi||PM’s proposer Dom Raja passes away at 55 after prolonged illness||VARANASI: Dom Raja Jagdish Chowdhary, who was one of the proposers of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2019 Lok Sabha election from Varanasi seat, passed away after a prolonged illness on Tuesday. He was 55. On the demise of Dom Raja, PM expressed his grief. In his tweet, he said, “Extremely saddened by the demise of Dom Raja Jagdish Chaudhary of Varanasi. He settled in the culture of Kashi and was the conductor of the Sanatan tradition there. He worked for social harmony throughout his life. May God give peace to his soul and give the family the strength to bear this suffering.” Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath also condoled his death calling it a major loss. People started gathering at Chowdhary’s house at Tripura Bhairvavi Ghat on the banks of Ganga to pay homage. He was the head of the ‘Dom clan’ (pyre burners or cremators) in the city having around 600 doms performing last rites at Manikarnika Ghat and Harishchandra Ghat, and over 5,000 members in the community including women and children. According to legend, king Harishchandra had sold himself to Kallu Dom in Varanasi and worked as his helper at the cremation ground. The heads of the clan are regarded as the Dom Rajas, the keepers of the sacred flame for the cremation of Hindus. Despite being an important section of the Hindu society, the doms are remembered only during death, and they are pushed to the margins of mainstream society facing stigma. After PM’s nomination filing on April 26, 2019, Chowdhary had said that for the first time he and his community had been recognized by a political leader, and that too by the PM himself. He had expressed his hope that the PM’s gesture would bring a change in their life. It had been a pain for them that they are not invited in wedding or any other social gathering due to being untouchable. But things started changing. In December 2019, Chowdhary was invited as the chief guest in a function organised at Panchganga Ghat for the title song release of Kashi Ghat Walk, an initiative taken by a neurologist at the Institute of Medical Sciences, Prof Vijay Nath Mishra. He said that the Dom Raja gladly accepted the invitation and took part in the function. The Dom Raja family looks after the affairs of both the cremation ghats in the city. Due to the big size of the family, a member gets work once in a week or 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pms-proposer-dom-raja-passes-away-at-55-after-prolonged-illness/articleshow/77749000.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Find 5 symptomatic residents a week, fever survey workers told||CHENNAI: Don’t be surprised if the fever survey worker (FSW) who used to visit your house once in three or four days turns up every day now. As Covid-19 cases increase in the city following relaxations of lockdown norms, pressure is being mounted on FSWs by zonal level officials to ensure that they identify at least five symptomatic residents every week. “The instruction given to us is, if you don’t bring five symptomatic people per week, you will not remain on the rolls anymore,” said an FSW who works in a ward in North Chennai. There are 12,000 such FSWs employed by the Greater Chennai Corporation as well as NGOs who have to visit 75-100 homes a day and note down temperature, symptoms and pulse oxygen levels in a register. Another FSW, deployed in the Central region of the city, said workers have been asked to collect details of people who have visited government or private hospitals for check-up. “The zonal officer has instructed us that we would be pulled up if any symptomatic Covid case from the area we survey ends up in the hospital without us having recorded the person in our books,” the FSW said. “Many people refuse to tell us about symptoms. When we return to the ward office telling that there were no issues in a particular area, the officials don’t believe us,” the FSW said. A mid-level corporation employee told TOI it was necessary to put pressure on FSWs. “There were complaints that many FSWs were filling up the temperature gun readings on their own and not going door-to-door. Secondly, the corporation has stepped up the fever survey work as we don’t want to miss out on hidden cases, such as people who don’t turn up at fever clinics,” the employee said. Corporation commissioner G Prakash said the target given to FSWs was a guiding parameter as the door-to-door survey work should not be taken lightly. “But it cannot be plainly target-oriented,” he said. Prakash said the civic body’s aim now was management of the Covid mortality rate in the city. “We want to bring it down to 2.05% from 2.13% and then to 1.5%,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/find-5-symptomatic-residents-a-week-fever-survey-workers-told/articleshow/77750446.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
August 26, 2020||Meerut||Railway gateman shot at by unidentified assailants, critical||Meerut: A 33-year-old gateman deployed at a railway crossing in Bulandshahar's Khurja area was shot at by unidentified assailants early on Tuesday morning.The incident happened when Neeraj Meena was in his night shift.Partially conscious Meena managed to call one of his senior colleague 20 minutes later and apprised him of the incident following which the local police was alerted.Native of Rajasthan, Meena sustained bullet injury near his shoulder and was rushed to a private hospital, where the doctors said he is critical.Investigation in the case has begun and the local police are trying to ascertain the motive of the attack. Senior railway officials had also reached the spot to take stock of the situation.Police officers have claimed that there was no dispute or a personal rivalry that could be linked.Based on a complaint, an FIR under section 307 (attempt to murder) was registered at Khurja Kotwali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/railway-gateman-shot-at-by-unidentified-assailants-critical/articleshow/77747660.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Meerut||Two arrested after Haryana team raids sex-determination clinic in Bijnor||Bijnor: Five persons, including a doctor, were booked and two were arrested from an ultrasound clinic in Bijnor's Najibabad on Monday for allegedly conducting pre-natal sex-determination tests. The arrests came after a Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT) team from Haryana sent a pregnant woman in the guise of a patient and the clinic assured her to give information on gender of the child.A complaint has been filed against five people, including one doctor and two attendants, working at the ultrasound centre under relevant sections of the PCPNDT Act and 120B of the IPC.Surprisingly, Bijnor administration was informed about the raid by their Haryana counterparts just two hours before taking the action.Nodal of PCPNDT team, Dr SK Nigam, said “The team has sealed the ultrasound centre’s machine and a complaint has been filed against five people.”The accused have been identified as doctor Vinod Kumar, and owner of the ultrasound centre; Priti and Kavita, workers at centre; Haryana-based tout Ravindra Singh from Kharkhauda of Sonipat district in Haryana, and Hukum Singh of Bijnor's Chandpura village.According to police, doctor Kumar runs his ultrasound centre at Najibabad. On Monday, a team of Haryana health department led by Vikas Saini, Vishal Kumar and Vikas Dhangi raided the ultrasound centre and caught an ultrasound centre worker red-handed while she was conducting the gender test of a fetus.The Haryana health department team took the help of a pregnant woman from Rohtak district to bust the gang. As per the plan, the woman contacted the tout Ravindra Singh to get the gender test done on her five-month-old fetus. The tout asked for Rs 40,000 for the test. The team had already provided the amount. The numbers of the currency notes were already recorded by the woman. She reached Najibabad along with the tout. Meanwhile, Haryana health department and local administration raided the place and caught two persons red-handed while rest managed to escape.Earlier in December 2017 and May 2016, another joint team of Haryana police and heath deptartment had raided an ultrasound centre and caught a doctor red-handed for conducting sex determination tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-arrested-after-haryana-team-raids-sex-determination-clinic-in-bijnor/articleshow/77747662.cms||Harveer Dabas
August 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Family suicide spate takes 1 more||Ahmedabad: Some two months after her husband killed their two children and committed suicide along with his brother and his two children, Jyotsna Patel committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at her home in Vivekanandnagar on August 20, officials of Ahmedabad rural police said on Tuesday. The suicide note left by Jyotsna says, “I cannot live without my children. I cannot imagine my life without my children. I will also end my life.” Sub-inspector R B Rana of Vivekanandnagar police said that Jyotsna’s sister-in-law, Heta Patel, at around 3.20pm on August 20 discovered Jyotsna’s body hanging from a ceiling fan at their home in Patelvaas in Vivekanandnagar. On June 18, Jyotsna’s husband Amrish Patel, his brother Gaurang Patel along with their four kids—Mayur, Dhruv, Kirti and Salvi were found hanging in their vacant flat at Prayosha Residency in the Hathijan area. A probe by Vatva GIDC police said they were in a severe financial crisis. On June 17, the two brothers took the children out in the car saying they were going for a ride, to the flat in Prayosha Residency which they had bought about one-and-a-half-year ago. Police officers said Jyotsna was in severe depression after the murder-suicide and used to tell other family members that she would not be able to live much longer. On August 20, when no one was at home she went to her room and allegedly committed suicide. Vivekanandnagar police registered a case of accidental death and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/family-suicide-spate-takes-1-more/articleshow/77750445.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Bengaluru||15 macaws rescued from goods train; international racket suspected||BENGALURU: Exotic birds, including 15 macaws, smuggled into Bengaluru via a good trains have been rescued. The birds are suspected to have been sent from West Bengal and sourced from Bangladesh for a client in Bengaluru. Investigators suspect involvement of an international wildlife smuggling racket. The Bengaluru unit of Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) rescued the birds from the train on Wednesday following a tip-off. A DRI team carried out searches at KSR City railway station after the train from Kolkata chugged into the railway yard. “Inspection of one of the bogies revealed a section covered with tarpaulins. We removed them only to discover cages containing the birds. Sadly, they had been without food and water for days during the journey,” said a senior DRI official. A total of 15 macaws and a few love birds, which were crammed into the cages, were shifted to the care centre. They are recovering well, sources said. “The DRI unit is trying to trace the Bengaluru client and the gang members who were to pick up the consignment from the station,” they added. Kolkata connectionOn June 21, the Kolkata unit of DRI had discovered an air cargo consignment containing 22 macaws, which was booked by two men for delivery to an unidentified client in Bengaluru. The two men, Kamalesh Saha and Sayan Acharya from Kolkata, were arrested. They revealed the birds were smuggled into West Bengal through Bangaon town on the Indo-Bangla border. It was also established that the men were part of an international wildlife smuggling racket involved in bringing exotic birds and animals for clients in India in exchange for hefty sums. Bengaluru DRI investigators suspect the same racket’s involvement in Wednesday’s case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/15-macaws-rescued-from-goods-train-intl-racket-suspected/articleshow/77749570.cms||Petlee Peter
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||In highest one-day spike yet, Telangana sees over 2,500 new Covid-19 infections||HYDERABAD: With 2,579 new Covid-19 cases, Telangana on Tuesday recorded its highest single-day spike. The state also saw nine more deaths. Meanwhile, authorities have set up free testing camps in various parts of the city. The total number of Covid-19 cases so far in the state now stands at 1.08 lakh while the total number of death toll has risen to 770. So far, 84,163 patients have recovered from coronavirus while 23,737 patients continue to be treated. The case fatality rate in the state slid down further to 0.7% on Tuesday going down from 0.75% a week back. The recovery rate in the state continues to rise and crossed 77% on Tuesday which is better than the country average of just over 75%. On Tuesday, 295 new cases were recorded in the GHMC limits, while districts like Karimnagar, Khammam, Mancherial, Nalgonda, Nizamabad, Rangareddy and Warangal Urban recorded between 104 and 161 cases as per data recorded till Monday evening. Several other districts touched nearly 100 new cases on Tuesday, including Jagtial, Kothagudem, Mahabubabad, Peddapalli, Siddipet and Suryapet. At least ten government facilities have exhausted either oxygen beds, ICU beds or general beds. In Gadwal, Suryapet and Sircilla, all general beds are occupied while Suryapet, Sircilla and Mahabubabad have exhausted their share of oxygen beds are occupied. All ICU beds in Wanaparthy and Nagarkurnool were occupied. Meanwhile, speaking at a press conference, public health director Dr G Srinivasa Rao said the complaints against private hospitals have come down from 25 to eight now. These include three to four complaints of excessive billing. He said that there is a chance for action to be taken against more private hospitals but the intention is not to shut hospitals down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-highest-one-day-spike-yet-t-sees-over-2-5k-new-infections/articleshow/77751243.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Union road ministry seeks nod to clear 10 hectares forest cover for highway||HYDERABAD: The Union ministry of road transport and highways has sought clearance from the ministry of environment and forest (MoEF) for removing forest cover spread over 10 hectares on the outskirts of Hyderabad to expand the national highway. The ministry said forest stretches from Gummadidala to Narsapur and Narsapur to Medak town would be affected while expanding the road — which forms part of the Outer Ring Road (ORR) — from seven metres to 10 metres. “NH 765D is a newly-declared national highway. There is no alternative but to divert 10 hectares of forest land in Medak and Sangareddy districts for carrying out expansion of this key stretch,” it said. The ministry also said traffic volumes had been increasing on this 63-km long highway. As per the proposal, the carriageway of ORR would be expanded. It is not clear yet as to how many trees would be chopped for the road expansion project. It may be recalled that previously, the state government had cut several trees for the ORR project. Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari had laid the foundation stone for double-laning of NH 765D on May 5, 2018. “The development of Hyderabad ORR-Medak stretch is estimated to cost Rs 426 crore,” officials said. The highway passes through Medak and Sangreddy districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/road-min-seeks-nod-to-clear-10ha-forest-cover-for-highway/articleshow/77751171.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid alarm bells ring as Hyderabad preps for Ganesh immersion||HYDERABAD: Several devotees have been seen crowding the city’s water bodies for immersion of Ganesh idols. Despite the pandemic, rules such as wearing masks and maintaining social distance have been flouted with many now worried that such activities may further the spread of coronavirus. “About 200 people were gathered at the immersion pond. There were no queues nor masks being worn.” Jyothi said she was only at the lake between 5.30 pm and 6 pm in the evening and added, “The immersion is happening all through the day,” said Bodapati Jyothi from the Madhavpuri area, who has been involved with Kapra lake restoration. Jyothi suggested that restricting the number of vehicles at the entry point would be the best option. “Entire families with five to six people are coming even during the pandemic to immerse idols. The cops are expressing their helplessness in managing the situation.” Motorists passing Hussainsagar, who did not expect much of a crowd, have been in for a surprise over the past day or two with several groups of people blocking traffic. “I was making my way from Begumpet to Himaythnagar after work and we moved at a snail’s pace as many devotees had come to immerse idols. Very few wore masks,” said Srinivas Rao. The situation was not very different at Neknampur lake. Madhulika Choudhary, founder of NGO Dhruvansh which looks after the lake, said, “Several people are thronging the pond. While the idols are smaller this year, there are still many people dumping plastic waste in the pond.” Incidentally, GHMC took months to clear last year’s immersion debris from the pond, only to dump it nearby, said some locals. When contacted, civic body officials said they had not expected as much of a turnout on the first few days of the festival. “Zonal commissioners will be looking after sanitation of their respective areas,” one official said without elaborating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-alarm-bells-ring-as-city-preps-for-ganesh-immersion/articleshow/77751149.cms||Uttara Varma
August 26, 2020||Mangaluru||As no. of outstation students drop, locals secure admission at premier colleges||Mangaluru: Educational institutes in city, which usually bustle with activity during admission season, see a big drop in number of applications from students outside Mangaluru and Karnataka during the pandemic. While it has become a cause of concern for the managements, the development has turned into a blessing disguise for the local students (both PUC and degree) as they are able to secure admission in premier institutes. Almost every college in Mangaluru, receive a majority of inter-state students from Kerala, followed by North East, Mumbai and Goa. There is also a good percentage of NRI students seeking admission. The inter-district students are mostly from Chikkamagaluru, Kodagu and Hassan. “Around 100 or more students from Kayyar in Kasaragod district in Kerala usually take admission each academic year at our institution and this year they haven’t turned up. Same is the case with students from other districts,” said Rev Fr Michael Santhumayor, principal, Milagres College. “Each academic year we have about 25% students from Kerala but the pandemic has reduced it to just 2% so far. Some students from Kerala have paid fees but it remains uncertain if they would turn up once the college opens. When it comes to inter district students, the numbers have plummeted,” reveals Sister Venessa principal, St Agnes College. Those students from other districts, who seek admissions for PUC, have been requesting educational institutions here to accommodate them from next academic year as they plan to complete first year at their respective native places. “It is true that a lot of parents have been enquiring to continue second PU education next year in Mangaluru. We have responded positively,” said an official at a PU college, requesting anonymity. Vittala A, principal, Kittel Memorial Pre-University College, Gorigudda pointed out that the pandemic has benefited local students, who are able to get into some top PU colleges — as seats, otherwise, are taken by outstation students. “When it comes to admissions of small PU colleges, it paints a bleak picture,” he pointed out. Border restriction ease may help admissions The St Philomena College, Puttur has about 25% Kerala students who daily commute from bordering areas to the college. However, they have not turned up due to border area restrictions. Leo Noronha, principal said this year, only 2% of students are from Kerala. “Removal of border restriction may see a positive outcome. The admissions are also poor from other districts such as Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/as-no-of-outstation-students-drop-locals-secure-admission-at-premier-colleges/articleshow/77748448.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
August 26, 2020||Mangaluru||ISD moots inter-state coordination mehcanism||Udupi: Karnataka is keen to set up an inter-state coordination mechanism to deal with complaints of persecution of fishermen from the state. At least 10-12 such cases are reported annually. Karnataka fishermen bear the brunt of perceived over zealousness of law-enforcement agencies in neighbouring states, especially Maharashtra, said Bhaskar Rao, additional director-general of police (internal security division). Rao, who reviewed the functioning of various wings under ISD wing of Karnataka state police, including Coastal Security Police (CSP), Anti-Naxal Force, Karnataka Industrial Security Force, here on Tuesday, told TOI that fishermen leaders raised the issue of persecution by law enforcers whenever they inadvertently ventured into territorial waters of neighbouring states. “This issue can be amicably resolved by inter-state coordination,” Rao added. The ISD will also actively pursue the long-pending demand of the fishermen community for a sea ambulance with the state government. The addition of this facility will come in handy for CSP to deal with drowning emergencies involving fishermen, Rao said, and lauded CSP personnel for coming to the aid of fishermen in recent instances of accidents involving fishing boats in the district. CSP will be provided with jet skis to boost their shallow water rescue efforts, he said. CSP will also take a proactive stand against people found polluting the seas up to the limits where its jurisdiction extends both on land and on sea, Rao said. CSP will also take stringent action in area coming under its jurisdiction with other statutory enactments, including NDPS Act, IT Act in a concerted effort to go after drug peddlers operating in real and virtual words.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/isd-moots-inter-state-coordination-mehcanism/articleshow/77748261.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
August 26, 2020||Hubballi||Caught without a mask, man pays a heavy price||Hubballi: A-28-year old youth lost his Royal Enfield bike to a conman in the city on Sunday evening. However, the incident came to light on Tuesday. Gururaj Nulvi, a resident of Desai Cross in Deshpande Nagar, has filed a complaint with police that he was a conned by a man in his 30s who claimed that he was a policeman attached to Sub Urban police station in Hubballi. The conman approached Gururaj who was standing near Krishna Kalyan Mantap in Deshpande Nagar on Sunday evening. He questioned Gururaj on why he was standing near the Kalyan Mantap without wearing a mask, and said that he would be fined Rs 500 for violating safety procedures. Gururaj said that he does not have money to pay the fine. The conman said that he would take his bike to the station and he could collect it after paying the fine. Gururaj handed over his bike keys to the conman. When he came to the station to pay the fine and collect the bike, he realised that he had been cheated, said Inspector S K Holeyannavar of the Sub Urban police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/caught-without-a-mask-man-pays-a-heavy-price/articleshow/77748096.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Heavy rain likely to fade from Thursday||AHMEDABAD: In a meeting of the weather watch group of the state on Tuesday, officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the heavy rainfall witnessed in Gujarat is likely to reduce from Thursday onwards. The state has received 107% of its average seasonal rainfall, 887mm against 30-year average of 831mm. IMD officials said that there are two weather systems – a low-pressure area over south-west Rajasthan, and a cyclonic circulation over the north-west Arabian Sea – which will likely produce heavy rainfall in Kutch and Banaskantha on Wednesday. The officials said that due to a low-pressure area forming in north Bay of Bengal, it’s likely that Banaskantha on August 28 and Banaskantha, Valsad, Navsari and Kutch on August 29 will receive heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places. Other districts in Gujarat can also get light to moderate rainfall. On Tuesday, several talukas of Kutch and Banaskantha received heavy rainfall — Lakhpat in Kutch, and Vav, Bhabhar, and Dhanera in Banaskantha — received more than 50mm of rain till 8pm. Ahmedabad on Tuesday received 3mm of rainfall with light to moderate showers in several areas. Officials of the weather watch group said the Sardar Sarovar is at 70% of its storage capacity and the other major reservoirs in the state are at 75% of their cumulative capacity. Out of total, personnel at 136 dams have been put on alert. Compared to the past three years, the state has seen 97.7% of the usual acreage sown. “With the possibility of heavy rainfall in some of the districts this week, rescue and relief teams are on alert,” said a senior state government official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/heavy-rain-likely-to-fade-from-thursday/articleshow/77750497.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Vadodara||95% students appear on Day 1 of MSU online exams||Vadodara: After a series of controversies, M S University on Tuesday began the online final examination for students. The day one of phase one of the online exam which was meant for students of nine faculties/ colleges witnessed around 95 % attendance with 2,110 out of 2,213 students appearing. The online exams were scheduled in three time slots during the day. MSU’s officiating registrar K M Chudasama said that in the first time slot between 10 am and 11.45 am, 519 students appeared in their exams. A total of 553 students were eligible in this time slot. In the second time slot between 1 pm and 2.45 pm, 683 out of 708 appeared while in the third time slot, 908 out of 952 students appeared in the online exams. Chudasama added that those students who have not been able to appear in the online examination either due to monsoon, power outage, technical problems like lack of internet access or any other reason will get a chance to appear for online or offline exams in future whenever the university announces schedule for such exams as per government directives. Such exam will be considered as first attempt so that there is no loss. It is worth noting here that a series of controversies had surfaced in the online mock rounds that the university had conducted ahead of the final examination. The university’s first attempt to organise online mock test earlier this month had turned into a disaster as the portal itself had crashed while the officials played victim of cyber attack.  After the second attempt of online mock test that was held in mid-August, the university claimed it was successful. But student outfits and students in general complained of technical glitches and countered the claims made by the university officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/95-students-appear-on-day-1-of-msu-online-exams/articleshow/77748167.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Guard assaulted by bldg owner’s daughter||Hyderabad: A watchman working at an apartment building in Chandanagar was assaulted by the building owner’s daughter on Tuesday. Police sent a letter to the court seeking permission to register a case after a video of the incident went viral on social media. In the video, the woman is seen entering the building premises when she is stopped by the watchman. The woman gets out of her car and goes on to thrash the victim. She is even seen using her footwear to beat up the watchman. “The watchman, Mohammed Rafia, had stopped the woman when she entered. The woman was angry as the watchman had stopped her earlier as well,” said Chandanagar inspector, B Ravinder. After receiving a petition from the watchman, police sent a requisition to the court for permission to register a case. “The contents of the petition attract sections 323 and 506 of IPC which are non- cognizable sections. We sent a requisition to the court for permission. After obtaining permission, we will register the case,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/guard-assaulted-by-bldg-owners-daughter/articleshow/77751179.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||GU 3rd round of intake today||Ahmedabad: Gujarat University is to start its third round of admissions for undergraduate commerce courses from Wednesday. Sources in the university said that after two rounds of admissions, there are nearly 19,000 seats still vacant. Against these seats, some 10,000 students are yet to confirm their admissions for BCom, BBA and BCA seats. During the first round of admissions for 39,000 seats, only 13,000 students confirmed admissions by paying fees. In the second round that ended on.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-3rd-round-of-intake-today/articleshow/77750454.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Rajkot||VIP barrack||Rajkot: This nefarious activity was running smoothly inside barrack number 9 and 10 which the accused and some jail staffers had christened ‘VIP barrack’. Some history-sheeters got lodged in this barrack by greasing the palms of some jail staff and received special treatment like use of mobile phones, special food as well as freedom to carry on their criminal activity. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/vip-barrack/articleshow/77749019.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Lucknow||UP native’s effort sees Ireland get first Hindu temple||LUCKNOW: The Republic of Ireland welcomed its first ever Hindu Temple in Dublin on the occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi. With consistent efforts of Sudhansh Verma, who had studied in Lucknow, the temple came into existence after nearly 20 years of struggle of the Hindu communities settled in Ireland. The 10,000 square feet temple, comprising 23 hand-chiseled marble idols of deities from Lord Parshuram, Lord Ayappa, to Ma Durga and Lord Ganesha, is a part of Vedic Hindu Cultural Centre (VHCC), an organization founded by Verma in 2006 to promote Hindu culture and its traditions. With a seating capacity of over 400 people, the temple is currently allowing only 50 devotees at a time through online booking as a precautionary measure against novel coronavirus. “This is a big achievement for all of us to now have a Hindu temple far away from our home,” said Verma, who belongs to Lakhimpur and pursued his education from UP Sainik School. “When I came to Ireland in 2001, there were only a handful of members of Hindu community, mainly from India and Nepal,” said Verma, who works at a social media marketing company. “It took us several years to raise funds to get a community centre. In 2006, I founded VHCC with a group of like-minded people and we started renting out town halls for festivals, religious meets or events and asking for support for the temple,” said Verma. A significant change for the construction of the temple came in 2018 when Verma and his team hosted a ‘Hindu Sammelan’ in Dublin attended by 400 people from the community. “The premises for the temple was purchased in 2015 in Walkinstown (Dublin). Rs 1 crore was raised with the help of people who had come to attend the sammelan,” he added. “We believe in ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’ (the world is one family). We want to send a message of love and peace. The temple is opened for all communities in Ireland and other countries,” said Verma. In view of Covid-19 pandemic, the temple will not be hosting any celebrations or events currently. In addition to worship and celebration, Verma and his team plan to run meditation sessions, yoga courses, a food facility for the homeless people. a spiritual library and an ecology project which will include planting of 1,000 trees by residents in the name of their family members around Ireland.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-natives-effort-sees-ireland-get-first-hindu-temple/articleshow/77751899.cms||Aditi Singh
August 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Commission for Women ends 6-month torture of woman bound in chains||NEW DELHI: For six months till Tuesday, a 32-year-old woman was locked up and left to live in utter indignity in her house in east Delhi’s Trilokpuri, chained and tortured by her husband for reasons that are as yet unclear. She was rescued by Delhi Commission for Women in the afternoon and police have begun an investigation into her case. The woman tried to escape captivity a couple of times with the help of her children, but her husband hunted her down on both occasions. Being beaten every day and denied permission even to use the bathroom have affected her mentally, and she hasn’t been able to disclose the reason behind her husband’s actions. Mahila panchayat, DCW’s ground team, was tipped off by a volunteer that a woman was chained and being forced to live in a miserable condition in her home in Trilokpuri. Commission members Firdos Khan and Kiran Negi apprised chairperson Swati Maliwal of the matter, and she immediately left for the address with a team. There, they found the woman lying on the floor with her feet in iron chains, her clothes torn, surrounded by muck. The DCW team learnt from her that in her 11 years of marriage she had three children. She accused her husband of beating her frequently and locking her in a room in chains for the last six months. The room in which she was incarcerated had no fans and there was a horrible stink in the air because the woman was not allowed to use a toilet. The rescue team immediately freed her and is arranging medical treatment. The commission has also approached the cops. A police officer confirmed to TOI that an FIR has been registered in the case A cursory enquiry established that the woman’s husband owned a flour mill and that the wife was perfectly fine earlier. The children also confirmed that their father thrashed their mother regularly. Police will investigate the matter. Maliwal said, “As soon as we received the information from the mahila panchayat, I visited the address. What we saw in the house was absolutely shocking. The woman was bound in iron chains and was living in a wretched condition. The torture inflicted on her has left both deep physical scars as well as mental trauma and she is in a psychologically stressed condition.” The DCW chief added, “We have started work on her rehabilitation and will try provide her the best possible medical treatment. At the same time, we will also ensure that strong action is taken against the perpetrator of the crime. Inhuman incidents like these break my heart. Such crimes must be halted in any way possible.” Watch On cam: Delhi woman held in chains for months rescued||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dcw-ends-6-month-torture-of-woman-bound-in-chains/articleshow/77751878.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
August 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Only 139 construction workers got free pass; BMTC begins awareness drive||BENGALURU: Commuting to work is not affordable for many construction workers hit by job loss due to the pandemic. However, thanks to poor awareness, a majority of them are yet to benefit from Sahaya Hasta, a free bus pass scheme initiated by BMTC and the labour department. To reach out to construction workers, BMTC has started an awareness campaign in English, Kannada and Hindi at railway stations and labour camps. It is fetching data from Karnataka Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board. Corporation officials said construction workers, including migrant labourers, from other states can enrol for the scheme started in April 2019. Statistics show 1,602 workers availed free passes in 2018-19, which increased to 7,395 in 2019-20. However, only 139 workers got them this financial year so far. BMTC officials said they have received a database of around 9,000 construction workers from the labour department. They clarified that Sahaya Hasta passes are only for construction workers and the category includes painters, plumbers, carpenters, those involved in repair or maintenance of buildings, lift and escalator work, interior work, cooling and heating system work, iron grilling, flooring work, etc. Shaheen Shasa of Bengaluru Bus Prayanikara Vedike (BBPV) said the BMTC and labour department should extend the scheme to other workers’ communities too. “Many daily-wage workers, who could earlier afford to pay bus fares, are now finding it difficult because of the impact of the pandemic and slowdown of the economy. It’s a good initiative and should be extended to others as well.” ‘Simplify process’Suresh Hari, chairman, Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India, Karnataka chapter said there are more than 12 lakh registered construction workers in Bengaluru alone. “Whatever construction cess had been collected is being used for this purpose and it’s a welcome development Now, most labourers have smartphones but the government needs to simplify the registration process. We are ready to work with government agencies to provide these passes for construction workers.” “The poor enrolment was mainly due to the lockdown. Also, till July, we couldn’t conduct any awareness campaigns due to the pandemic. In fact, many workers who left the city are yet to return. We are hoping that pass holders will increase in the coming days,” said a BMTC official. The pass is valid for one year. BMTC is also sending SMSs to beneficiaries to renew expired passes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/only-139-construction-workers-got-free-pass-bmtc-begins-awareness-drive/articleshow/77749762.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 34-year-old gets 5 years rigorous imprisonment for molesting niece in 2017||HYDERABAD: A 34-year-old hospital technician was sentenced to rigorous imprisonment (RI) for five years by a local court on Tuesday for molesting his ten-year-old niece. The case had been registered in 2017. The accused, a resident of Old City, would visit his brother-in-law’s — the girl’s father — house often. In April 2017, when two of the minor’s younger brothers had fallen sick, her father had taken them to hospital leaving the girl and another brother at home with the accused. Taking advantage of the situation, the accused molested the girl. Upon returning home, the girl’s father found her crying while the accused fled the house. The minor then revealed the incident to her family and a complaint was filed. On Tuesday, the accused was convicted under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and sentenced to five years of rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs 10,000 by the first additional metropolitan sessions judge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/34-yr-old-gets-5-years-ri-for-molesting-niece-in-2017/articleshow/77751212.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt to reclaim unused industrial land in industrial development areas||HYDERABAD: The Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) will resume land allotted to industries for not setting up units, as promised, in the notified industrial development areas (IDAs) and industrial parks. Officials said while some of them diverted the land for other purposes, some industries went kaput. Industries minister KT Rama Rao on Tuesday directed the TSIIC to identify such land tracts given to the industries and change of land use by the erring industrial units and serve notices on them. “We will issue notices to them and take back the land. There are 20% to 30% such industries which have gone back on their promise,” an official said. KTR asked the officials to first serve show-cause notices and tell the industrialists to launch their units in a stipulated time-frame. “If the allottees fail to comply with the directive, the government will not hesitate to resume the land,” he warned. There are nearly 15,000 industries — in notified and unnotified industrial areas — and industrial parks. Officials said notices would be slapped on those who got land in 157 notified IDAs. “In some locations like Gaddi Pocharam and Kazipally, some industrialists purchased the land on their own and set up the units which do not come under our purview,” a senior TSIIC official told TOI. KTR recalled that land was given to industrialists at a concession to attract investment and to provide employment to locals. “The government wants all industries to be functional at the site,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-to-reclaim-unused-industrial-land-in-idas/articleshow/77751101.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 26, 2020||Nagpur||Ayurvedic practitioner assaulted||Nagpur: An ayurvedic practitioner was assaulted and illegally confined by a patient’s kin after the former suggested hospitalization for the patient. The kin also made away with his vehicle and mobile phone, apart from demanding Rs2 lakhs from him. Nandanvan police arrested three persons, namely Hasmat Khan, Abdul Moheez Khan and Faizyan Ali, for their alleged role in attacking practitioner Amol Rude, who was detained at their place from 8pm on Sunday till 2am the next day. Hasmat’s relative Ahmed was suffering from kidney ailment. He used to take treatment from Rude around a year ago, but had discontinued it. Ahmed’s condition deteriorated on Sunday, following which the relatives asked Rude to visit the patient at his Hasanbagh residence. As Rude noticed Ahmed’s condition was serious, the practitioner asked his family members to shift him to a private hospital. Miffed by his suggestion, Hasmat and his friends Moheez and Faizan attacked Rude. They also demanded Rs2 lakhs as hospitalization cost. Nandanvan police nabbed and booked Hasmat and his two aides. Police said Moheez and Faizan had offences of assault against them in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ayurvedic-practitioner-assaulted/articleshow/77750429.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Shivamogga foresters pose as buyers, catch trio trying to sell hippo ivory||BENGALURU: In a sting operation in Shivamogga, a forest department squad has seized hippopotamus ivory, including nine teeth, from three men who were attempting to illegally sell them under the assumption that they were elephant tusks. A probe is under way into what’s probably the first such seizure in the state and how the accused obtained remains of the hippopotamus, which is not seen in the wild in India but is found in zoos and protected forest enclosures. According to department sources, the operation was carried out for over a week when the three men, later identified as Mujafar, 19, from Bhatkal, Zaheer Khan, 24, from Banavara and Mohammed Danish, 34, from Sorab, were trying to sell nine teeth belonging to an adult hippopotamus. The animal usually has 12 teeth. Following a tip-off, a Shivamogga forest mobile squad led by deputy conservator of forest Balachandra, under the guise of illegal buyers and dealers in animal remains and ivory, coaxed the men into striking a deal for a steep price. “We communicated with them on WhatsApp and the men started sending videos of the teeth in their possession, quoting a huge price. But they claimed they were elephant tusks, probably unaware they were hippo remains,” an investigating officer told TOI. On Monday evening, the trio arrived at a location in Sorab to sell the teeth when undercover forest officials rounded them up and seized the ivory. “It’s clear that this is hippo ivory and the possibility of the seizure including elephant tusks will be established only after examination by a specialised forest team. We are surprised how the trio managed to obtained the hippo remains as the animal is not seen in the wild in India unlike elephant,” another investigating officer said, suspecting a bigger racket. The suspects confessed that an unidentified woman had given them the animal remains for sale after promising them a handsome share in the proceeds. A car, motorcycle and currency-counting machine were also recovered from them. The three men were booked under the Wildlife Protection Act 1972, remanded in judicial custody and sent to prison on Tuesday evening. The Shivamogga forest department is also probing the possible involvement of any zoo staff in the racket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/shivamogga-foresters-pose-as-buyers-catch-trio-trying-to-sell-hippo-ivory/articleshow/77749541.cms||Petlee Peter
August 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana conducts a record 53,000 tests on Tuesday, numbers to go up||HYDERABAD: Taking an aggressive approach in its attempt to contain the spread of Covid-19, the state conducted as many as 52,933 tests on Tuesday. In tune with its plans to increase testing to over 40,000 samples per day, the state saw a jump in testing from 26,767 last Friday to 43,092 tests on Saturday while Tuesday saw another substantial increase. Speaking about the plan of action to enhance testing in the state, Telangana director of public health, Dr G Srinivasa Rao said, “We will be increasing the testing further, especially in the districts. We are looking at 55,000 per day tests or more. We have been able to contain the spread of the virus through rationalised testing by identifying the true suspects and will continue to do so.” The state health department has instructed each public health centre (PHC) to conduct a minimum of 50 to 100 tests per day while districts have been set an aggressive target of 3,000 to 5,000 tests per day. The aim for PHCs has been set as per their respective districts. “Every PHC should conduct rapid tests of minimum 50 per day. It is mandatory and there should be no excuses. If less than 50 tests are conducted, they will be called for an explanation. For community health centres (CHC), a minimum of 150 tests, for area hospitals 150 tests, and for district hospitals 200 tests should be conducted. All staff including IT staff, staff nurse and ANM (auxiliary nurse midwife) should be trained in testing,” the state health department said in its order. In districts, all residents within a containment zone have to be tested as per orders. “People working in kirana shops, cab and auto drivers, maids should be tested compulsorily. Comorbid patients and all line departments can be tested. On holidays also tests must be conducted and alternative members to do testing must be arranged. Any deviation from this will be taken seriously,” read an internal order issued by the district medical health officer (DMHO) of Kamareddy district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-conducts-a-record-53k-tests-on-tue-nos-to-go-up/articleshow/77751089.cms||Amrita Didyala
August 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Most Karnataka cops who died of Covid were on field duty, 75% aged above 50||BENGALURU: Thirty-nine police personnel succumbed to Covid-19 across the state from June 14 to August 25, show Karnataka police statistics. Of the 36 dead as on August 23, 27 were aged 50 and above. Details of the three other cops who died on August 24 and 25 couldn’t be immediately ascertained. “By the time we realised police officers aged above 50 are more prone to the virus, the damage had been done. Two of the deceased were 32 years old, while one was 39. Six were between 40 and 50 years. Also, some of them were asymptomatic and tested positive during random tests,” a senior officer said. Besides, all the 36 were from the lower echelons of the force and into field work. They included 16 assistant sub-inspectors, 15 head constables and five constables, a senior officer confirmed. Six cops died in June and 15 breathed their last in July. Eighteen personnel died this month (till August 25). “We hope there are no more Covid deaths in the force. Fortunately, the recovery rate is good. Till August 24 evening, state police had recorded 5,214 positive cases, of which 3,703 patients have been discharged. As many as 1,475 cases are active,” a senior police officer told TOI. Another senior officer said in cities like Bengaluru, cops contracted the virus mostly at the workplace, while in districts, particularly North Karnataka, police quarters were where infections were seen. “At least 75% of the Covid-positive cops in Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Mysuru, Hubballi-Dharwad and Belagavi contracted the virus at workplaces. Police quarters, police mess, canteens and vehicles were major sources of infection spread in other districts,” he said. We must devise new SOPs so work can go on Early detection and hospitalisation or isolation is the mantra of Karnataka police now. Work has to go on and we have to learn how to face the situation and live with it. We have to devise new SOPs to continue policing. Most personnel have returned to duty with more enthusiasm after recovery. At least 12 have donated plasma and more than 100 have expressed willingness to do so...We are monitoring the precautionary measures adopted. The positive sign is that the number of discharges has gone up||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/most-cops-who-died-of-covid-were-on-field-duty-75-aged-above-50/articleshow/77749458.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
August 26, 2020||Rajkot||Doc charged Rs 5K per fake certificate||Rajkot: Kanti Vala, a murder accused, was helping prisoners get fake medical certificate for their family members in their natives. Vala was in constant touch with Dr. Gheewala, 60, who retired from Amreli Civil Hospital about a year or two ago. The doctor used to charge Rs 5,000 per fake certificate. According to sources nearly 30 such certificates for temporary bail have been submitted in various courts in the last one year. However, police are probing if all were fake or just few of them. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/doc-charged-rs-5k-per-fake-certificate/articleshow/77749051.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Delhi||How Delhi Metro plans its Covid reset||NEW DELHI: Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) is completely prepared to resume operations with all safeguards and arrangements in place for commuters, if it is allowed to function when Unlock 4.0 kicks in. Officials said they would need just two days to sanitise the metro network, which has been shut for over five months. However, even if services resume, a metro ride would be a completely different experience from earlier. “DMRC will take the maximum precautions to safeguard the health of commuters once services resume. All protocols are in place and full care will be taken to sanitise the trains and stations,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. “The decision to open the system, however, rests with the government,” he added. To begin with, only a limited section of commuters would be allowed once services start. These are likely to be government or PSU employees, apart from those engaged in essential services. They would be allowed to enter metro premises after an identification check. Sources said the general public might be allowed to travel in off-peak hours, but nothing was final till SOP for metro travel was announced by the Centre. For ensuring social distancing, passenger movement would be regulated at the entry itself. A limited number of people would be allowed inside after thermal scanning, sources said. Only one entry and one exit gate would remain open at most stations to check and segregate passengers. Detailed cleaning and maintenance procedures have been worked out for the 264 stations, over 2,200 coaches and more than 1,100 escalators and 1,000 elevators. All stations would be disinfected thoroughly at night and regular cleaning throughout the day would be carried out in passenger movement areas, such as concourse, passages, platforms, stairs, glasswork, steelwork, etc. DMRC’s 8,000-strong housekeeping staff would clean and sanitise human contact areas like elevator buttons and escalator handrails every four hours. Provisions for sanitisation for all station staff and commuters have been made and 3,000 litres of hand sanitisers are expected to be used every day. A one-metre distance would be maintained between commuters at the entry, security checkpoint, platforms and while standing inside coaches. Commuters would have to keep ample time at hand for boarding a train. People at stations would be monitored through CCTV cameras. To curb crowding, pushing and shoving at platforms, train doors would remain open for a longer duration compared with 10-20 seconds earlier. This would extend travelling time. Not more than 50 commuters would be allowed per coach, including 25 seating. More than 50,000 stickers have been pasted in the coaches to mark alternate seats that have to be kept vacant. A six-coach train, which usually carried 1,800-2,100 passengers during peak hours, would carry 300-350 commuters now. Tokens won’t be used anymore and cashless transactions through smart cards or QR code payments would become mandatory. Instead of the earlier 6am to 11am schedule, revenue hours could be limited between 7am and 8pm. There would also be no fixed frequency of trains and the number of trips would depend on demand. A temperature of 26 degrees Celsius would be maintained inside coaches and underground stations. The heating, ventilation and air-conditioning systems of coaches have been overhauled to allow better air circulation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dmrc-set-to-begin-operations-needs-just-2-days-to-sanitise-network/articleshow/77751922.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||After Covid-19 setback, Gujarat realty set to rebuild strongly||AHMEDABAD: After facing a slowdown for a few months in the post-lockdown period, most real estate sites in Gujarat have come back to life with the return of the majority of migrant workers. Now, measures such as stamp-duty reduction and the availability of funds from banks are required to revive and boost the real estate demand across the state. This was the opinion expressed by industry leaders and experts during the ‘Reboot Real Estate’ session conducted as part of TOI’s Virtual Conclave titled ‘Getting Back Dhandho: Making Gujarat Future Positive.’ Nearly 85% of the migrant workers employed in the state’s real estate sector are back, said real estate consultancy firm Knight Frank India’s national director, industrial and logistics, Balbirsingh Khalsa. “As far as Gujarat is concerned, almost 80-85% of the real estate projects are back on track now,” Khalsa said. As compared to this, only 30-40% of the projects have resumed in Mumbai with the financial capital of India still under lockdown. “We were apprehensive that migrant workers will not return before Diwali due to the good monsoon,” said Jaxay Shah, national chairman, CREDAI, the apex body of real estate developers in India. “With workers, however, coming back, most of the developer sites are back on track after a delay of a few months due to the lockdown,” Shah said. About 50 lakh workers are employed in the construction sector every year, of whom 80% are migrants. The real estate session of the conclave was moderated by Sunil Parekh, advisor to Zydus Cadila Group and Jubilant Bhartia Group and the founding curator of Ahmedabad Global Shapers, a World Economic Forum Initiative. Even as the real estate sector was looking up after facing a few tough years since the implementation of RERA and GST, the pandemic and the lockdown stymied growth. “In the first three months after the pandemic, the demand was almost zero. However, the demand has gradually grown since June thanks to a good monsoon and increasing migration from rural to urban areas,” Shah added. “Real estate is bouncing back with consumers visiting real estate sites again. The conversion ratio has not risen but customer inquiries have begun pouring in.” All the panellists unanimously called for measures such as a reduction in stamp duty, ease of doing business, the availability of funds from banks, a GST cut on products and services for a limited period, and tamping down of the end-product price to revive demand. The industry players stressed the fact that the government will also have to play an important role in creating demand by offering easy instalments for corporation charges and providing blanket non-agriculture (NA) permission for affordable housing. Realtors are hopeful of being revitalized in two to three quarters. “Inquiries for residential — including weekend houses — and commercial properties have increased now,” said Ashish Patel, president, CREDAI-Gujarat. “The conversion at present is low. We, however, believe that the real estate market scenario will completely change by Diwali this year. We will see a good market we have never seen before.” Talking about the challenges faced by the real estate industry, Chitrak Shah, managing director, Shivalik Group, said: “From purchasing land to obtaining required approvals, it takes two years for any real estate project to take off. Such a long duration adds to project costs, which is a major challenge for the industry.” Stamp-Duty Cut, Funds From Banks Needed To Sustain Momentum: Industry Leaders||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-covid-setback-guj-realty-set-to-rebuild-strongly/articleshow/77750598.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Puducherry||Covid-19: 107 deaths push TN toll near 7,000||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu recorded 5,951 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the state’s total active cases to 52,128 and confirmed cases to 3,91,303. While Cuddalore reported 370 cases, Chengelpet (321), Kancheepuram (214) and Tiruvallur (305) added 650 cases and 10 deaths. While Tamil Nadu’s daily fresh cases have been nudging closer to 6,000 for the last six days, Tuesday recorded the second highest daily discharge at 6,998. The highest so far this month was on August 1, when 7,010 people were discharged. The average recovery rate in Tamil Nadu is now at 85%. Tamil Nadu recorded 5,951 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the total active cases to 52,128. With 107 people reported dead, the state’s toll rose to 6,721. While the state’s daily fresh cases have been nudging 6,000 for the last six days, Tuesday recorded the second highest daily discharge at 6,998. The highest this month was on August 1, when 7,010 people were discharged. The average recovery rate in the state is now at 85%. Active cases saw a marginal drop after two weeks, but deaths have once again reached three digits after a drop for three days. The case fatality rate stands at 1.7%. On Tuesday, Chennai reported 1,270 cases, a steady increase from 989 on August 13. The number of people under treatment in the city also rose from 12,287 on August 20 to 13,371. Its neighbours – Chengalpet (321), Kanchipuram (214) and Tiruvallur (305) - together added 840 cases and 10 deaths. Experts said Chennai is unlikely to see another peak, like between June 29 and July 3 when daily cases were more than 2000, or a drastic increase in fresh cases for two reasons. One, sustained measures to bring the infection under control and, two, increased immunity among the population.  “The numbers we see now in Chennai are a strange phenomenon that was observed in Iran where the numbers stood at the same level for a long time instead of going down. We need to do a sero survey and I think we’ll find at least 20% of the population positive. In that case Chennai cannot have another peak. This could just be the last flicker of a dying candle and from here, the cases have to come down,” said Dr T Jacob John, virologist. Former director of public health Dr K Kolandsamy said though the Covid graph has flattened in the city, daily cases will be up for some time due to relaxation of lockdown and return of people from other states. “What we need to do now is to continue fever clinics and increase hand wash and ventilation facilities in all places,” he said. Fresh cases rose to 1,146 in southern districts where 26 deaths were reported. In the western region, Coimbatore topped with 322 cases. Active cases also touched new highs with Coimbatore crossing 3,000 and Salem 2,500. Central districts recorded 614 new cases and 19 deaths. Experts added the state will continue to see a rise in cases as each district will have its own peak at different periods and it may take at least two months for them to descend the curve. Districts like Madurai, Theni and Virudhunagar saw peak, while Coimbatore and Erode are reaching the top of the curve now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/another-peak-unlikely-in-city-say-experts/articleshow/77755978.cms||U Tejonmayam
August 26, 2020||Salem||Covid-19: 107 deaths push TN toll near 7,000||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu recorded 5,951 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the state’s total active cases to 52,128 and confirmed cases to 3,91,303. While Cuddalore reported 370 cases, Chengelpet (321), Kancheepuram (214) and Tiruvallur (305) added 650 cases and 10 deaths. While Tamil Nadu’s daily fresh cases have been nudging closer to 6,000 for the last six days, Tuesday recorded the second highest daily discharge at 6,998. The highest so far this month was on August 1, when 7,010 people were discharged. The average recovery rate in Tamil Nadu is now at 85%. Tamil Nadu recorded 5,951 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the total active cases to 52,128. With 107 people reported dead, the state’s toll rose to 6,721. While the state’s daily fresh cases have been nudging 6,000 for the last six days, Tuesday recorded the second highest daily discharge at 6,998. The highest this month was on August 1, when 7,010 people were discharged. The average recovery rate in the state is now at 85%. Active cases saw a marginal drop after two weeks, but deaths have once again reached three digits after a drop for three days. The case fatality rate stands at 1.7%. On Tuesday, Chennai reported 1,270 cases, a steady increase from 989 on August 13. The number of people under treatment in the city also rose from 12,287 on August 20 to 13,371. Its neighbours – Chengalpet (321), Kanchipuram (214) and Tiruvallur (305) - together added 840 cases and 10 deaths. Experts said Chennai is unlikely to see another peak, like between June 29 and July 3 when daily cases were more than 2000, or a drastic increase in fresh cases for two reasons. One, sustained measures to bring the infection under control and, two, increased immunity among the population.  “The numbers we see now in Chennai are a strange phenomenon that was observed in Iran where the numbers stood at the same level for a long time instead of going down. We need to do a sero survey and I think we’ll find at least 20% of the population positive. In that case Chennai cannot have another peak. This could just be the last flicker of a dying candle and from here, the cases have to come down,” said Dr T Jacob John, virologist. Former director of public health Dr K Kolandsamy said though the Covid graph has flattened in the city, daily cases will be up for some time due to relaxation of lockdown and return of people from other states. “What we need to do now is to continue fever clinics and increase hand wash and ventilation facilities in all places,” he said. Fresh cases rose to 1,146 in southern districts where 26 deaths were reported. In the western region, Coimbatore topped with 322 cases. Active cases also touched new highs with Coimbatore crossing 3,000 and Salem 2,500. Central districts recorded 614 new cases and 19 deaths. Experts added the state will continue to see a rise in cases as each district will have its own peak at different periods and it may take at least two months for them to descend the curve. Districts like Madurai, Theni and Virudhunagar saw peak, while Coimbatore and Erode are reaching the top of the curve now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/another-peak-unlikely-in-city-say-experts/articleshow/77755986.cms||U Tejonmayam
August 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid-19: 107 deaths push TN toll near 7,000||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu recorded 5,951 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the state’s total active cases to 52,128 and confirmed cases to 3,91,303. While Cuddalore reported 370 cases, Chengelpet (321), Kancheepuram (214) and Tiruvallur (305) added 650 cases and 10 deaths. While Tamil Nadu’s daily fresh cases have been nudging closer to 6,000 for the last six days, Tuesday recorded the second highest daily discharge at 6,998. The highest so far this month was on August 1, when 7,010 people were discharged. The average recovery rate in Tamil Nadu is now at 85%. Tamil Nadu recorded 5,951 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the total active cases to 52,128. With 107 people reported dead, the state’s toll rose to 6,721. While the state’s daily fresh cases have been nudging 6,000 for the last six days, Tuesday recorded the second highest daily discharge at 6,998. The highest this month was on August 1, when 7,010 people were discharged. The average recovery rate in the state is now at 85%. Active cases saw a marginal drop after two weeks, but deaths have once again reached three digits after a drop for three days. The case fatality rate stands at 1.7%. On Tuesday, Chennai reported 1,270 cases, a steady increase from 989 on August 13. The number of people under treatment in the city also rose from 12,287 on August 20 to 13,371. Its neighbours – Chengalpet (321), Kanchipuram (214) and Tiruvallur (305) - together added 840 cases and 10 deaths. Experts said Chennai is unlikely to see another peak, like between June 29 and July 3 when daily cases were more than 2000, or a drastic increase in fresh cases for two reasons. One, sustained measures to bring the infection under control and, two, increased immunity among the population.  “The numbers we see now in Chennai are a strange phenomenon that was observed in Iran where the numbers stood at the same level for a long time instead of going down. We need to do a sero survey and I think we’ll find at least 20% of the population positive. In that case Chennai cannot have another peak. This could just be the last flicker of a dying candle and from here, the cases have to come down,” said Dr T Jacob John, virologist. Former director of public health Dr K Kolandsamy said though the Covid graph has flattened in the city, daily cases will be up for some time due to relaxation of lockdown and return of people from other states. “What we need to do now is to continue fever clinics and increase hand wash and ventilation facilities in all places,” he said. Fresh cases rose to 1,146 in southern districts where 26 deaths were reported. In the western region, Coimbatore topped with 322 cases. Active cases also touched new highs with Coimbatore crossing 3,000 and Salem 2,500. Central districts recorded 614 new cases and 19 deaths. Experts added the state will continue to see a rise in cases as each district will have its own peak at different periods and it may take at least two months for them to descend the curve. Districts like Madurai, Theni and Virudhunagar saw peak, while Coimbatore and Erode are reaching the top of the curve now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/another-peak-unlikely-in-city-say-experts/articleshow/77755979.cms||U Tejonmayam
August 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||UAE mission signed MoU for hosp too in protocol breach||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In yet another violation of country’s protocols binding on foreign missions, the UAE consulate entered into another memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Sane Ventures LLP, for construction of a hospital for women and children adjacent to the apartment complex in Wadakkancherry, Thrissur, as part of the Life Mission project of the government. According to the MoU, the company “has been chosen for its experience and ability to implement the project”. However, as per records of the registrar of companies, Sane Ventures LLP is a company which is just under three years old (incorporated on November 2, 2017) and its main division of business activity is postal and telecommunications. “A postal and telecommunications company which has been recently set up has been entrusted to construct a hospital on government land acquired under Life project. The government order for Life insists on quality of construction to be ensured at multiple levels when it is constructed by a government-accredited agency. In this case, there would be zero supervision on the quality of construction. The whole arrangement lacks transparency and a foreign mission undertaking such a task without the permission of the Centre amounts to serious violation of rules,” government sources said. Interestingly, two of the directors of Sane Ventures —Santhosh Eappen and Seema Santhosh— are the same persons as that of the Unitac Builders and Developers, which entered into MoU with the UAE consulate for the construction of the apartment complex in Wadakkancherry. However, the MoU for women and children hospital has been signed between UAE consul general represented by Jamal Hussein Al Zaabi and Sane Ventures LLP, represented by its third director P V Vinod. But the name of Santhosh Eappen who signed the MoU on behalf of Unitac Builders and Developers for construction of apartment complex does not figure in the MoU for the hospital. Both the MoUs have been signed on the same day, July 31, 2019. In this case too, the direct involvement of the UAE consulate for a hospital project for the state government is in total violation of the protocol set by the ministry of external affairs. As per the protocol, except for routine matters such as request for factual information on technical subjects, foreign missions in India cannot establish direct contacts with the state government “on matters of substance and of more than ephemeral interest, such as foreign trade, external aid and project collaboration”. The MoU between the UAE consul general and the builder chosen for the project once again violated this protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/uae-mission-signed-mou-for-hosp-too-in-protocol-breach/articleshow/77749099.cms||KP Saikiran
August 26, 2020||Nagpur||Civic chief Mundhe tests +ve for Covid-19||Nagpur: Nagpur municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Tuesday said he had tested positive for coronavirus. Mundhe said he was asymptomatic. “Dear All, I have tested positive for #COVID19. I have isolated myself as per the protocol & guidelines,” he tweeted. He also requested those who had come in contact with him over the last 14 days to get tested. “I am Working from home to control #pandemic situation in Nagpur. We shall win,” his tweet read. Earlier, an additional municipal commissioner, one assistant municipal commissioner, executive engineer rank officials, a fire station officer along with at least 15 fire personnel, computer operators and two corporators had tested positive for the virus. Both the corporators had shared the development on social media platforms. Sources said 11 retired army officials attached with the Nuisance Detection Squad (NDS), too, tested positive for Covid-19. Meanwhile, all senior officials in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), including additional municipal commissioners Ram Joshi and Sanjay Nipane, deputy municipal commissioners Nirbhay Jain and Dr Pradip Dasarwar, chief fire officer Rajendra Uchake and superintending engineer (water works department) Shweta Banerjee got tested for coronavirus. As per protocol, all these officials went for home isolation until their reports came in. However, TOI spotted Uchake and some senior officials visiting the field. NMC public relations staff was also seen standing in a queue in a special Covid-19 test camp set up at the head office. Following the development, mayor Sandip Joshi cancelled his scheduled meetings for the day. One of those meetings was regarding the first review of four committees for private hospitals, government hospitals, Covid care centres and Covid testing centres to bring down cases. Another cancelled meeting had been convened with the city’s MLAs to assess the current Covid-19 situation in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/civic-chief-mundhe-tests-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/77750458.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 26, 2020||Madurai||Covid-19: 107 deaths push TN toll near 7,000||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu recorded 5,951 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the state’s total active cases to 52,128 and confirmed cases to 3,91,303. While Cuddalore reported 370 cases, Chengelpet (321), Kancheepuram (214) and Tiruvallur (305) added 650 cases and 10 deaths. While Tamil Nadu’s daily fresh cases have been nudging closer to 6,000 for the last six days, Tuesday recorded the second highest daily discharge at 6,998. The highest so far this month was on August 1, when 7,010 people were discharged. The average recovery rate in Tamil Nadu is now at 85%. Tamil Nadu recorded 5,951 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the total active cases to 52,128. With 107 people reported dead, the state’s toll rose to 6,721. While the state’s daily fresh cases have been nudging 6,000 for the last six days, Tuesday recorded the second highest daily discharge at 6,998. The highest this month was on August 1, when 7,010 people were discharged. The average recovery rate in the state is now at 85%. Active cases saw a marginal drop after two weeks, but deaths have once again reached three digits after a drop for three days. The case fatality rate stands at 1.7%. On Tuesday, Chennai reported 1,270 cases, a steady increase from 989 on August 13. The number of people under treatment in the city also rose from 12,287 on August 20 to 13,371. Its neighbours – Chengalpet (321), Kanchipuram (214) and Tiruvallur (305) - together added 840 cases and 10 deaths. Experts said Chennai is unlikely to see another peak, like between June 29 and July 3 when daily cases were more than 2000, or a drastic increase in fresh cases for two reasons. One, sustained measures to bring the infection under control and, two, increased immunity among the population.  “The numbers we see now in Chennai are a strange phenomenon that was observed in Iran where the numbers stood at the same level for a long time instead of going down. We need to do a sero survey and I think we’ll find at least 20% of the population positive. In that case Chennai cannot have another peak. This could just be the last flicker of a dying candle and from here, the cases have to come down,” said Dr T Jacob John, virologist. Former director of public health Dr K Kolandsamy said though the Covid graph has flattened in the city, daily cases will be up for some time due to relaxation of lockdown and return of people from other states. “What we need to do now is to continue fever clinics and increase hand wash and ventilation facilities in all places,” he said. Fresh cases rose to 1,146 in southern districts where 26 deaths were reported. In the western region, Coimbatore topped with 322 cases. Active cases also touched new highs with Coimbatore crossing 3,000 and Salem 2,500. Central districts recorded 614 new cases and 19 deaths. Experts added the state will continue to see a rise in cases as each district will have its own peak at different periods and it may take at least two months for them to descend the curve. Districts like Madurai, Theni and Virudhunagar saw peak, while Coimbatore and Erode are reaching the top of the curve now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/another-peak-unlikely-in-city-say-experts/articleshow/77755983.cms||U Tejonmayam
August 26, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: 107 deaths push TN toll near 7,000||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu recorded 5,951 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the state’s total active cases to 52,128 and confirmed cases to 3,91,303. While Cuddalore reported 370 cases, Chengelpet (321), Kancheepuram (214) and Tiruvallur (305) added 650 cases and 10 deaths. While Tamil Nadu’s daily fresh cases have been nudging closer to 6,000 for the last six days, Tuesday recorded the second highest daily discharge at 6,998. The highest so far this month was on August 1, when 7,010 people were discharged. The average recovery rate in Tamil Nadu is now at 85%. Tamil Nadu recorded 5,951 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the total active cases to 52,128. With 107 people reported dead, the state’s toll rose to 6,721. While the state’s daily fresh cases have been nudging 6,000 for the last six days, Tuesday recorded the second highest daily discharge at 6,998. The highest this month was on August 1, when 7,010 people were discharged. The average recovery rate in the state is now at 85%. Active cases saw a marginal drop after two weeks, but deaths have once again reached three digits after a drop for three days. The case fatality rate stands at 1.7%. On Tuesday, Chennai reported 1,270 cases, a steady increase from 989 on August 13. The number of people under treatment in the city also rose from 12,287 on August 20 to 13,371. Its neighbours – Chengalpet (321), Kanchipuram (214) and Tiruvallur (305) - together added 840 cases and 10 deaths. Experts said Chennai is unlikely to see another peak, like between June 29 and July 3 when daily cases were more than 2000, or a drastic increase in fresh cases for two reasons. One, sustained measures to bring the infection under control and, two, increased immunity among the population.  “The numbers we see now in Chennai are a strange phenomenon that was observed in Iran where the numbers stood at the same level for a long time instead of going down. We need to do a sero survey and I think we’ll find at least 20% of the population positive. In that case Chennai cannot have another peak. This could just be the last flicker of a dying candle and from here, the cases have to come down,” said Dr T Jacob John, virologist. Former director of public health Dr K Kolandsamy said though the Covid graph has flattened in the city, daily cases will be up for some time due to relaxation of lockdown and return of people from other states. “What we need to do now is to continue fever clinics and increase hand wash and ventilation facilities in all places,” he said. Fresh cases rose to 1,146 in southern districts where 26 deaths were reported. In the western region, Coimbatore topped with 322 cases. Active cases also touched new highs with Coimbatore crossing 3,000 and Salem 2,500. Central districts recorded 614 new cases and 19 deaths. Experts added the state will continue to see a rise in cases as each district will have its own peak at different periods and it may take at least two months for them to descend the curve. Districts like Madurai, Theni and Virudhunagar saw peak, while Coimbatore and Erode are reaching the top of the curve now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/another-peak-unlikely-in-city-say-experts/articleshow/77750551.cms||U Tejonmayam
August 26, 2020||Lucknow||IIIT starts MBA in digital business||LUCKNOW: With digital platforms becoming a part of our daily life, Indian Institute of Information Technology, (IIIT), Lucknow has also decided to teach students all about digital business. In a first of its kind move, the institution has launched an MBA in digital business, a two-year course, that has been made in accordance with the new education policy declared by the education ministry recently. The course will offer candidates the flexibility to take an exit after a year or to complete it even after a break of a year. The institute opened its application process on Friday and the last date for submission of application form is September 20. Director IIIT Arun Mohan Sherry said, “We are the first in the country to offer this course. It is offered mainly in some institutes in Europe. After pursuing the course, a student can start an online business or take up various roles related to digital business in corporate sector.” As many as 60 seats will be offered in the course initially and based on the demand, be increased later. If a student wants to leave the course after one year, she will be awarded a PG diploma and on two-year completion, a master’s degree will be awarded. “From modern concepts like artificial intelligence and cloud computing to teaching traditional business management like managerial finance, it will be all in one course,” he added. He said the course will be offered in both online and offline mode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/iiit-starts-mba-in-digital-business/articleshow/77751916.cms||Mohita Tewari
August 26, 2020||Bareilly||18-year-old Dalit girl abducted, three booked||Pilibhit: Three brothers were booked on Monday evening for allegedly abducting an 18-year-old Dalit girl from her house in a village under Jahanabad police station on August 17. According to the girl’s father, the family members of the accused had been promising that the girl would return to him soon, and thus, he preferred to wait for his daughter instead of lodging a complaint. The father said he approached police after the accused’s family retracted from their commitment and threatened that they would kidnap his second daughter as well. In his complaint, the girl’s father alleged that the accused, Kapil, 22, broke into their house when they were sleeping and kidnapped his daughter Rakhi. The girl’s father further alleged that when he went to the accused’s home to inquire about his daughter, he was insulted by Kapil’s two brothers Avdhesh and Ramu, who hurled casteist slur at him. SHO Harish Vardhan Singh said, “The three named accused were booked under sections 366 (kidnapping or abduction of any woman with the intent that she may be compelled to marry any person against her will), 452 (house-trespass) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke the breach of peace) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and appropriate sections of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/18-year-old-dalit-girl-abducted-three-booked/articleshow/77744888.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||1,500 cusecs released in Sabarmati||Ahmdabad: The irrigation department will release water into the Sabarmati river at the rate of 1,500 cusecs, as the Sant Sarovar dam has reached 95% capacity and continues to receive inflows from the Dharoi dam. District collector K K Nirala said on Tuesday that villages downstream of the Vasna barrage have been put on alert as a precaution, given that parts of north Gujarat continue to receive heavy rainfall. The official said that a white signal indicates a general alert. A blue signal will be issued when 1.16 lakh cusecs of water is released in the Sabarmati river and a red signal will be issued if 1.45 lakh cusecs of water is released. “A few areas of the city along the banks of the Sabarmati will be alerted if the blue signal is flashed,” the collector said. He added that the collectorate is coordinating with the civic body and other agencies to ensure that all arrangements in place and the situation is being reviewed every hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1500-cusecs-released-in-sabarmati/articleshow/77750549.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Erode||Covid-19: 107 deaths push TN toll near 7,000||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu recorded 5,951 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the state’s total active cases to 52,128 and confirmed cases to 3,91,303. While Cuddalore reported 370 cases, Chengelpet (321), Kancheepuram (214) and Tiruvallur (305) added 650 cases and 10 deaths. While Tamil Nadu’s daily fresh cases have been nudging closer to 6,000 for the last six days, Tuesday recorded the second highest daily discharge at 6,998. The highest so far this month was on August 1, when 7,010 people were discharged. The average recovery rate in Tamil Nadu is now at 85%. Tamil Nadu recorded 5,951 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the total active cases to 52,128. With 107 people reported dead, the state’s toll rose to 6,721. While the state’s daily fresh cases have been nudging 6,000 for the last six days, Tuesday recorded the second highest daily discharge at 6,998. The highest this month was on August 1, when 7,010 people were discharged. The average recovery rate in the state is now at 85%. Active cases saw a marginal drop after two weeks, but deaths have once again reached three digits after a drop for three days. The case fatality rate stands at 1.7%. On Tuesday, Chennai reported 1,270 cases, a steady increase from 989 on August 13. The number of people under treatment in the city also rose from 12,287 on August 20 to 13,371. Its neighbours – Chengalpet (321), Kanchipuram (214) and Tiruvallur (305) - together added 840 cases and 10 deaths. Experts said Chennai is unlikely to see another peak, like between June 29 and July 3 when daily cases were more than 2000, or a drastic increase in fresh cases for two reasons. One, sustained measures to bring the infection under control and, two, increased immunity among the population.  “The numbers we see now in Chennai are a strange phenomenon that was observed in Iran where the numbers stood at the same level for a long time instead of going down. We need to do a sero survey and I think we’ll find at least 20% of the population positive. In that case Chennai cannot have another peak. This could just be the last flicker of a dying candle and from here, the cases have to come down,” said Dr T Jacob John, virologist. Former director of public health Dr K Kolandsamy said though the Covid graph has flattened in the city, daily cases will be up for some time due to relaxation of lockdown and return of people from other states. “What we need to do now is to continue fever clinics and increase hand wash and ventilation facilities in all places,” he said. Fresh cases rose to 1,146 in southern districts where 26 deaths were reported. In the western region, Coimbatore topped with 322 cases. Active cases also touched new highs with Coimbatore crossing 3,000 and Salem 2,500. Central districts recorded 614 new cases and 19 deaths. Experts added the state will continue to see a rise in cases as each district will have its own peak at different periods and it may take at least two months for them to descend the curve. Districts like Madurai, Theni and Virudhunagar saw peak, while Coimbatore and Erode are reaching the top of the curve now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/another-peak-unlikely-in-city-say-experts/articleshow/77755982.cms||U Tejonmayam
August 26, 2020||Trichy||Covid-19: 107 deaths push TN toll near 7,000||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu recorded 5,951 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the state’s total active cases to 52,128 and confirmed cases to 3,91,303. While Cuddalore reported 370 cases, Chengelpet (321), Kancheepuram (214) and Tiruvallur (305) added 650 cases and 10 deaths. While Tamil Nadu’s daily fresh cases have been nudging closer to 6,000 for the last six days, Tuesday recorded the second highest daily discharge at 6,998. The highest so far this month was on August 1, when 7,010 people were discharged. The average recovery rate in Tamil Nadu is now at 85%. Tamil Nadu recorded 5,951 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the total active cases to 52,128. With 107 people reported dead, the state’s toll rose to 6,721. While the state’s daily fresh cases have been nudging 6,000 for the last six days, Tuesday recorded the second highest daily discharge at 6,998. The highest this month was on August 1, when 7,010 people were discharged. The average recovery rate in the state is now at 85%. Active cases saw a marginal drop after two weeks, but deaths have once again reached three digits after a drop for three days. The case fatality rate stands at 1.7%. On Tuesday, Chennai reported 1,270 cases, a steady increase from 989 on August 13. The number of people under treatment in the city also rose from 12,287 on August 20 to 13,371. Its neighbours – Chengalpet (321), Kanchipuram (214) and Tiruvallur (305) - together added 840 cases and 10 deaths. Experts said Chennai is unlikely to see another peak, like between June 29 and July 3 when daily cases were more than 2000, or a drastic increase in fresh cases for two reasons. One, sustained measures to bring the infection under control and, two, increased immunity among the population.  “The numbers we see now in Chennai are a strange phenomenon that was observed in Iran where the numbers stood at the same level for a long time instead of going down. We need to do a sero survey and I think we’ll find at least 20% of the population positive. In that case Chennai cannot have another peak. This could just be the last flicker of a dying candle and from here, the cases have to come down,” said Dr T Jacob John, virologist. Former director of public health Dr K Kolandsamy said though the Covid graph has flattened in the city, daily cases will be up for some time due to relaxation of lockdown and return of people from other states. “What we need to do now is to continue fever clinics and increase hand wash and ventilation facilities in all places,” he said. Fresh cases rose to 1,146 in southern districts where 26 deaths were reported. In the western region, Coimbatore topped with 322 cases. Active cases also touched new highs with Coimbatore crossing 3,000 and Salem 2,500. Central districts recorded 614 new cases and 19 deaths. Experts added the state will continue to see a rise in cases as each district will have its own peak at different periods and it may take at least two months for them to descend the curve. Districts like Madurai, Theni and Virudhunagar saw peak, while Coimbatore and Erode are reaching the top of the curve now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/another-peak-unlikely-in-city-say-experts/articleshow/77755984.cms||U Tejonmayam
August 26, 2020||Goa||Not against mining restart, want sustainable operations: Alvares||Panaji: With the Covid-19 pandemic affecting various sectors in the state, especially tourism, restarting mining could offer a solution provided it is done in a sustainable manner, Goa Foundation director Claude Alvares said. “Our argument is that mining can address some of these problems, provided it is done in a way that will benefit everybody. It must be done in such a way that it will not damage the environment, where wealth from mining is distributed among everyone,” Alvares stated, while clarifying that his NGO has never been opposed to mining. “The pandemic has hit everybody. If mining resumes in the way it was taking place in the past for so many years, only a few people will benefit,” he stated. He recommends setting up a government corporation, employing people to run it and giving out contracts for extraction of ore so that the profits are enjoyed by everybody. “The problem is that the money is going to a few people, and the damage is being suffered by all,” he told a video platform.  Recently, representatives of panchayats in the mining belt met the governor urging him to help in restarting mining in the state. They said that people in the mining belt have been suffering for the past eight years. Around 26 panchayats have approached the Supreme Court with an interlocutory application seeking impleadment in the Goa mining case. “Populace of these 26 villages are closely dependent on the mining industry. Mining is and has been a mainstay of the people of Goa since its inhabitants have been employed in mining and ancillary activities for at least six generations,” the panchayats stated, adding that the ban on mining activities for the past 28 months has impacted people in the villages. Mining activities have been suspended since March 15, 2018 after the apex court quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases. Panaji: With the Covid-19 pandemic affecting various sectors in the state, especially tourism, restarting mining could offer a solution provided it is done in a sustainable manner, Goa Foundation director Claude Alvares said. “Our argument is that mining can address some of these problems, provided it is done in a way that will benefit everybody. It must be done in such a way that it will not damage the environment, where wealth from mining is distributed among everyone,” Alvares stated, while clarifying that his NGO has never been opposed to mining. “The pandemic has hit everybody. If mining resumes in the way it was taking place in the past for so many years, only a few people will benefit,” he stated. He recommends setting up a government corporation, employing people to run it and giving out contracts for extraction of ore so that the profits are enjoyed by everybody. “The problem is that the money is going to a few people, and the damage is being suffered by all,” he told a video platform. “The categorical message is that we are not against mining. We are against mining undertaken in the way it has been done in the past. Our concern is that this is our resource and we can use it for the benefit of everybody,” he added.  Recently, representatives of panchayats in the mining belt met the governor urging him to help in restarting mining in the state. They said that people in the mining belt have been suffering for the past eight years. Around 26 panchayats have approached the Supreme Court with an interlocutory application seeking impleadment in the Goa mining case. “Populace of these 26 villages are closely dependent on the mining industry. Mining is and has been a mainstay of the people of Goa since its inhabitants have been employed in mining and ancillary activities for at least six generations,” the panchayats stated, adding that the ban on mining activities for the past 28 months has impacted people in the villages. Mining activities have been suspended since March 15, 2018 after the apex court quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases. The panchayat representatives have blamed Goa Foundation for stopping mining where the then chief minister Manohar Parrikar had suspended leases based on the Shah Commission report, bringing mining operations to a halt. * Panaji: When the pandemic has hit different sectors especially tourism in the state, restarting mining could offer a solution, provided it is done in a sustainable manner, Goa foundation director Claude Alvares has stated. “Our main argument is that mining can take care of some of these problems provided it is done in a way that will benefit everybody. Is must be done in such a way that it will not damage the environment and where the wealth from mining is distributed to everybody, Alvares stated clarifying that his NGO has never been mining per se “It’s a pandemic which has hit everybody. If mining restarts in the way it was taking place in the past for so many years only a few people will benefit,” he stated. He recommends setting up a government corporation, employing people to run the corporation and giving out contracts for extracting of ore so that the profits are enjoyed by everybody. “The problem is that the money is going to a few people and the damage is being suffered by everybody,” he stated. “The categorical message is that we are not against mining. We are against mining – the way it has been done in the past. Our concern is that this is our resource and we can use it for the benefit of everybody,” he added. Representatives of panchayats in the mining belt last week met the Governor urging himi to help them restart mining in the state. They requested the Governor to restart mining in a full fledged manner stating tht people in the mining belt have been suffering for the past eight years. Around 26 panchayats from the state have approached the Supreme Court with an interlocutory application (IA) seeking impleadment in the Goa mining case. “Populace of these 26 villages are closely dependent on the mining industry. Mining is and has been a mainstay of the people of Goa since its inhabitants have been employed in mining and ancillary activities for at least six generations,” the panchayats stated, adding that the ban on mining activities for the past 28 months has impacted people in the villages. Mining stopped in Goa from March 15, 2018 after the Supreme court quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases. The panchayat representatives have blamed Goa Foundation for stopping mining in the state where the then chief minister Manohar Parrikar had suspended leases based on the Shah inquiry commission, bringing mining operations to a halt in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/not-against-mining-restart-want-sustainable-operations-alvares/articleshow/77751937.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Chennai||Madras HC junks privilege move against DMK MLAs||CHENNAI: The privilege proceedings initiated against 21 DMK MLAs for bringing gutkha packets into the Tamil Nadu assembly to highlight the easy availability of the banned product in the state, were set aside by the Madras high court on Tuesday. The court, however, left it to the privilege committee to decide if it wants to initiate fresh proceedings in the issue. Of the 21 MLAs facing privilege motion, two died during pendency of the case, while one MLA, Ku Ka Selvam, was expelled from the DMK. The notice of breach of privilege dated August 28, 2017, ‘suffers from foundational error of assuming the conduct of the legislators to be prohibited by the notification’ banning gutkha products, held the first bench of Chief Justice A P Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy. The bench pointed out that the notification dated May 23, 2017, issued by the food safety department banning gutkha products does not prohibit displaying gutkha sachets or its photographs. “The petitioners cannot be proceeded against on the strength of the privilege notices by treating their conduct of displaying gutkha sachets and photographs as being violative of any prohibitory law, particularly the notification banning sale of gutkha in the state,” the judges said. However, the court said: “We leave it open to the committee of privileges, if it so chooses, to deliberate upon the issue any further in case it still is of the opinion that any breach has been committed of the privileges of the House by the petitioners. In that event, the petitioners will be at liberty to raise all such objections that have been raised before us, or even otherwise available in law.” On August 28, 2017 the privilege committee of the assembly initiated the privilege proceedings and issued show-cause notices to Stalin and 20 MLAs to show cause why action should not be taken against them for breach of privilege of the assembly. Challenging the proceeding, the 21 legislators moved the high court. On September 7, 2017 the high court passed an interim order and stayed further proceedings in the issue. After a lull of three years, on July 10, advocate-general Vijay Narayan and government pleader V Jayaprakash Narayan made a mention before the first bench seeking to recommence the hearing of the case. “The term of the legislators as well as the Tamil Nadu is going to expire soon, and the case must be allotted an early hearing and brought to a logical conclusion,” Vijay Narayan said. In view of the submission, the case was taken up for final hearing on August 12, 13 and 14. After three days of continuous hearing the bench reserved its order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-junks-privilege-move-against-dmk-mlas/articleshow/77750643.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Nagpur||Addl CP, family test Covid +ve||Nagpur: Additional commissioner of police Nilesh Bharne, who also holds the charge of joint commissioner of police, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. His family members also tested positive and were shifted to AIIMS, while Bharne got admitted in Alexis Hospital. He has requested those who had come in contact with him to get tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/addl-cp-family-test-covid-ve/articleshow/77750501.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar to launch poll campaign with virtual rally on September 6||PATNA: JD(U) president and CM Nitish Kumar will launch his election campaign for the assembly polls at a mega virtual rally on September 6. This event was scheduled for August 7 but got postponed due to floods in many districts of north Bihar. JD(U) national secretary Rabindra Prasad Singh on Tuesday told TOI that the party has now decided to hold this rally on September 6. “JD(U) has developed a comprehensive digital platform jdulive.com. Apart from Facebook, Youtube and Twitter, JD(U)’s exclusive digital platform would also be used to connect the masses with Nitish Kumar’s mega rally,” Singh told TOI, adding, Nitish would soon inaugurate the party's digital platform. “The party is planning to arrange for more than 25 lakh people to hear Nitish Kumar’s speech through different digital platforms,” a senior party leader, who is associated with the preparations for the mega rally, told TOI on Tuesday. Singh further said, keeping in mind the prevalence of Covid-19 cases across the state, JD(U), like its ally BJP, has prepared a comprehensive plan to use technology for connecting with a large number of people during the election campaign. “The JD(U)s platform ‘jdulive.com’ can link more than 10 lakh people at a time. We will also use other social media platforms to ensure that maximum number of people directly watch and hear Nitish Kumar’s speech during the mega rally,” Singh said. The mega rally would also be broadcast live by different news channels, he said. The assembly election in Bihar is due in October-November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-to-launch-poll-campaign-with-virtual-rally-on-sept-6/articleshow/77750657.cms||Madan Kumar
August 26, 2020||Varanasi||BDC member shot dead in Azamgarh||VARANASI: A block development council (BDC) member Surendra Yadav (35) was shot dead in Nevada village under the limits of Nijamabad police station in Azamgarh district on Monday nights sparking violence as his supporters set three motorcycles of the assailants on fire. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said, “Two of the accused persons in this case were arrested by the Azamgarh police till Tuesday afternoon and manhunt for others is on by special teams formed by DIG Azamgarh range Subhash Chandra Dubey and SP Azamgarh Sudhir Kumar Singh.” “Following initial investigation, bid to prove dominance in the village led to a dispute between Yadav and people attacked him after which he was shot dead,” he added. Police said that Yadav had been sitting with some persons at a place in village when a heated argument took place and people sitting with him opened fire. He suffered bullet injuries in this incident while assailants fled the scene leaving behind their motorcycles. Local residents immediately rushed Yadav to the district hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. News of his death spread like wildfire and hundreds of his supporters initially tried to attack the house of one assailants and later set their three motorcycles on fire. On getting information, heavy policewas rushed while DIG and SP also reached the spot. In view of the tension in the village, police force remained deployed in the village. According to the villagers, Yadav had friendship with the Nevada village head but as he had planned to contest forthcoming election of village head, differences had started increasing between the duo. As Yadav had also been favouring a group having dispute with other group in neighbouring Badharia village, the pre-panchayat poll rivalry took an ugly turn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bdc-member-shot-dead-in-azamgarh/articleshow/77749064.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: KSDMA, fire force had warned of fire in audit||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Reports of the fire audits conducted by Kerala state disaster management authority (KSDMA) in 2018 and fire and rescue department in 2016, had pointed out several vulnerabilities in the secretariat building, but the reports found their way to the cold storage without any further action. KSDMA had conducted audits in 2011 and 2018 and had also conducted a mock exercise to review emergency preparedness in the secretariat, in case of a fire. In the audit report submitted to the government (accessed by TOI), it was observed that an electrical circuit installed between sections crowded with employees and paper files increased the risk to hazards like fire. The audit report recommended that installation of circuits in such sections should be avoided. Fire alarms were installed in some locations, but were found to be defunct. Announcement system was also not in place. Some of the corridors were filled with unused furniture and other stationery which blocked free mobility in case of emergency evacuation, the audit found. Over 100 employees were persons with disabilities (PwD) who needed special assistance. “It is recommended to implement buddy system for timely assistance and evacuation of PwDs,” the audit suggested. The fire and rescue department too had conducted an audit in 2016. In his letter to the chief secretary and additional chief secretary (home and vigilance) in February 2016, the then chief of fire and rescue services department Loknath Behera had said the secretariat building is fire unsafe and the concerned department should be asked to take remedial measures at the earliest. According to its report, all wirings in the secretariat were exposed without being concealed. Since the building is 150 years old, it is doubtful whether it can withstand any natural disaster. Cracks on the floors, walls and ceilings are confirming this,” the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ksdma-fire-force-had-warned-of-fire-in-audit/articleshow/77749143.cms||KP Saikiran
August 26, 2020||Lucknow||10-year experience must for DLitt at LU||LUCKNOW: If you are planning to pursue Doctor of Letters (DLitt) at Lucknow University, you must have minimum experience of 10 years of teaching or research. Also, publication of 15 research papers in a reputed journal is a rule for admission. The university is reviving its DLitt course after a decade and has come up with a new ordinance. The ordinance has been passed by the academic council and will be placed in the executive council meeting for assent. Candidates have to submit the name of the topic and its details in 1,500-3,000 words along with the application forms. The ordinance says that if the thesis of a student is rejected once, they cannot apply for the course again for two years. Before the submission of thesis, it will be mandatory to hold a seminar. LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastava said, “Applications for admission to DLitt will be invited once the university winds up the PhD entrance test scheduled in September.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/10-year-experience-must-for-dlitt-at-lu/articleshow/77751931.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Varanasi||TV reporter shot dead in land dispute||VARANASI: A television news channel reporter, Ratan Singh (42), of Ballia district’s Phephna area under the same police station limits was shot dead by his relatives in his village on Monday night triggering tension in the area. The police have arrested six accused persons while the chief minister has announced an ex gratia of Rs 10 lakhs for the family of the murdered reporter. As the news spread, journalists from the entire district and Singh’s well-wishers gathered at Phephna and staged a sit-in on Tuesday. Taking cognizance of the incident, SP Ballia Devendra Nath later suspended Inspector Phephna Shashimauli Pandey. The SP said that six of 10 accused persons were arrested in this connection till afternoon. He said that it was not a case of professional rivalry, but Singh was murdered by his relatives in an old land dispute. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced financial assistance of Rs 10 lakh for Singh’s family. However, Singh’s father later put forward several demands, including arrest of all the accused, making the suspended Inspector an accused of conspiracy, financial assistance of Rs 50 lakh for the family, government job for Singh’s widow and security for the family. The journalists holding the sit-in supported the demand of the family. UP minister Anand Swaroop Shukla had to face their ire when he reached Phephna to console the aggrieved family of Singh. Nath said that Singh was present at his home when a local boy reached there and took him to the house of the village head. “Singh’s relatives Arvind Singh and Dinesh Singh, who had an old enmity with him, were already present there with their accomplices. They attacked Singh with sticks and later opened fire, killing him on the spot,” said Nath. He added, “Singh’s family had an old dispute over a piece of land with Arvind and Dinesh. Both the groups had quarrelled in the same dispute in 2019 and were then booked by the police. This was the root cause of the rivalry and led to Singh’s killing.” However, Singh’s father Vinod Singh claimed that the family had no immediate dispute. He alleged that the suspended Inspector with a student leader, who had been booked in a murder case in the past, and one other person had conspired the murder of his son, although he could not provide any motive. As Vinod Singh refused to take the body of his son till the demands of family were met, DM Ballia Hari Pratap Shahi sent ADM Ramashrey in late afternoon to inform them that all the demands had been forwarded to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/tv-reporter-shot-dead-in-land-dispute/articleshow/77749108.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
August 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rain fluctuation sharpest in Kutch, S’rashtra||Ahmedabad: By studying rainfall data for the last 114 years, weather scientists have identified rainfall patterns for Gujarat and the 33 other meteorological divisions in the country, which can have important implications for food and water security. The seasonal and annual rainfall figures for between 1901 and 2015 were analysed for the 34 divisions have revealed that the country’s greatest average deviation in rainfall from the mean rainfall was in Saurashtra and Kutch (41%), followed by Western Rajasthan (38%), Arunachal Pradesh (33%) and the Gujarat region (30%). In distribution of rainfall during the monsoon season alone, the greatest variations were seen in Saurashtra and Kutch, with deviations between 43% and 158%, respectively. These were followed by west Rajasthan, between 40% and 145%. In the post-monsoon period, the highest rainfall variation was in Punjab, between 36.18% and 138.65%, followed by the Gujarat region, with deviations between 31.38% and 127.66%, indicating unstable rainfall incidence. A greater fluctuation in rain does not mean more water. The southern divisions of Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and Konkan and Goa had the highest average rainfall, 3,397mm, 2,930mm and 2,974mm respectively. West Rajasthan had the least average rainfall, 289mm, followed by Saurashtra and Kutch at 494mm, Haryana at 535mm and Delhi and Chandigarh had 596mm. The study was conducted by Bushra Praveen and Pritee Sharma of IIT Indore, Swapan Talukdar, Susanta Mahato and Jayanta Mondal of the department of geography, University of Gour Banga, Shahfahad; Atiqur Rahman of the faculty of natural sciences, Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi and Abu Reza Islam of Begum Rokeya University in Bangladesh. The study also warned that there will be a 15% decline in rainfall across the country by 2030 which is “alarming”. The study was published in the journal Nature. In winter rainfall, fluctuations were comparatively lower. The maximum variation was reported from Konkan and Goa (253.37%), followed by coastal Karnataka (187.70%), the Gujarat region (185.12%), Saurashtra and Kutch (174.88%) and central Maharashtra (162.06%). North-easterly winds are thought to have strengthened over time across the whole country, which reduces influx of cooler air in winters, causing a decline in winter rainfall all over the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rain-fluctuation-sharpest-in-kutch-srashtra/articleshow/77750670.cms||Paul John
August 26, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 deaths in city: NMC says 720, CS 613 & state 470||Nagpur: The number of Covid-19 cases and deaths are much more than claimed by civil surgeon (CS) and state government if the daily data released by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is to be believed. On Tuesday, a press release issued by the CS’s office claimed total number of deaths in the city was 613. The report is released at around 6pm daily. CS is nodal officer of the district for Covid-19. The office of the CS also sends the district’s data daily to the state’s public health department. At 9pm on Tuesday, state’s public health department claimed the city has registered total 470 deaths, the number was 143 less than that released by the CS. At 10pm on Tuesday, NMC released data of Covid cases and deaths. As per the civic body, total number of deaths was 720, which is 250 more than health department and 107 more than that claimed by the CS. Same is the case with number of positive cases. On Tuesday, total number of cases reported by health department was 15,758. The cumulative figure released by the CS was 16,933, which was 1,175 more than that released by the health department. The NMC’s data showed total number of cases at 20,300, which was 4,542 more than the health department’s and 3,367 more than that of CS’s. The health department is overall head for the epidemic in the state. The NMC is working at the ground-level and involved in contact tracing, collection of samples, sending it for testing and cremation of the deceased. An NMC official told TOI, “Our team is arranging last rites of all Covid-19 victims, be it from hospitals run by government as well as Trust-run and private. The team submits data which we take on record.” The official said, “NMC is running 34 testing centres and daily uploads data from these centres on the website of Indian Council of Medical Research. Private laboratories too upload their data on ICMR website and also sends it to us. The day’s count is taken from data available on ICMR’s website.” The official also said NMC daily sends city’s numbers (cases and deaths) to CS for forwarding it to the health department. Sources said the CS’s office does not consider report sent by the NMC and sources own information from hospitals and laboratories. Civil surgeon VD Paturkar said, “There is some lag between reporting number of deaths and cases, which is quoted in press release after confirmation and receiving summary. The number may be more on the day they are finally reported. We try and keep actual numbers daily and add further numbers in the progressive figure.” Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar, who coordinates between all government agencies in the district, did not respond to repeated calls and messages by TOI. Similarly, number of Covid deaths and cases of the district also differ daily due to variation in data of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-deaths-in-city-nmc-says-720-cs-613-state-470/articleshow/77750548.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 26, 2020||Chennai||As people WFH, cos bet on big lifestyle products||CHENNAI: Consumers can expect interesting deals in bigger lifestyle products such as television sets and refrigerators, as companies pad up for the festival season that is set to start across the country in a few days beginning with Onam in Kerala. With people spending more time inside their homes binge watching OTT platforms and making fewer visits to supermarkets, manufacturers are betting on large-format TV sets and bigger refrigerators. “For the upcoming festival season, we expect strong growth to continue, especially in mid and premium segments,” said Raju Pullan, Senior VP, Consumer Electronics Business, Samsung India “Since unlocking began, we have seen strong double digit growth across cities. With changing needs, consumers are upgrading to larger screens (55-inch and beyond) as well as smart TVs with personal computer mode to aid online learning for kids and WFH. Many are buying refrigerators, above 300-litre capacity to stock up more, and fully-automatic washing machines,” Pullan said. While some manufacturers are throwing in offers, others are holding back price cuts. Godrej Appliances has announced Onam offers, which includes cashback up to 3,000 with select bank partners and up to Rs 10,000 off on select models, besides easy EMI offers with 0% interest and zero down payment. “However, there is no discounts on MRP of consumer durable products this year,” said executive VP, Kamal Nandi . Apparel maker Puma India, too, said it is not planning to offer festive discounts this year. Abhishek Ganguly, GM, Puma India & Southeast Asia said, “Our discounts have decreased this year as people are buying what they need. Also, we do not want to create heavy traffic derailing social distancing norms, so we are being conscious on how much discount we are giving.” Sanitaryware maker Roca is offering discounts on sub-brands of Parryware and Johnson Pedder while the premium variant Roca will not see any discounts, the company’s MD KE Ranganathan said. Bluestar too has said no to discounts, and has instead increased the warranty and is offering some waiver on installation charges. Ditto for Panasonic. “We are witnessing a huge demand for microwave ovens across rural markets and a good uptick of grooming products, while pent up demand for other appliances like washing machines, vacuum cleaners and refrigerators have started kicking in. Similarly, the rise in content across OTT platforms has led to the demand for smart LED TVs across smaller markets and metros as consumers prefer viewing these content over large screen TVs,” said Suguru Takamatsu, Divisional Head - CSD, CE-HO, Panasonic India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/as-people-wfh-cos-bet-on-big-lifestyle-products/articleshow/77750688.cms||Mamtha Asokan
August 26, 2020||Nashik||Mandal heads appointed spl police officers||Nashik: The city police has appointed presidents of Sarvajanik Ganpati mandals as special police officers assigning them with the responsibilty of taking necessary measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and also ensure safety of the idols installed in their respective pandals. Commissioner of police Vishwas Nangre Patil said that the appointment of the presidents as special police officers was only for the period of Ganeshotsav. The special police officers will have to carry out the duties as instructed by the officers of police stations, under whose jurisdiction the pandals fall and strictly follow all the rules issued by the government with respect to controlling the spread of Covid-19. The special police officers have to ensure devotees observe social distancing when they come to the pandals to watch the tableaus. They will have to make necessary arrangements for the observance of this safety protocol. It will also be their duty to see no untoward incident against women and children take place during the festive period. They also have to take necessary measures to ensure the safety of the idols. Masks, santizers and other personal protection gears should be available for the concerned presidents and office bearers of the mandal. As special police officers. their conduct and communication with the public should be patient and courteous. Under the guidance of Nangre Patil , the special police officers have been appointed by the deputy commissioner of police of zone I and II under the powers conferred to them under Section 10 of the Maharashtra Police Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mandal-heads-appointed-spl-police-officers/articleshow/77750679.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Lucknow||Temporary admissions for KGBV students||LUCKNOW: The UP government has decided to provide temporary admissions for academic session 2020-21 to students of Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas in local upper primary schools. Lockdown forced KGBV students, who had gone to their native places after the completion of final exams, to maintain status quo. Close to 75,000 students are enrolled in 746 KGBVs, meant for girls belonging to impoverished backgrounds, across the state. Director-general, school education, Vijay Kiran Anand has asked all basic shiksha adhikaris (BSAs) to admit KGBV students to next class in local upper primary schools and commence classes through e-pathashala. Due to the pandemic, girl students are not coming to school for a few months. And so it has been decided to give temporary admissions to them so that their teaching-learning is not hampered. “Students can’t come to their schools to take admissions. So these girls need to be enrolled for next classes. Post their enrolment, we will begin digital classes for them. We want to make KGBV students to be examples of the particular block and district,” Anand said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/temporary-admissions-for-kgbv-students/articleshow/77751945.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Patna||Rs 26 lakh looted from ex-MLA’s staffer in Muzaffarpur||PATNA: Unidentified armed criminals robbed one Mukesh Kumar Singh of Rs26 lakh at Raghopur Chowk under Ahiyapur police station area in Muzaffarpur on Tuesday. Police sources said Singh is an employee of former MLA Musafir Paswan, who takes government contracts and also deals in construction material business. Singh was on way to Motihari in East Champaran when six armed criminals on three bikes intercepted him. Several commuters were passing by, but none dared to oppose the criminals. Muzaffarpur SSP Jayant Kant told TOI over phone that Paswan had taken FCI contract at Motihari and the money was meant for the workers’ payment. Ahiyapur police station SHO Mukesh Kumar said the cash was kept in the side luggage box of Singh’s bike. “We have got CCTV footage of the incident and raids are on to nab the suspects,” he said. The SHO said the money belonged to Paswan. The CCTV footage showed one of the criminals catching hold of his bike’s handle and Singh falling down. Another criminal pushed him away and the roundabout got blocked, the SHO said. “Without showing any hurry, they tried to take away his bike also, but fled with the cash only,” he added. Muzaffarpur City SP Neeraj Kumar Singh told media persons that police would soon crack the case. “No firing took place,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs26l-looted-from-ex-mlas-staffer-in-muzaffarpur/articleshow/77750686.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 26, 2020||Trichy||CUCET exams to start on September 18||TIRUVARUR: Entrance examinations for the Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET) have been scheduled from September 18 to 20 across 141 cities in India. As many as 18 universities are participating in this entrance exam from across the country. This includes the Central University of Tamil Nadu (CUTN) in Thiruvarur. Through this examination, students can avail admission to undergraduate, postgraduate, integrated five-year and research programmes. All candidates have to follow the Covid-19 guidelines inside the examination halls as well as on the premises of the venue; a statement on the CUCET website (https://cucetexam.in) has said. Students from any part of the country and abroad can apply to the programmes offered by the Central University of Tamil Nadu, but the admission gateway is the CUCET. However, candidates with national-level fellowships such as UGC-JRF or UGC-CSIR-JRF and applying for admission to MPhil or PhD programmes have to apply through the CUCET 2020 online portal and are exempted from the entrance examination. In Tamil Nadu, CUCET 2020 will be conducted at Thiruvarur and three more centres in the district, Chennai, Coimbatore, Cuddalore, Madurai, Nagercoil and Trichy, said CUTN controller of examinations, A Ragupathy.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cucet-exams-to-start-on-sept-18/articleshow/77751947.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Varanasi||Two more patients go missing from BHU hospital||VARANASI: A day after one Covid patient jumped off the fourth floor and died, and another missing was found dead on campus, reports of two more patients going untraceable from the trauma centre of BHU hospital appeared on Tuesday. BHU trauma centre officials had informed Lanka police that two patients from Jaunpur and Ballia districts had arrived after suffering injuries in accidents and went missing on August 23 night, said inspector Mahesh Pandey. Police launched a search operation to trace the missing duo and one patient was traced in Ballia at his home. The patient’s mother told police that she turned apprehensive after coming to know about various incidents at the hospital and decided to take her son back home. Efforts are on to trace the patient hailing from Jaunpur, said Pandey. Earlier, on Monday late night, violent protests erupted at Sir Sunderlal hospital when the body of Ajay Kumar Bharti, a resident of Dhaphi, who had gone missing from Covid ward on August 22 night, was found near the sewage discharge point in the hospital. His family, relatives and friends indulged in violence and additional police force had to be rushed in to control the situation. SP City Vikas Chandra Tripathi told TOI on Tuesday, “The family members were assured of appropriate action after which they ended their protest and the body was sent for postmortem.” DM Kaushal Raj Sharma ordered a magisterial probe into the incident on Tuesday. The DM said, “A magisterial probe has been ordered and the investigation officer has been asked to give a report within 15 days. Apart from recording statements, the CCTV footage of the hospital would also be checked.” “UP minister Suresh Khanna had asked all hospitals with Covid facilities to install CCTVs in the wards for proper monitoring. BHU authorities have been told to set up CCTVs in Covid ward and ensure round the clock monitoring to avoid recurrence of untoward incidents,” Sharma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/two-more-patients-go-missing-from-bhu-hosp/articleshow/77749159.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Homeless to get all-weather tents||Ahmedabad: Even as Ahmedabad has been receiving heavy rainfall for the past few days, an organization has distributed 62 all-weather tents to homeless families across the city. Funded by consultant Kartik Bhatia, the tents have been distributed by Majur Adhikar Manch among manual labourers and homeless families which live on footpaths, under overbridges, and other places. While 38 tents were distributed on August 15, another 24 were handed out last Sunday, said the organization’s representatives. Bhatia said that the distribution will be an ongoing activity and he is in talks with AMC officials to find space where the homeless can stay during the harsh monsoon. According to Housing and Land Rights Network, a voluntary organization, there are an estimated 1 lakh persons in Ahmedabad who do not have homes. Those working for homeless persons say there could be at least 20,000 homeless families in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/homeless-to-get-all-weather-tents/articleshow/77750760.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Nagpur||Experts predicting Covid-19 second wave in winter: Raut||Nagpur: Guardian minister Nitin Raut has said experts are predicting a second wave of Covid-19 in winter. He added the district may require more jumbo Covid hospitals to tackle the projected second wave. Raut on Tuesday received the detailed project report (DPR) of the proposed 1,000-bedded jumbo Covid hospital, which he submitted to the state government seeking Rs100 crore funds. “Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar has finalized the plan. There are some minor changes in the final plan. Now, jumbo Covid hospital will comprise 500 beds in ICU and remaining 500 with high dependency unit (HDU),” he said. Sources from divisional commissioner office told TOI, “Government is likely to approve 50% of the cost. Raut will be managing remaining 50% from various other heads of the district.” As reported by TOI, state government had projected increase in positive cases in district to 44,451 by end of August. As on Tuesday, there were 25,556 cases. In a meeting with leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis, collector Ravindra Thakre had said district is likely to register 50,000 new cases in next one month, which means from current week to last week of September. The government and Thakre did not mention whether this surge in cases will be the peak of Covid-19 or not. A day ago, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had told TOI peak in the city was expected from end of August, and likely to continue till September 15 or more. Asked whether proposed jumbo Covid hospital would serve any purpose in the projected peak next month, Raut said, “The project may be commissioned in October. Jumbo Covid hospital will be developed and run by a private agency under the supervision of the administration, so it will require at least one month for development.” Speaking of the second wave in winter, Raut said trends show any disease prevailing in monsoon extends into winter with more severity. Also, people face minor health problems like fever, cough or cold in early winter. “Chances of second wave in winter cannot be ruled out. At that time jumbo Covid hospital will be helpful,” he said. Raut also said, “District might also require more such projects if the projection of second wave by experts is to be believed. We are coming up with measures on daily basis to prepare for projected peak in September, and second wave in winter. Best way ahead is to be equipped with all facilities as no one is sure when this pandemic is going to end.” Raut added, “District is getting sufficient beds and other health infrastructure for projected peak in September.” People have started to complain about difficulties in getting beds in Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs) run by government, trust and private hospitals, when active cases have increased to 8,000. As on Tuesday, active cases were around 11,674.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/experts-predicting-covid-19-second-wave-in-winter-raut/articleshow/77750660.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 26, 2020||Nagpur||Arrested in scam, Chanda dist coop bank chief resigns||Chandrapur: President of Chandrapur District Central Cooperative Bank (CDCCB) Manohar Paunkar, booked and arrested in two separate cases of alleged corruption in the financial institution, has resigned from the post. He submitted the resignation letter to vice-president and acting president of CDCCB Yashwant Dighore on Monday evening. Paunkar was recently arrested along with Vinod Giri and Sachin Salve, directors of M/s Mai Enterprises, in connection with Rs7.30 crore goods supply and maintenance scam. He along with bank’s CEO Siddharth Dube is already facing charges of being involved in corrupt practices in recruitment in bank on compassionate grounds. In his resignation letter, Paunkar has cited lack of time for serving the bank as president. Sources in the CDCCB claimed Paunkar’s resignation will be tabled before the board of bank directors, which is scheduled to meet on August 29. Based on the board decision, the matter will be forwarded to joint registrar (cooperatives) in Nagpur for further action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/arrested-in-scam-chanda-dist-coop-bank-chief-resigns/articleshow/77750717.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 26, 2020||Kozhikode||Submit probe report: Court to police chief||Kozhikode: District court, Wayanad, has asked the district police chief to submit the investigation report on the alleged encounter killing of Maoist cadre C P Jaleel. The court issued the order after the Kerala anti-terrorist squad (KATS) SP Chaitra Theresa John requested the court to release the weapons used in the operation. Jaleel was killed at a resort at Vythiri in Wayanad on March 6, 2019. Jaleel’s brother and the secretary of Janakeeta Manushyavakas Prasthanam C P Rasheed moved the court to investigate the incident, which is alleged to be a fake encounter. The court had asked the police to file a detailed report in the petition. The SP, KATS, moved the court on July 6 seeking release of weapons saying that if maintenance is not done, the weapons will become useless. Countering the SP’s request, Rasheed’s lawyer V G Laiju told the court that police are yet to file the detailed report.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/submit-probe-report-court-to-police-chief/articleshow/77749179.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Patna||Over 12 fall into river as Araria bridge collapses||ARARIA: Over 12 people, including four motorcyclists, fell into Bakra river and went missing after a portion of an iron bridge over the river, popularly known as Bradia bridge, collapsed near Udahat under the Jokihat police station area in the district, 20km from here, around 3pm on Tuesday. Araria SP Hriday Kant said trained divers have been pressed into service to rescue the people who fell into the river. An eyewitness said two people were rescued till evening. District magistrate Prashant Kumar C H said the administration is on its toes to rescue the people. “The exact number of people who fell into the river could not be immediately ascertained,” he added. Eyewitnesses said a goods-laden tractor and autorickshaws carrying people also fell into the river. Pradip Yadav, a local, said the incident has created panic in the area. Md Aftab, another local, said a crane was pressed into service to pull out the sunk tractor, motorbikes and three-wheelers from the riverbed. “The divers worked till late in the evening and they will resume search operations in the morning. Police personnel and government officials are camping at the site,” Aftab added. The ill-fated iron bridge was built during the British era. Though the state government has constructed a bridge parallel to the one which collapsed on Tuesday, it is yet to become operational.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-12-fall-into-river-as-araria-bridge-collapses/articleshow/77750781.cms||L P Nayak
August 26, 2020||Lucknow||UPEIDA inks loan deal for Bundelkhand expressway||LUCKNOW: In another fillip to Bundelkhand Expressway project, a consortium of six banks, led by Bank of Baroda, was formed on Tuesday and inked a deal with UP Expressway Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) for funding the construction work. UPEIDA chief executive officer Awanish Awasthi signed the documents and said funds from banks will assist in completing the ongoing expressway projects on time. Awasthi said that with the formation of the banks’ consortium, UPEIDA has received a loan of Rs 5,900 crore for Bundelkhand expressway at a time when 13% of work has already been completed. The consortium of banks was specifically formed for Bundelkhand Expressway for which land acquisition has been completed and work is on in full swing, said Awasthi. The consortium includes Bank of Baroda, Union Bank of India, Bank of Maharashtra, Indian Bank, Bank of India and Uco Bank. The agreement with the consortium of six banks will ensure that there is no paucity of funds for the mega project, he added. On the occasion, Uco Bank sanctioned Rs 500 crore for Purvanchal Expressway, raising the total loan for the project to Rs 11,300 crore. Awasthi thanked the banks for the timely release of loans and said this would help in completing the projects on time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/upeida-inks-loan-deal-for-bkhand-e-way/articleshow/77751964.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Jaipur||With bad roads, rain’s no fun for residents of Moti Doongri||JAIPUR: Residents of Moti Doongri zone, situated in the heart of the city, are complaining about the bad condition of roads in the area. Waterlogged and slippery roads are causing inconvenience for the residents across the city and they are now demanding improvement in infrastructure. Pankaj Taneja, a resident of Gurunanakpura said, “This is supposed to be the city’s centre and one of the expensive areas, but the situation of the roads is so bad. After just one hour of rain, all the roads’ corners get filled with water, making it difficult to ride.” Residents have complained that water gets accumulated on the entrance of the colonies and two-wheeler drivers find it difficult to make their way through the mess. “Two days back, outside my colony, water on the roads made it difficult for me to cross that stretch. I lost my balance once and my pants got filthy,” said Abhay Saini, a resident of Tilak Nagar. Shopkeepers in Raja Park market said that on August 14, the rainwater entered their shops. “There are no proper arrangements for drainage in the city. In Raja Park area, residents have constructed houses over drains, so water will come on the roads. Instead of just blaming the government, the residents should self introspect,” said Meenakshi Verma, a resident from the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/with-bad-roads-rains-no-fun-for-residents-of-moti-doongri/articleshow/77751960.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Kochi||Land mafia attacks panchayat officials; 4 held||IDUKKI: A seven-member gang of land mafia attacked Chinnakanal panchayat secretary and four staff brutally with weapons for demolishing illegal construction. Shantanpara police on Tuesday arrested four persons in connection with the case. According to police, the incident occurred around 8pm on Monday. The gang entered the panchayat office and demolished the office and manhandled the secretary and other officials. Panchayat secretary T Ranjan, who is differently-abled, accountant S Sreekumaran, other staff Raman Raghavan, Manu Gopi, and P S Sumesh were admitted in Adimali taluk hospital with injuries. The staff were staying at quarters near the panchayat office. Panchayat secretary said that the gang reached in a big vehicle and attacked them with tree branches and machetes. The accused demolished window glasses and furniture of the office, police said. “Recently, the panchayat issued a stop memo to an illegal building of a contractor. But they were defiant and continued the construction activities. Last week, the collector visited the spot and directed revenue officials to demolish the building. I suspect that it was the provocation for the attack,” said Ranjan. “The police did not provide any help to prevent the attack. I informed the district collector and only then did the police arrest the accused. But my statement is not yet recorded,” Ranjan added. The arrested are contractor Gowriwatch House Gopi alias Rajan (46), his manager Antony Raja (27) and workers Muthukumar (30) and Vijay (31), said police. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/land-mafia-attacks-panchayat-officials-4-held/articleshow/77749201.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Rowdy hacked to death in Ayanavaram, four detained||CHENNAI: A group of men hacked to death a 35-year-old man in Ayanavaram on Monday night, a few hours after he allegedly created a nuisance at a funeral, police said, adding that this is the fourth murder reported in the city in the past four days. Four people have been detained in this connection and a team is searching for the suspects. Police said the deceased, Karunakaran, who had several cases including murder pending against him, on Monday evening went to a house in the locality where a death had occurred. He was under the influence of ganja and created a nuisance before attacking a few men during the funeral, an officer said. Karunakaran then returned home. Those who were attacked and a few others traced his house at Ambedkar Nagar in Ayanavaram and fell upon him with machetes when he stepped out. A few of his neighbours rushed Karunakaran rushed to the Government Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital where he died without responding to treatment. The ICF police registered. A special team which was formed to apprehend the suspects involved in the murder went to the spot and began inquiries after a thorough inspection. The team collected footage from the CCTV cameras at the spot. Police said Karuna was involved in a murder reported in 2012, and 10 other cases of crime including robbery and assault. A police officer said there had been at least 28 murders in the city, mostly due to previous enmity and sudden provocation from June 1 to August 15. The incidence of crime, which had been low in April and May, began to increase in June and July and is showing signs of peaking in August with more snatching and robberies, the officer added. The number of murders reported during this period has been more in north Chennai that in the south Chennai, another officer said, adding that all the cases have been cracked and the assailants involved have been apprehended. A senior officer said that the number of murders had not exceeded the regular monthly figure before the first lockdown triggered by Covid-19 began on March 24. Since June, when some of the lockdown norms began to be relaxed, most of the criminal elements began to resurface, particularly in north Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rowdy-hacked-to-death-in-ayanavaram-four-detained/articleshow/77750788.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Stay shut till Apl ’21: 44% of parents||Ahmedabad: Two CBSE schools from Ahmedabad, Udgam School for Children and Zebar School for Children, have carried out a survey of their students’ parents to determine when they would want to send their children back to school. The survey also sought the parents’ feedback on online education and the manner in which the exams should be held. The schools say that 5,100 of the 7,500 parents participated in the survey. In all, 44% of the respondents strongly conveyed that they want to send their children to school only from April 2021. The survey suggests that 66% of the parents are completely satisfied with online education. Hence they don’t want to risk sending their children to school till a vaccine is available, according to a press statement of the schools. About 8% of the total respondents don’t think much of online education. But 72% of the parents say that online classes offer a routine to the children without which the children waste time with unproductive activities. On exams, 51% of the parents are fine with completely online tests; 8% suggest scrapping of the exams till schools reopen; and 21% favour the traditional pen-and-paper method, but say such a test should be held at home. Manan Choksi, executive director of Udgam School for Children and Zebar School for Children, said: “In all, 99% of our students have access to devices and the bandwidth.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/stay-shut-till-apl-21-44-of-parents/articleshow/77750790.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Jaipur||Govt forms committee to settle claims of farmers||Jaipur: To settle the disputes of farmers whose plots were allegedly acquired for the Dravyavati River project, the state government has constituted a committee to decide on the compensation after verifying the title of the land. The plots of farmers were acquired under the previous BJP government and no compensation was provided to them by terming them as encroachers. The farmers protested the decision and approached the court as the land title was listed in the revenue records. The committee comprises land acquisition officer of Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) and additional district magistrate-II. As per the claims, lands of around 300 farmers, situated in 34 revenue villages, were acquired for the Dravyavati River project. The farmers earlier alleged that over 600 bigha of private land was acquired without providing compensation to them and the JDA had proposed to earn revenue after auctioning. Ashok Mehta, a member of Dravyavati Nadi Kisan Sangrash Samiti, said, “We have revenue records of our land, still the JDA has termed us as encroachers of the nullah. On February 7, 2018, the court directed the JDA to deposit the records of 1955. However, even after two years, land records have not been submitted.” “Earlier, the JDA had fixed a base price of Rs 20,000 per square metre. However, it was not providing compensation to farmers whose land had been acquired,” said a farmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-forms-committee-to-settle-claims-of-farmers/articleshow/77751970.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Patna||Property dealer shot in Lakhisarai, one held||PATNA: Unidentified criminals shot dead a property dealer near Jhulauna village under Ramgarh Chowk police station area in Lakhisarai district on Tuesday morning. The deceased was identified as Gautam Sao (65) of Lakhisarai town. The incident took place between 8am and 9am on Lakhisarai-Ramgarh road. Ramgarh Chowk police station SHO Dhirendra Pathak said Sao was going on his bike to inspect a plot of land he had purchased near Jhulauna when the criminals trailing him on another bike fired at him. He said Sao was first shot in his head. When he fell down, the criminals stopped their bike and shot him in the chest, resulting in his death. “No one was witness to the killing. Police suspect the involvement of two to three criminals,” he said, adding no empty cartridge was recovered from the spot. The SHO said Sao’s wife Vinita Devi has lodged a named FIR against four persons and police arrested one Bharti Kumar (22) for his alleged involvement in the murder. Pathak said Sao owned 12 kattha land near Jhulauna village. “However, the killing seems to be a fallout of dispute over another plot located in Lakhisarai town,” the SHO said. He said criminals had opened fire at Sao in the past, too, but he had managed to survive. SDPO Ranjan Kumar said the killing was a fallout of an old financial dispute with his former partner in property dealing over a plot of land Sao had purchased in the town area. Kumar said police came to know that Sao had been getting threats. “Sao owned a detergent manufacturing plant, which he had to close before starting property dealing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/property-dealer-shot-in-lakhisarai-1-held/articleshow/77750798.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 26, 2020||India||Tharoor-led panel may be hit as Speaker shows rule book||NEW DELHI: Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Tuesday wrote to all parliamentary panel heads not to discuss issues which are sub-judice and also abide by the rules of not disclosing the agenda or the deliberations until report is presented in the House. The letter will have immediate bearing on the standing committee on Information Technology headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, who has convened the committee's meeting on suspension of 4G services in J&K, an issue which is pending in the Supreme Court. “Committees should give due consideration to Rule 270 and other necessary rules and directions while selecting subjects for examination. In addition, I would like to point out that as per convention, the committees do not take those subjects for examination where the issue is pending in the courts,” Birla has written in the letters marked to all committee heads. As per Rule 270, a committee shall have power to send for persons, papers and records: provided that if any question arises whether the evidence of a person or the production of a document is relevant for the purposes of the committee, the question shall be referred to the Speaker whose decision shall be final. The rule, however, further says the government may decline to produce a document on the ground that its disclosure would be prejudicial to the safety or interest of the state. Chairman of the Standing Committee on Information Technology, Tharoor, had on August 20 called a meeting in which officials from the telecom of home affairs had been summoned on September 1 to explain “suspension of telecom services/internet and its impact in J&K. Jammu and Kashmir has been sans high-speed internet service since August last year when the Centre had announced the abrogation of Article 370, which granted special status to the erstwhile state. The Centre recently told the apex court that a special committee has taken the decision to start 4G internet services on a trial basis in less sensitive areas of the UT. Birla has maintained that it is imperative that the parliamentary Committees and government work in harmony to achieve the goal of the welfare of the people more effectively. “I would like to draw your attention to Direction 55 of the directions by the Speaker which states that the proceedings of the Committee shall be treated as confidential and it shall not be permissible for a member of the committee or anyone who has access to the proceedings to communicate directly or indirectly to the press any information regarding its proceedings including its report or any conclusions arrived at, before the report has been presented to the House,” Speaker has written further. His letter seems to be in continuation of the recent FB controversy in which Tharoor had said that he had summoned the FB officials to explain reports about their collusion with the BJP and RSS. His stance was denounced by the BJP MP Nishikant Dubey, a member of the IT panel, as he said the committee chairman can’t summon anyone until the issue was discussed with the committee members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tharoor-led-panel-may-be-hit-as-speaker-shows-rule-book/articleshow/77753380.cms||Akhilesh Singh
August 26, 2020||Jaipur||Three killed by lightning in Jaisalmer and Barmer||Jaisalmer: Rain continues to batter many parts of Jaisalmer and Barmer . Three persons have died while three children were injured in Jaisalmer and Barmer after being struck by lightning. Lightning struck an electronic shop in Barmer city on Tuesday due to which the building suffered damages. There were cracks on the roof and walls but no loss to life was reported. In another incident, 60-year old Rahman Khan died at Jasedo Ki Beri in God’s area in Barmer. In Jaisalmer, Manzoor Khan (11) and Aksar Khan (4) were injured at Mangalion Ki Dhani due to lightning. They were rushed to hospital. In another incident, Uma Ram (27) who was working in the field at Kanoda village, got electrocuted when the high tension wire broke and fell on him due to strong winds. He died on the spot. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-killed-by-lightning-in-jaisalmer-and-barmer/articleshow/77751978.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Varanasi||Sanjeet Yadav’s family stages dharna, seeks CBI probe||KANPUR: A high drama unfolded at Shastri Chowk here on Tuesday when family members of Sanjeet Yadav attempted to stage a dharna demanding the state government for initiating a CBI probe into his murder. The family alleged that they were dragged by the police on the street when they tried to raise voice against the inefficiency of investigating agencies. The family had approached the DM on Monday who they say assured them of recommending their demands to concerned authorities. Sanjeet’s father Chaman Singh and his sister Ruchi, along with locals walked to the Shastri Chowk on Tuesday morning and squatted there. On information police personnel from the Barra police station rushed to the scene and forcibly removed the family. Kusum Singh, the mother of Sanjeet, has threatened to commit suicide with her entire family. “If even after recommendation of CBI probe, we do not get justice, we will commit suicide by setting ourselves ablaze in front of Vidhan Sabha in Lucknow,” she said. To recall, 28-year-old lab technician Sanjeet Yadav, who was kidnapped in Barra area on June 22, had been murdered by his abductors. According to the police, the kidnappers had dumped his body in the Pandu river. Earlier, Sanjeet’s family had alleged that when he was kidnapped on June 22, they were also asked by the police to arrange a ransom of Rs 30 lakh and hand it over to the kidnappers. They, however, claimed that they threw a bag containing the cash from the top of a flyover as instructed in the presence of police, but the latter could not prevent the kidnappers from escaping with the bag and also failed to get back Sanjeet. The police have till date arrested five accused including a woman in this connection but all efforts to find Sanjeet’s body have proved futile. To recall, taking serious note of the incident, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had even cracked the whip on lax officials and ordered the suspension ASP Aparna Gupta and the then Circle Officer Manoj Gupta, besides SHO Barra police station Ranjeet Rai and police outpost in-charge Rajesh Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sanjeets-family-stages-dharna-seeks-cbi-probe/articleshow/77749205.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Lucknow||Why not compensate power consumers, UPERC asks PCL||LUCKNOW: A fortnight after power supply to thousands of households having smart meters tripped, the UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) on Tuesday issued a showcause notice to UP Power Corporation Limited asking why not a compensation of Rs 100 per connection be paid to each affected household. The electricity regulator also sought an additional compensation of Rs 50 per day beyond the restoration time of 24 hours. UPERC has fixed September 3 for next hearing. While making observations, the commission relied on provisions of the Electricity Act, 2003, Electricity Supply Code and General Conditions of Distribution Licensee, 2004. “There is absolutely no cause of disconnection on account of consumer but it is complete mismanagement of licensee. Therefore, the commission, under powers conferred by Section 57 (2) of the Act, as well as its inherent power, has issued show cause notice to UPPCL/ distribution companies seeking compensation for consumers,” the commission said in its order. Power supply to thousands of households in several cities tripped on Janmashtami (August 12), reportedly due to a wrong command given after the UPPCL software showed that households had outstanding power dues.  CM Yogi Adityanath had ordered a probe by STF into the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/why-not-compensate-power-consumers-uperc-asks-pcl/articleshow/77751997.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Jaipur||Engineer flees ACB custody, arrested again||Kota: An assistant engineer of Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (JVVNL), who escaped from office while in ACB custody on Monday night, was nabbed from an under construction building in front of Chambal Garden on Tuesday evening. The accused had allegedly accepted bribe of Rs 3,000 from a local farmer for replacing a transformer in his agriculture land. Dinesh Kholiya (38) has been arrested again, Kaithoon SHO Rajesh Soni said. An inquiry about persons who helped the accused hide in the building is underway, he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/engineer-flees-acb-custody-arrested-again/articleshow/77751973.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Kanpur||Flights to Ahmedabad, Mumbai likely from September 5||KANPUR: Flights to Mumbai and Ahmedabad from Kanpur are likely to be resumed from September 5. Both the flights were suspended after imposition of country-wide lockdown in March. Director of the Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial Airport, Chakeri B K Jha has given consent for the two flights and the matter has been sent to the directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA). Talking to TOI on Tuesday, Jha said he was hopeful of a green signal from the DGCA and SpiceJet has already contacted him for the resumption of flights a few days ago. “Since the process of unlocking has already begun and several domestic flights have resumed, I worked on the idea and sent a proposal in this regard for final approval to the DGCA,” he added. The first flight from Kanpur was to New Delhi. Incidentally, this was the last flight to be stopped due to lockdown in India. When domestic flights resumed, Delhi- Kanpur-Delhi flight resumed and is still going on daily, he informed TOI. The airport director said before lockdown there were two flights for Mumbai and one for Bangalore. Now, resumption of one flight for Mumbai has been proposed. The Mumbai flight will take off from Mumbai at 1.30 p.m. and reach Kanpur at 3.30 p.m. After a break of 50 minutes, the flight will be again in the air at 4.20 p.m. for the return journey. Jha said the flight from Ahmedabad will take off around 8 p.m. and would land at Chakeri airport around 10.00 a.m. and after a 20-minute break, it would again be in the air at 10.20 a.m. for the return flight. In between, the Delhi-Kanpur flight will land at Chakeri airport at 1 p.m. and commence its return journey at 1.20 p.m. The airport director further said that the temporary waiting hall which was established in a tent, has been renovated. A false ceiling has been raised in a 450 square metre tent and now cooling of air conditioners was more effective. Moreover, it has been decorated and elaborate arrangements have been made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/flights-to-ahmedabad-mum-likely-from-sept-5/articleshow/77749229.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
August 26, 2020||Vadodara||Gangster denied bail for possessing phone in jail||VADODARA: A sessions court on Monday denied bail to Ahmedabad gangster Gova Rabari in connection with a brawl he had with a jail staffer after he was found possessing a mobile phone in Vadodara Central Jail on January 4. Rabari, who is currently at the central jail in Bhuj, had sought bail on August 14 claiming innocence. On the morning of January 4, jail staffers found Rabari hiding a phone under his bedsheet. He was pretending to be asleep and did not move the bed sheet when the jail sepoys tried to wake him up. When a jail staffer named Sukha Vasava used force against Rabari, he made comments on his caste and also hurled abuses at Vasava. Vasava had lodged an offence against Rabari on the same afternoon at Raopura police station under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and other charges. In the court, Rabari claimed that the offence was registered to harass him and he made no comments against any jail staffer. In response to his bail applications, district government pleader Anil Desai argued that Rabari is a headstrong person and made comments against Vasava’s caste as he knew him personally. Rabari was in Vadodara Central Jail since 2012. The court of additional sessions judge S C Gandhi upheld Desai’s arguments and rejected Rabari’s bail plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gangster-denied-bail-for-possessing-phone-in-jail/articleshow/77748619.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Private hospitals in push-back mode, to meet health panel head on Friday||KOLKATA: Private hospitals, under the banner of Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI), are all set to seek more clarity and plead their case with the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) chairman Justice Ashim Kumar Banerjee. Hospitals will then take a unanimous call on implementing the recent advisories issued by the health commission, especially on revising of bed charges and offering discount on medicines and consumables. On Tuesday, AHEI members deliberated on five recent advisories the commission had issued in an attempt to bring down the cost of Covid-19 treatment. With hospitals wanting more clarity, a delegation — led by its president Rupak Barua — is scheduled to meet Banerjee on August 28 to discuss the issues raised during Tuesday’s committee meeting. “Hospitals have unanimously decided to present our case to the commission and ask the chairman for more clarity since there are some technical issues involved,” said Barua after the meeting. Most of the 16 major private hospitals that are part of AHEI have expressed strong reservations on the discount of medicine and consumables and revision of bed charges. Hospitals said while some of the advisories by the commission were welcome, some will leave hospitals under further financial constraint. “How can we offer 10% discount on medicines on which we get just about 5% margin of profit? Some of the high-end drugs are not even available in the all medicine stores. And how can we ask the patient party to procure those on their own if the medicine is required in the middle of the night or say family members of the patients are under quarantine?” asked a hospital administrator. On Saturday, WBCERC had asked hospitals to go back to the bed charges that existed on March 1, 2020, and also offer a discount of 10% and 20% on medicines and consumables, respectively. “Hospitals are already giving discounts to patients, especially those under the government health schemes, mediclaims and corporate tie-ups. Therefore, we need more clarity on this discount issue,” said Barua. Hospitals also said that the revision of bed charges since April 1, 2020, is a part of the yearly financial exercise and had nothing to do with the pandemic. “The advisory also does not specify if the revision of bed charges pertains to only Covid patients or it applies to non-Covid patients as well. If we were to go back to 2019 bed charges for non-Covid patients too, it will leave hospitals in financial stress,” said an official of another private hospital. Hospitals, however, said they had already implemented advisories on the deposit amount and making billing more transparent. “We have started working on some advisory like displaying of hospital rates for more transparency,” said Sudipta Mitra, CEO of Peerless Hospital. The hospital representatives also argued that taking consent from a patient’s family for investigative tests that cost more than Rs 2,000 was not always possible, especially in cases where the test is required urgently in critical patients. “We will be waiting and watching as to what emerges from Friday’s meet with the WBCERC chairman to decide on implementation of the recent advisories,” said a spokesperson of a private hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-hosps-in-push-back-mode-to-meet-health-panel-head-on-fri/articleshow/77749233.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 26, 2020||Nashik||Women welcome Goddess Gauri home||Kolhapur: Women on Tuesday welcomed Gauris home on the third day of the Ganeshotsav. The idols of the Goddess Gauri are brought home with much fanfare. Sandhya Thorat, a resident of the Kasba Bawda area, said: “Gauri pujan is a festival within the Ganesh festival. Men do take part, but the main role is played by women in the household. For three days, we take care of the Gauris.” On the first day, delicious snacks are prepared to welcome the goddess. The next day, a feast is prepared for her. A day later, Gauri idols are immersed. Satara superintendent of police Tejaswi Satpute tweeted a photo of the Gauris installed by constable Komal Pawar. The Gauris are clad in the attire of a doctor and a cop. Their faces are covered with masks and they can be seen holding a placard which reads: "Use masks and follow rules to avoid Covid infection."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/women-welcome-goddess-gauri-home/articleshow/77750807.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Anxiety looms over students, school re-opening still uncertain||Ahmedabad: The uncertainty that began in March due to the spread of coronavirus has not abated for students, their parents, and educators. When will the schools reopen is the big question that bothers all stakeholders. Schools have begun online classes with all possible innovations, but they do not match the benefits of in-person learning. Most educators say that even if schools open with safety measures, parents will be wary of sending their children till a vaccine becomes available. Jaya Dubey, a parent of a Class XII student, said: “My son gets anxious when someone says that it is difficult for schools to reopen.” Dubey went on to say: “We try our best to support him, but his anxiety and fears are taking a toll on his studies.” Another parent, Ankur Parikh, said: “My son is in Class X and I see uncertainty on his face. I have no assurance for him as even I have no clarity.” Sonal Narang, the senior vice-principal of Anand Niketan, said: “Considering the current statistics, it is difficult to start in-person classes. We do need a vaccine to welcome students back.” Surender Sachdeva, the principal of Delhi Public School (Bopal), said: “Online classes are on, but both students and educators are missing the school.” Sachdeva went on to say: “There are a lot of apprehensions about the Covid. The government will decide after weighing the pros and cons.”(With inputs from Khyaati Tapadia)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/anxiety-looms-over-students-school-re-opening-still-uncertain/articleshow/77750863.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Kochi||SHRC seeks report from chief secretary||THRISSUR: Kerala state human rights commission (KSHRC) on Tuesday directed the chief secretary and Life Mission CEO to submit reports within three weeks on the alleged irregularities in the construction of the controversial housing project at Wadakkanchery. The commission chairman P Mohandas has taken this step based on a complaint by Congress MLA Anil Akkara stating that the buildings forming part of the housing project of Life Mission are being constructed without observing any safety norms. Akkara in his complaint said that the proposal is to construct houses for 140 landless and homeless people on 1.5 hectares at Wadakkanchery municipality. The construction is made by the government in association with charitable organization Red Crescent of the UAE. “It is alleged that the construction is done flouting all rules and regulations. There are special guidelines issued by the government for the construction of housing complexes under the Life Mission scheme,” the chairman recalled in his order The chairman said as per the complaint, government officials have thrown to the winds all such rules and regulations and provisions in the MoU. “The complainant alleged that no rescue measures are taken under the fire and safety rules. According to the petitioner, life of poor residents in these housing complexes will be in peril,” Mohandas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/shrc-seeks-report-from-chief-secy/articleshow/77749236.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Trichy||4 arrested for selling tobacco to minors, over 700 kg seized||TRICHY: The city police seized 743kg of banned tobacco products from two locations in the city and arrested four people on Monday. The Ariyamangalam police arrested P Siva alias Mohankumar, 41, from Thennur in Trichy, and Manikandan from Mahalakshmi Nagar in Trichy, and booked them under Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (Cotpa) for selling banned substance to minors. The police seized 656kg of banned tobacco products near NSP godown at Ganapathi Nagar from the two people, acting on the complaint from A Kumar, from Nehruji Nagar in Ariyamangalam. Kumar in his complaint said that he was asked to transport a load of ‘rotten’ tobacco products owned by Manikandan in his mini truck to a location in Trichy so that they can return it to Bengaluru. When Kumar went there, he found minor boys buying the tobacco products from Manikandan. Kumar alleged that he was forced to chew a bit of tobacco which caused him giddiness following which he lodged complaint with the Ariyamangalam police. In another incident, the Gandhi market police arrested A Chandrasekaran, 40, from Mannachanallur, and K Subramanian, 50, from Puthur in Trichy, and booked them under Cotpa for selling banned substance to minors in front of Venkateswara store on Thanjavur road near Gandhi market on Monday. The police caught them based on the complaint from Mohammed Zakariya, a coolie at the Gandhi market. When Zakariya was crossing Venkateswara store, Chandrasekaran was unloading the packs of tobacco products from a mini truck on the road. As Zakariya asked them to unload them without causing inconvenience to others, he and the store owner Subramani confronted and forced him to consume a tobacco product. As it caused nausea and giddiness, he lodged a complaint with the police. Zakariya also alleged that Subramanian also sold the tobacco products to minor boys. The police seized 87kg of tobacco products. Both of them were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/4-arrested-for-selling-tobacco-to-minors-over-700-kg-seized/articleshow/77752008.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Nashik||MEMU to greet travellers to Bhusawal soon||Nashik: The Mainline Electric Multiple Unit (MEMU) will soon greet the travellers between Nashik and Bhusawal as it would replace the current rake of Devlali-Bhusawal passenger rake as soon as train services resume across the state. “At this point of time, there are no short distance trains running operating across Maharashtra due to Covid-19 norms, but as soon as we begin our services, we will ensure that the MEMU train takes place of the current conventional rake plying between Devlali and Bhusawal, paving way for faster pick-up, faster brake system and better speed. This will cut down the travel time between the two destinations,” divisional railway manager of Bhusawal division of Central Railway Vivek Kumar Gupta said. Speaking more about the services, Gupta said that the railways had decided to replace the MEMU to cut down the utilization of the tracks by way of speeding them between the destinations and MEMU is just one attempt to ensure that the track is free relatively faster so that more trains can be accommodated. “We already have MEMUs running between Bhusawal and Amravati among other places. The train was absent on the Bhusawal-Nashik link. As soon as the services normalize, we will start the train which could be extended till Igapturi. This will only help better transportation in the region,” the DRM hoped. The DRM also pointed out that the frequency of ‘Kisan Vishesh’ train originating from Devlali station has now been extended to twice a week due to the overwhelming response of the farmers. The parcel van provides space for transporting assorted agriculture produce to multiple destinations and that too at relatively lesser time. “No wonder that the railways has decided to extend the services of the train till Kolhapur, thus covering the entire western Maharashtra. This link brings parcels from Kohapur, Solapur and Pune to Manmad and links the same to the Devlali-Muzaffarpur Kisan Vishesh rail twice a week. The train will originate from Devlali on every Tuesday and Friday at 6.00 pm to reach Muzaffarpur at 3.55 am on the third day. The return journey will begin on Sundays and Thursdays at 8.00 am and will reach its destination on the next day at 5.45 pm,” Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/memu-to-greet-travellers-to-bhusawal-soon/articleshow/77750824.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 26, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Lack of forex outlets, trolleys at airport leaves flyers irked||CHENNAI: The airport may have started to see international flights resuming and the number of domestic flights increasing but lack of forex counters, baggage trolleys and battery-operated cars inside terminals irk passengers. Passengers who arrive from abroad struggle without forex and are forced to haul heavy luggage to the exit without trolleys. Though battery-run cars are in the domestic terminal, they are not operated for senior citizens. The Forex counters were closed because of the loss of business while there are not enough staff to collect trolleys and arrange them for passengers near the entry gates and also near the baggage conveyor belts. Passengers, especially the ones who arrive by Vande Bharat flights, need Indian currency to travel further to their destinations. Sources said, “The terminal has ATMs but many of the workers returning from abroad after years may not have debit cards. They also do not get Indian money at airports abroad.” Though departing passengers can get forex from the city, those who want to get them from the airport are in trouble. IndiGo, Go Air, SpiceJet, Emirates and Etihad Airways have scheduled a few flights to the UAE as part of an ‘air bubble’ concept. There are close to 80 domestic flights daily. Sixty-year-old Lalitha Parvathy who returned from Mumbai to the city recently, said, “I bought two bags thinking that I can use the trolley, but there aren’t any. I had to carry them and walk outside the airport till the flag post to get my cab. It’s very difficult. I have arthritis and doctor has advised me to not walk carrying heavy weights. I don’t see why they don’t have trolleys while the other airports do,” she said. Passengers also complained that the battery-operated cars inside the airport were lying idle with their drivers refusing to pay attention to their calls. “I called a driver twice and finally went up to him to ask if he could help us. He said the car was not working.” said T Ananthanarayan, another passenger. The spokesperson of the Airport Authority of India said that they were providing trolleys only based on requests, as they were insisting passengers to travel light and not carry too many bags. “The battery cars are available,” he added. In the last four months, firms who are running utilities for passengers suffered loss and have sent most of their employees on leave without pay. AAI has ignored pleas by the firms to rework fees and work out a policy to encourage them to continue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lack-of-forex-outlets-trolleys-at-airport-leaves-flyers-irked/articleshow/77750818.cms||Aditi R
August 26, 2020||Kolkata||Fine those dumping waste on road: West Bengal CM to civic bodies||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has sent out a stern warning against dumping of construction materials and garbage on roads and pavements. The CM has asked KMC administrator Firhad Hakim to impose fines on the offenders. “These construction materials and garbage dumped on pavements are choking the drainage system, leading to waterlogging during showers. These puddles become potential breeding grounds for mosquitoes and become a dengue threat,” the CM said at the virtual administrative meeting held at Nabanna on Tuesday. The CM directed KMC and other municipal bodies to undertake a cleanliness drive and book the offenders. “I have come across piles of waste on city pavements near the food stalls. Impose fines on those who keep dumping materials and waste on the road,” the CM said. Banerjee has also asked the urban development department to clean the canals under municipal bodies and release guppy fish in canals and ponds because this variety feeds on mosquito larvae. “Canals under the irrigation department are being taken care of by the department. But there are canals under municipalities that they can’t look after because there is no elected body at the moment. I will ask the urban development department to map such canals under municipalities and take up the cleaning job centrally,” the CM said, reminding officials that the dengue season continues till October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fine-those-dumping-waste-on-road-cm-to-civic-bodies/articleshow/77749305.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Patna||Bihar records 1,444 fresh +ve cases, 17 more deaths||PATNA: The state registered 1,444 fresh Covid-19 cases and 17 deaths, including 11 in Patna district, in the past 24 hours. However, 1,04,531 of the total 1,23,383 Covid patients so far have recovered from the virus infection, leaving 19,650 active cases in the state. The death toll mounted up to 644 on Tuesday. The number of samples testing has also come down in the past two days. When asked about it, principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit said it was due to the health workers’ strike. “But testing will be ramped up again. We have a long way to go,” he said. While over one lakh samples were being tested per day last week, the number came down to 62,215 on Sunday and 75,385 on Monday. Altogether 25,70,097 samples have been tested for coronavirus in Bihar so far. Talking about improvement in the recovery rate, which was 83.74% on Tuesday, Amrit said, “We are moving in the right direction, but we have to be very careful till we get the vaccine.” Department’s secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said 3,196 people had recovered from the infection in past 24 hours. The health department reported 262 new cases in Patna, taking the district’s tally to 19,381. However, with 16,508 recoveries and 135 deaths, active cases in the district stood at 2,738. The other districts with the day’s maximum cases were Kishanganj (85), Muzaffarpur (80), Araria (76), West Champaran (71) and Madhubani (64). The department also reported three deaths from Nalanda and two each from Bhojpur and Rohtas. NMCH reported two deaths. Both were from Saharsa. While one was a 50-year-old man, another was a 55-year-old woman, said its nodal officer (reporting cell) Dr Mukul Kumar Singh. He said 12 Covid-19 patients were admitted on Tuesday and there were 44 patients in the hospital as of now. AIIMS-Patna nodal in charge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said a 50-year-old man from West Champaran, a 55-year-old woman from Ara and a 57-year-old man from Biharsharif died at the hospital. He further said ten patients were discharged on Tuesday and 227 Covid patients were undergoing treatment, including 72 in the ICU and 28 on the ventilator support. Figures at a glance Cases registered today: 1,444 Total cases: 1,24,827 Recoveries: 1,04,531 Deaths: 644 Suicides: 2 Active cases: 19,650||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-records-1444-fresh-ve-cases-17-more-deaths/articleshow/77750894.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 26, 2020||Dehradun||Yamunotri highway restored 27 hrs after landslides, electricity supply still disrupted in over one dozen villages||Uttarkashi: Nearly half-a-dozen roads, including Yamunotri national highway, remained blocked on Tuesday due to massive landslides in several areas of Uttarkashi district. According to sources, Yamunotri national highway got blocked after a massive landslide at Kutnor area on Monday, disconnecting more than one dozen villages of Geeth and Ojari region from Barkot Tehsil headquarters. Moreover, heavy rainfall on Tuesday night triggered landslides in Ojari Dabarkot region as well, adding troubles for the NH workers, who were involved in the road opening work. Meanwhile, electricity supply of the region also remained disrupted since Monday due to landslides, making the situation worse for villagers. On the other hand, landslides in several other areas of the district blocked as many as six link roads, including Arakot Bhutanu, Jugaldi Panjiyala, Kunsala-Kupda, and Hanumanchatti-Kharsali roads. Officials when queried said that some of the roads will be opened by Wednesday evening. Devendra Patwal, district disaster management officer, said, “Yamunotri highway and four link roads were opened for traffic movement by evening. The remaining roads will be restored till Wednesday morning. Teams are also working to restore electricity supply in the region.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/yamunotri-highway-restored-27-hrs-after-landslides-electricity-supply-still-disrupted-in-over-one-dozen-villages/articleshow/77747893.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
August 26, 2020||Nashik||Over 8,000 ha early crops damaged by rain in Jalgaon||Nashik: About 8,000 ha of crops in Jalgaon district of north Maharashtra have been damaged following constant rainfall in the district for over a month. The district administration has issued orders for panchanama in all talukas to ascertain the extent of damage. “Our initial feedback is that Amalner and Chopda talukas bore the brunt of the crop damage due to excess rainfall. The crop damage involves around 8,000 ha. Once the panchanama report comes, we will send it to the state government,” district collector Abhijit Raut told TOI. The panchanama will be conducted by district agriculture department personnel. The department would find out the exact quantum of damage and the number of farmers affected by the loss. According to agriculture department sources, early crops like soybeen, moong and urad were damaged in the rain. “About 10 days were left before the harvest of these early crops could begin. But since Jalgaon received heavy rainfall, these crops had sprouted, thereby hampering its harvesting,” said officials. Jalgaon BJP MP Unmesh Patil had drawn the attention of the district administration about the need to undertake a panchanama in his constituency following heavy rains. “Several parts of Jalgaon were lashed with heavy rainfall. In fact, I received feedback that in the last 40 days, my constituency received about 550 mm rain which is about 80% of the annual average rainfall. The heavy rainfall has destroyed a section of early crops, resulting in it turning yellow,” added Patil. Early crops like soybean is grown in 24,000 hectares, moong in 23,000 hectares and moong in 24000 hectares in Jalgaon. Patil has demanded that the state government must intervene and provide adequate compensation to the affected farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-8000-ha-early-crops-damaged-by-rain-in-jalgaon/articleshow/77750854.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
August 26, 2020||Kolkata||Government sets in motion Kolkata co-morbidity survey||KOLKATA: The state health department has started a co-morbidity survey in the KMC wards for better Covid-19 surveillance and care. The findings would be an indicator of the need of hospital beds and intensive care units in the city. Chief secretary Rajiva Sinha informed chief minister Mamata Banerjee about the development at the virtual administrative meeting held at Nabanna on Tuesday. KMC administrator and state urban development minister Firhad Hakim was also present in the meeting. CM wants this survey in the districts as well. “People having blood sugar and hypertension have increased morbidity and mortality rates. They become vulnerable when they contract the virus. When such a patient suffers cardiac arrest or stroke, the case is clubbed with Covid. I also want a report on mortality rates of people with chronic ailments unrelated to Covid this year,” the CM said. The chief secretary apprised the CM that the non-Covid death curve of patients having co-morbidities is on the decline. According to health experts, people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or any respiratory illnesses are also at higher risk for severe illness from Covid-19. The risk of contracting the virus in patients with COPD is much higher than patients without COPD. The CM pointed out in the meeting how the household survey by Asha workers has come of great use to the government. “We have found 8,500 people with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and another 3.5 lakh people with influenza-like illness (ILI). The second category often has mild symptoms during a Covid attack,” the CM said. State home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay also urged districts having urban conglomeration and high-rises to get in touch with members of the residents’ association and identify the senior citizens who need help in an emergency. Bandyopadhyay reported that Kolkata Police already has the mechanism in place and urged districts and subdivisions such as Barrackpore, Durgapur, Chandernagore and Siliguri to compile a ready reckoner of senior citizens in gated communities. “The district magistrate, district medical officer of health and block development officers may help in gathering information. The police commissionerates can help in delivery of services such as ambulance,” Bandyopadhyay said. The Paschim Burdwan administration told the chief minister that the Covid graph in the district is still buoyant because a number of patients from neighbouring Jharkhand and Bihar are coming to Durgapur and Asansol for treatment. The chief secretary wanted officials to note down their home addresses other than the local addresses during hospitalization. The CM told the district officials not to refuse treatment to patients coming from neighbouring states. “You should not refuse treatment to them. Just note down their home addresses so that they are not included in the state’s Covid record,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-sets-in-motion-kol-co-morbidity-survey/articleshow/77749288.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Faulty billing triggers Rs 3.3 crore loss to MVVNL||LUCKNOW: Madhyanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (MVVNL), one of the discoms of Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL), suffered a revenue loss of Rs 3.3 crore due to incorrect billing to a consumer, according to the latest audit report of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG). The case pertains to a consumer in Balrampur who had contracted the load of 2,500 KV and was getting supply through an independent feeder of 132 kV sub-station. According to the CAG report, no meter was installed on the consumer’s premises and the division was generating bills on the basis of contracted demand and consumption recorded in meter installed at the sub-station. CAG noticed a loss of Rs 7.3 crore due to incorrect billing by the division from January 2015 to September 2018. As per norms, minimum monthly charges are levied on a consumer even if the billing of actual consumption is less than the fixed amount. However, this was not followed in 27 out of 45 months under review. This resulted in a revenue loss of Rs 2 crore. The division issued bills amounting Rs 9.2 crore in 28 out of 45 months but the consumer verified bills of Rs 5.9 crore only on the pretext of non-installation of meter on his premises. The division did not carry forward the amount, not paid by the consumer, as arrear in forthcoming bills. This resulted in short-verification of the billed amount by Rs 3.3 crore. Moreover, reasons for non-installation of meter on the premises since inception remained unexplained as no mutual agreement in this regard was entered into between the division and the consumer. Further, MVVNL did not charge due penalty. This resulted in loss of revenue of Rs 2 crore. The error first came to the notice of the management when it was reported by CAG in May 2017. Despite this, irregularities continued to persist till September 2018. In reply to CAG query, MVVNL management stated (in August-September 2019) that out of Rs 7.3 crore as pointed out by the CAG, bills for an amount of Rs 4.1 crore had been verified from the consumer. Regarding short-verification of Rs 3.3 crore, it was stated that the same could not be billed as the consumer’s feeder line was tapped in September 2016, September 2017 and October 2018 to supply power to consumers of Utraula (Balrampur) as the line was affected by flood. Hence, the consumer was billed minimum charges during the period. However, the reply did not mention how the difference amount of Rs 3.3 crore was compensated even after being specifically asked by the CAG in August 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/faulty-billing-triggers-rs-3-3cr-loss-to-mvvnl/articleshow/77752020.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Discrimination against dalit panchayat chief: SHRC seeks report||COIMBATORE: Based on a TOI report on discrimination against a DMK dalit woman panchayat president in the district that was published on August 24, the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has issued a notice to collector K Rajamani, seeking a detailed report on the issue within three weeks. K Saridha, 34, president of J Krishnapuram village panchayat, had alleged that she was being harassed by AIADMK member Usilamani alias Balasubramanian, who was also preventing her from functioning independently. She had also lodged a complaint against him with the Negamam police stating Balasubramanian wanted her to stand up whenever he entered the panchayat office and he had constantly used her caste name on August 19. She said the AIADMK member had also threatened her not to fix her name board in the panchayat office. Police registered a case against Balasubramanian under Sections 3 (1) (m,r,s) of the SC/ST (prevention of atrocities) Act. Following this, district superintendent of police (SP) Ara Arularasu had instructed Pollachi sub-division DSP KG Sivakumar to hold an inquiry with her. Meanwhile, a panchayat clerical staffer, also a schedule caste, has told police that Saridha and Balasubramanian had not visited the panchayat office on August 19. An investigation officer said, “After assuming charge as panchayat chief, Saridha allegedly sacked more than 12 temporary sanitary workers, who were recruited by former president, who belonged to the AIADMK. A DMK member, she reportedly sacked them purposefully. Sanitary workers subsequently approached the AIADMK member cum right to information (RTI) activist Balasubramanian, who filed RTI before the village panchayat. Balasubramanian filed more than 10 RTI applications, seeking many information.” Saridha’s husband had met Balasubramaniam a few days ago and verbally abused him for filing RTI applications. “We are conducting inquiry with the sanitary workers and panchayat clerical staff,” the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/discrimination-against-dalit-panchayat-chief-shrc-seeks-report/articleshow/77750922.cms||A Subburaj
August 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||A day after assembly, opposition targets speaker||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A day after the fiery debate on no-confidence motion in the assembly, opposition UDF alleged partisan attitude on part of the speaker who they said had failed to control the unusually long speech of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala sent a letter to speaker P Sreeramakrishnan on Tuesday alleging that several acts of the speaker didn’t befit the position he held. “It is the duty of the speaker to facilitate the business of the assembly. But it is not his duty to arrange facilities for the CM to set a record. Though, you reminded me about the time when I completed 20 minutes of speech, you didn’t utter a word when the CM spoke for three hours and 45 minutes,” Chennithala said in his letter. “Only 50 minutes were allotted for reply speech. The ministers who spoke utilized that time. The CM went to speak for 225 minutes and there was no intervention from the speaker despite the opposition protest. We register our strong protest in the partisan and arbitrary actions,” he added. The opposition leader also protested misrepresentation of facts by Sreeramakrishnan in the assembly. “You said Oommen Chandy spoke for five-and-a-half hours when no confidence motion was moved in 2005. It was a three-day debate during which 20 hours were allotted for debate. Five hours and 15 minutes was taken by 10 ministers to answer allegations against them. Chandy only spoke for one hour and 45 minutes and all these are part of assembly documents,” Chennithala said. Reacting to opposition criticism, the speaker said there was nothing unusual in his act. “It is precedence not to intervene when the CM and opposition leader speak. The opposition leader spoke for thrice the time allotted. The discussion alone took one-and-a-half hours more than allotted time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/a-day-after-assembly-oppn-targets-speaker/articleshow/77749382.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Nashik||464 fined in July for riding 2-wheelers without helmet||Nashik: As many as 464 two-wheeler drivers were challaned by traffic police in the month of July for riding their vehicles without wearing a helmet. The traffic police has stepped up action against two-wheelers riders as the rush of vehicles on city roads has increased during the day time. A traffic police official said that in March they had challaned 217 helmetless motorists, while the figure was 250 in April. The number of people challaned in May and June were 54 and 139, respectively. “So far 2,160 motorists have been booked for not wearing a helmet. Similarly, 1,992 four-wheeler drivers have aslo been booked for not wearing seat belt while driving their vehicles,” the official said. “The action would continue in the future to ensure that bikers are serious about wearing helmet. While wearing helmet is a rule, people need to wear helmet for their own safety. Many lives have been saved on the city roads just because the concerned two-wheeler riders were wearing helmet,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/464-fined-in-july-for-riding-2-wheelers-without-helmet/articleshow/77750890.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 26, 2020||Surat||Daman cheers by lifting entry ban||Surat: Ending the thirst for the past five months, Daman administration sent ripples of cheer not only among parched tipplers but also hoteliers by throwing open its watering hole from Tuesday. In a ‘no holds barred entry’ order, the first since the lockdown was announced, the union territory (UT) will fully open up for visitors and transport vehicles, following the order from the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). In a notification, the administrator of Daman, Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH), Praful Patel stated that there will be no restrictions on inter and intra-state movement of persons and goods. Order for e-permits and e-passes for visitors and vehicles has been rescinded from Tuesday onwards, it added. Earlier, after TOI had highlighted the plight of the restrictions-hit hospitality sector in the UT, followed by a strong representation by Daman Hotel and Restaurant Association (DHRA), the administration had started issuing e-passes for single-day visitors in the territory during Covid times. Harish Thangal, secretary DHRA told TOI, “Daman’s hotels and restaurants business got a fresh breath of life from Tuesday. We suffered huge losses since March owing to the lockdown restrictions. With schools and colleges shut in Gujarat, we are expecting good business in the coming days.” A senior officer in Daman administration told TOI, that while restrictions on people and transport vehicles entering the territory has been lifted, police will increase strict monitoring on violation of safety norms including social distancing and wearing of masks. Flouters will be penalized, he added. President of DHRA Gopal Tandel said tha it has advised all its hotel and restaurant owners to strictly implement rules set by the government. “People visiting Daman will have to strictly follow norms to contain spread of coronavirus. We want to do business with utmost care for the safety of people in Daman,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/daman-cheers-by-lifting-entry-ban/articleshow/77747914.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||PIL demands revival of VS Hospital||Ahmedabad: Another PIL was filed in the Gujarat high court on Tuesday, seek that VS Hospital be revived and made functional at its full capacity, at which it used to run before SVP Hospital came into being. This PIL has been filed after the high court’s insistence on two occasions on restoring facilities at VS Hospital due to the Covid-19 pandemic. An MLA, Gyasuddin Sheikh also filed a PIL urging the court to direct the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) to start running the hospital in a full-fledged manner. The petitioner advocate, K R Koshti, sought the court’s directions to the municipal authorities to resume all facilities – diagnostics, laboratories and treatment at all its departments. He argued that VS Hospital has been serving the poor of the city free of cost for decades. While the city of Ahmedabad has grown manyfold since the hospital was founded in 1931, the civic body has not been able to create another medical facility like VS Hospital, where 10 lakh patients used be treated every year with around 50,000 surgeries performed. The petitioner emphasized that this has been a teaching hospital for NHL Medical College. It was on the strength of beds and facilities of VS Hospital that the medical college received its quota of 250 medical seats after the Medical Council of India (MCI) inspection. Koshti has also demanded a stay on the AMC’s decision to demolish the cathlab. The executive committee on July 17, passed a resolution to do away with the cathlab. The hearing on this PIL will take place on September 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pil-demands-revival-of-vs-hospital/articleshow/77750965.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: AAI warns against fake job offers, lodges plaint||CHENNAI: After a gap of almost two years, Airports Authority of India (AAI) has again been getting complaints from job aspirants about fraudsters holding fake recruitment. The authority has filed a complaint with the local police and the DGP office and has also issued a warning to job aspirants not to fall prey to agents promising fake jobs at airports. The statutory body in a statement warned people not to get misled by fake advertisements about job opportunities in the name of AAI by unscrupulous elements. Advertisements on employment opportunities in AAI will be published only in leading newspapers as well as AAI's official website www.aai.aero. If job opportunities are received through mobile or WhatsApp, the same may be reported to police.” An official said, “We have been getting emails from candidates asking us to verify whether recruitments are taking place. People get offers through SMSes and on messaging apps in different cities. Some agents are also holding interviews.” Steve Jose, a resident of Bengaluru, said, “I have uploaded my resume on a job portal. I got a call from someone a few days ago saying that they are calling from human resources department of AAI and explained to me about a vacancy of a ground staff at Bengaluru airport. They even held interviews over phone and sent an aptitude test link of some random website. I had a doubt that it could be fake so I did not pay the money they asked for.” He also said, “They explained that the recruitment is being held over the phone because it cannot be held at the airport due to Covid-19 restrictions. First, I was told to pay Rs 1,500 and then Rs 7,500.” Jose wrote to the AAI alerting them about the racket that is approaching job aspirants. An official said that earlier people have arrived with appointment letters at Chennai airport. “No one is coming with letters now. But we are increasingly getting calls and mails,” he added. AAI has also put out a warning notice on its main website about fake job offers. In February 2018, a candidate went to Chennai airport with an appointment letter and had to be turned away. Fraudsters had contacted candidates by sending messages on WhatsApp promising jobs for a fee of Rs 5,000. One such message advertised 800 vacancies for store keepers, floor managers and others.  In October the same year, AAI had to issue a warning after it found out that some agents have placed fake job advertisements in newspapers using the authority’s logo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aai-warns-against-fake-job-offers-lodges-plaint/articleshow/77750919.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: 5 lakh new kits to speed up rapid antigen tests||KOLKATA: The state government is adopting a strategy in Covid-19 testing by scaling up the rapid antigen procedure that provides the results in less than an hour, identifying those in need of immediate medical care and pinpointing those who are asymptomatic but at greatest risk of spreading the virus. The government is procuring around 5 lakh more rapid antigen test (RAT) kits that will reduce the turnaround time for several people who do not receive their reports even days after getting tested, resulting in severe illness and spreading of the virus. Rapid antigen tests had to be discontinued in May after the kits sent by the Centre turned out to be defective. In July, the government procured 10,000 kits in the first lot, which were mainly disbursed to government hospitals to be used on patients who needed immediate diagnosis, including those on pre-operative patients. “After that, the state government had procured nearly 5 lakh more RAT in the second lot. Now, we are expecting another 5 lakh kits by Monday,” said a senior health department official. RAT kits are now being deployed to test frontline workers like doctors, nurses, police, civic workers and people in containment zones. Recently, KMC had started using this test in apartments. “The new lot of kits will be used for mass testing, which will help us to identify and start with the treatment of those with severe infection. Till now, it was taking 24 to 36 hours to get the result after giving the swab samples,” said a doctor associated with a Covid facility of the state government. Healthcare experts feel frequent testing will curb the spread of the virus. “In hotspots, these tests will help health workers to identify those who may be asymptomatic but can prove to be spreaders. It will also help in contact tracing and isolating those who test positive,” said an expert. According to infectious disease control specialists, all positive results by rapid antigen kits are truly positive while negative results are not truly negatives and those showing symptoms must go for RT-PCR test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/5-lakh-new-kits-to-speed-up-rapid-antigen-tests/articleshow/77749334.cms||Zeeshan Javed
August 26, 2020||Agra||Kin of Dalit girl who died of hunger and sickness get ration card||AGRA: Days after a five-year-old Dalit girl died of hunger and sickness in Agra’s Nagla Vidhichand village, the district administration has issued a ration card to the family and a job card to the victim’s mother under the MNREGS scheme on Tuesday. The cards were issued shortly after Fatehpur Sikri MP Rajkumar Chahar met Agra district magistrate Prabhu N Singh and expressed his displeasure over the delay in providing assistance to the family. Later, the MP handed over the documents himself to the family apart from a gas stove, cylinder and Rs 11,000 monetary aid. Based on numerous complaints by poor families about the lack of ration cards, the MP directed the district supply officer to organise a special camp for the same in the village at the earliest. Sub-divisional magistrate (Sadar) M Arunmozhi said, “We are investigating why the family was not provided government benefits earlier. The roles of the civil supply officer and gram pradhan are also being probed. We will take suitable action if any lapse has occurred.” “Meanwhile, we have started identifying the other poor families in the village who are yet to get ration cards,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/kin-of-dalit-girl-who-died-of-hunger-and-sickness-get-ration-card/articleshow/77747910.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen hail VB action, ask it to make public names of more corrupt officials||Ludhiana: Punjab Vigilance Bureau’s (VB) crackdown against the corrupt officials of the state excise and taxation department under which two FIRs were registered against 12 officers is being hailed by the Ludhiana businessmen. They are of the view that the tax evasion-cum-bribe nexus had been running in Ludhiana district for several years now and this is perhaps the biggest action in decades. Businessmen are now urging the VB to make public names of all officers involved in this unholy nexus as till date 12 officers have been named while the department has proof against several others. In another demand they have urged the chief minister to introduce a policy wherein officers of the state excise and taxation departments should not be allowed to serve in the same city for more than two years. Speaking on the issue, Narinder Bhamra, president of the Fasteners Manufacturers Association of India, said, “The VB should be awarded for carrying out such a big operation and nailing the corrupt officers with evidence. As of now, close to 12 officers who were part of this gang have been named and booked by the VB, but there are more officials against whom it has ample evidence. So, it is our request to the ADGP of VB, BK Uppal, to make public names of all these corrupt officers as well and book them at the earliest.” He further said, “Genuine businessmen face so many problems these days to carry on with their businesses and pay taxes honestly to the government, but on the other hand these handful officials of the state excise and taxation departments are hell bent on robbing the government of taxes worth crores every month without hesitation. All accused in this case should be given exemplary punishment so that no one else in the department dares to repeat the misdeeds being done by them. Moreover, a policy should also be drafted, wherein any official regardless of his rank should not be allowed to stay in same district for more than two years” According to Raj Kumar Singla, president of Fastener Supplier Association, Ludhiana, “This is such big case that the CBI should also be roped in to pinpoint the quantum of loss caused by these officials and the conmen to the government. Ludhiana and Mandi Gobindgarh have went on to become the biggest hub of such malpractices, including illegal passing of goods laden trucks, bogus billing and tax evasion and the VB action has proved that the government is serious about taking action against criminals fleecing the exchequer.” He added, “However, the motive of the government cannot be fully achieved until a new transfer policy is introduced under which any official should not be allowed to serve in same range or district for more than two years at one go. Because it is often seen that the officers and staff which stays at one place for very long time get more vulnerable to indulging in such malpractices.” Box – Role of unnamed officials under scanner In FIR no. 8, registered by the VB on August 21 under various sections of the IPC against eight identified persons and several others, there is mention of recordings of the calls of some private persons intercepted by the VB. In these calls on different occasions these persons are heard discussing about the bribes paid to several officials of the state excise and taxation department. In these calls some officials have been named, along with the bribe they were being paid, while in some conversations only designations with names have been mentioned like “Rs 50,000 to AETC madam, Rs 30,000 to inspectors, Rs 2 lakh to some director”. According to sources, the VB is in the process of identifying all unnamed and action against them is likely soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-hail-vb-action-ask-it-to-make-public-names-of-more-corrupt-officials/articleshow/77749352.cms||Mohit Behl
August 26, 2020||Kanpur||Cop killed, 2 others injured as roof of barrack collapses in Police Lines||KANPUR: A police constable was killed and three others were seriously injured when the roof of a barrack at the Reserve Police Lines collapsed on late Monday night. The incident took place when a major portion of the roof of one of the barracks collapsed trapping three constables, including Arvind Singh Yadav, Rakesh and Amrit Lal, senior superintendent of police Preetinder Singh, said, adding, the injured constables were immediately rushed to the hospital, where Arvind, who had sustained serious injuries, succumbed later. Soon after the incident, the SSP reached the spot and supervised the rescue operation. “A probe has been ordered into the incident. One other constable Manish Kumar, who was trying to rescue his colleagues, also sustained serious injuries and was rushed to the hospital for treatment,” added Singh. Meanwhile, mortal remains of constable Arvind were dispatched to Lalpur, his native village in Bakewar area of Mainpuri, on Tuesday as police accorded a guard of honour at Reserve Police Lines amid the presence of senior police officials including additional DG Jai Narain Singh, IG Kanpur range Mohit Agarwal and the SSP. The constable is survived by wife Neelesh Devi and two sons Priyanshu and Himanshu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cop-killed-2-others-injured-as-roof-of-barrack-collapses-in-police-lines/articleshow/77749313.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Surat||Gujarat allots Rs 100 crore for a flyover on Tapi river||SURAT: The state government has allotted Rs 100 crore to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) to construct a six-lane flyover on Tapi River connecting Abrama to Valak village on ‘Outer Ring Road’ in the city. According to SMC officials, this is a major development to the city’s infrastructure development and also ease city’s traffic congestion. Once this proposed 1.65km long flyover is constructed, vehicular traffic from Mumbai on National Highway (Palsana) need not enter Surat city and can go directly towards Variyav, Gothan and Sayan. “The proposed flyover will be one of major flyovers on the outer ring road. There will be total seven flyovers along the outer ring road. This will ease traffic in the city as people coming from Mumbai can bypass Surat city using this flyover while going towards Sayan village,” Banchhanidhi Pani, Surat municipal commissioner told TOI. The proposed flyover will give major connectivity to the city’s northern and eastern part of the city. “The 66.77 km long and 90 meter wide outer ring is being developed at a cost of Rs 4,000 crore in Surat city to ease traffic congestion in the city. Work on 17.32 km outer ring road connecting state as well as national highways is under progress,” the SMC official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/state-allots-rs-100-crore-for-a-flyover-on-tapi-river/articleshow/77747952.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Chennai||Children facing online overload need patient, sensitive handling offline||A client called me the other day, asking about the recent chandeliering behavioural changes in her 8-year-old calm, shy child studying in a reputed school in south Chennai. The outcome of this counselling was the emergence of a nagging question in my mind about parenting styles. The main problem I noticed was the lack of proper interaction of the boy with his family. He had been spending most of his time surfing the internet, playing online, which led him to unwanted websites. These preoccupied his mind and created anxious behaviours, disturbed sleep pattern and concentration issues. A common question that many parents ask these days is, ‘Kids are spending too much time online because of digital learning and gaming. They are also exhibiting signs of defiance, anxiety, chandeliering and angry outbursts. Are the two related, and if so, how should I turn my kid’s mind toward reality?’ Ensuring a healthy interaction with the child and keeping an honest open communication with them is the need of the hour from working parents. Children need to be assured that they can speak to parents about anything they have on their minds. With limited interaction with friends, family members need to become trusted aides of young ones. Parents and teachers need not instruct children, instead, they could show them what can be learned. The effects of the Covid-19 pandemic are being felt most by children for whom routines have turned upside down and peers and activities seem distant. Though the ministry of human resource development has recommended hours of screen time for students attending online classes during the pandemic, parents complain schools are not abiding to the guidelines and students too are using the opportunity to play games and watch movies online. The time spent by children online can trigger various health risks and complaints such as headaches, eye irritation, and stress-related problems, leading to online addiction. Online digital learning and virtual sessions cause a myriad of effects on a student’s mental, emotional, and social health, irrespective of their economic levels. Digital learning-exacerbated disparities cause a divide between students belonging to high and low socio-economic background. Low-income parents may not be able to afford gadgets or provide academic support that is required outside classroom setups. This negatively impacts many students who are expected to have these online tools at home. It also has an impact on a student’s self-esteem that can cause undue stress. Young minds are also altering to be more digitally focused than having a relationship-focused mindset. As a result, mental health issues appear and become a barrier to achieve academic goals. If a kid is irritable, short-tempered, obsessive, lacks focus, is isolating themselves from the family or displays a sense of panic, then it is time for parents to observe, listen and be sensitive to the apprehensions that children may be feeling. Mental health counselling services, and quality of time spent with children are all found to be important during this pandemic. By default, children are optimists, but continuing this quality for the rest of their lives is a complete illusion. A child has a thirst for answers, which cannot be quenched. It is upto parents and teachers’ to throw light on the way they should solve unresolved riddles of their mind. (The writer is a psychologist)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/children-facing-online-overload-need-patient-sensitive-handling-offline/articleshow/77750928.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Tasmac staff seek Covid testing once a month||Coimbatore: The Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) employees in the district on Tuesday demanded their higher authorities to take necessary steps to test them for Covid-19 at least once a month in view of the spike in positive cases. They also petitioned the Tasmac office at Peelamedu. To press their demand, employees of around 170 Tasmac outlets in the district delayed opening of shops by two hours. N Tamil Selvan, district secretary, Thozhilalar Munnetra Kazhagam, said, “Three to four employees are working in a small room for a full day. As we are dealing with hundreds of customers daily and exchanging currency notes with them, we are highly prone to the virus attack. That’s why we have been requesting officials to take steps to arrange Covid-19 testing for us. But officials are hesitating to consider our request and testing only those with symptoms. It causes mental agony.” He said immunity boosters were provided to the workers alone that too only for a week or 10 days, while their family members were neglected. “Officials should make arrangements to distribute immunity boosters to the family members of Tasmac employees as well as they are also prone to the infection.” Pointing out that seven Tasmac employees had died of Covid-19 in the state, Tamil Selvan said the state government should provide them ex-gratia immediately and offer government job for one of their family members in each case. The workers also demanded the government to make them permanent employees as promised earlier. Presently, assistant salesmen, salesmen and supervisors, who are graduates in most of the cases, are paid a monthly salary of Rs 8,500 to Rs 12,000. They are not eligible for any other benefits. Tasmac officials assured to look into the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tasmac-staff-seek-covid-testing-once-a-month/articleshow/77750961.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Chennai||Online concert aims to raise funds for needy musicians||CHENNAI: Fifty singers will come together to conduct a six-hour online concert on September 12. The global concert, an initiative of United Singers Charitable Trust (USCT), is being held to raise funds to help singers and musicians who have been badly hit by the pandemic. “The fundraiser will include prominent singers such as Hariharan, Shankar Mahadevan, Sadhana Sargam, Sujatha, and P Unnikrishnan as well as Sweta Karthik and Vijayaprakash,” says singer Srinivas, founder-trustee, USCT. “Our aim is to raise money for all the musicians who are struggling to survive during the pandemic.” USCT’s first initiative, ‘Together As One, a reprise of A R Rahman’s ‘Tamizha Tamizha’ rendered by 65 singers, including SP Balasubrahmanyam (SPB) – was released on Independence Day. “SPB was a part of it and has been very supportive of the Trust. We are praying for his speedy recovery and hoping he will be a part of all newer initiatives," says Srinivas, who was inspired to launch the Trust after he received a video from a struggling musician in north Chennai at the end of June. “He runs a small orchestra. Though I have never met him, I was very moved by his plight,” says Srinivas. With the pandemic and the resultant lockdown, the music fraternity has been badly hit as all events have been cancelled. “Many used to do concerts at weddings but now they are totally out of work. Some have been forced to sell vegetables on the street to make a living,” says Srinivas. So, he put out an appeal on a musicians group and also spread the word among others. “On July 4, I did an online concert for the Federation of Tamil Sangams of North America (FeTNA)and I told them about the plight of the musician who had sent me the video. They helped him as well as 25 other families.” The music fraternity also responded. On August 5, Srinivas, along with P Unnikrishnan, Sujatha Mohan, Rahul Nambiar and Ranjith Govind launched USCT. “We have all worked and performed together for decades. So it was natural for us to come together to help other members of the community,” says Unnikrishnan. “Some of us are able to teach and perform online but many others – not just singers but also instrumentalists – have been out of work for months. We plan to do more online concerts to raise funds,” says Unnikrishnan. Srinivas says that while the immediate need is to help musicians in distress, USCT hopes to expand its activities later. “Once things get better, we hope to conduct music festivals, and come up with initiatives to help budding musicians,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/online-concert-aims-to-raise-funds-for-needy-musicians/articleshow/77750929.cms||Priya Menon
August 26, 2020||Lucknow||Vigil pays dividends as UP sees decline in crime rate||LUCKNOW: Additional director general (ADG), law and order, Prashant Kumar on Tuesday said there has been a drastic decline in crime rate in UP as it stood 24th in crime rate in the recent NCRB rankings despite being the most populated state in the country. “Crime rate in UP has come down drastically not only in comparison to previous years but also in comparison with other states. It is evident from the fact that UP ranks 24 despite having the largest population in the country,” ADG Kumar said. A comparative study of different crimes per lakh population (in 2018) covering 28 states and nine union territories (overall 37), UP occupies 31st rank in terms of dacoity, 32nd in burglary, 26th in murder, 24th in rape, 21st in attempt to murder, 23rd in cases under POCSO Act and 15th in crime against women. Overall, the state ranks 24th in crime rate. “Supervision by senior officers has resulted in faster action and filing of FIRs,” the ADG said. “With constant monitoring by senior officers, including ADG and IG, action against mafia and dons, who wielded clout at local level, has been initiated,” he added. ADG Kumar said that properties of Paras Sonkar and Jugnu Walia, aides of mafia-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari, had been seized. “This shows that the intention of the government is clear in taking action against hardened criminals,” he added. “There has been an improvement in investigation of cases due to which UP ranks first in solving cases of crime against women (21,146). Similarly, UP police solved 445 cases of cybercrime, solved 237 cases of fake currency and siezed 34,105 weapons. With filing of chargesheets in 1,44,274 cases, UP also stood second in the country in the number of criminal cases solved,” the ADG said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vigil-pays-dividends-as-up-sees-decline-in-crime-rate/articleshow/77752047.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Motion failed to serve purpose, says BJP chief||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: BJP state president K Surendran said the no-confidence motion brought by UDF on Monday failed to yield results as CM refused to answer the questions raised by the opposition leader and his team. Surendran accused both LDF and UDF members for allegedly lowering the status of the assembly. The opposition, he said, miserably failed to use the weapons against the government. “Ramesh Chennithala is the light of Pinarayi Vijayan. It is ridiculous that the opposition first pledged support to the government resolution on Thiruvananthapuram international airport issue minutes before it came out with a no-confidence motion against the government. It was like marriage in the morning and divorce in the afternoon,” he said. Surendran claimed that a few more BJP members in the house would have made things different. Surendran said CM had misled the house on gold smuggling. Investigating agencies had stated before the court regarding the connections Swapna Suresh and her companions had with CMO. By claiming that investigating agencies did not name his office, Pinarayi Vijayan had misled the house, he said. Surendran criticized CM for giving cover to minister KT Jaleel. “By justifying Jaleel, CM is trying to seek the cooperation of religious fundamentalists and thus retain power,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/motion-failed-to-serve-purpose-says-bjp-chief/articleshow/77749403.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Allahabad||5-day sero survey begins today, 10 teams deployed||PRAYAGRAJ: Officials of the health department have finalised the micro plan for the five-day sero-survey starting in Prayagraj district on Wednesday and would deploy 10 medical teams that will collect around 1,500 samples from August 26 to 30. The state government had, last Friday, decided to conduct sero-survey in urban and rural areas of 11 districts, including Prayagraj. Nodal Officer and additional chief medical officer, Dr Rishi Sahai told TOI, “As per the directives of state health authorities, a micro plan was chalked out for seroprevalence survey in Prayagraj to assess the extent of spread and immunity against Covid-19 in the community.” “We have constituted 10 medical teams, each comprising a medical officer, auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM), accredited social health activist (Asha), lab technician and lab assistant,” he added. The health department has selected 10 health units, including four community health centres at Jasra, Kaurihar, Kotwa, Handia, and six urban primary health centres at Daraganj, Bhola Ka Purva, Teliyarganj, Sultanpur Bhava, Naini-Chak Ragunath and Kydganj. Dr Sahai said localities like Puradalel, Dhoomanganj, Mahadevi colony, Nayapurwa, Chak Raghunath and Mutthiganj in city and Jasra, Nawabganj, Munsi Ka Purva (Durjanpur) and Bheeti in rural areas would also be covered in the sero-survey. Officials said sero-survey uses serology tests to identify people having antibodies against an infectious disease. The presence of antibodies in blood signifies an immune response to infection. Antibody test results are especially important for detecting previous infections in people who had no symptoms. The sero-survey will help in monitoring the trend in prevalence and spread of the virus which causes Covid-19, they added. The results of sero-survey will be used to monitor trends of novel coronavirus infection and then to develop a containment strategy to curb its spread. The district team would collect the samples and send them to King George’s Medical University in Lucknow for testing. The state government has ordered sero-survey in 11 districts — Kanpur, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Kaushambi, Gorakhpur, Agra, Baghpat, Moradabad, Ghaziabad, Lucknow and Meerut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/5-day-sero-survey-begins-today-10-teams-deployed/articleshow/77747964.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Delhi||Law student denied bail in northeast Delhi riots case||NEW DELHI: It makes no difference at this stage that the applicant is entitled to bail just because he is a law student or that his father is a practising lawyer, said a Delhi court while refusing bail to a man accused in February riots. “In that case, he should have been more vigilant towards his conduct… He is clearly seen involved in at least three cases of rioting,” the court noted. The observations were made by additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav when he rejected the two bail pleas filed by Tanveer Malik, whose counsel informed that he was a law student and belonged to a family of lawyers. His counsel Javed Akhtar further submitted that Malik was not seen in any CCTV footage and the investigation had already concluded in a chargesheet negating any need for him to continue being incarcerated. According to special prosecutor Amit Prasad, however, the case was “sensitive” in nature, involving riots that took place in and around the house of the main accused, Tahir Hussain. Police alleged that as a part of their “common object”, the accused persons intended to cause maximum damage to the persons and properties of “other community”. It was argued, “The principal accused Tahir Hussain gathered persons from his community on the basis of religious sentiments, promoted enmity between two communities.” He argued that Malik had been identified by the complaints as a member of the “riotous mob” that had gathered near Hussain’s house. “It is apparent that the riotous mob armed with lethal weapons had engaged in vandalism, looting and torching of public and private properties and their main objective was to cause maximum damage to the lives and properties of persons belonging to the other community,” the court observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/law-student-denied-bail-in-ne-riots-case/articleshow/77752061.cms||Aamir Khan
August 26, 2020||Trichy||Covid control measures delay anti-dengue drive in Trichy city||TRICHY: The delay in initiating an anti-dengue drive to prevent people from falling prey to the disease could prove costly for the city. Although the city has received moderate rainfall in the last few days, Trichy Corporation is yet to intensify the awareness and source reduction measures to eliminate objects that aid in breeding of mosquitoes. As the ongoing Covid-19 control measures have kept the civic body occupied, the usual dengue awareness drive held ahead of the onset of monsoon in the month of August has not been initiated so far. Meanwhile, Trichy in the past few days has recorded an average rainfall of 40 mm per day. As the majority of households have objects such as containers and coconut shells that help in breeding of dengue causing Aedes mosquitoes, the residential localities remain vulnerable. The domestic breeding checkers have also not cleared the litter dumped in vacant plots, where the mosquitoes could breed on. In the VOC road locality near Central bus stand, several empty barrels abandoned on the roads are filled to the brim with rainwater. Since the Aedes mosquitoes inhabit the fresh stagnant water, locals expressed their worry over the dengue outbreak. “The entire focus of the civic body is on Covid-19, so the anti-dengue measures have taken a backseat. Instead of waiting for dengue fever cases to surface, the civic body should act in advance,” V Nadaraja, district president, AITUC said. As the recent rains have led to mosquito menace in the city, locals pitched for fogging to be carried out immediately in all the 65 wards. The construction sites and vacant plots that harbour mosquito breeding sources are yet to be identified and penalties levied on the owners. Until July this year, Trichy reported four dengue cases. Claiming that no further dengue cases have been reported in the city, the urban local body is going easy on the dengue prevention. “Manpower and equipment required for the anti-dengue drives are ready. We shall intensify the awareness and penalisation drives. An adequate quantity of abate solution used in fogging drive is available with us,” S Sivasubramanian, commissioner, Trichy Corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-control-measures-delay-anti-dengue-drive-in-trichy-city/articleshow/77752064.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 26, 2020||Coimbatore||CCTV cameras at check posts to be linked with modern control room||Coimbatore: CCTV cameras on the 13 border check posts in the district will be linked with the district police modern control room in the city, district superintendent of police Ara Arularasu said. “We have a modern control room and video wall in the control room. We are going to connect all the CCTV cameras fixed on the border check posts to the modern control room soon. We have around 250 CCTV cameras in Pollachi, Mettupalayam and Valparai,” Arularasu told TOI on Tuesday.Arularasu said to curb the movement of hawala money on bypass road, an out police station will be set up at Walayar check post. “There is no police station on the Karumathampatti–Walayar stretch (more than 35 km). We usually check vehicles entering Coimbatore from Kerala. Hereafter, we plan to check the vehicles entering Kerala from Coimbatore at the Walayar check post. We can control the movements of contraband items, hawala money etc.,” Arularasu said.The rural police have check posts on the Tamil Nadu -Kerala border at Mulli, Gopanari, Anaikatti, Walayar, Veerappagoundanur, Gopalapuram, Nadupuni, Vadakkukadu, Zaminkaliyapuram, Meenakshipuram, Semmanampathy and Malukkuparai. Every check post has four CCTV cameras with high resolution and digital video recorder where the CCTV footage can be stored for a period of one month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cctv-cameras-at-check-posts-to-be-linked-with-modern-control-room/articleshow/77750973.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Nagpur||Citizens file 1k complaints as home min promises confidentiality and probe||Nagpur: The appeal made by state home minister Anil Deshmukh to citizens, to confidentially share names of anti-social elements and their activities, met with a tremendous response. Some 1,000 complaints had been filed till Tuesday, which was the last day of the five-day scheme to submit grievances at Ravi Bhavan. Even senior citizens and women too were spotted on the last day submitting their complaints.The senior minister had asked citizens to come forward and give names of goons who had managed to evade police action so far. He had also appreciated the initiative taken till date under city police chief BK Upadhyay and his team, which has sent several gangsters behind bars.As per Deshmukh’s appeal, the home minister’s camp office at Ravi Bhavan was thrown open to citizens to submit information and complaints between August 20 and 25. Deshmukh said he would personally scrutinize the complaints and take corrective measures. “We will examine the complaints, allot them to inquiry officers, and decide what action has to be taken in each of them. Every action would be reviewed by me,” he said.“We have received overwhelming response from citizens and will ensure action in deserving cases,” he said. Deshmukh said he would consider setting up a Special Investigation Team (SIT) if it was required. It is reliably learnt a sizeable chunk of the complaints revolve around land mafia, moneylenders, goons engaged in anti-social activities, organized crime syndicates and also substantial number of fraud complaints, which were not attended by police stations. Apart from city, several complainants from rural areas too have shared their grievances.Deshmukh’s officer-on-special duty (OSD) Sanjay Dhote said secrecy was maintained, and every precaution has been taken to ensure there is no leakage of information. “The home minister had been personally monitoring the entire process of receiving complaints, filing them datewise, and then sealing them for his scrutiny. Some citizens preferred to use the drop-box while some showed confidence to share their grievances with me, which I shall now relay to the home minister,” he said.“The response made me feel that such complaints redressal system should be made a permanent feature,” he said.Additional CP Nilesh Bharne, also holding additional charge as Joint CP, said there could be a possibility of opening a dedicated team, like SIT, to probe cases like land grabbing.CP BK Upadhyay too said the course of action would be decided once the complaints are analysed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citizens-file-1k-complaints-as-home-min-promises-confidentiality-and-probe/articleshow/77750971.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 26, 2020||Chennai||Stamp of quality to help carve niche for TN wood industry||Last month, the Thammampatti wood carvings from Salem got the much awaited geographical indication (GI) tag. Since the sculptures can now be marketed better, the question turns to sourcing quality raw material — the fine textured wood ‘vaagai’, ‘mavilangai’, ‘atti’ and teak. These trees grown outside forests can be sold for commercial use under prescribed guidelines. But with risks of exploitation of resources, authenticity of the item and intervention of middlemen, the need arises for a certification. While the Tamil Nadu Forest department’s assistance in planting of trees outside forests (TOF) has created many patches of tree growth outside notified forests, this repository needs to be used sustainably by hand holding small and marginal land-owners. Sculptors could make use of forest certification to promote the GI tagged Thammampatti wood, concomitantly adding value to similar industries in the state. The importance of forest certification comes in as a marketing mechanism to promote sustainable use and management of forests and as a stamp of quality for consumers. At present, the light-coloured wooden panels and idols from Thammampatti have low capital investment with a huge export potential. Forest certification can help boost demand of these wooden artifacts in Europe, Australia, New Zealand, South America, Japan, South Africa and Gulf countries. The handicraft industry of Tamil Nadu to cater to the export requirements needs to produce items promoting sustainable and responsible trade meeting global standards. Though tree growers prefer not to involve government to avoid extra charges, they are end up with a poor deal as the export market insists on certified products, steady of which could help provide a facelift to the Tamil Nadu wood industry. Such a certification could also help streamline forest operations adding to efficiency and greater control of production processes. Agroforestry plantations in Tamil Nadu could use the opportunity of forest certification through community based group certification, compensating farmers with a fair price for the produce through fair price certification. Fair trade certification shows whether a tree producer is getting adequately and fairly compensated for his produce, it could help small-scale producers receive a fair and stable price for products. Fair trade certification demonstrates the way of doing trade, which is based on partnership, fairness and transparency. In a group, it could also promote social justice, economic security and sound environmental practices. To ensure sustainable supply of wood for the industry, private growers of trees need to come together and take responsibility and control the stock of trees outside forests. There must be a clear accounting of the usage, the rate of the wood growing stock and the number that has to be continuously replenished. The community of tree growers, including small and marginal tree growers, as a group could apply for forest certification thus reducing the cost of certification. The small land holders growing trees would then be empowered in the management of local resources, promoting conservation and sustainable use of tree plantations outside the forests. Many in India consider certification costs to be high for small producers and companies. With a digital framework, small landholders can be grouped together to group certification scheme and multi-chain of custody certification could be followed. The chain of custody certification helps track timber from where it is grown till it reaches the consumer. The chain of custody documentation allows users to trace the origin of wood and further could measure change of hands at every step along the supply chain. Blockchain is the latest technology trend that has potential to fulfil the requirements of forest certification. When physical means of promotion are on the decline and potential of international certifications as marketing tools have increased significantly, the future patterns of forest resource management would have to be restructured through mobile governance platforms to build a people-powered movement for trees to ensure an environmentally sustainable future. The way forward lies in agroforestry community, wood based industries, artisans, forest department and other stakeholders joining hands through a digital platform to develop profitable models for use of trees outside forests. (The writer is an Indian Forest Service officer, Tamil Nadu cadre)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/stamp-of-quality-to-help-carve-niche-for-tn-wood-industry/articleshow/77750791.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Lucknow||Portal to keep close watch on fertilizers’ wholesalers, retailers||LUCKNOW: Tightening the noose on vendors engaged in black marketing of fertilizers, the state government has decided to track real-time movement of fertilizer stock from wholesalers to retailers and then to the end users through a web portal. This will allow the agriculture department to notice any kind of delay or anomaly in fertilizer supply to farmers. CM Yogi Adityanath has already directed officials to slap National Security Act on blackmarketers and hoarders of fertilizers. In a letter sent to all district magistrates on August 24, additional chief secretary, agriculture, Devesh Chaturvedi said the arrangement would enable direct benefit transfer and allow the government to determine the actual user of the fertilizer. “This would also help the department in keeping a close watch on wholesalers/retailers who delay the movement of fertilizers,” he said. The department has also decided to distribute fertilizers among farmers only on the basis of their Aadhaar card. In case distribution is made on the basis of any other document then vendors would be required to register the name of farmers, father’s name and mobile number. Chaturvedi has directed that once the rakes of fertilizers reach districts then distribution be made as per actual demand and with objectivity considering the requirement. This, he said, will be applicable for the private and cooperative sectors and DMs would be required to monitor it. “The demand for fertilizer has increased in the wake of monsoon season and increase in productivity of Kharif crop,” he said. Distribution of fertilizers where demand is high would be done in the presence of revenue and agriculture officials for tranparency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/portal-to-keep-close-watch-on-fertilizers-wholesalers-retailers/articleshow/77752066.cms||Pankaj Shah
August 26, 2020||Delhi||CISF to deploy additional staff in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), which provides security at all stations on the Delhi Metro network, is ready to carry out its responsibility if operations resume from September 1. CISF said the same number of personnel would be positioned at each metro station as earlier, but additional staff might be deployed for managing the crowd, ensuring social distancing and carrying out thermal checks. Extra precautions would be taken at each step and contactless frisking, the process adopted at airports, would be done. “There will be no change in the number of CISF personnel, but depending on the requirement more staff will be deployed. Before frisking, thermal scanning will be carried out jointly by DMRC and CISF personnel at each station. A passenger showing no symptoms of Covid-19 infection will be allowed to proceed for security check where only metal detectors will be used and frisking using hands will be done only if required,” said a senior CISF personnel. The official added, “The queues may be longer and spill out of the station because of social distancing, but our personnel will ensure that all precautions are taken. We will not be restricting anyone from entering the premises even if the passenger load increases, but adequate gaps will have to be maintained.” The precautions being taken by CISF personnel coming in contact with passengers would include face shields, masks and gloves. These would have to be donned throughout the shift. CISF said it had kept a stock of sanitisers, face masks, shields, PPE kits and gloves ready for months in anticipation of resumption of operations. “Contactless frisking will be done and only metal detectors will be used to scan passengers, unless something suspicious is detected. PPE kits will be available on standby at each station and used only to handle symptomatic passengers,” said the CISF official. While no guidelines have been issued yet by the central government, CISF said restrictions imposed on the number of passengers on platforms would be enforced by special teams. “CCTV surveillance can also be put to use for this purpose,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cisf-to-deploy-additional-staff/articleshow/77752070.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 26, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Hong Kong engineer develops device to arrest transmission of coronavirus||MANGALURU: A young engineer, currently working in Hong Kong, spent his lockdown holidays developing a novel device that helps prevent the spread of Covid-19. Mohammed Sehil, who graduated from PA College of Engineering (PACE) with a degree in electrical and electronics engineering, has developed a device that can be installed in crowded spots to prevent the community spread of Covid-19. He has also patented the new device. The new device, which he named inVIA, can be used as sanitiser dispenser, while it detects temperatures and communicates all Covid-related messages to mobile phones. If one’s temperature is high, it can apprise the authority through an automated system and if the person turns out to be a Covid patient later, those in contact with him/her at the spot will also be notified. After successful demonstration, many government and private sector players in Kerala have sought Sehil’s help to develop device for them, he told TOI. “Modern technologies such as artificial intelligence, machine learning technology, and Internet of Things make it possible to locate contact details and route maps as well as the timeline of visitors to offices or centres each day. Different devices can be connected so that the route map is as clear as possible. The device also aims to minimise contact exposure by sending messages to those who are most likely to need quarantine,” he said. Sehil, who is currently working as a research engineer for Geepas International Company, Hong Kong, said he developed the new solution while he was at home in Kozhikode during the nationwide lockdown. Sehil, a 2017 batch student of PACE, had previously won numerous awards including four patents, for his innovative inventions. He also was nominated for the best student award multiple times during his studies. He has patent for an iron box named IRENE, which provides rapid heating technology, a cooking device with different applications, a driver-less technology that relies on sensors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/hong-kong-engineer-develops-device-to-arrest-transmission-of-coronavirus/articleshow/77748191.cms||Vinobha K T
August 26, 2020||Nagpur||Shifted by 3 hosps, 85-year-old MP patient dies at VNIT centre||NAGPUR: An 85-year-old Covid positive man passed away at VNIT Covid care centre (CCC), around 5.30pm on Tuesday. The man belongs to Seoni in Madhya Pradesh and was reportedly transferred from three hospitals before being taken in at VNIT CCC — which is being run in the institute’s boys hostel. This is the first time a confirmed Covid death took place at a CCC in the city. On August 6, a suspect aged between 65 and 70 had died in his room at MLA Hostel CCC. The Wadi resident’s body was shifted to GMCH mortuary, where his sample was taken and found positive the next day. As per civil surgeon’s record, MLA Hostel CCC has not recorded any death. As per protocol, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) conducted the last rites of the 85-year-old at Ambazari Ghat around 9.30pm on Tuesday. The body was packed and kept at the CCC only, till the hearse van arrived around 9pm. The VNIT CCC death came to light when the MP resident’s fellow patient alerted doctors and paramedical staff. The elderly man was found lying on the floor near the attached toilet of his room. Officials said the elderly deceased had come to Nagpur for a non-Covid medical procedure. As all patients are tested before surgeries, he too was tested and found positive on August 18. It is not clear on which date he arrived in the city, but officials said he had put up at his daughter’s place. His treating surgeon suggested that the man be admitted in a hospital, and he was taken to the NMC-run Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya (IGR) at Gandhi Nagar on the date of testing positive. However, he was shifted to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) later, followed by another transfer to Shalinitai Meghe Medical College (SMMC) in Hingna. CCC and civic officials refused to explain why the elderly man was frequently transferred, while he only had IGR and SMMC case papers. On August 22, SMMC advised him home isolation as he was asymptomatic. But the man’s family claimed it didn’t have home isolation facility, even though his relatives allegedly belong to a financially sound background. Considering the man’s old age, the CCC staff advised the deceased and his roommate to always keep their door open. Officials said the staff had been routinely checking his SPO2 (blood oxygen saturation) level and pulse rate, which were normal. He also remained asymptomatic during his entire stay at VNIT CCC. The CCCs have been round the clock provided a couple of ambulances for emergency patients who may develop breathlessness or any other problem. CCCs are operating as screening centres for people with comorbidities, and those showing mild symptoms. People not having home isolation facility are also allowed to stay for 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shifted-by-3-hosps-85-year-old-mp-patient-dies-at-vnit-centre/articleshow/77750977.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Triage centres to come up in all five city corpn zones||Coimbatore: The district recorded 322 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the tally to 12,467. At least 329 patients were cured and discharged from the facilities they were undergoing treatment in the day. The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district now stood at 3,132. The Covid-19 toll, meanwhile, shot up to 252, with the state including eight deaths that occurred in the district in its bulletin. The city corporation is now in the process of opening triage centres in each of its five zones to ensure beds in hospitals and Covid care centres are assigned to only those patients who really require them.The triage centres would be the first reporting and screening point for patients, who test positive and want either government treatment or home isolation. While the first triage centre will come up at Siddhapudur, officials are planning to set up another one at Codissia trade fair complex.Work on the triage centre at Siddhapudur has already begun. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “We will deploy five doctors from rural areas to manage these triages, which will be set up in each zone. We have already assigned a doctor for the Siddhapudur centre. We have requested for equipment such as computers. Once they arrive, we will start bringing patients to the centre.”Once triage centres come up in all the zones, people who test positive for the virus from the city corporation limits would be asked to report at their respective centres. “Doctor there will check them and assign them a bed either in a Covid care centre or hospital, or recommend home treatment based on their age, comorbidity and symptoms. This way, we will get better data on number of patients under home treatment and bed availability, among others. Patients will not wrongly be assigned to any facilities.”Meanwhile, city corporation commissioner Shravan Kumar Jatavath convened a Covid-19 review meeting and asked officials to increase testing of people with flu-like symptoms and contacts of positive cases. He also directed the staff to identify people who have returned to the district and categorize those above 50, those with comorbidities and those in congested areas. Shravan Kumar also inaugurated a mobile Covid-19 testing laboratory that operates out of a van.The Kattoor police on Tuesday also registered a case against a store owner and manager under the Epidemic Diseases Act for allowing crowd to gather in the store.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/triage-centres-to-come-up-in-all-five-city-corpn-zones/articleshow/77750979.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Surat||Four caught taking bribe from farmer||Surat: Anti-corruption sleuths nabbed four persons on Tuesday while accepting bribe of Rs nine lakh sought for measurement of 866 sq m disputed land in Vesu. ACB caught Ritesh Rajpara, in-charge district inspector of land records, Jasmin Bodhra, deputy mamlatdar, Dolar Chaklasiya, a property broker and Rajesh Sheladiya, a finance agent. Chaklasiya and Sheladiya had gone to accept the bribe opposite Bahumali Bhavan. The other two were held from their offices. Following the complaint of a farmer, who also deals in property, the trap was laid by K J Chaudhary, police inspector, under supervision of N P Gohil, assistant director, ACB. A team of S N Desai, police inspector, ACB, nabbed the officers. The complainant owns a disputed land in Vesu and to get the land’s records cleared he wanted to get it measured. Meanwhile, he came in contact with Chaklasiya who offered to get the work done through Bodhra. They met Bodhra who put them in touch with Rajpara. Rajpara demanded Rs 18 lakh for the work and he used code language to mention the amount. Bodhra had explained the code to the complainant before dealing. Rajpara mentioned only 1800 as the final figure for Rs 18 lakh. In the meeting, it was also decided that the complainant will have to pay Rs 9 lakh in advance.“ACB teams are conducting a search at the residence of the accused. The two caught from the spot were in touch with the officers who were nabbed by ACB from their offices,” said Gohil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/four-caught-taking-bribe-from-farmer/articleshow/77748325.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Mysuru||Jealous of first wife’s happy life, man kills her five-year-old daughter in Karnataka||MYSURU: Envious of his first wife’s successful second marriage, a 45-year-old man in a Chamarajanagar village murdered her five-year-old daughter on Monday. Mahesh Ganganayaka, who was assisted in committing the heinous crime by his second wife Rathnamma, confessed to the crime. The couple has been arrested and taken into judicial custody. Mahesh had been married to Gauramma, with whom he had had a daughter. However, the couple subsequently separated, and while Mahesh married Rathnamma, Gauramma tied the knot with Mahadeva Swamy Maliyanayaka. While Mahesh and Rathnamma were not able to conceive, Gauramma was blessed with a daughter – Mahalakshmi, the victim – from her second marriage as well. In their confession, Mahesh and Rathnamma said that they were jealous of Gauramma’s happy life, which incited them to the crime. Even after they went their separate ways, Mahesh and Gauramma remained neighbours in Somanahalli. On Monday, when five-year-old Mahalakshmi, who was returning home after visiting a relative in the village, Mahesh pushed her into a sump, killing her. After recovering her body from the sump, with Rathnamma’s help, he wrapped it in a plastic bag, which was kept in the puja room of the couple’s home. Terakanambi police in Chamarajanagar, overseeing the investigation, said that Mahalakshmi was killed around 12.30pm on Monday. “Mahadeva Swamy and Gauramma searched for their daughter frantically till evening. Suspecting that something was amiss, they intimated police, and voiced their suspicions over the possible involvement of Mahesh and Rathnamma. When we searched the latter couple’s house on Monday night, we found the body in a plastic cover,” police said. Chamarajanagar superintendent of police Divya Sara Thomas dubbed it a ‘sad’ incident. She said that police registered a ‘missing person’ complaint from the aggrieved couple around 9.30pm on Monday. “We wasted no time in launching the probe. I dispatched two senior officials to Somanahalli. When Gauramma said that she suspected her first husband and his second wife of foul play, we searched their house, and found the girl’s body,” SP Divya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/jealous-of-first-wifes-happy-life-man-kills-her-five-year-old-daughter/articleshow/77748011.cms||Shrinivasa M
August 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Citing virus, hospital refuses to hand over man’s body in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Tension prevailed at a private hospital in Kalyan Nagar on Tuesday when bereaved family members of a 72-year-old man kicked up a ruckus, alleging the hospital was refusing to hand over his body and claiming 10 hours post death that he was Covid +ve. Srinivas T, a resident of Banaswadi, was admitted to Specialist Health System hospital in Kalyan Nagar on August 13 after he complained of illness. According to his family members, around 11.30am on Monday, hospital authorities told them that he didn’t respond to treatment and died. The hospital raised a bill for Rs 3.9 lakh, but said the family will have to pay only Rs 65,000 with the rest taken care of by the dead man’s insurance cover. Jayaram, nephew of Srinivas, told TOI: “Around 4pm, the insurance company informed us that the approval for the bill had come and we were ready to pay Rs 65,000. But to our shock, the hospital authorities declined to hand over the body to us. This puzzled us and arguments between the hospital authorities and our family members continued till 9pm when the hospital suddenly declared that he was a Covid-19 patient.” “The hospital did not share the test report, but said BBMP would take care of the body. It was quite strange as my uncle had thrice tested negative when he was alive and in the hospital,” said Jayaram. Jayaram claimed the hospital had done the same to others as well. “If my uncle was Covid-19 positive, why did the hospital take such a long time to inform us his test result? In fact, they did not even tell us that they are conducting a Covid test on the body,” he added. “We do not know why the hospital did not inform us about it till Monday 9pm. There must be something to it,” he added. On Tuesday morning, a fight erupted between the family members and hospital officials. Srinivas’s son Lakshman said there were bouncers at the hospital who threatened them. “I lost my father and these bouncers were preventing me and my family members from entering the hospital,” he said. Finally, around noon, the body was handed over to BBMP officials in the presence of the family members.  A Specialist Health System spokesperson said the patient had initially tested negative, but was showing symptoms of Covid-19. “On Sunday, his throat swab samples were collected again, but he died on Monday morning. We informed the family members that they need to wait till the Covid-19 results arrive and they agreed to it. The report arrived on Monday around 8.40pm and we had to hand over body to BBMP officials as per protocol. As there is no freezer facility, we had to accommodate the body in a private facility. However, the family members later picked up a fight with the hospital staff,” the spokesperson added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hosp-refuses-to-hand-over-mans-body-saying-he-was-covid-ve/articleshow/77749445.cms||Kiran Parashar
August 26, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: 22-year-old woman’s body found on railway track||KARUR: A 22-year-old woman who had to discontinue her Bachelor of Computer Application (BCA) course at a private college in Namakkal recently was found dead along the railway tracks near Puliyur on the Karur-Trichy section on Sunday night. According to Government Railway Police (GRP), the deceased, R Kiranya, a resident of Puliyur in Karur district, had lost both her parents, who were flower vendors, two years ago due to some ailments. Ever since, she has been staying with her grandmother along with her elder brother R Praveenkumar and sister R Deepika. Relatives said they noticed her body on the tracks passing behind their house on Sunday night. GRP from Karur and Trichy arrived at the spot and conducted an inquiry with them before sending the body to the government hospital in Karur. GRP suspects she might have been hit by a Trichy-bound goods train that passed through the spot. The victims’ elder sister was also a student of the at Thiruchengodu college where she studied while her elder brother, an engineering graduate, has been confined to their home without any job after he met with an accident six months ago. Kiranya’s grandmother being the only breadwinner of the family, both she and her sister struggled to pay their college fees. So, they discontinued their studies, Mathivanan, a relative of the victim, told police. “After the death of her parents, the family struggled to meet both ends meet by running the small flower shop. What made matters worse was that the shop too was removed as part of Trichy-Karur bypass highway expansion”, Mathivanan told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/22-year-old-womans-body-found-on-rly-track/articleshow/77752072.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Lucknow||Covid crisis: UP government likely to postpone panchayat polls||LUCKNOW: The state government has hinted that the panchayat elections, scheduled to be held in December this year, may be postponed for six months due to the novel coronavirus pandemic. As soon as official spokesman of the Yogi government flashed that the state government was in a mood to put off the panchayat elections in the state, additional chief secretary,panchayati raj, Manoj Kumar Singh told TOI, “The issue is under active consideration of the government.” Once the term of the panchayati raj bodies from the level of village head to the zila panchayat head ends after December, local officers would take over as administrators and run thepanchayati raj institutions. With over 52,000 village panchayats, 61,000 block members, 821 block heads, 3,000 zila panchayats members and 75 zila panchayat chiefs, the election was to be held for nearly 8.50 lakh posts with a voter base of 10.50 crore, the highest in the country. In 2015 under SP government, panchayat elections were also delayed by two months. But this time, the state government has hinted at the extension of the elections by six months, taking the poll process tentatively to May-June when the state will be gearing up for the assembly elections due to be held in early 2022. The decision on local bodies elections in the rural areas in the state has also triggered a muted campaign within the ruling BJP as well as in the Opposition camp as when the assembly elections can be held in adjoining Bihar in November, why UP cannot hold the panchayat elections in December despite the fact the corona situation in the state is far better than many states in the country, including Bihar. “For the state machinery also, it would be a challenge to hold the panchayat elections and then within six months the Assembly elections,” observed a senior officer in the state election commission which till late Tuesday night did not have any official communication from the state government. But the election commission had not received any programme for the poll process which had given the impression of postponing the panchayat elections in the state. Though the government has declared this on Tuesday, since beginning it was speculated that the Yogi government was reluctant in holding the panchayati elections on time and handing over the institutions to administrators. The election commission had sent repeated reminders to the panchayati raj department of starting reservation of the seats in elections and also for the delimitation exercise in over 1,000 gram sabhas which were affected in the creation of new town areas in the last three years. However, it was confirmed officially on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-crisis-govt-likely-to-postpone-panchayat-polls/articleshow/77752074.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 26, 2020||Allahabad||Exam for RO, ARO now on September 20||PRAYAGRAJ: The recruitment exam for review officer (RO) and assistant review officer (ARO) 2016 (preliminary) will now be held on September 20 instead of September 13. This information has been given by the Controller of Examinations of the UP Public Service Commission, Arvind Kumar Mishra. However, he has not given any reason for extending the date of examination. The information released by commission states that for unavoidable reasons, the examination will be held on September 20 instead of September 13. On August 19, the commission had asked the candidates of this recruitment to give an alternative of three districts for the examination center. It is believed that the commission will take some time to determine the examination center according to the new system, so the examination has been postponed for a week. This examination is to be held in 17 districts of the state including Prayagraj, in which, 385191 candidates were to attend, but out of these 41 candidates have withdrawn candidates due to Corona’s growing infection and other reasons, so 385150 candidates will be included in the examination. The schedule of the interview has also been changed by the public service commission, by modifying the date of interview of successful candidates in written examination of assistant forest conservator / regional forest officer (ACF & RFO) recruitment 2017. Earlier, the dates of August 26, 27 and 28 were set for the interview but now it has been said that the interview will start from September 1 and will continue till September 4. The detailed schedule of the four-day interview has been uploaded on the website of the commission by the controller of examinations of the commission, Arvind Kumar Mishra. The interview will be in two shifts. Interview of first shift will start from 10 am and that of the second shift will start from 2 pm. The commission has sought information from the candidates of the Combined State Engineering Services Examination 2019 about engineering branch in which they have graduated. Candidates have to file this information on the website of the commission by August 31. Candidates who do not provide this information will be rejected. This information is to be given by those candidates who have not given information about graduation while applying online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/exam-for-ro-aro-now-on-sept-20/articleshow/77747997.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Delhi||Sealing PILs: SC offers Rs 50 lakh to advocate for assisting it for 35 years||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court has intervened on numerous occasions in the past several decades to tackle pollution, remove encroachment and demolish illegal structure in the national capital. But on Tuesday, a bench had a special word of praise for senior advocate and former Solicitor General Ranjit Kumar who has been assisting the court as amicus curiae over the last 35 years in dealing with issues plaguing the city. Acknowledging Kumar’s contribution over the years, a bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari offered a token amount of Rs 50 lakh to him. But the lawyer turned down the offer and requested the bench with folded hands not to insist on his receiving any money. “It is selfless service on my part for a cause. I cannot accept any amount,” he told the bench. The court tried to persuade him but the senior advocate declined. “We appreciate your gesture. Hats off to you. You are a valuable asset of the court ,” the bench said adding that the “gesture has really moved us”. The court directed that other advocates, who were assisting it in dealing with the cases, be also paid. It directed the Delhi government to pay Rs 35 lakh each to advocates A D N Rao and Anitha Shenoy and Rs 25 lakh to Aparajita Singh. The court also directed that all residential premises, which were sealed by the monitoring committee for unauthorised construction be desealed as per its previous order. In a major relief to owners of residential premises in Delhi, who are facing threat of sealing and demolition for unauthorised constructions, the Supreme Court had on August 14 ruled that the court-appointed monitoring committee was not empowered to take action against them and exempted them from the sealing drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sealing-pils-sc-offers-rs-50l-to-advocate-for-assisting-it-for-35-years/articleshow/77752089.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
August 26, 2020||Pune||PCMC okays over 1,6k RTE applications for admission||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Over 1,600 students eligible to get admission under the Right to Education (RTE) quota have been verified till date in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits. There are 2,117 more students waiting for verification. Parag Mundhe, assistant administrative officer, PCMC told TOI that they had received 18,307 applications, of which 4,456 were rejected due to incomplete information or being ineligible. Of the remaining 13,851 applications, 3,786 were selected in the first round of the lottery. As many as 179 schools are under the RTE, but 27 schools have yet to start the admission process. The RTE admission process resumed in June. The process was on hold from March, when the lockdown was initiated. The first lottery was drawn in the first two weeks of March and the verification of the documents was on hold which resumed in June. Meanwhile, a record 2.91 lakh applications were submitted under the RTE Act’s online admission process this year but only 37,494 students have taken admission against a vacancy of 1.15 lakh seats in the state. Lockdown, migration of parents, and refusal by private school managements to admit students under the RTE Act are the reasons for a large number of seats remaining vacant, experts said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-okays-over-16k-rte-applications-for-admission/articleshow/77751046.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Foresters set up trap for monkeys||Coimbatore: Forest department officials on Tuesday placed a cage to capture monkeys troubling residents of Ragupathy layout at Bharathi Park in the city. A rapid response team of the forest department has placed the cage with fruits inside that on the premises of a house. “When the monkeys attempt to eat the fruits, the cage door will be closed automatically, trapping them inside,” one of the team members said. Five monkeys have been roaming in the area for a while. Fed up with the monkey menace, Saraswathi Ramesh, an assistant professor from Ragupathy layout, had on Monday approached forest department officials, asking them to capture the animals. She said monkeys were roaming at the children’s park near the BSNL office at Bharathi Park and asked the officials to place cage there to capture them. The forest department said people from the Coimbatore forest division could contact the rapid response toll free number (1800 4254 5456) to report any wildlife issues, including wildlife crime and man-animal conflict. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/foresters-set-up-trap-for-monkeys/articleshow/77751020.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Pune||Voices divided over idea of academic year from January||PUNE: State minister Aditya Thackeray has written to the  Pr ime Minister seeking postponement of all academic activity, and starting the academic year from January, instead of the prevalent model where it starts in June. The same issue was taken up by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last week where he also constituted a committee to check the feasibility of such a move. Experts TOI spoke to said the change in the school education system can disrupt its alignment with the international education structures that start in August. Others said it may not be a bad move. Usha Rane, director of west zone of Pratham, an NGO that works to improve quality of education in the country, said the geography, weather and infrastructural provisions such as roads, bridges and transportation are the most important factors to determine which seasons will be suitable to help children reach schools. “In Maharashtra and most southern states, the rainy season is most difficult whereas in MP, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat and many north states the summer is burning. Though schools remain closed from mid-April to mid-June, in most cases children stop attending schools from March-end. It will be physically impossible for children to attend school due to the acute summer and the heavy rain. Hence, the academic year which starts in June is most suitable,” she said . In states like J&K and the northeastern states, a different school year is followed which is certainly relevant, she added. Management council member of Savitribai Phule Pune University, Rajesh Pande said whatever the decision, it must ensure that students are not at a loss.  “If the academic year begins in January, then they will pass next year in January 2022. This means at least six months will be wasted for students. Hence, the decision must be taken very carefully with students as the focal point.” A government school teacher in Akole in Ahmednagar district, Bhau Chaskar, said the current pandemic situation is extraordinary and if the academic year is matched with the calendar year, it is extremely feasible and of interest to students. “For these extraordinary situations that we are all prevailing in, new thoughts need to be pushed and implemented to bring back normalcy,” he said. Other stakeholders also expressed their views .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/voices-divided-over-idea-of-academic-year-from-january/articleshow/77751034.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
August 26, 2020||Coimbatore||No data to show side effects of Covid in patients: Official||Coimbatore: While cities such as Chennai, Jaipur and New Delhi are seeing a growing number of recovered Covid-19 patients returning to hospitals with blood clots, strokes and heart attacks, there is no data to show side effects of the virus attack in the district, where more than 7,500 people have recovered from the contagion.According to the city corporation and public health department, recovered patients haven’t so far complained of any sequelae, including muscle pain, throat pain, tiredness or blood clot issues. However, the ESI Hospital says it has seen two patients with breathlessness after recovery.On the contrary, there have been multiple cases of recovered Covid-19 patients returning to hospitals with blood clots, strokes and breathlessness in Chennai and Mumbai.Two doctors, who were treated for the virus in the district way back in March and April, say they had severe throat pain and myalgia for more than two weeks, after discharge.The public health department and the city corporation, however, say there have been no documented side effects of Covid-19 or any data regarding treatment for the same. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, says, “We haven’t received any such complaints so far. All primary health centre (PHC) doctors follow-up on Covid-19 patients for two weeks after discharge and the latter are asked to report any complaints to the doctors.”Doctors with the primary health centres at Karamadai and Nallatipalayam confirmed they hadn’t received any complaints of side effects from their patients, who had recovered from Covid-19. The ESI Hospital, which has treated more than 4,000 Covid-19 patients, says two patients had approached it with breathlessness after recovery. Dr Nirmala, hospital dean, says, “They were given oxygen again and sent home after they became comfortable. Like in Chennai, we have been prescribing blood thinners for certain patients for two weeks to prevent blood clots. Patients with lung damage are expected to face breathlessness while climbing stairs or running, because once a portion of the lungs is damaged, it does not regenerate.”Doctors say the main problem in gathering data on side effects is patients’ reluctance in coming for follow-up after discharge. Dr A Murali, Covid-19 nodal officer, PSG Hospitals, says, “This is despite asking them to come for a check-up within 10 or 15 days. They would come only if they have a life-threatening symptom, which we haven’t seen so far.” One of the state government’s flagship programmes is establishing exclusive Covid-19 sequela clinics. However, it is yet to become a reality. J Radhakrishnan, state health secretary, says, “We plan to establish them first in government hospitals in Chennai and Madurai, and after that maybe in Coimbatore. In the discharge summary, we now ask patients to come to government hospitals if they see any severe symptoms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/no-data-to-show-side-effects-of-covid-in-patients-official/articleshow/77751057.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Pune||NFAI invites applications for film heritage fellowship||PUNE: The National Film Archive of India (NFAI) has launched its flagship film research fellowship programme for the coming year in three categories. Applications are being sought for research fellowships, monographs and audio-visual projects concerning any topic based on the cinematic heritage of India. The last date of application is September 15. The NFAI is offering a year to potential applicants to complete their research with a monthly fellowship amount, along with other allowances up to Rs25000. The monographs on film personalities in Indian cinema and exploration of an aspect or characteristic of them need to be completed within six months of acceptance of the proposal. As for audio visual presentation, the NFAI has specified that the material should be on living personalities associated with Indian cinema, largely through an interview format. The interview should encompass their contribution, as well as their memories of cinema from their time of working in the Indian film industry. For this project, the NFAI pays an allowance based on per hour of filming required by the candidates, with other costs also covered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nfai-invites-applications-for-film-heritage-fellowship/articleshow/77751078.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Sanitary workers protest delay in July salary||COIMBATORE: More than 300 contract sanitary workers with the Tirupur city corporation boycotted work on Tuesday and protested delay in paying their last month’s salary. Workers from 40 wards joined together and protested in three zones of the corporation limits. K Rangaraj, general secretary, Centre of Indian Trade Unions, said, “As per the district collector’s direction, sanitary workers should be paid a daily wage of Rs 420. After deduction for employees’ provident fund and other benefits, what they get from contractor is around Rs 300 a day. While they are usually paid the salary between 5th and 10th of every month, more than 500 contract workers have not received their salary for July so far.” Pointing out that the collector had increased the daily wage for sanitary workers to Rs 510 on August 16, they demanded the city corporation to implement the revised wage from next month and pay the salary by fifth of every month. Rangaraj said officials should also take steps to test the sanitary workers for Covid-19 at regular intervals and provide them quality safety gears. Tirupur corporation officials held a meeting with the protestors in the presence of the contractor and assured them to pay the pending salary in a couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sanitary-workers-protest-delay-in-july-salary/articleshow/77751082.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Nagpur||Forest dept renews efforts to capture tiger that killed 6||Nagpur: Even as the problem tiger of Rajura (RT-1) in Central Chanda division continues to elude teams, Chandrapur forest officials on Tuesday decided to launch renewed efforts to capture the tiger, which is claimed to have mauled 6 villagers and injured 3 in last 17 months.After the latest attack on August 18, PCCF (wildlife) Nitin H Kakodkar on August 19 renewed permission to capture RT-1. This is the third time consent has been given to capture the tiger.The first capture order, on February 14, 2020, was valid till April 30. It was extended till July 31. The third order issued on August 19 has a deadline of September 20. Even with the lockdown in force and summer being the best time to capture the animal, rescue teams had failed to capture it, as the animal moved mostly in the night.Politicians are also playing sympathy card instead of pacifying the locals. With the death of Vasudeo Bapuji Kondekar (55) in reserve forest compartment number 145 in Virur range, local politicians have pressed to either trap the tiger or issue shoot-at-sight orders. In Chandrapur district alone 21 people have died in tiger and leopard attacks this year.RT-1 has claimed 6 people in 17 months. Three villagers died and two were seriously injured in one month this year. Barring one, all incidents occurred in the forest. Even Kondekar’s body was found 5km in the jungle.A T1 or Avni-type situation in Pandharkawda seems to be emerging in Rajura, considering people’s reluctance to stop venturing into the forest, causing frequent interaction with the tiger and department’s failure to trap the tiger. Avni was shot dead on November 2, 2018, for allegedly killing 13 villagers in over 18 months.Rajura municipal council president Arun Dhote said, “I’m against shooting the animal. The efforts being taken by foresters to capture it are satisfactory. They have been monitoring it continuously by laying baits and setting up machans, but the tiger has been alert and understood he is being cornered.”“At Tuesday’s meeting, I’ve suggested involving a team of local volunteers to help the forest staff. We have been appealing to locals not to venture deep but they don’t listen,” said Dhote.Central Chanda deputy conservator Arvind Munde said, “We’ve taken substantial efforts to capture RT1. Eight baits have been placed at strategic points with makeshift machans near them. One movable steel machan is also being used. At least 61 camera traps have been installed and staff has been asked to check these traps at 8am and in the evening too, so that strategies can be planned to track the tiger.” “Heavy rains have been playing spoilsport for us as there are spots where even vehicles cannot enter. The forest has grown dense making animal visibility difficult. Secondly, the tiger is moving in a huge territory encompassing Rajura and Virur, which comes to around 270 sq km,” said Munde.NTCA representative Bandu Dhotre, who attended the SOP meeting, says, “Fragmented Pandharkawda habitat cannot be compared to Rajura-Virur, which is a contiguous corridor patch to Telangana. There are resident tigers here. As RT1 has become extra alert due to long drawn efforts to trap it, we worked on a new strategy at the meeting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/forest-dept-renews-efforts-to-capture-tiger-that-killed-6/articleshow/77751081.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 26, 2020||Pune||Two arrested for theft at Ozar temple||PUNE: Twp persons were arrested on Monday, almost a month after they stole gold-plated silver umbrella and donation box from the famous Vighnahar Ganapati temple — one of the Ashtavinayakas — in Ozar on July 27. The Ale Phata police caught the duo — Sandip Patve (30) and Vithhal Patve (45) from Ahmednagar district — red-handed in the early hours of Monday while they were attempting to burgle two houses at Mangrul village in Junnar taluka, about 95km from the city. Inspector T Y Mujawar of the Ale Phata police said the duo’s three accomplices fled. “During questioning, Sandip and Vithhal admitted their involvement in the theft at Vighnahar Ganapati temple in Ozar,” Mujawar said. The police have launched a search for theri aide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-arrested-for-theft-at-ozar-temple/articleshow/77751059.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Lucknow||Passengers push take-off for airline services in UP||LUCKNOW: After the initial turbulence amid the Covid-19 pandemic, airline services in Uttar Pradesh appear to be taking off following a push by people’s confidence in air travel. According to exclusive data accessed by TOI, Airport Authority of India recorded a rise in number of passengers and flights with each passing month at three major airports of Uttar Pradesh. For instance, during the lockdown in April, only 18 (non-scheduled) flights operated at Lucknow’s Chaudhary Charan Singh International Airport (CCSIA) registering a footfall of 12. But gradually, after the lockdown was revoked from May 25, the footfall of passengers in July rose to 84,288 for the domestic sector as 942 flights took off or landed at the airport. Similarly 40,810 passengers took 230 international flights in July from Amausi Airport. Prior to the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown, in March Amausi registered 70,763 passengers who took 423 flights. In the domestic sector, 4,03,708 passengers took 2,902 flights in March. Amausi Airport director A K Sharma said, “With the increase in number of daily flights after the revival of destinations such as Chennai, Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Kolkata and dozens of international destinations with majority of middle-east countries, we recorded rise in number of passengers.” According to Nitin Kadiyan, assistant general manager (operations) Lucknow airport, “Observing the rise of confidence of passengers in air travel, this month (August) we got at least five more destinations approved, such as Dehradun, Chandigarh, Raipur, Jaipur and Bhopal. Dehradun flight started operating since last Thursday, while on Tuesday (August 25), two flights operated for Chandigarh and Raipur.” Astha Singh, an air traveller who boarded a flight for Chandigarh on Tuesday said, “I’m happy that a direct flight for Chandigarh from Lucknow finally started. This helped me save money and time.” Another passenger, Jaspreet said, “Revival of direct flights has really helped passengers like me who are regular business travellers. More flights need to be added gradually.” Meanwhile, Varanasi airport director Akashdeep said, “We have registered increase in passengers and flight operation. In last two months (June and July) more than 1.54 lakh passengers flew on 1,717 domestic flights, while on 15 international flights 1,010 passengers flew to Dubai, Sharjah and Abu Dhabi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/passengers-push-take-off-for-airline-services-in-up/articleshow/77752087.cms||Arvind Chauhan
August 26, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: 3 youths drown in separate incidents||THANJAVUR: Three youths died in two separate drowning incidents in Thanjavur on Monday. Fire and Rescue Services personnel retrieved the bodies after intensive search operations. According the police, the deceased were identified as Raja, 24, and Sriram, 23, a resident of Thirunageswaram in the district, were friends and college students. They had gone to Ayyavadi bathing ghat in Keerthiman river to take a dip on Monday evening. As they were not well versed in swimming, strong currents in the river washed them away. On information, personnel from the department of Fire and Rescue Services retrieved their bodies with the help of Thiruneelakudi police on Monday night. They sent the bodies to the government hospital for postmortem. In another incident, a 35-year-old man drowned in a temple tank. He was identified as Ashok Kumar of Kattur. He was employed in Qatar and had returned a few months back. He had gone to his relative's house at Katharinatham village. While he was taking bathe in a Kalahastheeswarar temple tank, he attempted to swim across the tank and drowned. As he did not come out of the water, relatives searched for him. Fire and Rescue personnel fished out his body from the water. Thiruneelakudi and Ammapettai police have registered separate cases over the incidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/3-youths-drown-in-separate-incidents/articleshow/77752090.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Agra||Need land to bury cows, German Padma awardee tells DM||AGRA: Padma Shri awardee and German national, Friederike Irina Bruning, who has been tending to sick and diseased cows at her shelter in Mathura for the past 25 years, has urged the DM to allocate some land for burial of cows as she does not have a proper place for the same. Bruning told TOI that since most of the cows which are brought to her gaushala are sick, injured or abandoned by their owners, many of them die. She said over 150 sick or injured cows are brought to her shelter every month from various places in Mathura and adjoining districts. As a result, she said, her gaushala is already overcrowded. At present, around 2,000 cows and calves are living there and she has no place to bury the dead bovines. Bruning added that SDM of Govardhan had allocated a piece of land for the burial of cows earlier but it has been illegally occupied by some other gaushala. Also the land is prone to waterlogging during the rains, making it unfit to bury cows during monsoons. When contacted Mathura DM Sarvagya Ram Misra said there is no such provision to provide a land to a person privately or any institution for this purpose but he has asked the SDM to check the common place for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/need-land-to-bury-cows-german-padma-awardee-tells-dm/articleshow/77748057.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Pune||Robot to check patients’ vitals at Pune railway hospital soon||PUNE: Jivaka — a robot designed by the Parel workshop of the Central Railway (CR) — will soon monitor patients’ vitals and facilitate their virtual discussions with doctors at the divisional railway hospital in the city. “Jivaka, costing Rs4 lakh, is a remote-controlled rover. It can follow a marked line to move to the patients’ beds. It will work as a virtual healthcare worker and measure blood pressure, oxygen saturation-level and body temperature, among others, of patients,”a senior official of the CR said. “It is capable of two-way communication and conducting video coverage of the patient. Doctors can talk to and virtually check patients through it,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/robot-to-check-patients-vitals-at-pune-railway-hospital-soon/articleshow/77751086.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 26, 2020||Bareilly||3 succumb to Covid-19 in Shahjahanpur, 115 test +ve in Bareilly||BAREILLY/AGRA: Three people died while 77 tested positive for Covid-19 in Shahjahanpur district on Tuesday. As many as 115 people tested positive in Bareilly district but no death was reported in the past 24 hours. The number of positive cases surged in Lakhimpur Kheri district, where 208 cases have been reported in the past 48 hours. Kheri is vulnerable to the infection as it is reeling under floods. In Agra, additional city magistrate (first) Vinod Kumar Joshi tested Covid-19 positive on Tuesday. Being symptomatic, he was admitted at a private hospital on MG Road. A junior doctor of city's SN Medical College also tested positive. He was sent to home isolation. At least 20 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra district till the afternoon, increasing the district's tally to 2,592. Among those infected were three patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome and two from severe acute respiratory infection. One of the patients had an coronary artery infection and one was suffering from a renal ailment. Meanwhile, 27 patients were discharged on Tuesday. Out of the 2,592 cases reported in Agra district, 84.45% have been declared cured and discharged. There are 296 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 2,189 people have been cured of the infection and discharged. Besides, people who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened. Health department teams are conducting door-to-door check-ups of people in hotspot areas. Samples of suspected patients are being sent for lab test.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/3-succumb-to-covid-19-in-shahjahanpur-115-test-ve-in-bareilly/articleshow/77760462.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Agra||3 succumb to Covid-19 in Shahjahanpur, 115 test +ve in Bareilly||BAREILLY/AGRA: Three people died while 77 tested positive for Covid-19 in Shahjahanpur district on Tuesday. As many as 115 people tested positive in Bareilly district but no death was reported in the past 24 hours. The number of positive cases surged in Lakhimpur Kheri district, where 208 cases have been reported in the past 48 hours. Kheri is vulnerable to the infection as it is reeling under floods. In Agra, additional city magistrate (first) Vinod Kumar Joshi tested Covid-19 positive on Tuesday. Being symptomatic, he was admitted at a private hospital on MG Road. A junior doctor of city's SN Medical College also tested positive. He was sent to home isolation. At least 20 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra district till the afternoon, increasing the district's tally to 2,592. Among those infected were three patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome and two from severe acute respiratory infection. One of the patients had an coronary artery infection and one was suffering from a renal ailment. Meanwhile, 27 patients were discharged on Tuesday. Out of the 2,592 cases reported in Agra district, 84.45% have been declared cured and discharged. There are 296 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 2,189 people have been cured of the infection and discharged. Besides, people who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened. Health department teams are conducting door-to-door check-ups of people in hotspot areas. Samples of suspected patients are being sent for lab test.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3-succumb-to-covid-19-in-shahjahanpur-115-test-ve-in-bareilly/articleshow/77748049.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Hill station isn’t open for tourism: Collector||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris collector has cautioned people not to enter the hill district for tourism purposes as the government has not allowed any tourism activity in the district. Following the relaxation in norms to issue e-passes, borders of the district have been witnessing heavy vehicle inflow for the past few weeks. Thousands of commuters have crossed the Kunjappanai and Burliar borders and stepped into the Nilgiris. J Innocent Divya, district collector, said, “At least 2,500-3,000 people are entering the district daily after the relaxation of e-pass. We are now in a position to check the purpose of their visit.” She said if people were found in the hills on tourism purposes, they would be sent back immediately after coughing up a heavy penalty. “If any private cottages or lodges are found operating illegally, they will be sealed and action will be taken against the owners,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hill-station-isnt-open-for-tourism-collector/articleshow/77751093.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Goa||After 9 months, women’s body to get new head||Panaji: Nine months after being headless and non-functional, the Goa State Commission for Women is set to get a new chairperson. Minister for women and child development Vishwajit Rane on Tuesday said that a formal notification is being moved to appoint Vidya Gaude to the post. The announcement came hours after documents of the immediate appointment of the last chairperson Purti Patkar were made public. “Further a new board will be constituted to give impetus to the department,” Rane said. Patkar tendered her resignation in November last year without citing any reason. Rane then proposed Lawanya Shetye’s name as chairperson, but later issued directions to keep her appointment on hold. In the documents that were made public, Rane in his file noting for the immediate appointment of Purti Patkar last year asks the director of women and child to notify Patkar and the new board “immediately without routing the file to the Hon’ble chief minister”. Social activist Aires Rodrigues, who received the documents under RTI, said the government was kept in the dark about Patkar’s appointment as chairperson, her biodata was not before the government and provisions of the Goa State Commission for Women Act, 1996, were not adhered to and women’s organisations were not consulted. “As per the documents obtained under RTI, the notification was swiftly issued within 48 hours reconstituting the GSCW with Purti Patkar as chairperson,” he said. TOI had reported that women in distress were desperately calling up and visiting the women’s commission since November to find out the progress on their complaints. Bailancho Saad convener Sabina Martins said the commission is a very important statutory body that women activists fought for years to establish.  “When the public sees that action is taken on complaints, there is some restraint. If there’s no action, the acts of domestic violence and harassment proliferate,” she says. Panaji: Nine months after being headless and non-functional, the Goa State Commission for Women is set to get a new chairperson. Minister for women and child development Vishwajit Rane on Tuesday said that a formal notification is being moved to appoint Vidya Gaude to the post. The announcement came hours after documents of the immediate appointment of the last chairperson Purti Patkar were made public. “Further a new board of Goa State women’s commission will be constituted to give impetus to the department,” Rane said. Patkar tendered her resignation in November last year without citing any reason and asked to be relieved with immediate effect. Rane then proposed Lawanya Shetye’s name as chairperson, but later issued directions to keep her appointment on hold. In the documents that were made public, Rane in his file noting for the immediate appointment of Purti Patkar last year asks the director of women and child to notify Patkar and the new board “immediately without routing the file to the Hon’ble chief minister. The same may be notified with immediate effect. Director may kindly do the needful on priority”. Social activist Aires Rodrigues, who received the documents under RTI, said the government was kept in the dark about Patkar’s appointment as chairperson, last year and her biodata was not before the government and provisions of the Goa State Commission for Women Act, 1996, were not adhered to and women’s organisations were not consulted. “As per the documents obtained under RTI, the notification was swiftly issued within 48 hours reconstituting the GSCW with Purti Patkar as chairperson,” he said. TOI had reported that women in distress were desperately calling up and visiting the women’s commission which has been non functional since November to find out the progress on their complaintsof domestic violence, harassment by in-laws, dowry harassment, lack of financial support among other complaints. After Adv Shubhalaxmi Naik resigned last year the government dissolved the entire commission although they hadn’t completed their term and reconstituted it with Purti Patkar at the head. Bailancho Saad convener Sabina Martins said the commission is a very important statutory body that women activists fought for years to establish. “We first fought for the law to set up the commission and then for an office. We worked hard and made it work despite lack of an office, infrastructure, budget and a vehicle,” Martins says. Although a recommendatory body, the commission can advise the government on policies and has the power to summon parties. “When the public sees that action is taken on complaints, there is some restraint. If there’s no action, the acts of domestic violence and harassment proliferate,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-9-months-womens-body-to-get-new-head/articleshow/77752084.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Kochi||RAY project: Secretary demands scrutiny of cost escalation||KOCHI: Citing that there is no clarity in the cost escalation of Rajiv Awaz Yojana (RAY) apartment complex, which is being constructed in Fort Kochi, corporation secretary has reported that the cost escalation of the Rs 14.7 crore-project, which comes to more than 100% at Rs 39 crore, should be scrutinized by a competent authority. The secretary, in his report prepared after hearing the contractor on July 13, 2020, following a court order seeking report over delay in construction of the housing complex, stated that there was no explanation from the consultants regarding the factors that led to cost escalation in the files. The report by corporation secretary R Rahul has come at a time when Kochi corporation authorities were moving to secure council’s ratification for mayor Soumini Jain’s act of giving anticipatory approval for returning the security deposit to the contractor. In 2019, Jain had given anticipatory approval for returning Rs 91 lakh which was deposited by the contractor of RAY project as security deposit. The secretary in his report said the act of mayor giving anticipatory approval for returning the security deposit was against the tender conditions. “As per tender conditions, this amount will become payable only after completion of the work and defect liability period,” the report said. The report further states that the contractor was paid the amount, which was due, for work carried out as per agreement. The rest, for doing extra work, could be given to him only after getting approval from the competent authority which is chief engineer LSGD, it said. The secretary has also noted shortcomings in tender preparation. Pile load testing and pile chipping, which are unavoidable for constructing a multi-storeyed building, were not included in the original estimate. While 30 items were included in the original estimate, 30 more are to be included, the report said. “It is clear that there is abnormal variation (in the estimate) during the course of execution of the work. The explanation for deviation from the consultant is not seen anywhere in the files,” the report further stated indirectly hinting at chances that authorities might have given a silent nod for cost escalation. The report also recommends inviting fresh tenders for work to be executed using an additional fund of Rs 21 crore while the work under existing estimate should be done by the present contractor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ray-project-secy-demandsscrutiny-of-cost-escalation/articleshow/77748058.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
August 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi court takes note of murder and other charges against nine||NEW DELHI: Calling it a “well-hatched conspiracy” and considering the allegations of promoting enmity between communities, a Delhi court has taken cognisance of charges, including murder, against nine men accused in two murder cases related to February riots. Chief metropolitan magistrate Purshotam Pathak noted that a WhatsApp group was apparently created to mobilise rioters, who acted to kill and destroy evidence being part of an unlawful assembly. “It has been found that the common object of the unlawful assembly was not only to kill, but also to destroy all evidence,” the court observed.  “It is also clear that there are averments in respect of promoting enmity between different groups on the ground of religion and acting in ways that are prejudicial to the maintenance of harmony,” it added. The case pertained to the indictment of nine men—Lokesh Solanki, Pankaj Sharma, Sumit Chaudhary, Ankit Chaudhary, Prince, Rishabh Chahudhary, Jatin Sharma, Vivek Panchal and Himanshu Thakur. According to police, these men were directing their associates to attack people. Two men, Akil Ahmed and Mohd Musharraf, were allegedly killed by the mob involving these men. One of the victims was reportedly “dragged out of the house” and thrashed with sticks and stones following which he died. Bodies of both of them were dumped in nullah. “The mob turned into rioters and looted the mobile phone and caused death of Akil Ahmed by inflicting multiple injuries in a brutal manner and with the view to conceal the evidence, all of them in furtherance of their common intention threw his body in the drain,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-court-takes-note-of-murder-and-other-charges-against-nine/articleshow/77752114.cms||Aamir Khan
August 26, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Covid-hit, many MG Road shops down shutters||KOCHI: As businesses have been hit following the Covid-19 outbreak, many shopowners including stores operated by major brands on MG Road are either shutting their outlets or are trying to relocate. Many traders who operate from rented premises are negotiating with building owners for lower rentals or are trying to shift to other buildings which quote lower rentals. With traders facing the issues related to bank loans and debts, non-performing assets, the trading community in the city is in deep financial crisis. Speaking on Kochi’s financial position, Rahul R Pillai an Indian revenue service officer and the secretary of Kochi corporation said that things would take a further low in the coming days and working out a way to come out of this situation would be really tough. “Apart from poor customer turnout due to the pandemic, heavy rains and waterlogging on MG Road are other reasons that force traders to relocate. Most of the retail outlets functioning on MG Road do not have sufficient parking. Customers do not want to park their vehicles at a parking lot which is at a distance and walk to the store,” said Hariharan K, an accountant with a retail outlet. Traders organizations confirm that at least a dozen shops on MG Road have closed since the outbreak of Covid. Before the coming up of Kochi Metro, the rent was in the range of Rs 150-160 per sq ft. “At least two months ago, the rentals were quoted around Rs 100 per sq ft. Now, it has come down to Rs 70 per sq ft,” said a source. Representative of a financial institution said that they pay around Rs 7 lakh per month as rent for a 2,200 sq ft property on MG Road. As the businesses are dull, they are trying to find another building where rentals are lower. He said they have found a couple of buildings which remain unused, and the owners have expressed willingness to bring down rentals. Traders community said that though the commissioning of Kochi Metro was expected to revive the business here, it did not bring in much change. With Edappally becoming a major commercial hub, merchants are shifting to the highway in anticipation of better sales. “Even though sales have started picking up at Edappally since the lifting of lockdown, we could not say that there was brisk business activity. High rentals coupled with electricity, water and other miscellaneous charges add to the financial burden of traders,” said Kerala Chamber of Commerce and Industry youth convener Rajesh Nair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-hit-many-mg-road-shops-down-shutters/articleshow/77748073.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
August 26, 2020||Coimbatore||36-year-old farmer held for marrying minor girl||COIMBATORE: A 36-year-old farmer was arrested on Tuesday for marrying a 15-year-old girl in a case of child marriage. The farmer was identified as Chandrasekar, a resident of Annur. Police also arrested the matchmaker, Suresh, 31, apart from registering cases against four more people. All were booked under sections 9, 10 and 11 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. The minor girl was studying in Class X and hailed from a poor family. Her father had arranged the marriage, which was held at Veeramathiamman temple at Pogalur near Annur on June 24 this year, police said. The girl managed to escape from the farmer’s house at Annur on Tuesday and approached the all women police station in Thudiyalur. Since an inspector at Thudiyalur police station had tested positive for Covid-19 a few days ago, she was directed to lodge a complaint with Sirumugai police. Based on her complaint, Sirumugai police registered an FIR and arrested two persons on Tuesday. The accused were produced before a judicial magistrate and later remanded to judicial custody. Police are looking out for another four people involved in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/36-yr-old-farmer-held-for-marrying-minor-girl/articleshow/77751112.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has patched up 49km of roads this week||AHMEDABAD: The state of roads in the city can be assessed from the fact that the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has in the last week done patchwork road repairs on a length of 49km, or about the distance to Nadiad. This is not resurfacing, merely repairs on small patches on the road. The AMC has repaired some 7,400 patches and 2,122 patches are yet to be repaired. The total area of these 7,400 patches is 36,800 square metres. Officials said that the length of road repaired represents the distance from Ahmedabad to Nadiad. Officials said this is not an unusual amount of patchwork for the season but after the monsoon the city will have to go in for extensive road repairs. A senior officials said that every year the AMC repairs some 10,000 patches and this year the number so far is quite high. The officials said that after the rains of 2019, the AMC had decided to issued notices to the contractor concerned but there has been no change and even roads that were resurfaced just last year are in bad shape. The officials said that even the Gujarat high court has agitated the road issue but there has been no improvement in the quality of roads. The officials said that the AMC had also decided to construct cement-concrete roads, but after building just one stretch, from SP Ring Road to Pakwan Crossroads, it has not built any other concrete roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-has-patched-up-49km-of-roads-this-week/articleshow/77751105.cms||Paul John
August 26, 2020||Mysuru||Immunity boosters? Demand for MMR vaccine, Vitamin C tablets spikes||Mysuru: It is not just chyawanprash and other traditional medicines that are flying off the shelves of pharmacy stores, the demand for the measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine, Vitamin C, zinc and D3 tablets too has gone through the roof and the underlying factor pushing their sales up is the enhancing effect they have on the body’s immunity. That many of the healthcare personnel deployed at the frontlines of the state’s battle against Covid-19, including doctors and nurses, are taking the MMR vaccine and the tablets, has only served to further the belief that they help mitigate the effects of the pandemic. Although there is no clinical evidence confirming the efficacy of the vaccine and the tablets in combating Covid-19, a physician said that vaccinations were generally helpful in combating viral infections. Proprietor of Raghulal and Company, a pharmaceutical firm, N Raghavan said that the sales of MMR vaccine had registered a perceptible spurt. “The sales of Vitamin C tablets, which are combined with Vitamin D3 and zinc have nearly doubled compared to what we had prior to the Covid-19 crisis. We have sufficient stock of the MMR vaccine and the tablets,” Raghavan said. On the other hand, the BCG vaccine and the injection for influenza too are in demand. The notion that they contain ingredients that can act as protective agents against Covid-19 is spurring their sales. Raghavan added that the latest drug that people keen on keeping the pandemic at bay is sepsivac infection. “The drug is quite expensive and it is being touted as another protective agent,” he said. Naveen, a Mysuru-based pharmacist, confirmed the spike in demand for Vitamin C tablets, with Vitamin D3 and zinc. He said that he recently sold three boxes, containing 300 Vitamin C tablets, to a customer for Rs 1,500. Head of the paediatric department at Krishna Rajendra (KR) Hospital Dr Sudha Rudrappa said that, since the rubella vaccine is four-decades'-old, the elderly are being advised to take the three-in-one MMR shot. “Although my peers in Bengaluru advised me to get the shot, I have not done so. The number of people taking the vaccination is considerably higher in Bengaluru than in Mysuru,” she said. Dr Sudha added that research papers had been published in the West, documenting the effect that the BCG vaccine can have in fighting the novel coronavirus. “In India, we administer the vaccination to children, and rubella is given to adolescents,” she said. Dean and director of Mysore Medical College and Research Institute Dr CP Nanjaraj told TOI that, in accordance with the directions of the Indian Council of Medical Research, healthcare workers on Covid-19 duty were given hydoxychloroquinine but later stopped. “People are trying all available options to fight Covid-19. To my knowlegde, MMR shots have not been given to Covid-19 warriors in Mysuru,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/immunity-boosters-demand-for-mmr-vaccine-vitamin-c-tablets-spikes/articleshow/77748154.cms||Lawrence Milton
August 26, 2020||Nashik||NMC to consider aspirants on wait list, hold more interviews||Nashik: The civic body is giving an opportunity to job aspirants on the waiting list after 200 candidates — who were earlier given appointment letters for posts of physicians, nurses and paramedical staff etc. — failed to join their duties. The Nashik Municipal Corporation has already served show-cause notices to such candidates for not joining their appointed duties, asking them why action should not be taken against them under the Maharashtra Essential Services Maintenance Act. Around 10 of the 200 candidates have since joined, but others have not. “We have decided to give an opportunity to the candidates on the waiting list. There are around 100 candidates on the waiting list and we will give appointment letters to some of them,” said the NMC officials. “We are also in the process of conducting open walk-in interviews for the various posts in the Covid hospitals and Covid care centres,” said NMC officials. In July, the civic administration had conducted interviews for 811 posts of doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff to be hired temporarily on honorarium for a period of six months. It had given appointment letters to 708 eligible candidates. But only about 500 joined. The NMC officials said there has been a spike in Covid-19 cases in the city. “We have increased the number of beds for Covid-19 patients. The existing doctors, nurses and other staff, who have been working for the past four-five months, are under tremendous pressure. There is a need to rest them by rotation. Therefore, we need more doctors and medical staff. We have already recruited over 500 individuals, but we still need over 300 more. We will give appointment letters to candidates on the waiting list and also conduct fresh walk-in interviews,” said NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-consider-aspirants-on-wait-list-hold-more-interviews/articleshow/77769650.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 26, 2020||Nagpur||Two Covid deaths in Yavatmal||Yavatmal: Two more deaths were reported on Tuesday. Both deceased are from the city. A 43-year-old man, who was admitted on August 23, died on Tuesday. Similarly, a 44-year-old woman who was admitted on August 20, too, died. Both had cough, breathing problems, temperature and lung issues. On Wednesday, 110 new positive patients were reported in the district of whom 69 men and 41 women. Currently, 663 active positive patients are in Covid Care Centres. Nearly 212 have been sent to home quarantine while 181 are in isolation wards. 179 swab samples have been sent to the lab for testing. Regarding the recovery, 31 positive patients have recovered and discharged from the isolation wards. So far, 1881 patients have been discharged out of 2824.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-covid-deaths-in-yavatmal/articleshow/77748070.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Lucknow||UP farmers to get warehouses to store produce||LUCKNOW: The state will soon get as many as 37 warehouses, providing farmers with space to store their produce. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath performed the e-foundation stone laying ceremony of these warehouses, located in 27 districts, on Tuesday. The estimated cost of construction of these warehouses is Rs 187 crore. Approval has also been given for taking a loan of Rs 147 crore from Nabard. Out of the 37, four are coming up in Jhansi, two each in Ballia, Bahraich, Fatehpur, Jalaun, Kanpur Dehat, Rampur, Badayun and Basti and one each in Ghazipur, Kanpur, Amroha, Bijnor, Bareily, Pilibhit, Maharajganj, Siddharthnagar, Mahoba, Banda, Hamirpur, Mirzapur, Bhadohi, Farukkhabad, Auraiya, Rae Bareli and Kaushambi. Yogi said that even during the lockdown, UP government brought new schemes for farmers and the new warehouses are an example of the government’s pro-farmer outlook. He said that Rs 1 lakh crore was earmarked for agri-infrastructure in the financial package announced by PM Narendra Modi and that the government is also committed to doubling farmers’ incomes. The current government is committed to ensuring that farmers get returns 1.5 times more than their investment, he said. Inviting the private sector to enter the mandi sector, Yogi said: “With the setting up of new warehouses, farmers’ income will grow. If necessary, the mandi parishad should establish cold storages, warehouses and silos. Farmers should get access to warehouses not only for grain but also fruits and vegetables so that they are able to keep their produce safe. We saw during the lockdown that flower growers faced major losses because they had no facility for storage of their produce.” The CM said that when his government came to power in 2017, a big question that faced it was where to store the wheat purchase as there was no storage capacity. Wheat purchase started on April 1, 2017 and 37 lakh tonnes of wheat was purchased that year. Currently, the government is purchasing about 53 lakh tonnes of wheat, Yogi said, adding that by getting the minimum support price for their produce, farmers were more confident and had been able to increase their yield.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-farmers-to-get-warehouses-to-store-produce/articleshow/77752102.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 26, 2020||Coimbatore||79 cases take Nilgiris’ Covid-19 tally to 1,473||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris added 79 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the count to 1,473, of which 384 are active cases. A 60-year-old woman from Wellington died of Covid-19, taking the toll to nine in the district. At least 10 Covid patients were cured and discharged in the day. With this, the total number of recovered patients stands at 1,080. Of the 79 new cases, 56 were reported from Kookalthorai, which has become a hotspot. Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya said, “As Covid-19 cases are on the rise, we have taken initiative to set up more Covid care centres. With a 200-bed facility, two schools have been kept ready for use as and when required. For another 300-bed facility, centres are being identified and readied.” According to her, the Ooty government hospital has 120 beds for Covid care. “Highly vulnerable cases with comorbidity will be shifted to the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore.” With weak infrastructure in the district, handing cases beyond a certain number is difficult. Hence, people should cooperate with the administration, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/79-cases-take-nilgiris-covid-19-tally-to-1473/articleshow/77751099.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Gurgaon||KU to hold exams from September 10||KURUKSHETRA: Kurukshetra University (KU) will conduct examination of all undergraduate/postgraduate (UG/PG) terminal semester/year students from September 10-30. The university issued a fresh notification in this regard on Tuesday, in compliance with the directions of Haryana government. KU ad-hoc vice-chancellor (VC) Nita Khanna said, “Keeping in mind the prevailing Covid-19 situation, standard operating procedures (SOPs) of the Centre and safety of students, it has been decided to hold blended (online and offline) mode exam for all students of terminal semesters of UG/PG courses.” About 1.2 lakh students will take these exams. Khanna said the procedure and schedule have been finalised after consultations with the deans of KU and the principals of all the affiliated colleges. KU controller of examination Hukam Singh said, “The examination will be held in blended online and offline mode from September 10 for UG courses and from September 15 for PG courses. The roll numbers of the students will be uploaded on the KU website and the websites of the college/institute concerned. The question papers will be uploaded on the KU website at 10am on exam day and it will also be sent to chairman/directors/principals on their emails so that the students may download the question paper in the safety of their homes.” Hukam Singh said the students will attempt the question paper on A4 size plain paper as answer sheets and after scanning it, upload the same on the given platform or email to officials concerned. “The questions to be attempted and time allotted for writing the answers has been reduced by 50%. For example, instead of 100 marks, the exam will be of 50 marks and a student will be given a time-window of ‘one and a half hours’ to attempt the questions. The total time window allotted will be ‘3 hours’ including the time for downloading the question paper, writing the answers and emailing/uploading the answer sheets to the chairperson/director/principals concerned of the institute,” said Hukam Singh. However, in the offline mode, the provisions have also been made for students who will not be able to connect with the network. Hukam said in the rural areas of the state, there is a possibility of network issues and the students could face issues in downloading/uploading the papers. Collection centres will be established all over where the students can visit to collect papers and submit them after attempting and they can attempt the papers while sitting in the facilities at these centres too, he added. KU spokesperson said the results of all the examination will be declared at the earliest in view of safeguarding the future of the students and the date sheet of all the examination will be uploaded within two to three days on the KU website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/ku-to-hold-exams-in-blended-mode-from-sept-10/articleshow/77751102.cms||Jaskaran Singh
August 26, 2020||Agra||Four killed, 15 injured as overloaded van meets with accident on Yamuna expressway||AGRA: Four persons, including an 11-year-old boy, were killed and 15 others injured in an accident on Yamuna Expressway on Tuesday. A Noida-bound 13-seater van with 19 passengers on board was going to Noida from Agra when it crashed into a road divider on the Yamuna Expressway near milestone 60 in Mathura. According to police, the incident took place at 1pm under Naujheel police jurisdiction. Preliminary investigation indicated that the driver of the ill-fated vehicle fell asleep while driving and lost control over the vehicle. The driver was among the dead. Identity of the deceased persons is yet to be ascertained. The injured were admitted to various hospitals including Kailash hospital in Jewar. SP (rural) Shireeshchand said that an FIR could be registered as the number of passengers in the vehicle was higher than permitted. He said the condition of the injured is serious.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/4-killed-15-injured-as-overloaded-van-meets-with-accident-on-yamuna-expressway/articleshow/77748093.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Even if hand-stamped, one needn’t be in 14-day quarantine: BBMP||Bengaluru: With the state government discontinuing several Covid-19 restrictions like hand-stamping and 14-day quarantine for inter-state travellers, the question being asked by many still carrying the seal and in quarantine is if they have to stay confined to their homes. However, BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad said: “If you have a stamp, you don’t need to undergo 14-day quarantine as it has been quashed by the government. But if you are showing Covid-19 symptoms, then you must immediately quarantine yourself and get tested.” The directive comes as a breather for many, who have been facing difficulties because of the Covid-19 rules imposed by apartment and resident welfare associations. On Monday, Prakruthi Nagabhushan, a resident of Nagarbhavi, was stopped by her neighbours from stepping out to buy groceries as she had just returned from Mumbai. “I had got myself tested while leaving Mumbai and the report was negative. But I have a stamp on my hand, with 14-day home quarantine mentioned. My neighbours told me not to step out,” Nagabhushan told TOI. Nagabhsuhan even ended up having an argument with them over the latest government circular, but they weren’t even ready to hear her out. “My neighbours, in fact, got the RWA president to talk to me and get me to order my groceries home. I ordered from the local supplier here, but many products are still not available and I need to step out,” Nagabhushan added. Another inter-state traveller from Hyderabad said the home-quarantine stamp is preventing him from attending to his personal work. Karan (name changed), a resident of Junnasandra, recently flew down from Hyderabad to meet his aged parents and help them with their medical check-ups, but wasn’t allowed to step out due to the stamp. “Finally, I was relieved thinking now I could take my parents for their check-up, but the apartment association isn’t letting us go out. They aren’t clear about the rules,” he added. According to the revised protocol for inter-state travellers to Karnataka (version 3), all curbs on such people from the previous circulars stand discontinued. Asked about RWAs and apartment associations preventing people from stepping out, Prasad said: “When the government has issued an order, these people cannot stop them. We will take actions against anyone harassing people.” Latest dos and don’ts Asymptomatic on arrival: The person can report to work or perform other activities in the state without 14-day home quarantine. However, s/he will self-monitor health for 14 days from the date of arrival for Covid symptoms. In case of symptoms, the person has to immediately seek medical consultation or call Apthamitra helpline (14410) Symptomatic on arrival: If a person has symptoms suggestive of Covid-19 , s/he will immediately self-isolate and seek medical consultation or call Apthamitra helpline||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/even-if-hand-stamped-one-neednt-be-in-14-day-quarantine-bbmp/articleshow/77749056.cms||Nithya Mandyam
August 26, 2020||Rajkot||Daman ends entry ban, lifts tourists’ spirits||RAJKOT: While their counterpart in Daman have raised a toast to freedom, hoteliers in Diu have little to cheer about as the district authority has removed barrier on entry for tourists to the UT, but kept the tourist places closed for public till further orders. After losing its peak summer business to the lockdown restrictions, hoteliers are yet to see more relaxations to get good business. Meanwhile, the district administration on Tuesday abolished the procedure of obtaining an e pass before entering union territory from midnight of Monday for visitors from Ahmedabad, Surat and Maharashtra. Abolishing the cumbersome norms, Diu collector Saloni Rai tweeted: “No e-pass/ separate permission required for entry/exit from Diu district henceforth. Open movement permitted.” Talking to TOI, Rai said, “Following MHA guidelines, we have lifted curbs on entry of Diu but the tourist places will remain closed for the public till further orders.” Diu has nearly 185 cases of Covid-19 registered till date. Hoteliers here, however, are hoping to see more relaxations next week when the state government plans to open tourist places. The present relaxation is of little solace for frustrated hoteliers who suffered immense loss, said hotel owner Ramjibhai Parasmani. Of Diu’s nearly 65 registered hotels, only six opened but with a measly five percent occupancy in the last one month. Parasmani, who is one of the few owners who had kept their hotels open, said, “Lockdown-hit public come with family and enjoy the Diu atmosphere in the hotel’s premises. While the bars are closed, wine shops are open and tourists enjoy sitting in the hotels itself.” President of Diu Hotel Association, Yatin Fugro told TOI: “Sans tourists, its unaffordable to open the hotel. We ended up spending more of our earning. Abolishing e-pass was good, but we want more relaxation like opening up tourist places and bars in the coming days. We are hopeful of doing good by Diwali and Christmas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/diu-calls-off-e-passes-but-restrictions-stay/articleshow/77748133.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
August 26, 2020||Allahabad||Covid spread: Allahabad high court suggests 'selective lockdown' in UP||PRAYAGRAJ: Taking a serious note of the rising Covid-19 cases in the state, the Allahabad high court on Tuesday expressed the opinion that “the best choice today is to close down things for a while, though selectively, to force people to confine themselves to their homes”. Hearing a PIL seeking better conditions at the quarantine centres, a division bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar observed, “We do not doubt the government’s will but we are equally conscious that measures taken are not enough and are needed to be made more severe and stringent but of course, workable too at the same time.” “When we have to balance between bread and butter and life, the latter has to prevail. Food is for life to survive and not vice-versa. We do not think that a lockdown for a fortnight would bring the economy of the state to such a halt that people would die of hunger,” the court further observed. Taking note of rising cases of Covid-19 in the state, the court also directed the chief secretary of Uttar Pradesh to apprise it whether there was any plan of action to contain the infection when the economy was reopened after nationwide lockdown and whether it was ever implemented. The court also asked the chief secretary to inform if any action had been taken against the district authorities who had not followed the planning, if there was any. The chief secretary has also been asked to come up with a roadmap to contain the contagion from now onwards by the next date of hearing. Lastly, the court observed, “Putting people to challan/fine and then letting them go and the insufficient police force to do round the clock patrolling in lanes and by lanes in the district not only consumes public measure and machinery but minimal results are being achieved.” The high court on several dates of hearing had issued various directions to contain the spread of novel coronavirus in the state. The court has fixed August 28 as the next date of hearing of the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/covid-spread-hc-for-ensuring-people-stay-at-home/articleshow/77748097.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Activists slam delay in biomining project||COIMBATORE: Almost three months have lapsed since municipal administration minister S P Velumani inaugurated the biomining project at Vellalore dump yard to dispose of solid waste scientifically. However, the project is yet to take off. Activists have questioned the delay in implementing the Rs 60.11-crore project. The project was inaugurated on June 5, almost one and half years after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directed the city corporation to dispose the waste at the dump yard scientifically. The civic body conceived the project to dispose 9.5-lakh cubic meter of accumulated waste, thus providing a permanent solution to degradation of air and water in surrounding areas and free 69 acres at the dump yard. Singanallur MLA N Karthik said, “Ideally, implementation of a project would start as soon as its inauguration. In this case, the project is delayed by three months as of now. It shows nothing but the poor planning and execution by the city corporation. It looks like the project was inaugurated with the assembly election in mind.” Referring to the construction and operation of micro composting centres and other solid waste management activities in the city, the DMK leader said the civic body seemed to lack proper vision and planning in other projects too. “Garbage bins and drainages are overflowing and are not cleared regularly. It’s the sole reason for poor sanitary condition of the city.” K S Mohan, secretary, Kurichi-Vellalore Pollution Prevention Action Committee, said delay in implementing the project meant Vellalore and surrounding areas would be polluted further. “Already, the foul smell is unbearable, underground water has become unusable and fly menace is high.” The city corporation, he said, should work to stop fresh waste from being dumped at the dump yard. “What is the point of spending such a huge amount and implementing the project, if the civic body continues to dispose fresh waste on the same premises? It should take steps to operate micro composting centres.” When contacted, a corporation official said the work was delayed because of the contagion. “We have already started installation of machineries and applied for high-tension power connection. Once the connection is obtained, we will speed up the remaining works.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/activists-slam-delay-in-biomining-project/articleshow/77751140.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 26, 2020||Chennai||Chennai woman in Bangladesh: NIA probing ‘love jihad’ angle||CHENNAI: The National Investigation Agency has registered a human trafficking case against a few Bangladeshi nationals for kidnapping a city-based woman from the UK to the South Asian country and is investigating the ‘love jihad’ angle. The woman’s father lodged a complaint with the CCB of the city police on May 21 before the case was transferred to the NIA which filed a first information report (FIR) in July. According to the FIR, the woman was in London pursuing higher studies when a Bangladesh national named Nafees enticed her into a relationship. Along with his father Sardar Shekawath Hussain and two others named Yasir and Nauman Ali Khan, Nafees kidnapped her to Bangladesh where she was allegedly converted to Islam and confined to a house. The case came to light when the woman managed to call her parents from Bangladesh and revealed that she had been sexually harassed and was being tortured. Her father, who had migrated to Chennai from north India a few years ago and runs a business in Royapuram, then contacted Nafees and the others for her release. When they demanded money, he lodged a complaint with the then city police commissioner in May and the case was forwarded to the central crime branch (CCB). After initial investigation, the CCB officials recommended through director general of police J K Tripathy that the state government transfer the case to the NIA police station in New Delhi. The Centre received information from the government of Tamil Nadu regarding the registration of relating a complaint against Nafees, a Bangladeshi citizen who allegedly resorted to kidnapping and trafficking of an Indian citizen. The NIA then filed the FIR including the others and are investigating. A case was registered under section 120B (conspiracy) read with 294(b) (abusing), 363 (it is necessary that whoever kidnaps any person from India), 364 (A) (whoever kidnaps or abducts any person or keeps a person in detention after such kidnapping), 368 (wrongfully concealing or keeping in confinement, kidnapped or abducted person), 370 (“exploitation” is defined as: “the expression “exploitation” shall include, prostitution or other forms of sexual exploitation), 384 (whoever commits extortion shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years) and 506(i) (criminal intimidation) of IPC. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)Watch Chennai woman trafficked to Bangladesh: NIA probing ‘love jihad’ angle||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-woman-in-bdesh-nia-probing-love-jihad-angle/articleshow/77751122.cms||Selvaraj A
August 26, 2020||Bareilly||Delhi cops bust fake call centre in Bareilly after Akshardham temple’s caretaker duped of Rs 1.40lakh||Bareilly: An unauthorized call centre selling fake insurance and pension policies was busted here and its 14 employees, among them nine women, were held by a team of Delhi Police. Bareilly Police also took part in the operation which was launched after the caretaker of the national capital’s famous Akshardham temple filed a complaint saying that he has been duped of Rs 1.4lkah by a caller who promised him an insurance policy with lucrative returns.The FIR was registered at Delhi’s Mandawali police station. And the caller was traced to Bareilly’s Baradari area.In the Monday evening raid, the police teams nabbed 14 people including the kingpin Anil Gupta who was taken to Delhi. Several laptops and fake stamps were also seized.A team of Delhi Police led by sub-inspector KK Sharma had approached Bareilly Police and sought support in tracing the suspects. After finding the location of the numbers of the suspect, the police teams raided the illegal firm operating from Baradari area.Station house officer (SHO) of Baradari, Sheetanshu Singh, told TOI, “During questioning, we came to know that Anil Gupta, a resident of Pilibhit district, was the kingpin of the racket and used to arrange data of people whose policies are going to mature soon. They offered them fake pension policies. According to the records received from the computers and documents, this gang had duped several people. Its employees also sold a fake policy with counterfeit RBI stamps to the caretaker of the Akshardham temple. We have handed over the custody of Gupta to Delhi Police while other suspects are with us.” Superintendent of police (city) Ravindra Kumar said, “We suspect that there are similar call centres operating in other parts of the state also. We are trying to gather more information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/delhi-cops-bust-fake-call-centre-in-bareilly-after-akshardham-temples-caretaker-duped-of-rs-1-40lakh/articleshow/77748121.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Faridkot medical college not suitable for patients: MLA||Bathinda: Member of BFUHS Board of Management (BoM) and Faridkot MLA Kushaldeep Singh Dhillon has joined many others in calling out Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) over its mistreatment of Covid-19 patients at its constituent Guru Gobind Singh Medical College. He has decided to write to Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, urging him to set things right before it is too late. Dhillon categorically stated that the general administration of the University and its constituent medical college is very poor and in bad shape, due to which he has been regularly receiving complaints from patients and their families. He said the medical college is not suitable for patients. Kushaldeep said, “I have been taking up the matter with the vice-chancellor and appropriate authorities for over two years. I had been asking them to set things right but they did not bother. Now, after the spread of Covid-19, things have gone from bad to worse. I keep getting complaints that no senior doctors takes care of patients, they seldom visit isolation wards and facilities for patients are not up to the mark. Whenever someone tests positive, he or she prefers to isolate anywhere other than the medical college saying they will have to suffer immensely if isolated at the medical college.” Dhillon said he receives 20 to 25 calls a day from persons complaining of some shortcoming or the other at the medical college, especially the isolation centre. “The university and college need to be made people-friendly. I am writing to the chief minister to intervene so that people’s faith in the premier institution is not eroded,” he said. Earlier, several organisations had been complaining about lack of facilities at the institute. Activists, led by Bhai Kanhiya Cancer Sewa Society members, Kotkapura MLA Kultar Sandhwan and Gurpreet Singh Chandbhaja said they raised the matter frequently but to no avail. They also said that when the vice-chancellor tested positive, he preferred to shift to Chandigarh rather than get treated here. Dhillon said he is getting complaints about bungling in recruitments as authorities are not basing these recruitments on merit. University vice-chancellor Prof Raj Bahadur, who has tested positive for Covid-19, was not available for comments. Medical superintendent (MS) Dr Rajiv Joshi refuted the allegations. However, he said there might be some problem as the number of patients is increasing rapidly. If any discrepancy comes to the notice of authorities, they would try to make improvements, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/faridkot-medical-college-not-suitable-for-patients-mla/articleshow/77751168.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Lucknow||UP programme to brush up English reading among primary school kids||LUCKNOW: To brush up reading comprehension skills of students at state-run English medium schools, the UP government is set to launch a graded reading programme for school children on Wednesday. Under the project, at least 1.25 lakh children at 820 primary schools in 12 districts will be initiated into English reading through this programme. Minister of state (independent charge) for basic education department Satish Kumar Dwivedi will inaugurate the programme virtually. TimesViewWhether we like it or not, English is the language of opportunity not just globally but within the country as well. It raises employability even in small jobs. The UP government’s move would certainly help students, many of them from underprivileged backgrounds, in government schools. The state’s education department must ensure that the scheme is properly implemented, that there is no gap between promise and delivery. As we know, there’s often a slip between the cup and the lip.Scholastic Short Read Card, an educational tool widely used in schools across the world to encourage and improve reading skills in children, will be used to improve reading skills of children. Scholastic is a US company which has been into publications for children for almost 50 years. The cards, which are commonly used in urban elite schools, contain pictures and stories in fiction and non-fiction genres along with instructions for teachers and activities to make reading a high-retention activity. “A number of cards from the set, which will be used in schools, have been re-imagined to include regional aspects and considerations by an expert panel,” said director, basic education, Sarvendra Vikram Singh. Officials at the basic education department said Scholastic cards for all 820 schools were being sponsored by HCL Foundation’s Samuday Project. The districts where the programme will be introduced are Bulandshahr (60 schools), Lakhimpur Kheri (75), Siddharthnagar (65), Hardoi (319), Sonbhadra (40), Shravasti (25), Chitrakoot (25), Varanasi (40), Gorakhpur (95), Gautam Budh Nagar (20), Lucknow (40) and Barabanki (16). Educationists believe that the programme is the need of the hour, especially in the backdrop of the ASER report which has shown that nearly one-third students of classes 1-3 in UP have difficulty in reading. “Reading stimulates a number of crucial skills in children. This includes language, creativity, critical thinking and power of expression, besides triggering cognitive development,” educationist and founder of the Institute of Career Studies, Amrita Dass, said. She said children prefer engaging in audio-visual activities. “If innovative approaches to reading can grab their attention, their overall knowledge and skills will be enhanced,” she added. A faculty member at the Centre for Biomedical Research at the Sanjay Gandhi Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, who has conducted several brain-related researches, said: “Reading is the stepping stone for development of language which is a must in achieving functional goals of brain such as improving concentration, enhancing memory and instilling a desire to explore.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/eng-reading-lessons-for-primary-students/articleshow/77752124.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 26, 2020||Goa||Validity of vehicle papers extended till Dec 31||Panaji: The state directorate of transport has extended the validity of documents like driving licenses, permits and registration that have expired since February 1, as valid till December 31 due to the pandemic. With the closure of state transport offices during the lockdown, citizens across the state were facing difficulties to renew various documents related to Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 and Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989. For the convenience of citizens, the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) extended the validity of several documents that might have expired on or after February 1, 2020 to be valid till June 30. This included the validity of various documents including vehicle fitness certificates, permits of all types, driving licenses, registration or any other documents whose extension of validity could not or likely be processed due to the lockdown. The validity of documents was further extended to September 30. With the prevailing conditions due to the Covid-19 pandemic, enforcement authorities have been advised to treat such documents valid till December 31, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/validity-of-vehicle-papers-extended-till-dec-31/articleshow/77752116.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Shimla||Manali hotels to open from October 1||MANALI: Hotels in Manali, a major tourist destination in Himachal Pradesh, will open from October 1. The hoteliers on Tuesday unanimously decided to resume operation to recover from the damage caused by the lockdown. Realizing that recovery from Covid-19 pandemic may take more time than expected, the hoteliers said they cannot afford to stay closed anymore. However, they are not in a hurry and do not want to take risk and decided that they will remain closed in September to get themselves ready to welcome tourists in October. Not just hotels, the guesthouses and homestay units will make necessary arrangements to resume operations in October. “After remaining closed for over five months since March 22, hoteliers unanimously decided in the meeting to open from October 1. Till then, we shall make all the arrangements and preparations to provide tourists with high standards of hygiene and sanitization. We will also recruit staff by then,” Manali Hoteliers’ Association president Anup Ram Thakur said. It was also decided that if any hotel wish to remain closed even after October, nobody will force it to open. Thousands of staff members working in hotels had temporarily or permanently lost their jobs in March and April. Finding and recruiting both skilled and unskilled staff in a few days was not easy. Thakur said hoteliers will face some challenges in ensuring smooth operations like protecting the staff and local community from Covid-19 and to handle patients, if found any, as Manali does not have a dedicated Covid care centre. He said tourists will come after proper check-up, but they will have to be ready for any eventuality. “The hospitality sector is facing severe financial crisis. This is the time when we have to take bold and intelligent decisions for the welfare of the state where lakhs of people are directly or indirectly dependent on tourism,” he said. The hoteliers have asked the government to fulfill a few of their demands before they resume operation. Their main demand was to establish a dedicated Covid care centre in Manali and to make some changes to the SOPs. They said government had prepared SOPs in accordance with large hotels while most of the hotels are small and based in the rural areas. They requested government to form a team of specialist members which should visit the villagers to take feedback to re-issue the SOP. Tourist inflow in Himachal remains weak till September due to monsoon season while it picks up pace in the festive season in October. If hotels in Manali open, hoteliers in other districts are expected to follow suit. Himachal government had decided to open the state for tourists in July, but tourists were not able to get hotel booking in major tourist places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/manali-hotels-to-open-from-october-1/articleshow/77751169.cms||Suresh Sharma
August 26, 2020||Vijayawada||13th century wells, ponds point the way to water mgmt||Guntur: While present-day governments are struggling to chalk out effective water management policies, the 13th century Reddy king of Kondaveedu region had developed massive water bodies at the hill fort. Several ponds and deep wells dug in the 13th century were filled with water following recent heavy rains and attracting tourists to Kondaveedu fort. The water bodies were designed in between the hills at a height of several thousands of feet from ground level. Archaeologists were surprised at the way water ponds and deep wells were constructed in different places which were suitable not only to tap flood and rain waters but also help recharge ground water across the region. “Normally, it is difficult to preserve water on hill slopes which makes it difficult to manage drinking water needs of the armies of a kingdom. However, Prolaya Vemareddy, the first king of Reddy kingdom, had moved his capital from the plain area of Addanki in Prakasam district to Kondaveedu only after readying a good number of water bodies on the top of the hills,” said historian Kalli Sivareddy. Interestingly, many water bodies are intact even after the passage of several centuries and help neighbouring villages get their ground water recharged. The wells located at Kondaveedu fort were dug deep so that they would never run dry. “Many of the tanks located on the hill top were fortified with 30ft width bund. This shows the perfect planning of the rulers on water management centuries ago,” said Sivareddy. Curiously, deep wells from top to bottom were interconnected with underground pipelines, which help pumping of surplus water from an upper-end well to a downstream well in a systematic manner. Archaeologists also found deep wells adjacent to massive open tanks on the fort hill. These wells, archaeologists said, demonstrated an exemplary way of designing water bodies to provide water to thousands of army personnel as well as other workers at the fort. The water bodies developed in between the three hills of Kondaveedu turned several thousands of acres at the bottom of the hills green thanks to the availability of abundant ground water in the region. Sivareddy said recent rains have made the region around the fort particularly picturesque, bringing more visitors to the hilltop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/13th-century-wells-ponds-point-the-way-to-water-mgmt/articleshow/77749650.cms||Samdani MN
August 26, 2020||Agra||Four days and counting: No trace of minor girl who disappeared from Etah police station||AGRA: There was no trace of a girl, 16, who went mysteriously missing four days ago from a police station in Etah district hours after being “freed” from her kidnapper. Soon after her disappearance, the SHO, IO and a woman constable of Awagarh police station were suspended and four teams were pressed into action to find the girl. Police believe that the girl has eloped with the “kidnapper” and their mobile phones are also switched off. Superintendent of police (crime) of Etah Rahul Kumar said, “Four teams are working on the case. Luv Kush (the primary suspect) is believed to have left the district with the girl. Their mobile phones are switched off. We have got some significant lead in the matter and the girl will be brought back safe very soon.” According to the family, the girl disappeared on August 14 when she went out to attend nature's call. After a police complaint and three days of search she was found in a nearby village on Thursday. But the “kidnapper”, Luv Kush, gave police a slip. On Friday, a medical examination on the girl was conducted. And just before she was to be taken to the magistrate to record a statement, the girl went missing. Police said that the girl locked the woman constable inside a toilet and fled after scaling the wall of Awagarh police station. The family, however, alleged that policemen were involved in abetting her “abduction”. They alleged that the suspect’s uncle was let off after brief questioning. To it, newly-appointed station house officer (SHO) of Awagarh, Vijay Pratap, said, “On basis of an FIR, three men were detained for questioning. They have been released for now. The investigation is in progress.” Earlier an FIR was registered against unidentified persons under sections 363 and 366 in the IPC and under POCSO Act (both for kidnapping) based on a complaint filed by the girl’s father. On Saturday, another FIR named 11 persons, including the prime suspect Luv Kush, and charged them under sections 364 (kidnapping for murder) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. SHO KK Balyan, IO Devraj and constable Anuradha were suspended by SSP Sunil Kumar Singh and a departmental inquiry was ordered against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/4-days-and-counting-no-trace-of-minor-girl-who-disappeared-from-etah-police-station/articleshow/77748152.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Server issue delays online quiz, time for submission extended||Ludhiana: City children studying in government schools participated in an online quiz organised by the education department on Monday, which was later continued till Tuesday. There was some trouble with the link generated by the department as it showed busy as claimed by teachers and the students, due to which it did not open. The quiz is an initiative to prepare students for the National Achievement Survey. The syllabus from April 2020 to July 2020 was included in this. A government teacher while requesting anonymity said, “The link was not getting opened and then we complained about this to the education department .A new link was generated and then we forwarded a new link to students and not even 30% of students could submit the quiz by 3pm.” Another teacher Kirandeep from government school, Sihora, said, “ Due to online traffic in morning, the site was busy as everyone started together, but later it went smooth. The students initially panicked but then they got extended time to submit the quiz.” Rapwinder Kaur, science teacher from government school, Thireke, said, “We are in regular touch with students. Though, they are facing issues but they continued with their efforts to submit it. It’s just 30 objective type questions which they would be able to solve within 30 minutes.” Ravnoor Singh , a class IX student of government school, Thireke, a special child who faced difficulty while attempting . His mother Harpreet Kaur, a resident of Khanna colony near Basant City, said, “The exam was good, however, in beginning there was some problem with the site not opening and then I saw a video and was able to open the link. He was able to attempt it but he took a lot of time in solving maths portion.” Piyush from GSSS Jawahar Nagar, who is studying in class X and a resident of Abdullanpur Basti, said , “ I tried to open the link again and again . There was an error in the system but it opened after two hours. I was thinking that it is going to be difficult, but it was easy.” Veer, another student from the same school said , “ There was a problem in the link and I tried a lot of time . Most of my classmates faced issue . I started opening the link at 8am and kept on trying again and again. I was able to finish it around 2pm.” Davinder Singh Chinna, principal of GSSS Shahpur, said, “PAS survey is getting tremendous response.” Time for submission extended The department has issued instructions that PAS survey link will remain active till 8pm, Tuesday, for all classes. So, please ask students not to panic and if link is not opening, ask them to try it later as now we have one more day to submit it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/server-issue-delays-online-quiz-time-for-submission-extended/articleshow/77749686.cms||Mehak Jain
August 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Turnaround: Cases drop by 40% in Bengaluru south||BENGALURU: Not long ago, fears of community transmission loomed over Bengaluru south zone as the positivity rate hovered around 25%. But barely a month on, a robust system has reversed the trend. After cases spiralled alarmingly in June and July, zonal health officials launched an aggressive community testing drive to reduce the positivity rate to 12% over a month. Officials involved in Covid-19 management say the number of cases daily in South zone has crashed from 500 to 300 — a 40% drop. State Covid-19 War Room data shows that of 5,20,308 contacts (primary and secondary) of patients identified in Bengaluru Urban, 1,62,480 were in south zone, comprising BTM Layout, Basavanagudi, Jayanagar, Padmanabhanagar, Vijayanagar and Padarayanapura wards, besides parts of Byatarayanapura. The zone is home to an estimated 19-lakh people. Between March 8 and August 18, south zone reported 18,746 positive cases, just a tad lower than west zone which reported 20,515 cases. But testing was scaled up to 140%, as part of the test-track-trace-treatment strategy. Dr Shivakumar M, health officer, BBMP south zone said they adopted an aggressive all-round strategy to contain the spread. “We feared community spread, so we targeted communities and tested its members,” Dr Shivakumar said. “We launched a campaign to test people working in factories, for example. Likewise, we tested traders and BBMP pourakarmikas and other communities as well. As manpower also increased by August, we worked at the booth-level to trace at least 20 [including primary and secondary] contacts of each positive patient. This number used to be 3-4 in June and July.” A well-coordinated team kept a hawk’s eye on individuals in home quarantine. The health officer said, “We reduced the positivity rate by half. We want to bring it to under 5%. We are conducting at least 5,000 tests every day, which is the highest in Bengaluru. We want to conduct tests in gated communities like apartments as well, but for that we need public cooperation.” South zone nodal officer Munish Moudgil said increased testing and robust isolation monitoring helped reduce numbers. He said in July, south zone was reporting about 500 cases a day, but it has now come down to 300 per day. “Among all the zones, the testing numbers and the contact tracing numbers are the highest on south zone. It is second highest in terms of contacts per patient and has the highest home quarantine visits per day,” he said.  BBMP data shows Covid-19 cases in west zone have significantly increased over the past few days. About 500-600 positive cases are being reported from the zone every day in the 10 days leading to August 23. West zone now accounts for 25% of positive cases reported in the city in the 10 days, while the south zone’s share has fallen to 16%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/big-turnaround-for-bluru-south-as-daily-cases-drop-by-40/articleshow/77748960.cms||Kiran Parashar
August 26, 2020||India||It’s not about a post, it’s about my country: Sibal||NEW DELHI: Outnumbered by 'loyalists' at the CWC meeting on Monday, several dissenting members who signed the letter seeking a "fully active and visible" leadership for the party took to social media to explain their positions. Senior advocate and Rajya Sabha MP Kapil Sibal, who had on Monday tweeted an angry reaction to a claim that Rahul Gandhi had alleged that the dissenters were "colluding with BJP" only to retract it later, said on Tuesday that the concerns they had voiced were "not about a post, it's about my country". Sibal's sentiments were echoed by Vivek Tankha, another signatory to the letter. "Friends, we are not dissenters but proponents of revival, the letter was not a challenge to the leadership but a parchment of action to strengthen the party. Universally, truth is best defence whether it be court or public affairs, history acknowledges the brave and not the timid," he said on Twitter. Friends we are not dissenters but proponents of revival :: the letter was not a challenge to leadership but a parch… https://t.co/3NuboP4KUQ— Vivek Tankha (@VTankha) 1598319500000In a second tweet, Tankha congratulated Congress's legal team, of which both he and Sibal are part, for defending the party in various courts across the country. "Thanks Team Congress lawyers for the success in Rajasthan HC in BSP MLA disqualification case. From Arunachal to Uttarakhand to Karnataka to Maharashtra, its story of Team Congress lawyers. Team an envy of any party," he said, tagging Sibal, P Chidambaram, Abhishek Singhvi, Salman Khurshid and KTS Tulsi. Incidentally, Khurshid has been a vocal critic of attempts to question the Gandhi family's leadership of Congress. Tulsi was not a signatory to the letter. Party veteran Anil Shastri said the impasse could have been avoided if Sonia Gandhi and Rahul were more accessible to party workers, specifically mentioning that those arriving in Delhi to meet the Gandhi family were often denied an audience.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/its-not-about-a-post-its-about-my-country-sibal/articleshow/77753479.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Kin of fire mishap victims receive Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has given Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia to the kin of the deceased in the fire that broke out at the Swarna Palace Hotel in the city on August 9. It will be recalled that the hotel had been taken on lease by Ramesh Hospitals and turned into a Covid Care Centre. Deputy chief minister and health minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas (Nani), ministers Kodali Venkateswara Rao (Nani) and Vellampalli Srinivas, MLAs Malladi Vishnu and Samineni Udayabhanu and Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz handed over the cheques. The health minister said the government will not tolerate corrupt practices by corporate hospitals. “Apathy of Ramesh Hospitals has resulted in the death of 10 Covid-19 patients. We have identified that the management of Ramesh Hospitals flouted the rules and collected huge amounts from patients. Cases were booked against them for violations and stringent action will be initiated. We have asked them to give a reply on the incident by August 30, after which further action will be decided,” Nani said. The minister said chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has extended support to the kin of the deceased, adding, “We cannot fill the loss of human life and these families lost their breadwinners. The government’s support will help them overcome pain,” Nani added. Six beneficiaries received cheques at Vijaywada and another three beneficiaries were given cheques at Machilipatnam. Another beneficiary from Prakasam district will receive the cheque at their doorstep.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/kin-of-fire-mishap-victims-receive-rs-50l-ex-gratia/articleshow/77749674.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Kolkata||Two days, two letters: West Bengal CM urges PM to appeal to SC on JEE, NEET||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, on receiving a letter from the National Testing Agency (NTA) over conducting the JEE and NEET exams from September 1, wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday—her third letter since July 11 on exams, and second in two successive days —urging the Centre to appeal before the Supreme Court to review its decision “in the interest of the student community”. The Supreme Court on August 17 rejected the PILs seeking to defer both the entrance exams. “I am aware that the Hon’ble Supreme Court has given a verdict on holding JEE/NEET examinations and the central government has been issuing instructions to go ahead with it accordingly. However, I would like to request for your kind intervention and to consider the Central government making an appeal to the Hon’ble Apex Court to review its decision in the interest of the student community, so that they are free from mental agony and mental disaster,” she wrote to the PM. “Such intervention is very much essential in the larger interest of the students to facilitate creating a situation whereby the students will neither be subjected to grave health risk nor they will be facing a career risk.” “Today our government has received a letter from the National Testing Agency to conduct the JEE/NEET examinations starting from September 1, 2020. We are really worried and concerned,” she wrote. “I would request you to kindly appreciate the sensitivity of the matter and consider taking necessary action for posting these examinations until the public health situation becomes conducive again... Indeed, I have been consistently arguing that the current pandemic situation is an unprecedented crisis in the country and we should not put any life in jeopardy during this pandemic period by taking such decisions.” The JEE (Main) is scheduled between September 1 and 6, JEE (Advanced) on September 27 and the NEET on September 13. The CM had first written to the PM on exams on July 11, when she urged his intervention to postpone all terminal examinations in universities/colleges across the country and to follow the first guidelines issued by the UGC. She wrote her second letter on Monday, requesting him to postpone JEE and NEET slated for September, arguing that the exams, if held, would pose “grave health risks” to the examinees. Banerjee also tweeted, “In our last video conference with the Hon’ble PM Shri Narendra Modi Ji, I had been vocal against the UGC guidelines mandating completion of terminal examinations in Universities/Colleges by the end of September 2020, which had a huge potential to put student lives at risk.” Welcoming Banerjee’s appeal to the Centre, educationists, like Amiya Kumar Maity, director of the Kolkata-based Dr Maity Educational and Medical Research Institute, said, “In this situation, it will be challenging to conduct NEET (UG), a three-hour, 720-mark exam.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-days-two-letters-cm-urges-pm-to-appeal-to-sc-on-jee-neet/articleshow/77751176.cms||Saibal Gupta
August 26, 2020||Lucknow||Real estate makes comeback, employs 1 lakh migrant workers||LUCKNOW: The real estate sector has been affected by massive delays over the past few years. The Covid-19-induced lockdown has marked an extremely bleak period for the industry. However, what has come as a blessing in disguise for the sector is the mass migration of workers back to UP during the lockdown. More than 1 lakh workers who returned from other states have already been employed in several construction projects. Another 1.5 lakh will be absorbed by it in the next three to four months as the real estate sector attempts to get back on its feet. In May, real estate developers body NAREDCO UP had signed an MoU with the state government to provide 2.5 lakh jobs to migrant workers. Its members had, by then, already started providing transportation and accommodation to labourers to attract them into taking up work at their projects. The state government has prepared an extensive list of migrant workers and their skill sets, which it has shared with various agencies to link workers with jobs to suit their capabilities. It had given a preliminary list of 2.8 lakh migrant workers to NAREDCO to suit their work profile. According to a survey of about 30 lakh workers done by the government, construction labourers form the largest chunk of workers with 2.9 lakh registered workers and 55,609 painters. Other than construction labourers, there are 53,335 other labourers, along with 42,029 carpenters. Chairperson of Supertech Group and president of NAREDCO UP RK Arora said that after the lifting of the lockdown, buses full of workers from eastern parts of UP have been arriving in the NCR regions where a majority of real estate projects are located. “Against employment to 2.5 lakh as committed by the body, approximately 1 lakh workmen have joined various real estate projects over the past two months. As more and more projects start work, we are confident that the remaining 1.5 lakh will also be engaged within the next three months,” he said. Based on the MoU and the skill details shared by the government, member builders of NAREDCO submitted a demand for about 1 lakh workers, both skilled and unskilled. These include Supertech, Ajnara, Panchsheel, Migsun, Antriksh, Earthcon, ACE, Purvanchal, Logix, Sunshine and Indus Valley for their projects in NCR, Meerut, Moradabad and Lucknow among others. Arora said that when projects start work in full swing, approximately 40 lakh workers will be required. NAREDCO has set up a 10-member committee to individually contact people whose details were shared by the government and to coordinate with different local real estate projects for their placement. As per the MoU, it will also provide skill training to those who need it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/real-estate-makes-comeback-employs-1-lakh-migrant-workers/articleshow/77752143.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Of 13 warriors who died, kin of only one got Rs 50 lakh||BENGALURU: The Rs 50 lakh compensation announced by the Centre for health workers dying while on Covid-19 duty has so far reached the family of only one of the 13 persons. The family of ambulance driver Krishnamurthi RC, who died in a road accident on April 24 while on Covid work, received the money under the PM’s Garib Kalyan Yojana on August 19. The scheme assures an amount of Rs 50 lakh to the family of those dying of the infection or while at work. The state government claims that the proposals were sent immediately after the death, but insurance companies have raised objections in some cases. In three cases, the insurer has stated that the application was ‘ineligible’. These cases include that of a junior health assistant from Kolar who died of cardiac arrest on April 4, a Chikkaballapur surgeon who died of cardiac arrest on April 16, and an accredited healthcare activist (Asha) from Ballari who died on May 10. “The government had assured compensation to the family of the Asha worker who died a day after she collapsed at work. How can it be said that she is ineligible? The state government has to fight further to ensure that her family gets compensation,” said Varalakshmi S of Asha workers’ union. In two cases, the state’s application has been approved by the insurer and the payment is being processed. These include the ASHA worker from Kalaburagi who was killed in a road accident when she was on her way to the taluk health office on May 15 and an anganawadi teacher from Bagalakot who was also killed in a road accident on May 18. Families of the healthcare workers say the emotional and financial cost of their loss is beyond words. “My brother left home at 8am for work and at 9am, the ambulance came back home. He was killed in a road accident. Life changed to worse for us in just an hour,” Anand RC, elder brother of Krishnamurthy, ambulance driver, said. Krishnamurthy is survived by his five-year-old daughter, wife and elderly parents. Though the state health directorate says the scheme covers private healthcare workers as well, the state’s list of claims does not yet include the 51-year-old nurse from Santosh hospital, Bengaluru, who died after she was infected at work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/of-13-covid-warriors-who-died-only-one-got-rs-50l-compensation/articleshow/77749115.cms||Sunitha Rao R
August 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: 11-year-long wait for retaining wall continues||VIJAYAWADA: Every year, colonies on the banks of the Krishna river face the same fate: inundation during the monsoon. Apathy of irrigation authorities and low allocation of funds by the government have held up for 11 years the project to build a retaining wall on the riverbank and led to complaints by locals over the long delay. In the 2009 floods, Ranigari Thota, Balaji Nagar, Yanamalakuduru and Ramalingeswara Nagar were completely inundated, prompting the erstwhile state government to construct a retaining wall to prevent floodwaters from entering residential colonies. But the project remained on paper till 2015. The Telugu Desam Party (TDP)-led government, which included the issue in its 2014 election manifesto, had divided the project into three phases. The project cost later escalated from Rs 46 crore in 2010 to Rs 164 crore in 2015 on account of delays in execution. Finally, in 2016, work on the first phase from Yenamalakuduru to Bhupesh Gupta Nagar started with a revised estimate of Rs 170 crore and was completed by the end of 2018. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy later sanctioned Rs 125 crore for the project and ministers Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy and Anil Kumar Yadav laid the foundation stone for the project in February 2020. A timeline was fixed but work was stalled following the Covid-19 outbreak. Meanwhile, locals in Bhupesh Gupta Nagar and other low-lying areas that were inundated following recent floods in the city expressed unhappiness at the delay. “Political parties which are making promises on constructing a retaining wall are ignoring it later. TDP failed to complete the works as promised in the 2014 election manifesto. YSRC did the same in the last 14 months. Politicians used to visit our colonies during the flood and ignore us later,” said K Naidu, a resident of Bhupesh Gupta Nagar. YSRC leaders, however, said they are committed to completing the project and works will start soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/11-yr-long-wait-for-retaining-wall-continues/articleshow/77749688.cms||Venu Lanka
August 26, 2020||Jaipur||BJP plans series of protests from Friday||Jaipur: The BJP has advanced its series of protests and demonstrations in the state from August 31 to August 28.The party leaders have planned a multi-directional series of protests for the next three months to revive the party cadre under the newly appointed state office-bearers. The strategy was planned in the first meeting of party office-bearers on August 23.“On August 28, the party leaders will stage a protest at all GSS to kick-start our campaign for rebate and waiver of power bills, school fees and launch a campaign against the rising crime in the state,” said Poonia. The next move will be on August 30. The party leaders will register its protest at all block level. While the major protest will be on September 2 which will see BJPs MP, MLAs and district presidents will stage a protest at district collectorate for the same demands.This is for the first time, in the Congress rule, the BJP has planned a strategy to take on the ruling government. The party has given charge of these programmes to its team members. “The success of these campaigns will determine the credibility of the new team. It will give a befitting reply to those who were unhappy with the team composition. It will also give a clear picture to the party that who all are capable of what,” said a senior party leader.Once they are done with the current issues, the new team will take up the ruling party’s promises made during the assembly polls. From loan waiver for farmers to unemployment, the party will stage a similar state-wide protest.Reacting to the end of the assembly session, Poonia said that it’s unfortunate that the ruling government passed 10-12 amendments without giving the opposition a chance to even read it. “Had they gave us the time on the amendment passed by them, we would have discussed in the assembly. It would have resulted in a positive outcome,” said Poonia.Raising the issue of diversion of cow cess money into other schemes, Poonia said that the government mismanagement in financial affairs has been exposed. “The money meant for the development of Nandi Shalas and Cow Shelters have been used for other departments including Covid treatment. It is the reason that petrol and diesel prices in the state is among the highest due to the cess government is charging on many things,” said Poonia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-plans-series-of-protests-from-friday/articleshow/77751178.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Those facing problems even after ICU recovery to get oxygen concentrators||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has kept two oxygen concentrators each at its 300 dispensaries and 10 each at every chief district medical officer’s office to offer people free short-term oxygen therapy at home if they report low saturation levels even after recovering from Covid-19 at ICUs. Several officials at 11 districts said they were ready to install oxygen concentrators for free at recovered patients’ homes if required. This device generates oxygen from room air. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced the move in his Independence Day speech. The government already provides oximeters to check oxygen levels of patients under home isolation. “The devices will be installed in the houses of the patients who will report an oxygen saturation level below 93% in two consecutive readings and less than 93% saturation after three minutes of ambulation and nocturnal hypoxia (sleep-related breathing disorder),” said a health official. “The number of devices is adequate because not many people will require them. The devices are for people who have returned from ICU but are still reporting low oxygen saturation levels,” he added. People who are in home isolation or have recovered at home will be taken to hospital in such cases. District officials have been trained to administer the domiciliary short-term oxygen therapy. “The patients who recover from ICU will be given the contact number of the nearest government dispensary for seeking help,” said Dr Neeraj Roy, district surveillance officer for West district. According to the standard operating procedure, the patients who are discharged from Covid-ICU need to contact the nearest dispensary for oximeters. All of them will self-monitor their oxygen levels every six hours for 14 days after discharge and maintain a written record. The district teams will install the concentrator at the patients’ homes and guide them about its operations. Voter ID cards will serve as the address proof for verification of a person who needs an oxygen concentrator. “The patients will be given numbers of the officials concerned whom they can contact in case the medical device breaks down,” said an official. A district level team will remotely monitor the health of those getting oxygen therapy at home and once in a week, the patients will be physically visited by health professionals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/those-facing-problems-even-after-icu-recovery-to-get-oxygen-concentrators/articleshow/77751210.cms||AlokKNMishra
August 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Corporation asks shops to test staff for Covid||COIMBATORE: With commercial establishments increasingly turning transmission points of the novel coronavirus, city corporation commissioner J Sravan Kumar has directed them to test their employees for Covid-19 through pool testing method on a rotational basis once in 10 days. Pool testing is a process in which nose or throat swabs of multiple people are combined in a test tube and tested for Covid-19 using the real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction procedure. If the result is negative, all individual samples in that pool are regarded as safe. If positive, each person in the pool will be tested individually to find out the infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-asks-shops-to-test-staff-for-covid/articleshow/77751180.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Dehradun||55-year-old platoon commander dies of Covid-19, first casualty in U’khand police||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand police reports first death due to Covid-19 in the state. A 55-year-old platoon commander of the 46th battalion of Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) in Udham Singh Nagar district died of coronavirus on Tuesday. Shivraj Singh Rana, who was posted in Dehradun, was tested Covid-19 positive on August 21. He was admitted at Doon hospital and died during treatment. DGP Anil Raturi, DG (law and order) Ashok Kumar along with other senior IPS officers paid condolences at Dehradun police lines. Meanwhile, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat also expressed grief over the death of platoon commander.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/55-year-old-platoon-commander-dies-of-covid-19-first-casualty-in-ukhand-police/articleshow/77748193.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt appoints panel to probe Pushkar ghat corruption||Vijayawada: The state government on Monday appointed a commission to probe the alleged corruption in the construction of Pushkar ghat in Vijayawada. The Krishna Pushkaram was held in 2016. The previous state government had constructed Pushkar ghat at Pavithra Sangaman, and Padmavathi and Krishna Veni ghats. The YSRC government alleged that the works were given under the nomination process at a higher cost ignoring the guidelines. Irrigation authorities suspect huge misappropriation of funds in the works and appointed senior IAS officer RP Sisodia as head of the commission to probe corruption. The irrigation authorities have ordered a probe against retired chief engineer YS Sudhakar, SE Sugunakar Rao, AE MVS Ravi Babu and retired CE M Venkata Rao. The commission has been given two months to prepare a detailed report. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-appoints-panel-to-probe-pushkar-ghat-corruption/articleshow/77749691.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Jaipur||Raje & Poonia hold closed-door meeting||Jaipur: Former CM Vasundhara Raje held a closed-door meeting with BJP state president Satish Poonia, BJP general secretary Chandrashekar and party’s national general secretary V Satish at the party headquarters on Tuesday. Sources said the meeting was planned to discuss the party’s strategy to take on the state government from August 28.“The meeting lasted for around two hours. The points of discussion were party’s strategy, absenteeism of four MLAs from the assembly, the functioning of a new team and feedback on the recently held assembly session,” said a BJP functionary, who added that the BJP office got to know about the arrival of Raje two hours in advance. Poonia termed it just a courtesy meeting. Another meeting was held among the three, excluding Raje. A senior party leader said the meeting was intended to showcase the party’s unity. Sources said party leaders discussed ways to deal with the absence of four MLAs from the midst of the assembly session on August 14. They deliberated on whether the matter should be scaled up to disciplinarian committee. “The investigation on the four MLAs is yet to be over. The party is taking feedback from local BJP leaders of their constituencies,” said Poonia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raje-poonia-hold-closed-door-meeting/articleshow/77751182.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Old rivalry leads to brutal attack on man in Haibowal||Ludhiana: Following an old rivalry, a group of miscreants attacked a man in the Haibowal area on Saturday night and brutally assaulted him with sharp-edged weapons. After the accused escaped, some passerby called the police. On reaching the spot the Haibowal police rushed the injured man to hospital. The injured has been identified as Arun Paswan, a labourer of Jassiyan village of Haibowal. He is still admitted in the hospital. The Haibowal police have registered a case against accused Mamta, Nikki, Pawan, Sarjeet Singh, Balwinder, Lavi, Sooraj Pal, Krishan Dev, Ravi and three unidentified accomplices under Sections of 307 (attempt to murder), 341 (wrongful restrain), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in persecution of common objection) of the IPC. Sub-inspector Jaskanwal Singh, SHO at Haibowal police station, said that the accused and victim had an old rivalry. Earlier in March this year, the accused and the victim had a fight over some issue and they had beaten up each other. That time a cross FIR was registered against them. The SHO added, “On August 22, Arun was going on his motorcycle near Haibowal area. When he reached near Gian Vidya Mandir, the accused intercepted his way and attacked him with sharp-edged weapons. After Arun fell off from his bike, he started running to save his life. However, the accused hit him on his head from behind, following which Arun fell on the road. Thereafter the accused brutally assaulted him and escaped assuming him to be dead. Thereafter, some passerby called Chandan Kumar Paswan, brother of the victim, about the incident. Chandan further called the police. Additional deputy commissioner of police-III Sameer Verma said, “The victim Arun has rivalry with Mamta, Nikki and Pawan. Earlier also, a cross FIR was registered against both victim and the accused. The exact reason for the rivalry is yet to be identified. The wrist of Arun Paswan was half chopped, besides, several other injuries. The police have registered a case and will arrest the accused soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/old-rivalry-leads-to-brutal-attack-on-man-in-haibowal/articleshow/77749715.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Cybercrimes rise across Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam during pandemic||VIJAYAWADA/VISAKHAPATNAM: Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam, which are the urban epicenters of the state’s cybercrime cases, witnessed a rise in such cases during the pandemic as people predominantly relied on online transactions. Between March 1 to July 31, Vijayawada witnessed 73 cases of cybercrime, whereas Visakhapatnam witnessed more than one case being reported per day during the first seven months of 2020. Visakhapatnam police said among the 234 cases reported, over 130 cases were registered between April to July. Cops rued that there are still many people unaware of e-commerce frauds despite several awareness programmes being conducted. Inspector of cybercrimes police station, Visakhapatnam, RVRK Choudhary, told TOI that a total of 234 cases of cybercrimes were reported from January to July in 2020. Speaking to TOI, Vijayawada cybercrime police station CI K Shivaji said there has been an increase in online job frauds in the city. “We have investigated cases in Patamata recently where miscreants lured the complainant on pretext of offering ‘work from home’. In such cases, it often happens that to convince people, they send fake appointment letters and even some work and then suddenly they say that you are inaccurate and send a legal notice,” Sivaji said. This fake legal notice demands money to be paid to a client and fearing legal implications, a victim from Patamata shelled out Rs 15,000. In another instance, a 30-year-old-man lost over Rs 1.4 lakh trying to update his KYC form by downloading an application called Anydesk for KYC completion. Both Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam commissionerates have witnessed online marketplace frauds. In the Port City, a man who had put his vehicle on sale on one such platform lost over Rs 1.2 lakh. Instead of sending a QR code to the buyer, he was sent a QR code by the unidentified buyer and told to scan it and send the buyer his bank account details. To guard against online fraud, police caution against using applications to fill in Know Your Customer (KYC) details, which allow fraudsters remote access to a device, from which collecting PIN, OTPs and bank account details is just a step away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cybercrimes-rise-across-vij-and-vizag-during-pandemic/articleshow/77749719.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Cybercrimes rise across Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam during pandemic||VIJAYAWADA/VISAKHAPATNAM: Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam, which are the urban epicenters of the state’s cybercrime cases, witnessed a rise in such cases during the pandemic as people predominantly relied on online transactions. Between March 1 to July 31, Vijayawada witnessed 73 cases of cybercrime, whereas Visakhapatnam witnessed more than one case being reported per day during the first seven months of 2020. Visakhapatnam police said among the 234 cases reported, over 130 cases were registered between April to July. Cops rued that there are still many people unaware of e-commerce frauds despite several awareness programmes being conducted. Inspector of cybercrimes police station, Visakhapatnam, RVRK Choudhary, told TOI that a total of 234 cases of cybercrimes were reported from January to July in 2020. Speaking to TOI, Vijayawada cybercrime police station CI K Shivaji said there has been an increase in online job frauds in the city. “We have investigated cases in Patamata recently where miscreants lured the complainant on pretext of offering ‘work from home’. In such cases, it often happens that to convince people, they send fake appointment letters and even some work and then suddenly they say that you are inaccurate and send a legal notice,” Sivaji said. This fake legal notice demands money to be paid to a client and fearing legal implications, a victim from Patamata shelled out Rs 15,000. In another instance, a 30-year-old-man lost over Rs 1.4 lakh trying to update his KYC form by downloading an application called Anydesk for KYC completion. Both Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam commissionerates have witnessed online marketplace frauds. In the Port City, a man who had put his vehicle on sale on one such platform lost over Rs 1.2 lakh. Instead of sending a QR code to the buyer, he was sent a QR code by the unidentified buyer and told to scan it and send the buyer his bank account details. To guard against online fraud, police caution against using applications to fill in Know Your Customer (KYC) details, which allow fraudsters remote access to a device, from which collecting PIN, OTPs and bank account details is just a step away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cybercrimes-rise-across-vij-and-vizag-during-pandemic/articleshow/77757533.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 26, 2020||Erode||Breach in Bhavani canal gate submerges 10 acre of farmland||ERODE: More than 10 acre of farmland got submerged after a shutter of the lower Bhavani canal breached near Semandampalayam near Gobichettipalayam in Erode district on Tuesday. Officials from the public works department rushed to the spot and blocked the seepage by placing wooden logs and sand bags. The state government had recently ordered PWD officials to release water from Bhavanisagar dam into the Thadapalli-Arakkankottai canal and Lower Bhavani canal for irrigation needs of farmers in Erode, Karur and Tirupur districts. Nearly 1.35 lakh acre of lands are irrigated by water released from the dam. Currently, 2,300 cusec of water was being released in both the canals on alternate days. On Tuesday morning, the shutter in one of the sub-canals of the main lower Bhavani canal suffered a breach. “All of a sudden, water started gushing out through the shutter,” said K Periasamy, a farmer from Semandampalayam village. He added that nearly 10 acre of land close to the sub-canal got submerged. Farmers said they immediately alerted PWD officials about the seepage. “We placed sand bags and wooden logs to close the shutter temporarily,” said a PWD official, who didn’t want to be named. He added that they will replace the shutter with a new one at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/breach-in-bhavani-canal-gate-submerges-10-acre-of-farmland/articleshow/77751241.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Ludhiana||FIR sought in death of 9-yr-old special child||Ludhiana: A member of the District Child Welfare Committee has written to the Ludhiana Police, alleging Sehyog Halfway Home for Mental Illness, Jamalpur, forcibly sent a nine-year-old boy home after which he died. The complainant also alleged that the child was in need of extra medical care, but the centre had no such facility due to which he was sent back. He demanded an FIR against the superintendent of the home. The deceased boy is from Nagra village in Samrala. On August 21, he was found dead inside a pond in his village under mysterious circumstances. The complainant, who wished to remain anonymous, said, “There is no medical aid, no counsellors, no psychiatrist to take care of children in need. The child needed special medical attention, so the superintendent of the institute forcibly sent him back. The child is an orphan and has an elderly grandmother. The superintendent forced her to take back the boy.”“I have written to commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal for an FIR against the authorities of the child care institute for being negligent. Moreover, they sent the child back without permission of the Child Welfare Committee, which is illegal,” he added. Superintendent of Sehyog Halfway Home for Mental Illness Kamaljit Singh said, “These allegations are baseless. I did not force anyone to take back the child. After a few months, the kin of children take them home for a few days to spend time with them. The child’s grandmother took him back on her own volition on March 17 and a few days later lockdown was imposed. Therefore, he could not come back to our centre.”“As far as the facilities are concerned, we have a tie-up with the Mohandai Oswal Hospital, which treats our children on priority and free of cost. Besides, doctors visit our centre every 15 days. We have 16 children, of which six are on leave and 10 are at the centre. When we can take care of other children, why would we send the nine-year-old home?” A resident of Nagra village, who helped in getting the child admitted in August 2018, said, “The superintendent is quite rude. He used to call us every 15 days to take the boy home. In March too, he forced his grandmother to take him back. He had said he would throw him out on the road if she did not take him back.”Agarwal said, “The case is being investigated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fir-sought-in-death-of-9-yr-old-special-child/articleshow/77748209.cms||Payal Dhawan
August 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Restaurateurs seek excise fee waiver in September||NEW DELHI: Even as restaurants await the nod of LG Anil Baijal to be able to serve alcohol again, a group of restaurateurs met deputy CM Sisodia and the excise commissioner to request them to waive off the licence fee due in September. Most outlets usually pay their annual licence fee in two installments. The restaurateurs claimed that since they never served alcohol from March, when they paid the first installment, the state and central governments should waive off the second portion due next month. Another worry for them was the excise commissioner’s order requiring them to furnish VAT and GST no dues certificates. The order dated July 31 stated that non-submission of no dues certificates, rent agreement, insurance and declaration affidavit would result in suspension of operations. With no business so far in the current fiscal and rent negotiations still being on for most outlets, restaurateurs want more than 21 days for submission of documents and a moratorium for VAT and GST certificates. Priyank Sukhija of First Fiddle Restaurants said many restaurants might never open if the licence fee was not waived off. Dinesh Arora of Eastman Color Restaurant said it would be an unfavourable situation for them if they had to pay again to serve liquor from September. “We have already suffered a lot of losses. I hope our request is considered by the authorities,” he added. Various restaurant bodies want to meet the LG to apprise him of their problems and request permission to serve alcohol as well as waiver of fees for the rest of the year. Restaurateurs would have to pay at least Rs 5 lakh for an outlet with a liquor licence and seating capacity of up to 50 as the second installment. The fee would be much higher for outlets having up to 200 seats. Rahul Singh of Beer Cafe said their request for the first installment to be considered as licence fee for the rest of the year was logical as there was no certainty of business over the next six months due to the constantly changing Covid scenario and government policies. Vikrant Batra, founder of Cafe Delhi Heights, said this little help from the government would make a lot of difference. “The future of our industry is really dark. If the licence fee is not exempted, it may result in closure of many establishments leading to loss of employment and revenue,” added Batra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/restaurateurs-seek-excise-fee-waiver-in-september/articleshow/77751272.cms||Amin Ali
August 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Flood-hit Godavari dists start return to normalcy||Rajahmundry: Flood-affected areas in East and West Godavari districts are gradually returning to normalcy. The water level in the Godavari river receded to 10.20 feet on Tuesday and eight lakh cusecs water is being discharged from Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage at Dowleswaram. The authorities are now busy estimating crop loss, damages to houses and livestock. People have started returning home after two weeks. But some tribal villages continue to be surrounded by floodwater. In West Godavari district, 19 villages in Polavaram and 20 villages in Velerupadu mandal are still cut off from the main roads. Power remains to be restored. Flood relief kits containing 25kg rice, 2 litres of kerosene, 1kg dal, 1 litre oil, 1kg onions and 1kg potatoes are being distributed. In Devipatnam mandal in East Godavari district, water has receded from nearly 50 per cent of the 33 habitations. However, there is no power in the areas as electric poles are inundated. Nearly 4,500 families are confined to hillocks. The situation is similar in Konaseema where water has receded from island villages and people have started returning home. Normalcy is also returning in East Godavari where all roads have been opened and power restored to four merged mandals under Chinturu ITDA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/flood-hit-godavari-dists-start-return-to-normalcy/articleshow/77749728.cms||Samson Raj
August 26, 2020||Jaipur||Excise failed to use funds to discourage drinking||Jaipur: The CAG report for financial year 2018-19 has pointed out that the excise department has failed to spend the mandated Rs 10 crore to create awareness for discouraging and limiting consumption of liquor.It said the department could not ensure effective implementation of temperance policy to minimize adverse effects of liquor consumption.Citing the excise policy, the CAG said that minimum Rs 10 crore annually was to be spent on broadcasting through television, newspaper, radio and other circulation mediums under public awareness campaign to educate the public about the bad effects of liquor and other intoxicating material.“During the scrutiny of records at EC office, it was noticed that only Rs 3.82 crore, Rs 6.05 crore and Rs 6.75 crore were spent on public awakening campaigns during the years 2015-16, 2016-17, 2017-18, respectively, against allotment of Rs 10.30 crore each year. The public awareness campaigns were not effectively organized,” it said in the report for 2018-19, released on August 21.The audit also observed that the consumption of liquor has increased from 4,830 bulk litres (BL) in 2014-15 to 5,725 (BL) in 2017-18, indicating that the department could not create proper awareness through temperance policy.With regard to the control of illegal liquor transportation from neighbouring states, the CAG report said that it could not find any evidence of a system being developed by the department to check bootlegging.The report also said that by compelling the licensees to lift 10% more liquor is an indirect promotion of alcohol. In its reply, the government said that the condition of 10% increase in lifting of liquor in the quarter compared to the same quarter last year was added to ensure revenue for the state and to check sale of unauthorized liquor.Even though the government could manage only Rs 60 crore for non-lifting of 10% more liquor during the two year – 2016-18, the report said that the government did not analyse as to how the licensees were paying the additional amount over their fixed margin on sale of liquor which was required to be sold to the consumers at a fixed price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/excise-failed-to-use-funds-to-discourage-drinking/articleshow/77751207.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Ministry of home affairs to take call on Metro by Friday||KOLKATA: The decision by the West Bengal government to impose total lockdown throughout the state on certain days, including Thursday and again on Monday, may come in the way of resumption of Metro services in Kolkata anytime soon, senior railway officials feel. While Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is in favour of resuming services of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) from September 1, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) will only take a decision for Kolkata after reviewing the situation in West Bengal. In fact, the recommendation has to come from the state government. “The situations in West Bengal and Delhi are different. Even the state government in West Bengal has indicated that the situation is not too good in districts like North 24 Parganas. This district stretches to parts of VIP Road, Dumdum and Bidhannagar. Lockdowns will continues tomorrow and again on Monday. There is also a possibility of lockdown dates being announced by the West Bengal government for September. I wonder whether the state will seek resumption of at least partial Metro services in Kolkata under the circumstances,” an official said. Metro Railway, on its part, is ready to resume restricted services. Only those with smart cards are likely to be allowed inside stations. To maintain proper distancing, every coach may only carry a third of the passengers it did before the pandemic spread. The greatest risk is the underground stretch. This (including the tunnels) is confined space where air is circulated. “We expect the MHA to take a decision by Thursday or Friday. Our assets are ready for commercial services. However, we have informed the state of the problems and the assistance required to restrict entry into the premises. Nearly a month ago, the state had wanted Metro services to resume in Kolkata, primarily for those engaged in emergency services. This plan didn’t work out finally. The MHA may leave it on the state to take a decision on resumption of services. We are awaiting a communication from Delhi,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mha-to-take-call-on-metro-by-fri/articleshow/77751214.cms||Jayanta Gupta
August 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh Covid tally rises above 3.7 lakh, active cases at 89,000||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 9,927 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative caseload to 3,71,639. The toll increased to 3,460 as 92 more Covid-19 patients succumbed to the virus. As many as 9,419 patients were declared cured on Tuesday. There are currently 89,932 active cases with about 2,78,247 lakh cumulative recoveries and 3,460 deaths, reflecting an overall recovery rate of about 75%. The recovery rate in Krishna district stood at 86.5%, while it improved to about 84% in Anantapur, West Godavari and Kurnool districts. East Godavari has the highest number of active cases of 17,750 of the cumulative 52,039 infections detected as of Tuesday, followed by 8,814 active cases in Chittoor. The recovery rate is limited to 57.5% in Vizianagaram district, while East Godavari has been battling against the disease with a 66% recovery rate. Chittoor MLA A Sreenivasulu interacted with Covid-19 patients at government general hospital, Chittoor, on Tuesday. He enquired about the facilities and treatment being provided to patients at the hospital. The MLA entered the Covid-19 treatment wards wearing a full PPE kit. Kurnool district collector G Veerapandian praised the officials for the district not reporting any new Covid-19 death on Tuesday after a long time. “I appreciate the hard of officials in making this happen,” said Veerapandian. Andhra Pradesh conducted 33.56 lakh Covid-19 tests as of Tuesday with an overall case positivity rate of 11.07%. The mortality rate is 0.93%. East Godavari reported 1,353 fresh cases on Tuesday, the highest among all districts, while Krishna district witnessed only 322 infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-19-tally-rises-above-3-7l-recovery-rate-at-75/articleshow/77749744.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Jaipur||Inefficiency, norm violations bleed RSRTC, losses mount to Rs 4,975 crore in FY19: CAG||JAIPUR: Losses of Rajasthan State Road Transport Corporation (RSRTC) shot up to Rs 4,975.52 crore in 2018-19 from Rs 2,766.90 crore in 2014-15 due to low load factor, increase in employee cost and lack of operational efficiency, revealed a CAG report. In the performance audit on ‘acquisition and utilisation of buses by RSRTC’ the accounting watchdog of the government said the corporation was not able to keep pace with the growing demand for public transport which resulted in its share of bus traffic falling from 10.36% in 2014-15 to 9.98% in 2018-19. The corporation hired and deployed the luxury and semi-deluxe buses without assessing proper requirement and feasibility of operating the buses on certain routes. Resultantly, it incurred net loss of Rs 34 crore due to operation of buses on uneconomical routes. Similarly, the percentage of overage buses increased from 7.33% in 2014-15 to 18.46% in 2018-19, while the average fleet utilization declined from 92% in 2014-15 to 68% in 2018-19. The CAG report said RSRTC was not able to achieve the diesel average target during 2014-19. Reason of non-achievement of kilometer per liter (KMPL) was mainly attributable to operation of over-aged vehicles which increased from 322 to 749 which 18.46% of total buses of the corporation as on March 2019. It consumed 108.94 lakh litres of fuel valued at Rs 60.65 crore in excess during the review period as compared to its internal targets, which had been fixed considering the local situation. The overall vehicle productivity (including hired buses) of the corporation also dropped from 397km to 392km per day during 2014-15 to 2018-19, the CAG said highlighting the poor performance. Due to cancellation of scheduled trips for want of buses and crew alone, the corporation was deprived of revenue of Rs 72.95 crore during 2014-19. Operation of buses for more than revenue kilometres caused loss of revenue of Rs 44.49 crore in 15 selected depot during 2014-19. With regard to the hiring of buses, the report discovered many lapses and violation of Rajasthan Transparency Procurement policy (RTPP). “During review of records relating to tending process for hiring 400 buses in 2015-16 and 800 in 2016-17, incidents were noticed where the corporation failed to adhere to specific provisions of RTPP rules,” it pointed out. Even the government accepted that the rules pf RTPP were not complied with as the bid document issued in August 2016 for procuring 500 chassis contained technical specifications relating to procurement but technical criteria for evaluation of the technical bids was not mentioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/inefficiency-norm-violations-bleed-rsrtc-losses-mount-to-rs-4975-crore-in-fy19-cag/articleshow/77751234.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19 claims 10 lives in dist||TNNLudhiana: Fourteen persons, including 10 from Ludhiana, died of Covid-19 at various hospitals on Tuesday, when 195 from the district and 10 outsiders tested positive. As per the local media bulletin, besides 10 from Ludhiana, the other deceased included patients from Kapurthala, Moga, Fazilka and Ferozepur.Those of the district who died at various city hospitals included a 60-year-old diabetic man from Ambedkar Nagar, a 92-year-old woman from Gurdev Enclave, an 87-year-old man from Partap Nagar with BP and coronary artery disease, a 75-year-old diabetic man from Rose Garden with chronic kidney disease and chronic liver disease, an 84-year-old man from Chandigarh Road with diabetes and BP, a 68-year-old man from Tagore Nagar with kidney problem, a 75-year-old woman of Upkar Nagar with diabetes and BP, and an 85-year-old man from BRS Nagar with various comorbidities.A 56-year-old diabetic woman from Haibowal Kalan died at the local civil hospital. A 35-year-old man from Shakti Nagar with respiratory problem died at Rajindra Hospital in Patiala. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said with this, the district toll has risen to 333 and that of outsiders to 74. Dr Bagga said to date, 1,09,651 suspects from the district have been tested.He said of the 195 patients from Ludhiana district who tested positive, 38 were from flu corner, 41 were positive cases’ contacts, 29 from OPD, five police personnel, eight healthcare workers, two travellers, 40 from tracing process and 32 undertrials.A Congress councillor, too, has tested positive.Local health department officials said the Ludhiana case count now stood at 9,026 and that of outsiders at 908.The civil surgeon said on Tuesday, 2,449 samples were sent for testing and so far 6,638 patients have recovered, which constitutes 73.54% of the total cases.DC Varinder Sharma said there were 2,052 active patients in the district. Former PSEB vice-chairman succumbs to virusEducationist and former vice-chairman of the Punjab School Education Board Suresh Tandon, 69, died of Covid-19 on Monday night. He had been suffering from the disease since August 15. His son Gaurav Tandon said he was being treated for poisoning at Satguru Pratap Hospital, Ludhiana. Suresh Tandon remained PSEB vice-chairman thrice from December 18, 2007, to May 5, 2008; January 14, 2010, to January 3, 2014; and June 10, 2015, to July 21, 2018. PSEB chairman Yograj and secretary-cum-DGSE Mohammad Tayyab, joint secretary Janak Raj Mehrotra and all the board staff expressed deep sorrow over his demise||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-claims-10-lives-in-dist/articleshow/77748217.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh Covid tally rises above 3.7 lakh, active cases at 89,000||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 9,927 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative caseload to 3,71,639. The toll increased to 3,460 as 92 more Covid-19 patients succumbed to the virus. As many as 9,419 patients were declared cured on Tuesday. There are currently 89,932 active cases with about 2,78,247 lakh cumulative recoveries and 3,460 deaths, reflecting an overall recovery rate of about 75%. The recovery rate in Krishna district stood at 86.5%, while it improved to about 84% in Anantapur, West Godavari and Kurnool districts. East Godavari has the highest number of active cases of 17,750 of the cumulative 52,039 infections detected as of Tuesday, followed by 8,814 active cases in Chittoor. The recovery rate is limited to 57.5% in Vizianagaram district, while East Godavari has been battling against the disease with a 66% recovery rate. Chittoor MLA A Sreenivasulu interacted with Covid-19 patients at government general hospital, Chittoor, on Tuesday. He enquired about the facilities and treatment being provided to patients at the hospital. The MLA entered the Covid-19 treatment wards wearing a full PPE kit. Kurnool district collector G Veerapandian praised the officials for the district not reporting any new Covid-19 death on Tuesday after a long time. “I appreciate the hard of officials in making this happen,” said Veerapandian. Andhra Pradesh conducted 33.56 lakh Covid-19 tests as of Tuesday with an overall case positivity rate of 11.07%. The mortality rate is 0.93%. East Godavari reported 1,353 fresh cases on Tuesday, the highest among all districts, while Krishna district witnessed only 322 infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/covid-19-tally-rises-above-3-7l-recovery-rate-at-75/articleshow/77754458.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: KSRTC starts special services to Chennai, Bengaluru||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Kerala state road transport corporation (KSRTC) started operating interstate services between Chennai and major cities in the state, in view of Onam festival on Tuesday. The special bus services will be operated till September 6. KSRTC is using its super deluxe buses for the services. The corporation will charge an additional fare of 10% for the special services. The tickets will be issued as end-to-end services. The bus services from Chennai will be operated to Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam and Kannur. People may log in at online.keralartc.com for online ticket reservation. “Passengers are required to follow the Covid-19 protocol of Kerala and Tamil Nadu government during the journey. Ticket charges will be refunded to passengers who cannot comply with these instructions. Full refund will be provided to passengers, if the bus service is cancelled when there are not enough number of passengers,” said a statement from KSRTC. Passengers who have registered for travel pass to the state at Covid Jagratha portal (http://covid19jagratha.kerala.nic.in) will only be allowed to travel. They should also install the Aarogya Setu application in their mobile phones before the commencement of the journey. The ticket fare to Thiruvananthapuram will be Rs 1,330, while it costs Rs 1,240 to Ernakulam and Rs 1,383 to Kannur. KSRTC services to and from Bengaluru have also been started as announced earlier. For online booking related queries, contact: 9447071021, 8129562972.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ksrtc-starts-spl-services-to-chennai-bengaluru/articleshow/77748248.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Vijayawada||KGH doc loses Covid-19 battle||Visakhapatnam: Dr B Purushottam Rao, professor of medicine at Andhra Medical College-King George Hospital (KGH-AMC), passed away at a corporate hospital late on Tuesday evening due to complications related to Covid-19. The 57-year-old contracted the infection while on duty. Dr Purushottam is survived by his wife Dr Raja Lakshmi and two daughters. The medical fraternity expressed shock at his untimely demise. His students called him “a clinician par excellence who was committed to the service of the poor and needy. He was loved among the faculty and students alike for his dedication to the field of medicine.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/kgh-doc-loses-covid-19-battle/articleshow/77749741.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Appoint Covid monitors in factories, bizmen told||Ludhiana: In a move aimed at checking Covid-19 cases in factories, the district industries centre (DIC) on Tuesday ordered them to appoint Covid monitors.The job of the Covid monitor will be to ensure full compliance of the safety norms inside the units.Ludhiana DIC general manager Mahesh Khanna said, “As per the directions of the Ludhiana district magistrate, each factory should appoint at least one Covid monitor. S(he) will be responsible for compliance of Covid rules and guidelines in the unit which would include wearing of mask by each employee, proper social distancing, arrangements for hand sanitization and thermal scanning of everyone entering the unit. Besides, (s)he should be vigilant, report about viral symptoms to authorities and ensure strict compliance of self-isolation by positive patient’s contacts.”Khanna added, “The monitor’s appointment should be ensured by all the industrial units at the earliest. If the monitors fail to follow the rules, action will be taken against them. And in case of good work, they may be rewarded. All factories must fill a simple proforma issued by DIC and submit it at the earliest.”Businessmen said they already were acting in accordance with the rules. Atul Saggar, general secretary of Apparel Manufacturers’ Association, Ludhiana, said, “We appreciate the decision taken by the DIC. It will not be difficult to comply with it, as ever since we started operating our units, we have been ensuring all safety measures there. Moreover, we already have deputed persons to strictly check the compliance of rules. Now, we just have to send the name and the contact details of the Covid monitor.”Narinder Mittal, general secretary of Ludhiana Business Forums, said, “We are already complying with these guidelines. But at the same time, the authorities should also make sure that no industrialist is harassed unnecessarily on the pretext of conducting checks at industrial units.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/appoint-covid-monitors-in-factories-bizmen-told/articleshow/77748224.cms||Mohit Behl
August 26, 2020||Kolkata||Clubs, bars hope for alcohol nod||Kolkata: The indication that the ministry of home affairs might allow bars to operate takeaway services in Unlock 4.0 has given rise to confusion among owners as well as management of premier clubs. Takeaway services, which imply the liquor bought cannot be consumed at bars and clubs, will make the purchase at these establishments similar to that at off-shops. Most clubs and bars (commonly known as on-shops under excise rules) have dual licences —an on-shop licence, along with that of off-shop—and a lot of clubs and even bars have already been operating as off-shops, which are nothing but takeaways. “We are selling liquor at our off-shops since it is allowed,” said a bar owner. Lots of clubs, too, have been selling liquor to their members through off-shops for more than a month.There was an indication from excise officials last week that they might allow liquor to be served in restaurants with all the social distancing norms in place. Excise officials have reportedly been holding talks with bar owners and premier club managements though there has been no official notification from the department. But insiders speculated they would be allowed to serve alcohol following notifications to Assam and Rajasthan. The notice issued in Assam on August 14 allowed IMFL on-shops and those at clubs to reopen from August 16 and to operate till 9pm every day, except on weekends. “We expect the excise department to issue the notification after the MHA directive. We hope something positive would happen, only takeaway will not serve the purpose. Some states have already allowed liquor on restaurant premises. We will have to wait and watch,” said a bar owner. There are around 350 bars in Kolkata and over 650 across Bengal. Liquor sales account for more than 50% of the revenue of most of the restaurants with bar licences. “There is a huge loss of revenue both for restaurants and bars,” said the owner of a leading restaurant. In districts, too, excise officials have reportedly given verbal instructions on resuming serving of alcohol from September 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/clubs-bars-hope-for-alcohol-nod/articleshow/77751245.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Rajkot||Hospital fire: Patients shifted in nick of time||Rajkot: A fire broke out at the ICCU ward of the government-run Guru Gobind Singh Hospital in Jamnagar. However, no one was injured as it was brought under control within an hour. According to hospital authorities, the fire broke out at nearly 2.45 pm. There were nine patients in the ICCU ward but none were Covid patients. Three patients were on ventilator and the others were on oxygen. They all were shifted safely to other wards. “There were no casualties in this incident and all the patients and staff are safe,” said Ravi Shankar, district collector of Jamnagar, while briefing media persons. According to the fire department’s primary observation, the fire broke out because of an electric short-circuit. This is an old building and the wiring, too, was old. There was a thermocol ceiling and wooden partition because of which the fire spread quickly. “The fire safety equipment is not old but there is a huge material loss and we are accessing it,” Shankar added. “All were heart patients and doctors and nurses took quick action to shift them safely. We are investigating about the damage,” said Dr Deepak Tiwari, medical superintendent of the hospital. A senior technical team from Gandhinagar is on its way to visit the hospital. It is to be noted that soon after the recent fire incident at a Ahmedabad Covid hospital, this hospital, too, had done a fire audit but for Covid wards only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/hospital-fire-patients-shifted-in-nick-of-time/articleshow/77748251.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Tree for Gun’ scheme launched in city||Ludhiana: In order to keep depleting groundwater under check by planting saplings, Patiala divisional commissioner Chander Gaind on Tuesday launched ‘Tree for Gun’ scheme, which will not only enhance the green cover but will ensure the upkeep of the saplings. With the launching of this scheme, Ludhiana has become fourth district after Ferozepur, Patiala and Sangrur to launch this unique nature-friendly initiative. At the launch of the scheme at the local district administrative complex, Gaind, accompanied by Ludhiana DC Varinder Kumar Sharma and other officials, said that the motive was to encourage the people to plant more and more saplings besides increasing the green cover of the district with expected annual plantation of about 54,000 saplings. Gaind said that anyone who wants a new arms licence or a renewal of an existing one would have to plant 10 and 5 saplings, respectively. He said that one would have to submit a selfie with each planted sapling at the time of filing of an application, adding that after a period of one month before moving the application for police clearance and dope test, the applicant need to furnish the fresh status of the planted saplings by submitting new selfies with the grown up saplings. The scheme was started in Ferozepur district which witness immense success, he added. Gaind told that if the applicant does not find the space for planting the sapling, he can plant the sapling in public places, educational institutes, and religious shrines and along roadside but he has to ensure proper upkeep. He also appealed to plant only those saplings that have low absorption of water. On the occasion, Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Sandeep Kumar, Additional Deputy Commissioner (General) Amarjit Bains, Additional Deputy Commissioner (Jagraon) Neeru Katyal and other officers were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/tree-for-gun-scheme-launched-in-city/articleshow/77749742.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Goa||After visarjan, drive to clean Miramar beach||Panaji: After the sea coughed up garbage on the shores of the Miramar beach last week, youth from Panaji are going to undertake a beach cleaning drive on August 27 to clear some of the waste. Since the pandemic, the density of visitors at the beach has visibly increased after fitness conscious locals and senior citizens started taking walks in the mornings or evenings. However, the reason for the waste on the beach being coughed up from the sea is yet to be assessed by the NIO. So far, the group of youngsters has managed to form a team of eight volunteers that will meet at 3.30pm at the beach and carry out a socially distanced beach cleaning drive. The drive is open to anyone who is environmentally conscious and wishes to clean the shore. Volunteers will provide gloves, garbage bags and other requirements. The clean-up drive has been timed to coincide with the sixth day of the Ganesh Chaturthi festival. With some carrying out the visarjan on the fifth evening of the festival, the group is hoping that the debris from the immersion ritual can also be cleared from the shore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-visarjan-drive-to-clean-miramar-beach/articleshow/77752187.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Domestic help spikes employer’s food, robs house||TNNLudhiana: A domestic help, who was hired two days ago, escaped with Rs 2 lakh and gold jewellery from a house in Moti Nagar on Monday night.Sunita, who was hired through another help, gave food laced with sedatives to businessman Harish Jindal, his wife and younger son on Monday evening. When they lost consciousness, she escaped with cash and jewellery. The matter came to light when Jindal’s elder son came home late at night, said Moti Nagar police station SHO sub-inspector Simranjit Kaur.Sunita’s police verification was not done.A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/domestic-help-spikes-employers-food-robs-house/articleshow/77748229.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh Covid tally rises above 3.7 lakh, active cases at 89,000||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 9,927 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative caseload to 3,71,639. The toll increased to 3,460 as 92 more Covid-19 patients succumbed to the virus. As many as 9,419 patients were declared cured on Tuesday. There are currently 89,932 active cases with about 2,78,247 lakh cumulative recoveries and 3,460 deaths, reflecting an overall recovery rate of about 75%. The recovery rate in Krishna district stood at 86.5%, while it improved to about 84% in Anantapur, West Godavari and Kurnool districts. East Godavari has the highest number of active cases of 17,750 of the cumulative 52,039 infections detected as of Tuesday, followed by 8,814 active cases in Chittoor. The recovery rate is limited to 57.5% in Vizianagaram district, while East Godavari has been battling against the disease with a 66% recovery rate. Chittoor MLA A Sreenivasulu interacted with Covid-19 patients at government general hospital, Chittoor, on Tuesday. He enquired about the facilities and treatment being provided to patients at the hospital. The MLA entered the Covid-19 treatment wards wearing a full PPE kit. Kurnool district collector G Veerapandian praised the officials for the district not reporting any new Covid-19 death on Tuesday after a long time. “I appreciate the hard of officials in making this happen,” said Veerapandian. Andhra Pradesh conducted 33.56 lakh Covid-19 tests as of Tuesday with an overall case positivity rate of 11.07%. The mortality rate is 0.93%. East Godavari reported 1,353 fresh cases on Tuesday, the highest among all districts, while Krishna district witnessed only 322 infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-19-tally-rises-above-3-7l-recovery-rate-at-75/articleshow/77754459.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Ludhiana||New sewerage line on Rahon road by next month||Ludhiana: The problems being faced by commuters on Rahon road may take time to get resolved as the work of laying a new sewerage line will take at least one month. However, regarding choking of the old sewerage line, the MC officials have been given four days to clear it and drain out the stagnant water. On Tuesday, MLA Sanjay Talwar, mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal visited Rahon road for review of the ongoing work as a large number of complaints were coming from residents or commuters in the area. The MC commissioner has directed the officials of operation and maintenance cell to clear the choking of the old line so that people do not pass through sewerage water. Regarding the new sewerage line the officials told the mayor and commissioner that 25% work of Rahon road was still pending and it would take another month to complete it. The officials claimed that slabs of two manholes got damaged and went inside the newly laid sewerage line, so first they would have to clear the same. Out of a total 28 manholes, five are yet to be constructed and then the new line will be connected with the main sewerage line. Meanwhile, the mayor said a warning had been issued to the officials to clear the stagnant water as soon as possible and also try to complete the pending work. He said the work was going on smoothly, but first the lockdown and then the rainy season delayed it. He claimed that once this project would be completed, there would not be a single drop of water on Rahon road. The issue of water stagnation on this road has been going on for a long time. Earlier, the officials tried to clear the choked sewerage line with the help of super suction machines, but when it did not bring any relief they decided to lay down a new sewerage line. The old line is unable to take load of sewerage water coming from colonies and other establishments along the road. Apart from this, presence of dyeing and washing units on this road is also a major problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/new-sewerage-line-on-rahon-road-by-next-month/articleshow/77749750.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Hubballi||ATM guard murdered||Vijayapura: A security guard stationed at an ATM in Sindagi town was allegedly murdered by some unknown miscreants in a bid to steal the cash from the ATM belonging to ICICI Bank, in the early hours on Tuesday. The deceased is Rahul Kheeru Lamani, 25. Sindagi police said that three miscreants, wearing monkey caps, attacked Rahul, a resident of Madabavi Tanda, while he was asleep in the ATM kiosk. “They bludgeoned him to death with a hammer. They then tried to break into the ATM machine, but failed to do so, as the alarm went off. They fled from the spot around 1.45am. We have collected CCTV footage, but were not able to see the faces of the accused as they were wearing monkey caps. We have launched a manhunt to nab the accused,” said the police. A case has been registered at the Sindagi police station in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/atm-guard-murdered/articleshow/77748234.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Cash custodians steal Rs 20 lakh for gambling, held||NEW DELHI: Two cash custodians of an ATM replenishment firm and three gamblers were arrested for stealing Rs 20 lakh from the account of a private bank and spending the money on gambling at a village in Madhya Pradesh. The two men were given the charge of depositing the cash in six ATMs of south Delhi. It was found that they had made entries about the deposits in the books of accounts but no money was placed in the ATMs. DCP (south-east) RP Meena said that the incident came to fore when the managers of the cash delivery company found a discrepancy while matching the amount of cash deposited with the amount entered in their books of accounts. It was fothanund that the Rs 20 lakh was given to the two custodians, Anurag Singh Rajawat and Virendra Singh. “During interrogation, they confessed to have misappropriated the money and spent it on gambling in a village near Bhind,” said Meena. A team was sent to Bhind and it was found that the money was transferred to the accounts of five people who also took part in the gamble. The cops found around Rs 2.6 lakh from the two custodians, while over Rs 4 lakh has been recovered from the gamblers so far. Anurag Gupta, Virender Singh and Rohit Agarwal are the other three arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cash-custodians-steal-rs-20l-for-gambling-held/articleshow/77772550.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Jaipur||Govt suffered losses of Rs 232 crore in procuring garlic under MIS plan||Jaipur: The CAG report stated that the cooperative and horticulture departments incurred a loss of Rs 231.77 crore in the procurement of garlic under the Market Intervention Scheme (MIS) in 2018.It said the agencies failed to create sufficient storage facilities for the produce. As a result of which they were forced to sell it at throw away prices. This led to heavy losses and further dampening of market price.The Centre approved the proposal of the department of agriculture and horticulture of the state government in April 2018 for procurement of a maximum of 1.54 lakh metric tonne of garlic during April 13-May 12 under MIS with certain conditions.The conditions included market intervention price will be Rs 32,570 per metric tonne with overhead expenses of Rs 8,143 or actual whichever is less. The losses if any were to be shared on 50:50 basis between the Centre and the state.The procured stock was to be disposed of in the open market in a transparent manner to ensure maximum realizable price. The state agency was also required to make efforts to export the commodity. Further according to the government of India guidelines envisages a system of efficient marketing, development of non-traditional /new markets and the sales through network of retail points to avoid losses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-suffered-losses-of-rs-232-crore-in-procuring-garlic-under-mis-plan/articleshow/77751285.cms||Joychen Joseph
August 26, 2020||Jaipur||3 discoms paid penalty of Rs 55 crore, says auditor||Jaipur: The three discoms did not devise mechanism to deposit the water conservation cess collected from consumers according to the schedule prescribed under Rajasthan Electricity Rules 1962. This led to delay in depositing the cess and discoms had to pay an avoidable penal interest of Rs 55.42 crore, said the CAG report.Water cess is levied on the consumers at 10 paisa per unit to be paid to the state government within 30 days of its realization or the discoms had to pay interest at the rate of 12.5% per annum.The CAG report said scrutiny of the records relating to deposit of the cess from 2009-10 to 2017-18 shows that three discoms did not adhere to prescribed schedule and deposited the collected cess with a delay ranging between four to 2,404 days.The commercial tax department of the state government imposed penal interest of Rs 48.65 crore on three discoms for the delay between August 2015 and March 2017 and February and September 2016. The discoms approached the government for a waiver of the penal interest, but was turned down.The report said despite the demand notices for penal interest the discoms did not devise a mechanism to ensure payment of the cess within the stipulated time and continued to delay during the year 2016-17 and 2018-19 thus inviting further penalty of Rs 6.77 crore. The violation of the statutory provision resulted in the creation of avoidable interest liability of Rs 55.42 crore to the loss making discoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-discoms-paid-penalty-of-rs-55-crore-says-auditor/articleshow/77751267.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Kolkata||Lockdown stress: Medical representative hangs self in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A 26-year-old medical representative, who had lost his job during the lockdown, hanged himself to death at his home at Barasat’s Pramodnagar late on Monday. The victim, Bhajan Biswas, was reportedly under tremendous pressure from moneylenders.  When his body was recovered from his room on Tuesday morning, police came across a suicide note, where Biswas held a moneylender and his two associates responsible for his death. The same day, all three were arrested after the victim’s family members lodged a complaint against the trio at the Barasat police station. According to residents of the area, Biswas was a medical representative and worked with a Kolkata-based pharmaceutical company. But he lost his job during the lockdown imposed to arrest the pandemic. “Earlier, my brother had bought a scooter, following which he had borrowed Rs 35,000 from Subhankar Karmakar alias Taison, a local moneylender. A portion of the loan had been repaid. But after losing his job, he couldn’t repay the rest of the money and asked Taison for some more time. But Taison and his two associates, Jugal Pal and Prabir Roy, kept threatening him with dire consequences in public,” said Swapan Biswas, Bhajan’s brother.  “They have been booked under Section 306 of IPC for abetment of suicide. They will be produced in a Barasat court on Wednesday,” a senior district police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-stress-med-rep-hangs-self/articleshow/77751279.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
August 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Rape and murder accused gives cops the slip at Covid-19 hospital||MANDYA: A Covid-19 patient, who was arrested by Mandya police in a rape and murder case, escaped from a hospital on Tuesday. Kumar is accused of raping and killing a beggar on June 23 at Yaliyur village on the outskirts of Mandya city. He was arrested on August 15 and, as is now routine, subjected to a Covid-19 test. Since he tested positive, he was sent to MIMS, a designated Covid-19 hospital, for treatment. On Tuesday, when Kumar was taken to the testing room to check if he had recovered, he fled. He took advantage of the fact that medical staffs were busy, bulldozed his way past police personnel who were present, scaled the compound wall and disappeared. A senior officer said his staff could not catch the man since they were dressed in PPE. He said Kumar exploited the medical-emergency situation and escaped. “If our personnel were not in PPE, they would have caught him. We have formed two teams to track him down,” the officer said. Meanwhile doctors informed senior cops that the accused had tested negative in the latest test and there is no danger of him spreading the virus. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rape-and-murder-accused-gives-cops-the-slip-at-covid-19-hospital/articleshow/77749022.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Nagpur||57 deaths again: Toll overshadowing Vidarbha’s increasing recovery rate||NAGPUR: Recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in Vidarbha is steadily increasing since last four days, and reached almost 61% on Tuesday. But, it has been overshadowed by Covid deaths in the region. On Tuesday, 57 deaths were reported from Vidarbha, which equals the highest ever in a single day. Before this, 57 deaths were reported two days ago, on August 23. Now, Vidarbha’s death toll has reached 1,274. Highest 52 deaths were reported in Nagpur. These include 46 from Nagpur city, 4 from Nagpur rural, and 2 from other state/divisions. Yavatmal reported 2 deaths, while Chandrapur, Bhandara and Wardha reported 1 death each. Positive cases continued to surge in Nagpur city, with 1,025 new cases reported. These include 896 from NMC region, 127 from rural Nagpur and 2 from other states. With Amravati (113), Yavatmal (110), Chandrapur (76), Wardha (57), Buldhana (54), Gondia (44), Bhandara (40), Akola (35), Washim (26), and Gadchiroli (12), Vidarbha’s total Covid-19 cases have reached 46,143. Recoveries too continued on Tuesday with 1,494 patients discharged. These include Nagpur (1,036), Buldhana (112), Amravati (103), Washim (48), Bhandara (41), Chandrapur (39), Wardha (35), Akola (32), Yavatmal (31), Gondia (11), and Gadchiroli (6). Total 28,095 of 46,143 patients have recovered. Now, Vidarbha’s recovery rate is nearly 61%. Yavatmal: Two deaths were reported in Yavatmal city on Tuesday. A 43-year-old man admitted on August 23 died on Tuesday. Similarly a 44-year-old woman admitted on August 20 also died. Both had cough, breathing problems, temperature and lung problems. Today 110 new patients were reported in the district, 69 men and 41 women. Currently 663 active patients are there in Covid-19 Care Centres. Some 212 are in home quarantine while 181 are in isolation wards. Also, 31 patients were discharged. So far 1,881 patients have been discharged out of 2,824 cases so far. Wardha: A 65-year-old man died and 57 new cases were detected on Tuesday. This is the highest single day spike in district. Meanwhile, 35 were discharged, taking total recoveries to 467. Of the 211 test reports received, 57 were positive, highest from Wardha (21), Hinganghat (12), Pulgaon (9), Karanja (5), Selu (4), Arvi (3), Samudrapur (2) and Ashti (1). District has 722 cases, with 248 undergoing treatment at Covid hospitals in Sawangi and Sewagram. Amravati: Posting 100-plus single day cases for the third consecutive day, the district took its Covid count to 4,800 with 113 new cases on Tuesday. On the recovery front, 103 were discharged, for a total of 3,504. With no deaths, active cases stood at 1,184, including 19 in Nagpur and 379 in home isolation. The rural belt reported 47 cases to take its count to 1,355 while two cases each came from Washim and Wardha districts. Warud and Chandur Bazaar tehsils reported 11 cases each to take their count to 99 and 103 respectively. Dhamangaon Railway, Morshi and Achalpur reported seven, six and four cases respectively to take their count to 67, 81 and 96. In city, Rajapeth reported five cases to take its tally to 38 while Chhatrapati Nagar reported four cases to take its tally to 37. Rampuri Camp reported three cases to take its count to 96 while two cases each came from Wadali, Navasari, Haribhau Kaloti Nagar and Gayatri Nagar to take their count to 14, 11, three and two respectively. Single cases came from 34 other localities. Chandrapur: The district registered yet another death and 76 new patients. While Chandrapur crossed the 1,500-mark, good news was discharge of 39 took district past 1,000 cured patients. Health officials claimed a 72-year-old from Pathanpura ward died, taking the death toll to 18. He was suffering from respiratory ailment and pneumonia. With 76 new patients, total patients climbed to 1,571. The number of cured patients too rose 1,037. Presently there are 516 active patients. The new patients include 37 from Chandrapur city and suburbs, 19 from Ballarpur, 2 from Chimur, 5 from Warora, 6 from Mul, 5 from Korpana, 1 from Pombhurna and 1 other who travelled from Wani in Yavatmal district. Collector Ajay Gulhane claimed number of patients is steeply rising, with most above 50 years. He said team of medics from Chandrapur Municipal Corporation and other municipal councils in district will go house-to-house and check people aged above 50 with pulse oxymeter and thermal scanner. Gadchiroli: Six patients were discharged on August 25 while 12 patients were detected. New patients include 4 police personnel, 1 health worker, and one member of a health worker’s family. Now, Gadchiroli district has 928 cases, 817 of them recovered, 1 death, and 110 patients under treatment. Akola: Including 165 reports of rapid antigen tests, total 325 reports were received in Akola on August 25, with 35 testing positive. Now, Akola has 3,555 cases. No death was reported for second consecutive day. Total 32 patients were discharged. Now, 3,054 out of 3,555 cases have been discharged for a recovery rate of 86%. Total 357 patients are under treatment. Washim: The district reported 26 new cases but 48 were discharged on August 25. Washim’s total cases reached 1,494, with 1,102 of them recovered for a recovery rate of 74%. Total 365 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: Record 112 patients recovered in Buldhana district on August 25 taking recovery rate beyond 70% for the first time in August. Buldhana detected 54 new positive patients, taking total cases to 2,689. With 42 deaths reported, Buldhana has 752 patients under treatment. Bhandara: Total 41 patients were discharged on August 25, and 40 new patients were reported, including 31 from Bhandara city alone. The district also reported death of a patient for fourth day in a row. Now, with 899 total cases, the district has 15 deaths, 503 recovered, and 381 under treatment. Gondia: 44 patients were found infected, and 11 patients discharged on Tuesday. Out of day’s 44 patients, 32 are from Gondia tehsil. District now has 1,103 total cases, 767 discharged, 14 deaths, and 322 under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/57-deaths-again-toll-overshadowing-vids-increasing-recovery-rate/articleshow/77751293.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 26, 2020||Hubballi||I’ll work with stakeholders and uphold Kannada: New head||Hubballi: Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU, Delhi) has appointed prof Vishwanatha as the head of its Kannada language chair (KLC). The appointment follows after TOI, in a recent report, highlighted the need for appointing one. Vishwanatha served as an associate professor in the Department of Studies in Kannada of Maharaja’s College in Mysuru before taking up the new assignment. He has 29 years of experience in Kannada research, and has authored over 30 books. Speaking to TOI, he shared his plans to uphold the dignity of KLC. “JNU is one of the prestigious universities in the world, and the presence and prevalence of Kannada language and literature study there is indeed a matter of pride for Karnataka,” he said. Crediting his predecessor prof Purushothama Bilimale with laying a strong foundation, Vishwanatha said the responsibility lies on him to continue the same to an appreciable extent. “I have a desire to extend Kannada works in association with Kannada Sahitya Parishat, Karnataka Sahitya Academy, Kannada Development Authority and other Kannada organisations, which are striving for the cause of Kannada,” he said. Responding to the criticism of his being unknown in Kannada literary circles, the professor admitted he has not worked considerably in prose narration, “ I’m more inclined towards epic literature, place-name studies and research works”. “The works I can accomplish with passion and dedication decides my eligibility. I’ll be looking forward to working with all those concerned, and with their cooperation,” he said. Commenting on the alleged cynicism of Vidhan Soudha about Kannada chairs at universities outside Karnataka, Vishwanatha said finance is an integral part of work. “Without the support of the Karnataka government, it is not possible to execute and bring out development or transformations. Through my honest efforts, I will try to exemplify the necessity and significance of Kannada Chair at JNU,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ill-work-with-stakeholders-and-uphold-kannada-new-head/articleshow/77748280.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
August 26, 2020||Nagpur||Two more cops die of Covid in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Two police personnel, including an assisantt sub-inspector (ASI) with State Intelligence Department (SID), succumbed to Covid-19 within 24 hours. The latest deaths took the toll to four cops in city and one of their family members too. Till Tuesday, 219 city cops and their 169 family members have tested positive. It is learnt 56-year-old ASI with SID was supposed to be discharged from a private hospital at Kamptee after recovering. In a dramatic manner, he collapsed following pain in his chest. The ASI was on ventilator but had made a recovery from a critical stage. He had been admitted for around a week. A head constable, aged 49 years, was declared dead at Mayo hospital where he had been rushed by relatives after developing breathing difficulties at his residence. He was asymptomatic and only had mouth ulcer. The head constable was part of police band and posted at the headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-more-cops-die-of-covid-in-city/articleshow/77751288.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Jaipur||Ajay Maken to visit Jaipur this week: Dotasra||JAIPUR: AICC general secretary in-charge for Rajasthan Ajay Maken will visit Jaipur this week to take feedback from party leaders and workers, said PCC president Govind Singh Dotasra on Tuesday. Dotasra said Maken would take feedback from the division and district-level leaders and workers before reconstituting the party organisation. He said after the ground-level feedback from party workers, the new executive for the party’s state unit would be decided. “The final programme has not yet been received, but he is scheduled to come here this week. We will hold discussions with him on organisational issues. The discussion will be helpful in the improvement of organisation,” he told reporters on Tuesday. Dotasra said only two persons, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, are ruling the country which is not a good for democracy. Dotasra, who is also the state’s education minister, was appointed as the new chief of the state unit of the Congress last month after Sachin Pilot was sacked as the PCC president and deputy chief minister after his rebellion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/maken-to-visit-jaipur-this-week-dotasra/articleshow/77751294.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Delhi||11 lakh find jobs on Delhi govt portal, over 9,000 firms on board||NEW DELHI: Delhi government’s job portal ‘Rozgar Bazaar’ launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on July 27 has helped more than 11 lakh jobseekers get employed so far. The number of jobseekers registering on the portal and employers listing jobs is, however, growing by the day. More than 22 lakh jobs have been listed on the portal till date. The total number of ‘active’ vacancies on the portal till Monday was 8,08,582 under more than 30 categories and the number of registered jobseekers was 10,53,286. Of the total 32,510 employers who have registered till date, the number of ‘active’ employers with job listings is 9,186. On Monday itself, 1,468 employers registered themselves and 457 out of them listed jobs. On Monday alone, 18,887 new vacancies were posted by different employers. The portal was launched by Kejriwal last month to bridge the gap between jobseekers and employers and help revive the economy. The Covid-19 pandemic led to many workers leaving the city due to lack of work and various industries are now facing the crunch of workers. Rozgar Bazaar aims to synchronise and match these two sides. The highest number of jobseekers – 3,71,915 – want ‘back office’ and data entry jobs. This is apart from 1,50,761 people looking for customer care and tele-caller jobs and a substantial number of IT, hardware and network engineers who have applied. Maximum openings—more than two lakhs— however, are for sales, marketing and business development jobs, while the number of people looking for jobs in this category is just 1,42,894. The other top categories of job seekers include those looking for teaching jobs (1,54,650), and accountants (1,43,671). Among those who have registered, a substantial number of jobseekers are graduates, postgraduates and diploma holders. Among the top categories of jobs available after sales, marketing and business development are back office and data entry jobs (4,55,241), followed by customer care and tele-caller jobs (2,38,843), domestic and corporate services jobs (1,68,591) and accountancy jobs (1,62,968). Sales, marketing and business development jobs constitute 36.1% of all job categories available, followed by back office and data entry jobs (17.4%), customer support (9.1%), corporate services (6.4%), accountancy jobs (6.2%), teaching jobs (6%), caretaker (5.6%), agriculture (5.3%), delivery services (4.1%) and other professional jobs (3.8%). Nearly 3.5 lakh job posts were earlier cancelled by the government because they were found to be either fake or getting duplicated. Watch Rozgar Bazaar: 11 lakh find jobs on Delhi govt portal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/11l-find-jobs-on-govt-portal-over-9000-firms-on-board/articleshow/77751298.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 26, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand records 485 cases, including CM’s security guard||Dehradun: With 485 fresh cases, Covid-19 tally reached 16,014 in Uttarakhand on Tuesday. State chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat also got his Covid test done after his personal security guard tested positive and though the report of CM’s test came out negative, he put himself under self-isolation as a precautionary measure. Subsequently, the Cabinet meeting scheduled for Wednesday was postponed for September 2. The chief minister’s office confirmed that his personal security guard tested positive and the CM’s Officer on Special Duty (OSD) Darshan Sing Rawat confirmed that the Cabinet meeting was postponed due to CM’s self-isolation. On the day, Dehradun’s Gandhi Shatabdi Hospital had to be shut for 48 hours for sanitisation after a patient tested positive for coronavirus. Besides the CM’s guard, two journalists in the state capital also tested Covid-19 positive along with 118 others. Haridwar also reported 126 fresh cases on Tuesday, followed by 90 from Udham Singh Nagar, and 40 from Uttarkashi. “Nainital reported 39 fresh cases on Tuesday, followed by 38 cases from Tehri Garhwal, 10 cases each were reported from Rudraprayg and Pauri Garhwal, and six cases from Champawat,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. The state also reported six Covid-19 deaths on Tuesday. Among these, five were recorded from Dehradun district — three from AIIMS Rishikesh, and two from Government Doon Medical College and Hospital. Another death was reported from Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College. Meanwhile, 289 recoveries recorded on the day pushed the total cured cases in the state beyond the 11,000 mark. The state also crossed 3 lakh Covid-19 testing on Tuesday. Till Tuesday, test results of over 14,000 samples were pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-485-cases-including-cms-security-guard/articleshow/77748283.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 26, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Water shortage, traffic jam and narrow lanes delayed fire tenders’||Ludhiana: The major fire in a hosiery unit in Mahaveer Jain Colony in Sunder Nagar here kept the fire-fighters on toes for the entire night on Monday and even for half of Tuesday they remained at the spot to control the situation. The fire had had started around 6.40pm and the entire building was engulfed in flames quickly. The entire stock and machinery kept inside the unit was completely gutted. The fire officials claimed that shortage of water supply in nearby units, narrow lanes and rush in the evening delayed them from reaching the spot. As per information, the fire had started at around 6.40pm and fire tender from Sunder Nagar was the first to reach the spot. However, there were heated arguments between fire-fighters and people present on the spot as the latter blamed the fire brigade for not reaching the spot in time. The people in area claimed that there was single fire tender at Sunder Nagar fire station and fire tenders coming from other fire stations were stuck in traffic jams. Due to this delay the fire spread everywhere in the unit. On the other hand, firemen claimed that there were two fire tenders at Sunder Nagar fire station but only one driver was available. The fire officials also asked the factory owners and other people whether they had made any fire safety arrangements in their units. The sub fire officer Aatish Rai while giving more information, said, “The fire was intense and for some hours we could not even enter the building due to heat and smoke. There was entry from one side and a huge stock of polyester and cotton material was kept inside the unit due to which the fire spread fast.” He said they had to break walls of the building on the second floor to make way for the fire-fighters to enter. Rai also claimed that the fire was in basement as well and there was smoke all around. Meanwhile, fire station officer SN Sharma said, “More than 150 fire tenders were used in dousing the flames in the factory and arrangement of water supply was getting difficult initially as there was no electricity in the area, but late at night when the supply was resumed we filled water from Sunder Nagar fire station.” He said luckily nobody got hurt in the incident because as per owners of the factory they had closed the unit around 6.30pm and they came to know about the fire in the factory from neighbours. Sharma, however, claimed that there was traffic jam on roads in the evening when they had left the fire station to reach the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/water-shortage-traffic-jam-and-narrow-lanes-delayed-fire-tenders/articleshow/77749763.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Sugar factories told to get cane harvesting machines||Kolhapur: The sugar factories in Kolhapur district have been asked to get machines for sugar cane harvesting so that the number of cane cutters coming into the district can be kept at a minimum.It is one of the several guidelines issued, Kolhapur district collector Daulat Desai said the guidelines have been prepared to keep the sugarcane cutters, mostly arriving from Marathwada region, safe from Covid infection and preventing community spread within the factories.In September and October, lakhs for workers come to western Maharashtra and stay for the next three to four months of the sugar cane harvest season. The workers travel with their families and reside in makeshift tents.“No sugar cane cutter above 60 years of age should be allowed to take up harvesting tasks. The factories should ensure that the cutters are first tested for the Covid and then quarantined for some days before actually letting them for field work. To ensure the number of workers remains low, the factories should procure more harvester machines. Expecting at least 5% workers to be infected, the factories should set up quarantine and treatment facilities of that capacity,” said Desai.When the lockdown was imposed in March, several cane cutters were stuck in Kolhapur. They were taken back to their villages by bus and tested for Covid-19 after reaching their home districts.Now, Desai has asked the factories for compulsory testing of cutters and regular health screenings. “The children from the family should not be allowed at the workplace; instead they should be provided separate space. Every labourer should be given fresh masks every day, sanitisers and gloves by the factories to protect them from the infection. They should be also given the immunity boosting preparations for regular consumption,” states the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sugar-factories-told-to-get-cane-harvesting-machines/articleshow/77749761.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rs 6.5 lakh looted from dairy agent in Jaipur||JAIPUR: A dairy booth collection agent was looted of approximately Rs 6.5 lakh on Tuesday while he was on his way to deposit the money in a bank in Shipra Path police station area. The victim claimed that three accused followed him on a bike, forcefully stopped him, attacked him with a pipe and decamped with the cash. Agent Yogesh Maheshwari had collected the money from few dairy booths in Sanganer area. Khalil Ahmed, SHO, Shipra Path police station, told TOI, ” Yogesh had collected Rs 6.3 lakh from various dairy booths and was on his way to deposit the same in bank when three accused on a bike started following him. He did not realise it till they attacked him with an iron pipe because of which he fell off the bike.” After this, the accused snatched the bag and fled from the spot. “We have found CCTV footage and are scanning it to identify the accused. They were wearing helmets to hide their faces but we are also trying to find the registration number of the bike used to carry out the loot. They will be arrested soon,” said the official. Following the loot, pickets and barricades were placed in the area. Cops are also trying to ascertain if it was an inside job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-6-5l-looted-from-dairy-agent-in-city/articleshow/77751291.cms||---
August 26, 2020||Ranchi||Arrest of 7 Maoists in Khunti foil attack bid on cops in 3 dists||JAMSHEDPUR/RANCHI: Police from four districts, CRPF and Jharkhand Jaguar in a joint operation on Monday arrested seven Maoists, including a sub-zonal commander, form Rangrom forest and upon their revelation, recovered Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) among other ammunitions from Ranchi, Seraikela and Chaibasa districts which were planted to target police. The arrested were identified as Jitrai Munda (sub-zonal commander), Jogan Purti, Mango Pahan, Dukhan Munda, Manay Munda, Mangal Singh and Shiv Singh Pahan. Police also seized seven guns, cartridges, 73 can bombs, hand grenades, electronic detonators and IEDs from their possession. All the seven are members of CPI (Maoists) and mostly operated independently using their own squads and at times worked together, police said. Khunti SP Ashutosh Shekhar on Tuesday said, “Police received information that a group of Maoists has gathered in the Arki-Maraghada area with the intention to commit something big. A team led by ASP (operation) Anurag Raj was sent to the spot to verify and take suitable action. During the search operation, police spotted the extremists holding a meeting. They were surrounded and subsequently arrested.” After the arrested revealed their plot to target police, their counterparts in Ranchi, Seraikela and Chaibasa were contacted by Khunti police, following which the IEDs and other weapons were recovered from Piyakulli (Ranchi), Raisindri (Seraikela) and Meromgana (Chaibasa). Sharing details of the recoveries made, Seraikela-Kharswan SP Md Arshi informed on Tuesday that 72 IEDs (65 weighing 4kg each and seven weighing 5kg each) were recovered from different locations. Five weapons — .303 rifle, .315 rifle, .315 double barrel rifle, 12 bore gun and one pistol — 90 live cartridges of .303 bore and seven live cartridges of 12 bore were recovered along with 17 electrical detonators and a 400m codex wire were also recovered. Majority of the recovery was made from Kuchai, Jaragora forest hills in Tamar and Jarjhara forest hills in West Singhbhum. “A case has been lodged with Kuchai police station against the Maoists under Section 414, 251-A, 1-B of IPC, CLA Act, UAP Act and Arms Act and further investigation is underway,” Arshi said. During interrogation, the arrested Maoists revealed that they are members of squads led by wanted extremists Amit Munda, Maharaj Pramanik and Boyedo Pahan. Except Jitrai, the others used to switch over form one squad to the other. Jitrai was involved in over two and a half dozen crimes and government had announced a reward of Rs 5 lakh on his arrest. He was a part of the squad which attacked a police patrol party in Seraiklea in June 2019 which killed five police personnel and injured 25 others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/arrest-of-7-maoists-in-khunti-foil-attack-bid-on-cops-in-3-dists/articleshow/77751873.cms||---
