August 27, 2020||India||2,600 railway coaches to get a ‘smart’ upgrade with fault detection system||NEW DELHI: The railways will revamp nearly 2,600 coaches as “smart coaches” with features such as installing a system that can control the temperature inside the coach by sensing ambient temperature and sensors that can alert clogging of toilets and functioning of exhaust fans. These coaches will also have display systems to keep passengers informed about the speed of the running train, last station and the likely arrival time at the destination. There will be provision for content on demand for entertainment. Sources said these will also get smart CCTV cameras with diagnostics such as face recognition that can be used for identification of passengers and railway attendants as well. These will also be equipped with video analytics to recognise unwanted gatherings and unscrupulous elements in the coaches. Officials said these coaches will have advanced sensors and smart on-board diagnostic systems, which can monitor the condition of wheels and the condition of the tracks. “It will generate reports automatically and alert for maintenance. The coaches will have fire alarm and fire detection systems. The predictive maintenance system would help avoid incidents such as derailments,” said an official. He added this will also reduce the checking time and the maintenance can be planned as soon as the alerts are generated. The railways has estimated Rs 16 lakh expenditure on conversion of each of these coaches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2600-railway-coaches-to-get-a-smart-upgrade-with-fault-detection-system/articleshow/77771179.cms||Dipak K Dash
August 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Lalit Kala Akademi mourns loss of artist, Mehar Singh||Senior artist and former President of Punjab Lalit Kala Akademi, Sardar Mehar Singh, known for his lively portraits and paintings on Sikh history, passed away on the morning of August 26 at his son's home in New Delhi. Born on October 1, 1929 Singh had not been keeping well for some time and due to his deteriorating health he was taken to Delhi from Chandigarh last year in December. His body was put to rest in a crematorium in Delhi on August 26, 2020. "Punjab Lalit Kala Akademi and Punjab Kala Prishad expressed their deep condolences at the demise of the senior artist who was equally well respected for his humanistic qualities, gentleness and kindness towards others fellow beings," says Diwan Manna, Chairman of Punjab Lalit Kala Akademi, Chandigarh. Among his famous paintings included an oil painting depicting Guru Nanak Dev ji's visit to Kabul on the way back from Mecca. The painting shows the local population gathered to see the Guru. To mark the birth centenary of the legendary artist, Sardar Sobha Singh, Sobha Singh memorial award has been constituted by the Punjab govt in the year 2001. And Mehar Singh, who was the then President of Punjab Kala Bhavan and a self-confessed disciple of Sobha Singh became the first recipient of the award. In an interview to TOI in 2001 when he had received the award, Singh had said, "I began learning from Sardar Sobha Singh when he was in Lahore in 1946. After Partition when we came here I travelled with him to Andretta (in Palampur, Himachal), Ambala and Bombay. After that, I needed money for my family so started working with the American embassy's United States information service as an artist." .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-lalit-kala-akademi-mourns-loss-of-artist-mehar-singh/articleshow/77771420.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Dushyant Chautala lauds state government's NOC policy||CHANDIGARH: Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala appreciated the state government's new system of issuing no objection certificates. While replying in the house, Chautala said that the state government has specified that if a department does not give an NOC within 14 days, it will be considered as deemed acceptance and registrations will be done. The DyCM was replying in the House on Wednesday on the issue of registration of lands raised by leader of the opposition, Bhupender Singh Hooda during the ongoing monsoon session in the state assembly. Chautala said that during the Congress tenure from the year 2005 to 2014, CLUs were wrongly issued and sectors were wrongly cut. He questioned whether the leader of the opposition was not aware of it. Casting a counter-question on the leader of the opposition, Chautala asked whether Hooda would inform about the number of CLUs wrongly issued and were cancelled during his 10-year tenure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-dushyant-chautala-lauds-state-governments-noc-policy/articleshow/77771514.cms||Manvir Saini
August 27, 2020||Chennai||Hangin’ out in Chennai, the hip way!||There’s no dearth of places to chill out at in Chennai. There’s a spot for every mood — breakfast with friends? Head to cosy cafes. Want to while away evenings doing nothing? Lush green parks and waves-swept beaches can engulf you in a sense of calm. Or, feel like dancing the night away? Pick your choice from the hip clubs. Serene temples, playgrounds, historical monuments and museums with centuries of histories behind them… the options are aplenty. Here, we list the fave five that youngsters swear on… Somasundaram Ground, T NagarChennai is a city of gully cricket. And this vast playground, along with a dozen others, nourishes the dreams of not just aspiring cricketers, but other sports enthusiasts as well. Actor Shanthnu says cricket grounds have become his hangout spot after CCL matches. “I was not a playground person as a child, but after I started playing CCL, all of us (actors in the Kollywood team) would sit and chill on the grounds. I was quite upset when they shut down the SPIC Ground near Nandanam a few years ago,” he says. Tower Park, Anna NagarDr Visvesvaraya Tower Park, the tallest park tower in Chennai, is the identity of Anna Nagar. “It’s a meet-up point for our gang of friends,” says Amit Bhandari, who gets goofy with his buddies Trisha Bhandari and Atul Ahuja at the Anna Nagar Tower Park. The youngster, who recently graduated, says, “This is such a big landmark that even a newbie to Chennai can find it easily. We always meet here and then make plans for the rest of our day.” Broken Bridge, AdyarAll those spooky tales notwithstanding, Broken Bridge that spans across the Adyar estuary is a popular hangout spot, especially for the breathtaking views it offers of Chennai early in the mornings. This one is also a fave of filmmakers, and is a go-to shooting spot. Chennai’s BeachesWhat’s Chennai if not for its beaches! From the longest beach in the country, Marina, to youngsters’ hotspot, Bessy, and the beaches of Thiruvanmiyur and ECR — Chennai’s beaches offer comfort and joy that very few beaches in the country can offer. Shanthnu agrees, “I still go to Marina Beach whenever I can; the food stalls there are amazing. Besant Nagar Beach became my hotspot, especially as a teenager. There was a sense of happiness sitting on the sands and meeting friends at that Cozee corner.” Kuttys, NungambakkamThere’s nothing like chatting with friends over cutting chai and biting into butter biscuits. Chennai is dotted with roadside tea kadais and juice shops and this one near Loyola College is quite a favourite among not just youngsters, but celebs, too. Actor Vishal has fond memories of the place, “We used to hang out here often. We used to have discussions and debates about our college elections there. The broad pavement by the college used to be our spot, too. But my favourite place in Chennai is not there anymore — the Woodlands Drive-in restaurant.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hangin-out-in-chennai-the-hip-way/articleshow/77771667.cms||V Lakshmi
August 27, 2020||Business||After 6 months, sensex back at 39k on FPI buys, auto, IT||MUMBAI: Boosted by strong buying in auto, banking & financial services and IT stocks, the sensex on Wednesday closed above the 39K mark after exactly six months. Despite a flat closing in the US on Tuesday night, in late rally the sensex closed 230 points higher at 39,074 points. So far this month, boosted by the highest net foreign fund flow in over a decade, the sensex is up about 1,500 crore. The last time the sensex had closed above the 39K level was on February 27 this year, at 39,746. On the basis of investor wealth, however, BSE’s market capitalization now is about Rs 6 lakh crore more than what it was in late February: Compared to Rs 151.7 lakh crore then, the market cap now is at Rs 157.3 lakh crore, official data showed. On the domestic front, finance minister’s statement that GST rate on two wheelers could be reduced from the current 28%, led to strong buying in two wheeler stocks. On the international front, prospects of economic stimulus in the Eurozone and some positive talks on US-China trade deals also boosted investor sentiment, brokers said. According to Siddhartha Khemka, Head - Retail Research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services, in the near term, the market is likely to continue its positive momentum with more stock specific actions. “Strong global cues led by positive news flows around vaccine development and further ease in tensions between US-China, would support the positive momentum. However, intermittent profit booking cannot be ruled out which should be looked as buying opportunity as we maintain buy on decline strategy,” Khemka said. Investors would track monthly derivatives expiry (on Thursday) and a crucial speech by US Fed chairman late on Thursday. Official data showed that FPIs have so far net infused nearly Rs 45,000 crore into the stock market, the highest in over a decade. The strong monthly flows have also turned the year’s net flows positive with the total currently at Rs 35,000 crore. On Wednesday, net FPI flow was a little over Rs 1,500 crore, BSE data showed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/after-6-months-sensex-back-at-39k-on-fpi-buys-auto-it/articleshow/77772446.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Varanasi||Banarasi fabric manufacturers go online to boost sales||With the scourge of the pandemic affecting all industries, the Banarasi textile is also facing the brunt. In these challenging times, the industry is making all efforts to remain afloat. One of the oldest crafts is taking recourse of technology to keep the business moving. Moving away from the traditional mode of business transaction, which was mainly offline, it has aggressively turned online, during these pandemic times. Several manufacturers are using the digital platform to sell their products which has also brought about a paradigm shift. These sellers have moved from B2B ( Business to Business) dealing to now directly connecting with the customers, with the help of technology. Rajat Pathak, manufacturer and exporter of Banarasi textiles, says, “Amid the pandemic era we have found new ways to reach our target customers for Banarasi ethnic saris, dress materials, furnishings using social media and various digital platforms. Earlier we had used digital platforms to reach international buyers in the B2B - Business To Business segment. Now we are moving ahead to break the barriers and tapping B2C - Business To Consumer segment, via multiple social media platforms. It's giving us good momentum and a new way ahead. Entrepreneurship is all about exploring newer avenues under any circumstances after all.” Mamta Mehrotra, who has a family business of Banarasi saris and accessories, has recently created a Whatsapp group to reach out to her prospective customers. “Before the pandemic the modus operandi of our business used to be the traditional way of selling our Banarasi products, which was mainly to the retailers. But now the flow of the business being rather slow, approaching the customers directly was the only way to survive in the present scenario. Technology came quite handy in this shift. Now we are able to showcase more of our products through bulk messaging via Whatsapp. We have started getting a lot of queries from various cities. Since we also have shipping facilities to countries like the US and UK, a lot of queries are coming from these countries as well," says she. Shruti Shah, CEO of an online segment of prominent manufacturers of Banarasi saris and fabrics says, “Marketing of Banarasi textile online is like films deviating from their regular theatrical release are choosing the OTT platform in order to reach to their audience. During these restrictive times caused by Covid-19, online has emerged as a good option for our industry as well. We had our online presence but that did not figure high in our priority list but ever since the outbreak of the pandemic we are aggressively going in for online marketing. In fact, foreseeing the potential of that domain, we have expanded our online team. If there is a special occasion in anybody’s family, they are preferring to buy online rather than going across to the store, in the present scenario. So during the lockdown we offered a good discount on our Banarasi products online, though we warned our customers of a slightly delayed delivery because of the restrictions on movement. The good response of our customers kept our business going even in these tough times.” The online selling is far more transparent, believe the sellers. “The kind of details or literature given on our website with the product, which the customer wants to buy, is not possible to get if they buy from the store. They at least get to know what they are buying right from the yarn used, etc. Moreover, we also issue a certificate of authenticity of being a handloom product and also a hallmark for it being silk for all our online products. So online is far more authentic as everything is well documented,” adds Shruti. Udit Khanna, director of a firm dealing in Banarasi products and was one of the earliest to move into the online domain, some years back, says, "By going direct to the consumer, through technology, one is able to even educate the consumer about the craft and the products. Terms like kataan, kadhua, were hardly used before things went online. Now people understand what a Banarasi kataan or a Banarasi kadhua sari is. During the complete lockdown, our online operations were disturbed but ever since the unlocking has happened, from June onwards, things have accelerated. Earlier only the NRIs opted for the online option but during the pandemic, even Indians are buying Banarasi stuff online. Thankfully we kept our social media communication active during these times, that really helped us. We kept our audience engaged on our page on Facebook and Instagram, through various activities and that later converted into buyers."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/banarsi-fabric-retailers-go-online-to-boost-sales/articleshow/77768970.cms||Meera Vohra
August 27, 2020||India||Coronavirus: 23 Punjab MLAs test positive before session||Barely 48 hours before the Punjab assembly convenes for a one-day session on Friday, 23 legislators, including four cabinet ministers, have tested positive for Covid-19. If so many MLAs and ministers couldn’t escape the virus, one could imagine how grave the situation on the ground was, CM Amarinder Singh said. Most of these MLAs, including former hockey Olympian Pargat Singh, had given swab samples between Tuesday and Wednesday in accordance with the new SOP that requires all members and staff to be tested just before the House convenes. It wasn’t clear if and how many of the MLAs were symptomatic when they were tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-23-punjab-mlas-test-negative-before-session/articleshow/77772228.cms||---
August 27, 2020||India||On Covid duty, doc couple away from son for 5 months||MEERUT: At the maternity ward of a prominent government hospital in Meerut, gynaecologist Shweta Maheshwari cradles newborns in her arms every other day. It’s been five months, however, since she held her own child, a son who’s a little over two years old. Maheshwari and her husband Sanket Tyagi, a paediatrician, have not been home since March when Covid-19 erupted in India. In the first week of March, the doctor couple moved out of their family home to a rented accommodation, leaving their child, Kushagra, with his grandparents. Both husband and wife are posted at LLRM Medical College and have frequently been on duty in the Covid ward. "We know we can’t expose our child or parents to the virus but, at the same time, we have to do our duty so we chose to move elsewhere," said Maheshwari. "Now every time I hold a newborn, I can’t help but feel sad that my own baby is away from me," she added. Phone calls have been regular, but meetings contactless, and few and far between. "We have only met our son a few times in the past months and during these visits my wife and I sat in one car and he sat in another with his grandparents," said Tyagi. While at home, the grandparents are finding it hard to explain to the young boy why his parents have to be away, the couple is also struggling with this separation. Doctors posted on Covid duty have had a hard time since the outbreak as many of them have been staying away from families, missing out on important occasions and undergoing long quarantine periods once their shifts are over. For doctor couples, it’s been tougher as sometimes both husband and wife have been on Covid duty in government hospitals, often leading to requests seeking exemption for one of them so they can take care of their families. For Maheshwari, not seeing her child for so many months is taking a mental toll. She has even mulled leaving her job but the thought of quitting in the middle of a pandemic when doctors are required on the frontlines stops her every time. "Kushagra now cries when we call him. It always ends with a promise that we will see him soon, but we don’t know when that will be," she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/on-covid-duty-doc-couple-away-from-son-for-5-months/articleshow/77772945.cms||Ishita Bhatia
August 27, 2020||India||FBI gave us key inputs in Pulwama probe: NIA||America’s intel and security service FBI had helped India’s National Investigation Agency in its probe into the Pulwama terrorist attack with two key inputs — it identified the point person the handlers were in touch with and also the nature of explosives used in the blast. “We are thankul for the valuable inputs received from other Central and State government agencies as well as foreign law-enforcement agencies such as FBI to nail the accused involved in this dastardly and barbaric act and weed out nefarious designs of Pakistan to foment terrorism in Valley or any other parts of country” NIA spokesperson Sonia Narang told TOI. The FBI had helped NIA crack the WhatsApp account run by a Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) spokesperson who had been in touch with a core group involved in the attack. The WhatsApp account on the Kashmir-based mobile phone was operated by Mohammad Hussain, traced to Muzaffarabad in Pakistan. But the number 700*** had been registered under the name of Jameelafrom Budgam . “The woman had died in 2011. And before that she lived in some other village in another district. Since it is not possible to trace WhatsApp and Facebook information of an account that operates outside India, FBI helped crack those,” a top NIA official told TOI. A deleted photo recovered from the phone of 2019 Pulwama terror attack accused Umar Farooq shows RDX. The photographic evidence was used by the NIA to make a watertight case with help of FBI and CERT in its chargesheet submitted in Jammu court on TuesdayThe FBI also helped NIA track down what explosives had been used in the Pulwama incident. “Ammonium nitrate, nitroglycerine and gelatin sticks. This was later confirmed by our own Central Forensic Science Laboratory team,” the official said. The cache had been brought in three consignments of 10-12 kg slabs in 2018 a year before the attack. One was brought by Munna Lahori in March, another by Umar Farooq in April and the last by Mohammad Ismail Lambu in May. The statement shared by the agency said this "marks the culmination of a year-and-a-half-long painstaking and meticulous investigation with valuable inputs received from other Central and state government agencies as well as foreign law enforcement agencies. A lot of digital, forensic, documentary and oral evidence establishing a fool-proof case against the accused was collected.” After decryption, for instance, phone records had revealed that Farooq had told his handlers that Rs 5.7 lakh had been spent on logistics, Rs 1.7 lakh on explosives and Rs 2.2 lakh on a car. A deleted photo recovered from the phone of 2019 Pulwama terror attack accused and Pakistani national Umar Farooq shows him making an IED. The photographic evidence was used by the NIA to make a watertight case with help of FBI and CERT in its chargesheet submitted in Jammu court on TuesdayA top NIA member who was involved in the investigation said the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), too, gave valuable inputs. It helped them uncover images of explosives being made, as well as deleted selfies from “infiltration points” at Samba and Hiranagar. “The Samsung S-9 Galaxy phone had multi-tiered security and encryption. It was CERT-In which came to our rescue,” the official said. CERT-In also helped NIA with the coordinates for Lahori (Narowal), Farooq (Londi) and Lambu (Beil) in Pakistan. “They would enter via Shakargarh which was also used in the Gurdaspur attack in 2015 and other attacks in the Valley," said a top official. The terrorists who brought the explosives were, in turn, smuggled into the country with help from Valley locals Ashiq Ahmad Negroo, who is absconding, and Iqbal Rather, who has been arrested. Watch FBI gave us key inputs in Pulwama probe: NIA||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fbi-gave-us-key-inputs-in-pulwama-probe-nia/articleshow/77773226.cms||Rohan Dua
August 27, 2020||Business||Interest on loans seen to be key to paying depositors||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court’s stand on loan moratorium has taken the government and RBI by surprise, as they had backed interest payment on loans during the period to ensure that banks remain financially viable. RBI and government’s argument is that banks survive on deposits, which are then used to lend to individuals and companies. And, depositors get interest based on the interest that banks earn on loans. With RBI cutting interest rates, depositors, especially senior citizens, are complaining of their incomes getting hit. By stopping interest on loans where installments are delayed, the problem will only be compounded. In any case, housing finance companies have argued that their income has been hit due to the moratorium. A large gap between the interest outgo and interest income will impact the profitability of banks and NBFCs, resulting in shareholders having to pump in more capital at a time when they are raising funds in anticipation of higher bad debt in coming months. While deciding against extending the loan moratorium beyond August, RBI had also announced a one-time restructuring window for individual and corporate loans. In case of home loans, banks are expected to provide a tenure extension of up to two years with a one-year moratorium on repayment. The move is seen as a special window for those whose income has been hit and are unable to service even their home loan liability. So far, around 25-30% of the borrowers are seen to have claimed moratorium on their loans and banks are likely to be selective in granting a restructuring facility, although RBI has asked them to be ready with a list of potential beneficiaries based on the credit history and income in recent weeks. With just five days for the moratorium to end, bankers as well as government, RBI brass are keeping a close watch on the proceedings in the Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/interest-on-loans-seen-to-be-key-to-paying-depositors/articleshow/77773531.cms||Sidhartha
August 27, 2020||India||After Gen Rawat’s ‘military option’ remark, Jaishankar brings focus back on diplomacy to resolve LAC crisis||NEW DELHI: Days after Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat said defence services remain prepared for military action if all efforts to restore status quo on LAC do not succeed, foreign minister S Jaishankar brought the focus back to diplomacy as a way to resolve the continuing border crisis with China. In an interview to Rediff.com, Jaishankar while acknowledging the seriousness of the current crisis, said the last three such stand-offs — Depsang (2013), Chumar (2014) and Doklam (2017) — were resolved by diplomacy. He also, however, added that while restoring status quo, China must agree to honouring all agreements and not attempt to alter the situation unilaterally. “I am not minimising either the seriousness or the complex nature of the current situation. Naturally, we have to do what it takes to secure our borders. … we are talking to the Chinese both through military channels and diplomatic ones. In fact, they work in tandem.” On Monday, Gen Rawat declared, “The military option to deal with transgressions by the Chinese Army in Ladakh is on, but it will be exercised only if talks at the military and the diplomatic level fail.” His comments created no small stir within and outside government. However, a solution, Jaishankar indicated, would have to be more than merely returning to status quo. “When it comes to finding a solution, this must be predicated on honouring all agreements and understandings. And not attempting to alter the status quo unilaterally.” This would indicate that India is looking for a more sustainable resolution of instances of China repeatedly transgressing the LAC into Indian territory. The official and military talks are stuck on Chinese intransigence on Pangong Tso. Their condition to move back to their own post near Finger 8 is that they want to leave more troops in the area and also want India to move back further. India has refused to accept this. The minister’s remarks on Wednesday is also a sign that India refuses to “reserve differences” as the Chinese ambassador recommended on Tuesday, while moving on other aspects of the relationship. In an interview to the TOI, Jaishankar had earlier said, “The state of the border and the future of our ties, therefore, cannot be separated. That is the reality.” He emphasised that the current stand-off in eastern Ladakh is “surely the most serious situation after 1962. In fact, after 45 years, we have had military casualties on this border. The quantum of forces currently deployed by both sides at the LAC is also unprecedented.” Watch Jaishankar brings focus back on diplomacy to resolve LAC crisis, after Gen Rawat’s ‘military option’ remark||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-gen-rawats-military-option-remark-jaishankar-brings-focus-back-on-diplomacy-to-resolve-lac-crisis/articleshow/77773662.cms||Indrani Bagchi
August 27, 2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Narcotics bureau files case against Rhea Chakraborty||NEW DELHI: In a new twist to the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) registered a case on Wednesday evening to probe the drug dealing and consumption related allegations involving the actor’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and other friends. When contacted, DG (NCB) Rakesh Asthana said, “An investigation has been put into motion and a five-member SIT has been constituted to probe the case”. The case has been registered on the basis of some documents, WhatsApp chat screenshots and a requisition letter sent to NCB by the ED, sources said. Director ED, Sanjay Mishra, is learnt to have written to Asthana on Tuesday requesting to investigate the narcotics aspects of the case. The ED is probing the financial irregularities charges. Reacting to reports, advocate Satish Maneshinde, who represents Rhea Chakrabarti, said, “I am surprised that NCB has stepped into the case when ED and CBI are already investigating. She is ready for a blood test anytime.” He also questioned the leak of chats bearing Rhea’s and Showik’s signatures of August 10. The operations unit of NCB under deputy director K P S Malhotra has been handed over the case. The Mumbai zonal unit will assist Malhotra’s team, an officer informed. The NCB has been handed over several WhatsApp conversations of Rhea with other entities discussing procurement of drugs, sources said. Officials said there was prima facie evidence indicating that drugs were supplied to the late actor and his girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty. Watch Narcotics bureau files case against Rhea Chakraborty in Sushant Singh Rajput case||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sushant-singh-rajput-case-narcotics-bureau-files-case-against-rhea-chakraborty/articleshow/77773874.cms||Raj Shekhar
August 27, 2020||Business||Don’t hide behind RBI, decide on interest waiver during moratorium: SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday came down heavily on the Centre for dithering on whether to waive interest on loans during the repayment moratorium period, which ends on August 31, or if banks should be barred from charging interest on interest accrued on the deferred EMIs. “This is not the time to think about the business of banks only. The government must consider the sufferings of burrowers also,” a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah said, referring to the Reserve Bank of India’s June 3 affidavit opposing waiver of interest on the ground that it would adversely affect depositors and the banking business. The bench took exception to the long delay on the Centre’s part in filing its promised affidavit on the issue and said the government would do well not to hide behind the RBI. The SC posted the matter for further hearing on September 1, but asked the Centre to file its affidavit in three days. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who in June had promised to get back to the SC after consulting the finance ministry on the RBI's stand, said, “The stands of the Union of India and the RBI are not different. The RBI and the government are working together to ameliorate the hardships faced by borrowers due to lockdowns caused by the pandemic. A fresh decision has been taken by the RBI on August 6 for a focussed sectoral approach for different categories of borrowers instead of one size fits all.” However, the bench disapproved of the government’s lethargy in exercising its powers under the Disaster Management Act to present a clear picture to borrowers — whether interest during the moratorium period could be waived or interest should not be charged on the interest accrued on deferred payment of EMIs during the moratorium period. Referring to the SG’s reference to the RBI’s new sectoral approach, the bench said, “That will not serve the purpose. The RBI is confusing the matter. The Union of India appears to be hiding behind the RBI. It has enough powers under the DM Act to take a decision. If you want to take a decision, take it and file it before us in three days. The matter has been hanging for quite some time.” Three months ago, the SC had sought the Centre’s response after hearing a borrower's counsel, senior advocate Rajiv Datta. The counsel had questioned charging of interest on loans during the moratorium on payment of EMIs. On Wednesday, Datta said, “The Centre has sought numerous adjournments on the ground that it will consult the finance ministry on this issue. We do not know till date how many have opted for moratorium and what is the stand of the Union government on this issue.” Senior advocate Kapil Sibal said the moratorium period would end on August 31 and the RBI has predicted that the next quarter was not going to be any better than the previous one in terms of improvement in the economy. If interest waiver is not given, most borrowers would be declared defaulters after August 31, he said. Opposing the waiver of interest, the RBI had said, “As far as regulation of banks is concerned, the RBI draws upon the considerations of protection of depositors’ interest and maintenance of financial stability, which also require that the banks remain financially sound and profitable.” It said the freeze on repayment of loans through EMIs, extended till August 31, was done with “the objective of mitigating the burden of debt servicing brought about by disruptions on account of Covid-19 pandemic and to ensure the continuity of viable businesses. Therefore, the regulatory package is, in its essence, in the nature of a moratorium/deferment and cannot be construed to be a waiver”. Watch Loan moratorium: SC asks Centre to clarify stand on interest waiver||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/dont-hide-behind-rbi-decide-on-interest-waiver-during-moratorium-sc/articleshow/77773907.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 27, 2020||Business||Flying within air bubble? No need to register||NEW DELHI: Travellers planning to fly out of India on Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) flights or to air-bubble countries need no longer register with the civil aviation ministry before booking their tickets directly with airlines of their choice. The announcement comes within a week of the Union home ministry doing away with the registration protocol for travel to India from air-bubble countries. India has so far created air bubbles with the US, UK, France, Germany, UAE, Qatar and Maldives. Seeking to expand its travel orbit as the world gradually reopens, the government is in talks with Australia, Italy, Japan, New Zealand, Nigeria, Bahrain, Israel, Kenya, the Philippines, Russia, Singapore, South Korea, Thailand, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Afghanistan, Nepal and Bhutan. The idea of air bubbles is to ensure continuity of travel between India and these countries by eligible categories of people till normal flight operations resume. For flights out of India, the home ministry guidelines say: "Before tickets of such persons are confirmed, the airline concerned will ensure that the destination country allows entry of such persons with valid visa in that country. The conditions, if any, imposed by the destination country, will have to be fulfilled by the person intending to travel." For people travelling to India on VBM flights, the new SOP issued by the home ministry last Saturday states that they have to register with the Indian missions in the countries where they reside or have been stranded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/flying-within-air-bubble-no-need-to-register/articleshow/77773913.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Patna||Muzaffarpur youth sets 62-year-old on fire for nagging him||PATNA: One Bhola Mahto (62) is battling for life after his neighbour’s son allegedly poured petrol and set him afire in his sleep for as he had scolded the accused for misbehaving with his father. The incident took place at village Nawada under Katra police station area in Muzaffarpur during the wee hours of Wednesday. The accused, Kunal Singh alias Bela (25), was arrested in the morning. Katra police station SHO Sikandar Kumar said Bhola had received 100% burn injury, as per doctors, and was undergoing treatment at a hospital in Muzaffarpur in a critical condition. “Bhola was sleeping on a cot outside his residence as usual when Kunal reached there with a plastic container filled with petrol. He poured the petrol on Bhola and set him on fire,” he said. The SHO said the container was seized from the spot. “Bhola in his statement accused Kunal of setting him ablaze,” he said. He said Bhola had slapped Kunal thrice and scolded him Tuesday night after the latter fought with his father Lalbabu Singh (60). “Kunal had threatened Bhola to kill him in the night. However, none took his threat seriously as earlier also he had threatened to shoot others in a fit of rage. Lalbabu and Bhola are neighbours and good friends,” the SHO said. He said Kunal owned a cosmetic shop at Nawada Chowk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/muzaffarpur-youth-sets-62-year-old-on-fire-for-nagging-him/articleshow/77769830.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 27, 2020||Patna||Patna: Girl raped, man thrashed to death||PATNA: A 7-year-old girl was raped by a 30-year-old man, who was later thrashed mercilessly by local people and succumbed to injuries at Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) on Wednesday. The incident took place under Agamkuan police station area in Patna City on Wednesday morning. The accused, identified as Tuntun Manjhi, was the victim’s neighbour, Agamkuan police station SHO Abhijeet Kumar said. “As per the statement recorded by the victim’s mother, she was sleeping together when someone from the neighbourhood came and alerted that her daughter was raped. She was unable to tell how her daughter reached Tuntun’s house,” he said, adding the accused was alone at his residence at the time of the incident. The SHO said some of the locals had caught Tuntun when he was committing the crime, but he managed to escape at that time. “The locals later spotted Tuntun again in the area. They caught and thrashed him mercilessly before someone informed the police and Tuntun was arrested,” the SHO said. He said the accused was later taken to PMCH for treatment during which he died. The victim’s mother lodged an FIR against him for raping her daughter. He said both the accused and victim’s parents were daily wagers and lived in the slums. “The victim is undergoing medical examination. Her statement will be recorded later,” the SHO said. Patna City SDPO Manish Kumar said the accused succumbed to the injuries sustained during thrashing by people. He said further investigation was on in this connection. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/girl-raped-man-thrashed-to-death/articleshow/77770222.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 27, 2020||Patna||Chargesheet filed against Brajesh in laundering case||PATNA: The Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday filed prosecution complaint (chargesheet) against Muzaffarpur children home rape case convict Brajesh Thakur and his family members for alleged money laundering by misappropriating government funds provided to him for running shelters and other purposes and amassing huge amount of movable and immovable properties through it at various locations in Bihar and at Palam in Delhi. Brajesh, along with several others, had been sentenced for life imprisonment by the special CBI court in Delhi earlier this year for sexually assaulting minor girls at Muzaffarpur shelter home. The complaint was filed before ED’s special court in Patna in which the central agency has prayed for punishment, which is maximum 7 years under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), and confiscation of movable and immovable property worth of Rs8.3 crore amassed by Brajesh and his family. ED sources said the movable and immovable properties were in the name of Brajesh and his wife Kumari Asha, son Rahul Anand, mother Manorama Devi and a few others. “The properties include a multistorey hotel in Muzaffarpur, a house in Samastipur and several plots of land in Motihari. Besides, there is a bank balance of more than Rs50 lakh deposited in the name of Brajesh and his mother Manorama,” ED sources said. “They have a plot of land and a two-storey bungalow at Palam in New Delhi worth Rs1.47 crore, which was provisionally attached on August 7 this year,” sources said. They said all these properties were attached by ED after they had registered an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) against Brajesh on the basis of two FIRs lodged by Women’s police station in Muzaffarpur and CBI after taking over the children home rape case. ED sources said Brajesh had received funds or grant-in-aid of Rs7.57 crore from the government for running the children home through his NGO named Sewa Sankalp Ewam Vikash Samiti for the welfare of minor girls. The central agency alleged in its prosecution complaint that Brajesh, in connivance with others, had diverted the government funds for personal use and amassed huge properties. Sources said ED had already provisionally attached Brajesh’s properties worth of Rs7.3 crore on March 13 last year, which was later confirmed by ED’s adjudicating authority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chargesheet-filed-against-brajesh-in-laundering-case/articleshow/77770220.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 27, 2020||Patna||Separate dialysis machine for Covid patients||BHAGALUR: A separate dialysis machine has been installed at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) for coronavirus patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). The hospital has 9 other dialysis machines for general patients, said associate professor in JLNMCH medicine department, Dr Raj Kamal Choudhary, who led a team of doctors in treating coronavirus patients with severe kidney disease. He said 5 Covid-19 patients with comorbidities related to severe kidney diseases have been treatment with the help of the dedicated dialysis machine following the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) guidelines for dialysis of Covid-19 patients. Dr Choudhary said the CKD patients on dialysis or continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) are among the most vulnerable because of their comorbidities, including repeated unavoidable exposure to hospital environment and immune-suppressed state. Normally there are three situations of patients who require dialysis — when patients are already on maintenance dialysis or requires dialysis due to acute kidney injury (AKI) or critically ill requiring continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT), he said. Altogether 510 CKD patients without coronavirus infection have been treated in the past 6-7 months, he added, saying it is an exceptional feat for JLNMCH in view of the Corona pandemic, he added. The dialysis unit staff members were specially trained in using Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for the safety of doctors and paramedics besides the Covid-19 patients during dialysis, which normally takes about four-five hours and is done three times per week, said a fellow doctor in the team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/separate-dialysis-machine-for-covid-patients/articleshow/77769558.cms||Kumar Rajesh
August 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka BJP chief hails Yediyurappa’s leadership||Puttur: Amidst swirling rumours over the BJP leadership asking chief minister B S Yediyurappa to step down over his handling of the pandemic in the state, state BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel and minister for municipal administration K C Narayana Gowda downplayed the same in their own inimitable manner, here on Wednesday. The occasion was the laying of the foundation stone for the new building of the Puttur CMC, renovated town hall and Gandhi Katte. Gowda, the KR Pet MLA, who laid the foundation stone for the new CMC building that is being constructed at a cost of Rs 14.9 crore, openly batted for Yediyurappa in asserting one has to learn how to work from the four-time CM. Referring to his enthusiasm when invited to offer bagina at the KRS dam, in that he had just recovered from Covid-19, Gowda said Yediyurappa doing so for the fifth time in his career showed his dedication for public service. Giving full marks to the leadership of Yediyurappa in handling the pandemic in the state, Gowda said at the current pace of implementation of measures put in place to combat it, Covid-19 will “leave” Karnataka in a month’s time. “It requires cooperation of the people to ensure this happens,” Gowda, also minister for sericulture and horticulture, said. This remark comes at a time when fresh Covid-19 cases across the state show no signs of tapering off. Nalin, who dedicated the renovated Gandhi Katte, a square on which Mahatma Gandhi had sat when he visited the town in 1934, said Karnataka is second in India in terms of handling Covid-19. It is Yediyurappa’s leadership that has seen the state set up 100 Covid-19 testing labs, increase the number of ventilators to 15,000 across the state to help Covid-19 patients and also ensure that every district has a full-fledged Covid-19 hospital, Nalin said. The vision shown by Yediyurappa in setting up fever clinics across the state and giving the go-ahead for conducting SSLC and CET examinations after making a test case of the pending II PU English examination also typifies his astute leadership, Nalin said. Besides this, the CM, amidst the general economic slowdown, has also ensured that priority is given to ensuring that fast paced development takes place across Karnataka, Nalin added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-bjp-chief-hails-yediyurappas-leadership/articleshow/77771270.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Delhi||Sealed zones up 30% in Delhi in 10 days, officials say will dip in next 10||NEW DELHI: Amid rising fresh Covid-19 cases and active cases in Delhi this month, the number of containment zones has also increased. From 496 on August 2, it rose to 716 on Wednesday, marking an increase of 44.3%. Attributing this to Delhi’s ‘floating population’ coming back as businesses reopen, district officials said that sizes of the containment zones are now much smaller. Arun Kumar Mishra, District Magistrate (East), said that Delhi has a static population where the infection level was contained and now with businesses reopening and those who had left for their villages coming back, quarantine for everyone and creation of containment zones are necessary to contain the spread of Covid-19. “In next few days, immigration will reach a saturation level and we will be able to control it in the next 10 days. Each person coming from outside Delhi is being directed to be in quarantine for seven days,” Mishra said, adding that he estimates that around 10 to 15 lakh people have come back to Delhi this month. On August 16, the district had 35 containment zones and on August 26, the number went up by 40% to 49 zones. “The measures we are following to contain the spread of Covid-19 include management of containment zones, crowd management at all markets, extensive testing and effective enforcement measures to ensure everyone wears face masks and maintains a distance of 6 feet,” Mishra said. A senior district official of the North district, which saw the number of containment zones go up by 30.4% in the last 10 days, from 69 to 90, also said that extensive testing would throw up more positive cases but that helps in containing the spread. “When it comes to testing, the North district is among the top districts and whenever we see clustering of cases happening in any area, we immediately recommend creation of a containment zone. It is, however, true that containment zones have gone up despite many previous zones getting scaled down earlier this month,” he said. In many districts, a large number of containment zones ceased to exist after the union health ministry allowed these red zones to be de-contained 14 days after discharge of the last confirmed positive case instead of the 28 days norm earlier this month. “The number of containment zones going up is natural with more people now going out to work and more workplaces and businesses opening after Unlock 3.0. However, thanks to the revised norms, we are able to scale down most zones in 14 days,” the official said. On Wednesday, the highest number of containment zones was in the South-West district – 151 – followed by South (95), West (93) and North (90) districts. While the number of zones in the South-West district has gone up by 6.3% compared with August 16, when it had 142 zones, the West district has seen the most massive jump of 126.8%. The district had 41 containment zones on August 16, which has now gone up to 93. Overall, the number of containment zones has gone up by 30.4% and only the North-East district has bucked the trend where the number of red zones has gone down by 25% - from 31 on August 16 to 23 on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sealed-zones-up-30-in-10-days-officials-say-will-dip-in-next-10/articleshow/77772582.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 27, 2020||Delhi||Deaf and mute minor raped, murdered||NEW DELHI: A 10-year-old deaf and mute girl was reportedly kidnapped from her house in Hodal near Palwal in Haryana, allegedly raped and then brutally murdered. Her mutilated body with the eyes gouged out was recovered from farmland on Tuesday. The child had gone missing on Monday. When her family members tried to lodge a complaint, they were allegedly turned away from the police station. The decomposing body was found the next morning by a group of women who had gone to the field to relieve themselves. The family said that the child went missing around 2pm on Monday when she had stepped out to play. She was a Class IV student at a government school, but had been staying home due to the pandemic. “Both the child and her mother had a speech impairment. Because of this, she could not raise an alarm while being kidnapped,” said a family member. After the girl’s mother couldn’t find her in the village, she approached a neighbour and used sign language to inform her that she had gone missing. The neighbours and relatives reached the local police station to lodge a complaint, but the cops allegedly refused to even allow them to enter the premises. The policemen asked them to first search for the girl in the locality. Eyewitnesses claimed that the child’s clothes were stained with blood and she had injury marks all over her body. Her face seemed to have been smashed with a heavy object to hide her identity. The girl’s family later carried the body to the police station and staged a protest demanding action against the cops who had refused to lodge a complaint. DSP (Palwal) Balbir Singh said that a case of murder and under sections of Pocso Act had been registered. The body was sent for an autopsy. “It appears that the girl was sexually assaulted. We will add rape charges based on the autopsy report. An inquiry has been initiated into the allegations of the family members about the cops refusing to lodge a complaint,” he added. Police are scanning through CCTV footage from the area to identify the killer. They suspect the killer might have caught hold of the girl while she had gone to relieve herself. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/deaf-mute-minor-raped-murdered/articleshow/77772615.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Dehradun||Two brothers booked for harassing girl & assaulting constables who came to arrest them, video goes viral||DEHRADUN: Two men, both in their late twenties, were booked by Dehradun police on Wednesday on charges of outraging modesty of a girl and assaulting the constables of the Cheetah police unit, launched to check street crimes, who went on the spot to arrest them. The incident took place in Deepnagar area of city’s Nehru Colony. Later, the accused, identified as brother duo Arjun and Amit, were arrested by police under sections 332 (voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (criminal force), 186 (obstructing any public servant), 354 (outraging modesty of woman), 504 (breaking public peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation). Notably, the mother of the two accused, identified as Kalawati, has also been booked as she was also involved in assaulting the constables. Meanwhile, a video showing the three accused assaulting the two constables has gone viral on social media platforms. According to police, constable Dharmendra Bhatt and constable Rajesh Rawat of cheetah mobile unit went to Deepnagar in Nehru Colony area on the complaint of a woman, who claimed that Arjun and Amit were passing lewd remarks on her. “On reaching the spot, both Arjun and Amit entered into scuffle with the constables and were later joined by their mother, who together assaulted the police personnel. They even tried to pull them inside their house,” said Ashish Rawat, incharge of Bypass police post. On the other hand, the mother of the two accused has blamed the constables of beating her and hitting her with a helmet. Taking cognisance, Dehradun’s deputy inspector general (DIG) Arun Mohan Joshi attached the constables to police lines and ordered an enquiry into the whole matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-brothers-booked-for-harassing-girl-assaulting-constables-who-came-to-arrest-them-video-goes-viral/articleshow/77769839.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 27, 2020||Patna||Patna: 18-year-old who survived honour killing bid says dad fired at her||PATNA: An 18-year-old girl Sweta Kumari (name changed), who survived a murderous attempt on her life by her father, uncle and grandfather on Monday for eloping and marrying a man of her choice, is being guarded round the clock by policemen wielding AK-47 assault rifles at the Patna Medical College and Hospital. Shweta sustained a gunshot injury on her left arm. A woman cop, Zamila Khatoon (55), who was escorting her is also admitted at the PMCH for splinter injuries, which she suffered while trying to save Sweta. Sweta’s husband Shishupal Kumar (18) is also undergoing treatment at another ward in PMCH. The couple had eloped in October last year after which Sweta’s family had lodged a kidnapping case with Salimpur police station in Patna district against Satyendra, Shishupal and others. At the hospital, Zamila told TOI on Wednesday that two bike-borne men intercepted their vehicle while returning from court where Sweta deposed that she wanted to live with her husband and his family. “The pillion rider suddenly came towards us and inserted a pistol from the rear right window which was kept open as Sweta was vomiting due to illness,” she said. “I made Sweta bend as soon as the assailant fired targeting her chest. The bullet missed and hit her in the arms while I received splinter injuries. The killer then aimed a pistol at my head, but I ducked,” he said. Zamila said they survived the atack because the driver did not stop the vehicle. “He drove away and we reached the Gai ghat women’s home from where we went to PMCH with reinforcement for treatment,” she added. Shweta, surrounded by two policemen armed with assault rifles, a woman constable and a home guard, told this newspaper that her father Chandan Yadav had fire at her. “He threatened our driver to stop the car. He fired twice at us. My grandfather Surendra Yadav had also reached on another bike and fired a third bullet but our driver managed to drive away,” she said. Sweta, who studied till Class-VIII, said she eloped with Shishupal because her parents were planning to kill her. “I had asked my family to allow me to marry Shishupal but they refused. They used to thrash me. After eloping, we got married at a temple in Samastipur and appeared before a court on October 24. I had refused to go with my parents after which the court sent me to a remand home,” she said. Sweta said on Monday she deposed in favour of her husband and his family after which the court allowed her to go to their residence. “My husband and his father were travelling behind us on Monday,” he said. Shishupal, who cleared his Class-XII this year, said he now fears for his life alleging that Sweta’s family members would attack him again. “Shweta’s uncle Dina Yadav and father intercepted us on one bike while her grandfather and cousin Deokaran Yadav on another. Dina shot my father sitting behind me. He fell after which I tried to pick him up when Chandan shot me too,” Shishupl said. “I fled but Sweta’s father chased me. After failing to catch me, they fired multiple rounds killing my father at the spot,” he added. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said the case was a clear attempt of honour killing as the girl had married against the family’s wish. “There’s no other reason for attempting to kill her. All her family members including father, uncle and others are evading arrest and raids are on to nab them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/18-year-old-who-survived-honour-killing-bid-says-dad-fired-at-her/articleshow/77769809.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 27, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Another UP minister, BJP MP test Covid-19 positive||LUCKNOW: UP panchayati raj minister Bhupendra Singh Chaudhary and BJP MP from Mohanlalganj Kaushal Kishore tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday. Both the leaders shared the news on social media. So far 27 UP politicians have been diagnosed with Covid-19. They include 11 ministers, a minister rank functionary and eight sitting MLAs/MLCs. Two UP ministers, Kamal Rani Varun and Chetan Chauhan,succumbed to the infection. “After initial symptoms of coronavirus started appearing, I got myself tested for the infection. My report has confirmed Covid-19. On the advice of doctors, I have got myself hospitalised. I request all those who have come in contact with me in the past few days to isolate and get tested,” tweeted Chaudhary. Kishore, who is also the state chief for BJP’s scheduled caste wing, tweeted his video shot in the hospital declaring that he has tested Covid positive. The MP said that he had tested negative on August 19 but tested positive in the test done in a hospital on Wednesday. He requested all those who had come in contact with him to isolate and get themselves tested. He also advised them to drink ‘kadha’ and take steam. The BJP MP’s twitter account shows that he had been active in his constituency Mohanlalganj — visiting victims of accidents, offering condolences and support to people who lost their family members in tragic incidents. In a photograph tweeted on Tuesday, he was seen sitting on a chair with a mask on the chin and surrounded by villagers in Sirausa in Para. The crowd in the photograph was not following social distancing and only a few were wearing mask.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/another-up-min-bjp-mp-test-ve/articleshow/77773049.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Mysuru||Foresters and fire personnel rescue jumbo trapped in trench||Mysuru: A tusker which had fallen into a cattle-proof trench on the border of Male Mahadeshwara Hills Wildlife Sanctuary was rescued in a joint operation by foresters and fire service department personnel on Wednesday. The tusker, estimated to be a year old, had accidently fallen into the small trench constructed in Hanuru buffer zone coming under Pachche Doddi Beat near Arakanahalla earlier in the day. The awkward fall left the jumbo unable to move or lift its body to come off the trench. The villagers who noticed the tusker struggling, informed DCF V Yedukondalu. “I received the information around 9am and immediately informed the Hanuru buffer zone range forest officer M Sunder. We rushed to the spot and found that the tusker could not move. Its head was in the small trench and the rest of the body outside. We immediately started the operation to rescue the tusker,” he told TOI. The foresters immediately arranged an excavator machine and dug the ground. The ground was levelled by the excavator machine to ensure the animal stood on its left. “The rescue operation started at around 9am and continued till 11am. The fire service personnel sprinkled water on the elephant to maintain its body temperature and prevent dehydration,” he said. The rescued elephant was later released back to the forest. “We have asked wildlife vet Dr Nagaraj for the observation of the tusker,” Yedukondalu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/foresters-and-fire-personnel-rescue-jumbo-trapped-in-trench/articleshow/77769913.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
August 27, 2020||Patna||Congress revokes Shakeel Ahmad’s suspension||PATNA: The Congress revoked the suspension of former parliamentarian Shakeel Ahmad on Wednesday. According to a letter issued by the general secretary of the All India Congress Committee, Motilal Vora, to state Congress incharge Shaktisinh Gohil, Shakeel Ahmad’s suspension was revoked with immediate effect. He had been suspended during the Lok Sabha elections in May 2019 when he contested as an independent candidate because the Madhubani seat went in VIP’s kitty. While talking to TOI, Ahmad thanked his party’s leadership and all the members. “I will work as a dedicated party worker and fulfil all the responsibilities given to me. Although I was suspended, technically I was with the Congress and in over one year, I never went against the party. In fact, while campaigning last year, I had thanked Rahul Gandhi ji, the then party president, for trying to get a ticket for me till the end.” In another major political development, the party formed a six-member screening committee to sort out issues pertaining to selection of candidates ahead of the state assembly polls. Avinash Pandey has been picked as the chairman of the committee. Apart from him, Devendra Yadav and Qazi Nizamuddin are members of the screening committee whereas Shaktisinh Gohil, Madan Mohan Jha and Sadanand Singh are the ex-officio members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-revokes-shakeel-ahmads-suspension/articleshow/77769743.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 27, 2020||Business||Visa, Innoviti to turn bills at PoS devices into loans||Mumbai: Visa has partnered with Innoviti, a digital payments company, to set up a platform that will enable bank customers to convert purchases at a point-of-sale (PoS) machine into equated monthly instalments, or EMIs. The platform can facilitate loans irrespective of whether customers use cards or QR code for payment. Currently, several merchants offer cardholders the ability to convert a regular swipe transaction into EMIs. These options are because of a bilateral agreement between the bank that has installed the PoS machine and the card-issuer. The new EMI platform will leverage Innoviti’s capabilities and Visa’s APIs (application programming interface, which enables third-party service providers to plug in and provide straight-through processing capability). “Under the present set-up, if there are 5 lakh merchants and 50 card-issuing banks, there would need to be 5 lakh x 50 bilateral arrangements. With this platform, any of the banks that have plugged into the platform from the card-issuer side can offer EMI on transactions with any of the merchants who are connected to the platform,” said Innoviti CEO Rajeev Agarwal. Innoviti, which helps retailers integrate payments with their IT systems, had pioneered EMI on debit cards in 2013 and had tied up with its merchant partners for this service. The top 10 banks have the capability to provide EMI facility to their customers as they have the ability to underwrite customers using software. However, they are not in a position to reach out to every merchant who accepts electronic payments. Most of the PoS machines or QR codes that merchants have are linked to a handful of banks that are active in the merchant-acquiring space. “By enabling instalment solutions at the PoS terminal and solving for friction that exists today in-store, we want to drive affordability at checkout and build consumer affinity for digital payments,” said Visa head of products (India & South Asia) Arvind Ronta. Although Visa has its own payments network, the platform will be opened to other networks as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/visa-innoviti-to-turn-bills-at-pos-devices-into-loans/articleshow/77772298.cms||Mayur Shetty
August 27, 2020||Hubballi||Covid-19 tally in Dharwad inches closer to 10k-mark||Dharwad: In less than 60 days, the Covid-19 tally in Dharwad has risen thirtyfold, from a meagre 328 positive cases on June 30 to 9,670 as on August 25, and the figure is expected to cross the dreaded 10,000-mark by the end of the month should the district continue to report 200 fresh cases per day, as has been the case the entire month, over the last few days of August. Notwithstanding the many precautions taken by the district administration, the Covid-19 graph has seen a rapid upward rise following the lifting of the lockdown and easing of restrictions. In July, the district recorded 3,923 fresh cases, while Dharwad has added a staggering 5,579 cases thus far in August. The twin-cities account for a bulk of the cases in the district, with Navalgund, Hubballi Rural, Kundgol, Kalghatagi and Alnavar trailing them. The easing of the restrictions, in accordance with the central government’s overarching plan to revive the flagging economy, resulted in a massive influx of people, who returned home, owing to the fear of the pandemic and loss of livelihood in metropolises. Moreover, people from Haveri, Gadag, Koppal, Bagalkot, Vijayapura and Uttara Kannada receiving treatment in Dharwad too are included in the district’s tally. The officials in the district administration said that the intensification in testing, particularly the use of the rapid antigen test (RAT) kits, had resulted in more people being confirmed infected, which had, in turn, resulted in pushing the Covid-19 tally up. Spike in fatalities On the one hand, the number of people succumbing to the novel coronavirus has seen a sharp spurt in the past two months in Dharwad, the number shooting up from eight (as on June 30) to 281 as on August 25 – 158 people have died in the month of August alone – but the district has also fared well as far as its recovery rate is concerned. Although the number of Covid-19 cases have been on an upward spiral in August, the number of patients who have been discharged this month – 5,242 – is quite close to that of positive cases. In all, 6,971 people have recovered from the pandemic in Dharwad, which is more than 72% of its overall tally. ‘Private hospitals exploiting us’ Meanwhile, there have been complaints from a section of patients being treated at private hospitals of being overcharged. A few patients have charged the district administration with inaction with respect to the exploitative practices of the private healthcare institutions. Residents have also questioned the need to be subjected to both RAT and RT-PCR tests, with many alleging that this was a ploy by health department staff to meet their targets. Dharwad deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil said that he would instruct personnel against coercing people to take tests in order to achieve their target.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/covid-19-tally-in-dharwad-inches-closer-to-10k-mark/articleshow/77771322.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
August 27, 2020||Mysuru||Jayanthi Mahotsav at Suttur Mutt to be held virtually on Aug 29||Mysuru: The Suttur Mutt and JSS Mahavidyapeetha have decided celebrate105th Jayanthi Mahotsav of Dr Shivarathri Rajendra Mahaswamy virtually on August 29 at Suttur Mutt premises at 9.15am. Speaking to reporters, JSS Mahavidyapeeth secretary S P Manjunath here on Wednesday said the decision to this effect was taken in the wake of the pandemic. Devotees of the Mutt are requested to watch the celebrations through online platforms, he said. Entry will be restricted to the events held at Suttur Srikshetra in Nanjangud taluk and Suttur Mutt premises in Mysore, he added. Defence minister Rajanath Singh will inaugurate the celebrations at 10.30 am at Suttur Mutt premises in the city. Former Prime Minister H D Devegowda will preside over the function. Chief minister B S Yediyurappa will inaugurate the webcast of the animation film on Sutturu Sri Mutt Guruparamapare and the heritage of Sri Suttur Mutt. Deputy chief minister Ashwathnarayan will release a special souvenir “Prasada” on the occasion. A drama on ‘Divyachethana’ based on the life of late Seer Dr Shivarathri Rajendra Mahaswami and his contributions to education, health, society, promotion of spiritual and religious activities, and a dance drama on ‘Kayaka tapaswi’ will be held around 12noon which will be telecast for public on the occasion. At 4pm, Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha will inaugurate the seminar on Covid-19 challenges and its management. Srikshetra Dharmasthala pontiff Dr Veerendra Heggade, state medical education minister Dr D Sudhakar, Infosys Foundation chairperson Dr Sudha Murty, Sandalwood actor Tugudeepa Darshan, All India Pharmacy Council president Dr B Suresh and others will take part in the event. Online quiz competition for students, distribution of prizes to SSLC, PUC toppers, distribution of prasada for devotees will be held on the occasion. Students interested to participate in the quiz may register online at www.jssonline.org or www.rajendraswamiji.in by 6pm on August 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/jayanthi-mahotsav-at-suttur-mutt-to-be-held-virtually-on-aug-29/articleshow/77771093.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Mysuru||UoM halts work on lift at Crawford Hall following outrage||Mysuru: The University of Mysore (UoM) on Wednesday stopped work to install a lift at Crawford Hall, its headquarters, which is a heritage property. It stated that it will approach the heritage panel about the project and will act accordingly even as it asserted that it will not damage the vintage beauty. This follows objections raised by heritage lovers as the a lift would have marred the beauty of the building. The two-storey structure built in 1947 is one of the vintage structures dotting the heritage road of Krishnaraja Boulevard. The UoM, until now, had not meddled with the beauty of any heritaghe structure in its possession. Following a query from TOI, heritage panel member N S Rangaraju, a retired UOM professor, visited the spot on Wednesday evening and met the authorities. He said that registrar M Shivappa accompanied him when he did the spot assessment. The panel, he said, has not given permission for the lift. "UOM authorities told me that they will stop the project and approach us. They have stated that the varsity will not fiddle with the heritage beauty of the property," he added What has upset heritage lovers is that the building has just two floors, and so a lift is totally unnecessary. Vice-chancellor G Hemantha Kumar says senior citizens are finding it difficult to reach the offices on the first floor. "If the committee asks us to stop the work, we will stop. If they suggest any modifications, we will follow their suggestions," he said. The UoM authorities informed TOI that remedial measures will be taken at the earliest, and that the beauty of the structure will not be marred. They said they will have a relook and address the concerns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/uom-halts-work-on-lift-at-crawford-hall-following-outrage/articleshow/77770251.cms||Shrinivasa M
August 27, 2020||Patna||Govt to set up 22 drainage pumping stations in Patna||PATNA: The Bihar Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (BUIDCo) would set up 22 drainage pumping stations in Patna by utilizing funds to the tune of Rs312 crore in order to tackle the waterlogging problem in chronic areas. The state cabinet passed the urban development and housing department’s proposal at its meeting on Tuesday evening. As per the plan, 22 pumping stations would come up at Jagganpura, Premkunj (Pahadi), Khanpura, Rupaspur, Nehru Path, Jakariyapur, Congress Maidan at Kadamkuan and Ganga Canal near AIIMS-Digha bridge, Ram Krishna Nagar, Burmuta Sluice, Dashratha, Beur and NCC campus among the other water chronic areas where temporary sump houses were made. In such areas, there is no drainage network to discharge the rainwater from the localities, which causes waterlogging during the monsoon. Presently, there are 40 sump houses in Patna, which is run and maintained by the BUIDCo. UDHD minister Suresh Kumar Sharma told this newspaper on Wednesday that the BUIDCo engineers have drawn out a detailed project report for construction of permanent sump houses. “New drainage network would be laid in the newly developed areas of Patna district. The aim of the project is to cover the whole district, so that the residents don’t face the waterlogging problem in future,” he said. “The bidding process for the construction of the 22 stations will be floated once the engineers finalize the technical know-how,” he added. The minister said it would take around one year to complete the project after completing the bid process. “The project comprises structure for the sump house (building), machinery, inlet and outlet chambers, panel gate to discharge water and drainage network,” he said. BUIDCo public relations officer Chandrabhushan Kumar said 28 temporary pumping stations were made across Patna under short-term plan. “Of which 22 will be made permanent drainage pumping stations. Construction of permanent sump houses is a long-term plan to prevent waterlogging in Patna,” he said. The Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials said the new pumping stations would help drain out water from such areas where waterlogging problems have been rampant during the monsoon season. “This year, the rainwater had been discharged from chronic areas with the help of trolley-mounted pumps and diesel generator sets among others, which were procured or hired. The civic body even procured 100 portable pumping sets, each of 20HP, to drain out water from low-lying areas or localities where there is no drainage system or blocked manholes,” the officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-to-set-up-22-drainage-pumping-stations-in-patna/articleshow/77770255.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 27, 2020||Patna||Opposition attacks Nitish for virtual rally||PATNA: Opposition leaders attacked chief minister Nitish Kumar ahead of his scheduled virtual rally on September 6. This attack came just a day after JD(U) announced its first ‘mega rally’ in poll-bound Bihar. Opposition leaders said Nitish and other ruling party members were afraid of going to the public and hence were holding virtual rallies. Former industries minister Shyam Rajak, who till a few days ago was with Nitish, criticized the latter for not going to the public directly. “Interacting with the public is a must for any leader and there is no harm in holding a rally, even if it is a virtual one, but it is a fact that Nitish Kumar hates the poor and the labour class. He does not like to be surrounded by such people and hence by virtual rallies he is skipping meeting poor people,” said Rajak, calling Nitish anti-Dalit. RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said the ruling party leaders have no courage to face the public and a virtual rally is an option to save their image. “They are being gheroed and thrashed by the public wherever they are going. Nitish should hold a virtual rally only or else he will have to face the wrath of people,” said Gagan. Elder Yadav scion Tej Pratap has demanded that CM Nitish tell people in his rallies about the job losses and poverty in Bihar. “He should tell the youth why no employment had been generated,” said Tej. Taking a jibe at the scheduled rally, Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said he was expecting the Bihar CM to talk about the work he had done during his tenure. “I hope Nitish ji talks of what he has done in the past 15 years and not what had happened 15 to 20 years ago. I also expect him to tell facts about Covid-19 in Bihar. I doubt the data shared about infected people is not correct, hence CM should talk about it from a public platform and ensure people that state has come out of a critical phase,” Mishra said. Hitting back at the opposition, JD(U) state spokesperson Anjum Ara said their scheduled rally has made opposition leaders more worried. “They are simply giving statements because they have nothing to say or do. Everyone is aware of the situation of Bihar in Congress as we well as RJD’s regime. It is Nitish Kumar who has worked for the development of all the class and his concern for Dalit is known to all.” Ara further said instead of giving statements ahead of the rally, opposition leaders should wait and listen to the CM and get some lessons from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/opposition-attacks-nitish-for-virtual-rally/articleshow/77770192.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 27, 2020||Business||Can’t reject motor claims for want of PUC certificate||MUMBAI: The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Irdai) has said that insurers cannot reject motor claims on the grounds that the vehicle does not have a valid PUC (pollution under control) certificate. A statement has been issued by the insurance regulator to this effect on Wednesday. In July 2018, following a Supreme Court order, Irdai had conveyed to insurance companies that they must ensure that any vehicle they cover must have a valid PUC certificate at the time of the policy. Insurers had protested that there is no central database where they could verify the PUC compliance. Since then, the government has asked all PUC-certifying bodies to upload the certification online. On August 20, Irdai had reiterated the requirement of PUC for insurance through another circular. “However, there are some misleading reports to the effect that if there is no valid PUC certificate at the time of the accident, claim under the motor insurance policy is not payable,” the regulator said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cant-reject-motor-claims-for-want-of-puc/articleshow/77772097.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Patna||AIIMS-Patna to start post-Covid care centre soon||PATNA: AIIMS-Patna is going to set up a post-Covid care centre for patients who have recovered from coronavirus but have developed secondary ailments. The decision has been taken in the light of several Covid-cured patients returning to the hospital, complaining of heart issues, mental distress and other secondary ailments. It has been seen that post-Covid recovery, several patients continue to suffer from coronavirus-spawned complications such as low oxygen saturation, fatigue, cardiac and pulmonary issues, brain fog, giddiness, heart/ brain stroke and even serious complications like lung fibrosis and vascular problems, which they have not suffered during the infection. The post-Covid care centre would provide clinical consultation and treatment to the recovered patients, who need medical attention. AIIMS-Patna would be the first hospital in the state, which has a dedicated clinic for Covid follow- up treatment. Dr Sanjiv Kumar, nodal officer for Covid at AIIMS-Patna, told this newspaper that a separate ward of 20-bed will be created for patients who are experiencing the aftermath effects of coronavirus infection. “Over 1,500 patients have been cured of Covid. But after months, some discharged patients returned with complications like lungs fibrosis, vasculitis, stroke, thrombosis, myalgia and pulmonary issues among others,” Kumar said. He added, “Many patients face post-Covid health issues, which need to be managed through proper medication and treatment, which could be life-threatening. At the post- Covid care centre, cured patients will be given regular check-ups by the health team, as required for a full recovery.” The pre-existing diseases in cured patients such as renal, kidney chronic disease and cancer will not be treated at the centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aiims-patna-to-start-post-covid-care-centre-soon/articleshow/77769458.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 27, 2020||Patna||No decision yet on flights from Gaya||GAYA: Though air services have been resumed at several airports across the country, Gaya air travellers rue their lot as no decision has been taken so far regarding flight resumption from this airport. Domestic flights were suspended on March 25 and since then air traveller’s have not availed the facility. Besides Gaya and neighbouring districts, fliers from parts of Chatra and Koderma districts of neighbouring Jharkhand prefer Gaya on account of its proximity as compared to Ranchi. Jharkhand residents stranded abroad are being brought to Gaya under the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ and special repatriation flights operated by more than half-a-dozen foreign airlines. Prior to the lockdown, Air India was operating its flight on the Gaya-Varanasi- Delhi route. Indigo operated flights for Kolkata and Varanasi. Domestic passengers also used to be accommodated in Air India’s international flight on the New Delhi-Gaya-Yangon route. Expressing anguish over non-resumption of domestic flights, DK Jain, president of the Grand Chord Passengers’ Association, the body of rail users, which has now extended its umbrella to accommodate the interest of air passengers as well (there is no separate organisation of air travellers) said that non-resumption of flights has caused great inconvenience as for all practical purposes train services stand withdrawn. Prior to lockdown, nearly 90 passenger/express/super fast trains criss crossed the Gaya junction. Now, but for a few special trains running on the New Delhi, Kolkata and Bhuneshwar routes, the rail link stands snapped. Moreover, long distance train travel was more risky. Requesting Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri to effectively intervene, Jain said that on account of non-introduction of domestic flights, Gaya travellers are compelled to undertake a somewhat torturous four-hour long road journey to the state capital to catch a flight. The condition of the Gaya-Patna road is known to everybody and the road journey is virtually back breaking. Calls made at Air India station manager’s number gave ‘incoming call facilities on the dialled number are not available’ response. Indigo station manager too did not respond to calls made at his number. Gaya Airport director Dilip Kumar said that Delhi-bound passengers were being accommodated in Indigo’s non-scheduled flights that ferry Bihar-Jharkhand natives stranded abroad. “Indigo has submitted a proposal to introduce regular flights for Kolkata, Varanasi, Bangalore and Delhi from October 24, 2020. NOC has been issued to the private airliner,” said the airport director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-decision-yet-on-flights-from-gaya/articleshow/77769519.cms||Abdul Qadir
August 27, 2020||Patna||Ganga still above danger mark in Patna, Kahalgaon||PATNA/KHAGARIA: No fresh areas were inundated by floodwaters for the fourth consecutive day in Bihar where 83.62 lakh people across 16 districts were affected by the deluge, a Disaster Management Department bulletin said on Wednesday. The number of flood victims and affected areas remained the same since Saturday, it said, adding that 83,62,451 people in 1,333 panchayats of 130 blocks were reeling from the impact of the calamity. However, an official of the department said the “situation has been improving every day” in the state and floodwaters had receded from many areas. When pointed out that figures do not reflect any improvement for the past four days, the official said 83.62 lakh is the cumulative figure of people affected by the floods so far, but that does not mean that all of them were still hit by the deluge. Meanwhile, the Ganga continued to flow above the danger mark at Gandhi Ghat and Hathidah in Patna and Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur district, the Water Resources Department bulletin said. The river was flowing 19cm above the danger level at Gandhi Ghat, over 27cm above it at Hathidah and more than 29cm above the red mark at Kahalgaon, it said. Barring some parts of Gopalganj, Samastipur, Darbhanga and Muzaffarpur districts, floodwaters receded from many areas in the state, the official said. Flood-related deaths remained unchanged at 27. The highest 11 casualties were registered in Darbhanga district, followed by six in Muzaffarpur, four in West Champaran and two each in Saran, Siwan and Khagaria. The flood situation in Khagaria district remained grim as out of 367 villages, 135 were still either completely or partially hit by the floods. The floodwaters entered the houses in a large number of riverine villages and the victims with their domestic animals were taking shelter on the different embankments, NH-31 and other higher places. According to official sources, the flood-hit population in the district stands at 1,58,516. At least four community kitchens were being run at different places, sources added. DM Alok Ranjan Ghosh has directed the BDOs and COs of the affected blocks to keep strict vigil on the proper distribution of relief materials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ganga-still-above-danger-mark-in-patna-kahalgaon/articleshow/77769766.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Vadodara||Sensors to monitor Vishwamitri level||Vadodara: Those residing in low-lying areas of the city or in localities that get flooded by Vishwamitri river monitor its levels anxiously when there is heavy rain or water is released from the Ajwa reservoir. So far, this level was noted by Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) personnel present at the Kalaghoda bridge or a CCTV camera is focussed on the markings and footage is relayed to the City Command and Control Centre (CCCC). But this system of monitoring the level in the Vishwamitri river is set to change soon. The civic body has decided to install smart sensors across the course of the river in the city and even the Ajwa reservoir. Real-time data on the water level of the reservoir and the river at various locations will now be available. VMC’s information technology director and general manager of the Vadodara Smart City Development Ltd, Manish Bhatt, said that the sensors are a part of a project under the Smart City to modernise the fire and emergency service department. “One such sensor was tested at the Kala Ghoda bridge on Monday evening,” he said. The readings from the sensors will be provided to various officials and control rooms of the civic body to ensure that action can be taken in time if the water level rises menacingly. Also, monitoring of water level at different locations within the city will ensure that the danger level at each of these locations is measured and people in the area are aware of it. The sensors will be installed at Kaladghoda Bridge, Akota Bridge, Asoj Feeder, Mujmahuda Bridge, Narhari Bridge, Pratappura Bridge, Ratri Bazar Bridge, Sama-Harni Bridge and Vadsar Bridge beside Ajwa reservoir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sensors-to-monitor-vishwamitri-level/articleshow/77769353.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Business||After 6 months, sensex back at 39k on FPI buys, auto, IT||Mumbai: Boosted by strong buying in auto, banking & financial services and IT stocks, the sensex on Wednesday closed above the 39k mark after exactly six months. Despite a flat closing in the US on Tuesday night, the sensex closed 230 points higher at 39,074 points after a late rally. So far this month, boosted by the highest net foreign fund flows in over a decade, the sensex is up about 1,500 points. The last time the sensex had closed above the 39k level was on February 27 this year, at 39,746. On the basis of investor wealth, however, BSE’s market capitalisation now is about Rs 5.6 lakh crore more than what it was in late February. Compared to the nearly Rs 152 lakh crore then, the market cap now is at just over Rs 157 lakh crore, according to official data. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) have so far net infused nearly Rs 45,000 crore into the stock market so far in August, the highest in over a decade, according to data. The strong monthly flows have also turned the year’s net flows positive with the total currently at Rs 35,000 crore. On Wednesday, net FPI flow was a little over Rs 1,500 crore, BSE data showed. On the domestic front, the finance minister’s statement that GST rate on two-wheelers could be reduced from the current 28% led to strong buying in stocks of these manufacturers. On the international front, prospects of an economic stimulus in the Eurozone and some positive talks on US-China trade deals also boosted investor sentiment, brokers said. According to Motilal Oswal Financial Services head (retail research) Siddhartha Khemka, in the near term, the market is likely to continue its positive momentum with more stock-specific actions. “Strong global cues, led by positive news flows around vaccine development and further easing in tensions between US-China, would support the momentum. However, intermittent profit-booking cannot be ruled out, which should be looked at as a buying opportunity as we maintain a buy-on-decline strategy,” Khemka said. Investors would now track the monthly derivatives expiry on Thursday as well as a crucial speech by US Fed chairman late on that day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/after-6-months-sensex-back-at-39k-on-fpi-buys-auto-it/articleshow/77772175.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Patna||Work on dam likely to be completed in 2 years: Minister||GAYA: The proposed rubber dam on the Falgu near Vishnupad Temple in Gaya, for which the state cabinet approved Rs 226 crore on Tuesday, will be the first of its kind anywhere in north India. The country’s first rubber dam was constructed on river Jhanjhavathi in Andhra Pradesh in 2006. According to Gaya Town MLA and agriculture minister, Prem Kumar, the new dam, work on which is likely to be completed in two years, will help the pilgrims perform salvation-related rituals and get fresh water for ‘tarpan’ (water obeisance) easily. Panda leader, Mahesh Lal Guput Pitalkewadwale, told this newspaper on Wednesday, “Offering ‘tarpan’ to the Sun God is an integral part of the ‘pind daan’. However, the cursed Falgu remains dry most of the time.” Consequently, trenches are dug in the river bed to get water for ‘tarpan’. Activist Baliram Sharma pointed out that the pilgrims often offered muddy water to the Sun God as sewage flew inside the Falgu bed. Although details of the rubber dam have not been made public, informed sources state that its length will be 500-1,000 metres. It will be inflated for storing water and deflated for releasing it instantly and designed keeping in mind the nature of the Falgu. For several years, a proposal to construct a dam on the Falgu near Bitho village for the purpose of water retention was under consideration. One of the decisions taken by former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi pertained to a low-height conventional dam near Bitho village. Retired special secretary of the state government, Rai Madan Kishore, said, “The low-height conventional dam was never a feasible idea as the river is highly porous and there are chances of water seeping to the other side. Moreover, high level of siltation is a big challenge.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/work-on-dam-likely-to-be-completed-in-2-years-minister/articleshow/77769786.cms||Abdul Qadir
August 27, 2020||Goa||Emirates in talks with Goa govt, AAI to fly pharma exports||Panaji: In a move that will save time and money, Emirates Skycargo has expressed interest in operating cargo flights from Goa International Airport, said the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Goa. Emirates SkyCargo has reviewed the current facilities at Dabolim, and although there are infrastructural challenges, they are closely working with the Airport Authority of India (AAI) to get some basic amenities sorted out to ensure that the cargo is handled correctly and product integrity is maintained, said CII Goa. Emirates SkyCargo, a subsidiary of the Emirates Group, has already held meetings with the state government, AAI and the customs authorities over the past six months. On an average, 60 tonnes of pharmaceutical products are transported to Mumbai or Bengaluru on a daily basis to be exported out of India, mainly to the US or European markets. “Companies incur heavy trucking costs, on an average Rs 40,000 per truck and other interstate duties which can be avoided if shipments are exported directly out of Goa,” a CII official said. Emirates SkyCargo is a GDP certified airline, ensuring pharma shipments will be handled as per the highest industry standards. The Dubai-based cargo airline would require a minimum of 45 tonnes cargo per flight from Goa, which needs to be a mix of skidded cargo and loose cartons to optimise the aircraft space. “Emirates is mainly attracted to the pharmaceutical sector. Hence they would like to see a commitment from pharma companies for the first flight to announce the flight immediately. Once Emirates operates two or three flights, we can then have a mix of pharma, general cargo and perishable products contribute to the exports,” CII Goa chairman Blaise Costabir said. The Emirates cargo flights will also benefit local companies that want to import cargo directly into Goa from all over the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/emirates-in-talks-with-goa-govt-aai-to-fly-pharma-exports/articleshow/77772539.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Second round of sero survey launched||Visakhapatnam: The state health department launched the second round of sero-surveillance study in nine districts on Wednesday. The first survey, which was conducted from August 6 to 12, covered Anantapur, East Godavari, Krishna and Nellore districts. According to state health officials, a total of 45,000 samples will be collected in these nine districts over a span of seven days. The two back-to-back sero surveys are expected to help state officials gauge the extent of transmission of Covid-19 among the general public in the state and plan strategies for Covid-19 control and management. In the first round of the sero survey, Krishna district reported a 21.7 per cent positivity rate, while 14.4 per cent of study subjects were found to have been exposed to the virus in East Godavari. Anantapur, which has a caseload of 36,000 Covid-19 cases as of Tuesday, had reported a 16.7 per cent positivity rate. In Nellore, the positivity rate was 8.2 per cent, in sync with its comparatively lower caseload. A total of 5,000 blood samples will be collected as per a predetermined sampling matrix in each district. As many as 1,000 samples will be taken from residents of high-risk areas. Of the remaining 4,000 tests, 60 per cent of samples will be collected from containment zones and the remaining 40 per cent from non-containment zones. These samples will be tested for IgG antibodies using CLIA method.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/second-round-of-sero-survey-launched/articleshow/77771196.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Patna||Schools’ association writes to Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, demands road tax exemption for buses||PATNA: The Association of Independent Schools, Bihar, on Wednesday asked the state government and transport department to waive off road tax and other charges in respect of the school buses and vans. Its president CB Singh, in separate letters to CM Nitish Kumar and state transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, stated that the educational institutions were facing grim financial situation amid the Covid pandemic. He requested them to waive off the road tax as the schools remained shut in the state on account of Covid-19 pandemic. Rajiv Ranjan Sinha, general secretary of the association, told this newspaper on Wednesday that the school buses should be exempted from the road tax and other charges as it was not justified to take money when none of the vehicles had plied during the lockdown period. “On education department’s instruction, the schools have not taken a single penny from the students or their parents as conveyance charges as the schools have been closed. But we have to pay our bus drivers and conductors. If we paid the road tax, how will we pay them their salary. It is unjustified to pay the road tax when the buses are not plying and the schools are not allowed to collect conveyance fees from students,” Sinha argued. He added: “Most of the schools are facing financial problems and paying their staff by taking loans from banks as only 25% students paid the fees. It is also challenging to collect tuition fees from the students as parents are not cooperating.” Since the beginning of the new academic session 2020-21, the schools across the state have been struggling to cope with the Covid-19 pandemic. The debt-ridden private schools are now finding it difficult to raise money to pay salary to their teaching and non-teaching staff. R Roy, principal of DAV Public School, Khagaul, said when the vehicles are not plying, the state government should exempt the schools from paying road tax and other charges. “It will put extra burden on schools as we are not taking any conveyance fees from our students,” he said. Director of Bishop Scott Group of Schools, Shailesh Kumar, said the schools were taking loans to pay the salary to their staff as they had been allowed to collect only tuition fees from parents. “How can the schools pay road tax, property tax and other charges, besides electricity and maintenance fees. The state government should exempt schools from road tax and other related charges,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/schools-association-writes-to-nitish-demands-road-tax-exemption-for-buses/articleshow/77769487.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 27, 2020||Nagpur||Community opinion spread over transfer||Nagpur: The news of municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe’s transfer flooded social media circles from Wednesday evening onwards with everyone having a strong opinion about it.While some welcomed the decision to transfer Mundhe, others were critical of the move to change “captain” amid the battle against Covid. A protest against Mundhe’s transfer has been planned by Nagpur Vikas Parishad at Samvidhan Chowk on Friday. Dipen Agrawal, president of Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industry and Trade (CAMIT) said the news was a welcome one, as the culture of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and traders working together had taken a hit during Mundhe’s tenure. “His one-sided diktats against traders had created panic and unease. When Covid cases were low in the city, he took all the credit. But when the cases increased, traders were blamed. Mundhe’s style of functioning is not conducive for an environment where every stakeholder is consulted to find a solution,” said Agrawal.Shiv Rao, president of Vidarbha Economic Development Council, said, “I think this is not the best time to transfer a bureaucrat as we are heading into a Covid-19 peak by mid-September. Best to have the same person managing affairs. At the same time, we do not agree with Mundhe’s diktat about traders and licence. But these things could have been resolved through dialogue.”After Mundhe crossed swords with traders, Nag Vidarbha Chambers of Commerce (NVCC) was vocal about their unhappiness. Ashwin Mehadia, president of NVCC, “thanked” chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for the decision. “CM listened to what traders here had to say. Traders had observed a one-day bandh and this (transfer) is because of it,” said Mehadia.Nagpur Residential Hotels Association (NRHA) president Tejinder Singh Renu said, “Recently, it was evident that there was lack of coordination between municipal commissioner and elected representatives and this friction caused the citizens, especially the traders and taxpayers, to suffer for no reason. The transfer is no reason to rejoice, but a message for public servants and political leaders to work together.”Dr Anoop Marar, director of Orange City Hospital as well as office-bearer of Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA), said, “Mundhe’s absence will be genuinely felt by Nagpurians. Although his style of working might have irked many, his daring attitude to take any crisis head-on has been essential during pressing times and needs to be appreciated.”Kaustuv Chatterjee, founder of NGO Green Vigil, said, “Nagpur is passing through a tough time and changing captain at this crucial point is surprising. Vision clashes of various sections were evident. Hope all stakeholders will join hands with new commissioner in handling this crucial phase.”Girish Dewani, secretary of Vidarbha Wine Merchants Association, said business was badly affected due to Mundhe’s unilateral decisions. “He did some good things initially to control the pandemic, but that’s a separate thing. For wine shops, he refused to allow sale for walk-in customers. Despite numerous requests, the municipal commissioner refused to listen even though in all other districts situation was completely different,” said Dewani.Rajeev Jaiswal, president of Nagpur District Permit Room Association, said it is crucial for bureaucrats to work with local stakeholders. “Officers posted here must be progressive, but at the same time their attitude cannot be autocratic. Traders have been part of the community for decades and all decisions must be taken after taking stakeholders into confidence,” said Jaiswal.Sanjeev Tare of NGO Ethicality Assurance Centre said, “Mundhe has played a crucial role in controlling the spread of Covid-19 and despite testing positive, he continued to work from isolation. Government should let him continue in the current post till the pandemic subsides.”Anu Chhabrani, president of NGO Swachh Association, said, “Only a few egos have been satisfied with this transfer. Currently, city is reaching its Covid-19 peak and for a new officer to take charge and understand the situation will be a bit difficult.”Social activist Dinesh Naidu said Mundhe will have to add on diplomacy skills to honest repertoire. “Your intentions get defeated by your attitude. Despite his splendid performance, transfer was always on the cards because of autocratic traits. Hope he soon learns that being a non-corrupt administrator is not enough to run the show in a democracy,” said Naidu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/community-opinion-spread-over-transfer/articleshow/77771213.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 27, 2020||Goa||Goa govt to take call on shack business as tourism season beckons||PANAJI: With a month to kickstart Goa’s tourism season, the tourism department will consult the government on renewing licences of beach shacks. Shacks are permitted to commence operations post monsoon, coinciding with charter arrivals. However, the department is yet to take a call due to the Covid-19 pandemic. A senior tourism official said though restaurants have been allowed to open, they are not permitted to serve liquor. “Shacks serve liquor, so we will have to consult the government whether shacks can be opened,” said tourism director Menino D’Souza. Nearly 350 beach shacks are alloted licences to operate during the tourist season. Also, over 400 shacks are erected in private properties beyond the coastline during this period. While beach shacks come under the domain of the tourism department, private shacks are erected with the approval of Goa State Coastal Zone Management Authority. Due to the outbreak, tourism stakeholders are uncertain about commencing operations. D’Souza said that tourists will start arriving in big numbers only when they are feel confident and secure. Though Goa saw fewer Covid cases at the onset of the pandemic, the numbers have been rising quickly since June, while the July-August period saw the virus making inroads in most parts of the state. Cases have been detected in areas that had no or relatively few cases a month ago. President of the Shack Owners’ Welfare Society (SOWS), Cruz Cardozo said that they will have to assess the Covid situation before commencing operations. He said that they will meet chief minister Pramod Sawant and tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar with a request for concession in fees. “Though we barely operated for three months during the last season, yet we paid all the fees. Our members have demanded a concession in fees this time,” he said. SOWS will hold a meeting in this regard before meeting Sawant and Ajgaonkar, he said, adding that though they have expressed willingness to start shacks, the Covid scenario remains critical. “There have to be adequate footfalls when we start operations,” he said. A beach shack is a temporary structure set up with wooden material which has to be dismantled at the end of the season, that is latest by May 31. However, last season, all operators were forced to shut down at least two months before the season could end due to the pandemic. Cardozo said that in addition to fees paid to the government towards licences, etc, the average cost of erecting a shack ranges between Rs 2 and 3 lakh. Most staff working at shacks in various capacities also arrive from other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-to-take-call-on-shack-biz-as-tourism-season-beckons/articleshow/77772584.cms||Bindiya Chari
August 27, 2020||Goa||Apex court likely to hear Goa mining case tomorrow||Panaji: The Supreme Court is likely to hear the crucial Goa mining case on August 28. Advocate general Devidas Pangam told TOI that the entire “court board” was cancelled and that the matter has been fixed on Friday. During the last hearing, 26 panchayats from the state’s mining belt had requested the apex court to allow their intervention application. “All mining petitions will be taken together,” Pangam said. The panchayats have approached the SC with an interlocutory application (IA) seeking impleadment in the Goa mining case. The state government has filed an application before the court to tag it’s mining review petition with the special leave petition filed by mining companies. In February 2018, the SC had quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases, bringing the industry to a halt. Last year, the state government filed a review petition against the order. It also sought to tag the review petition with the one filed by mining companies seeking to extend their leases till 2037. The mining companies had filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the apex court after the high court of Bombay at Goa dismissed their petitions challenging the Goa, Daman and Diu (Abolition and Declaration of Mining Leases) Act, 1987. During the Portuguese rule, the appellants were granted mining concessions, which were then converted into mining leases under the act. The SLP had stated that the act should be made applicable from 1987 instead of 1961. The state government had also told the SC that the companies had made a representation to the mines department contending that under the amendment to Section 8A of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, they’re entitled to extend their leases to 2037, but that they would abide by the court’s order. The state had said that the mining concessions were converted into mining leases under the MMDR Act from 1987, and consequently, the 50 mining leases would be extended to 2037.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/apex-court-likely-to-hear-goa-mining-case-tomorrow/articleshow/77772572.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Allahabad||Covid recovery rate picks up, surges to 73% in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: After reeling under a spate of Covid-29 cases for long, Prayagraj has some news to cheer about — the district has witnessed an increase in the number of patients getting cured, and the recovery rate has touched nearly 73% after a gap of two months. As per the data released by district health authorities, 7,815 patients had been infected by coronavirus out of which 5,690 have recovered and discharged from hospitals or completed home isolation till August 25. Currently, there are over 2,000 active cases in the district and the patients are undergoing treatment at eight Covid hospitals. The city recorded 126 deaths due to novel coronavirus so far. The first Covid-19 case was detected in Prayagraj on April 5, when a 35- year-old Indonesian, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in New Delhi on March 12-13, tested positive. After a few days, cases decreased during lockdown and Prayagraj was even declared a green zone on April 23. The Covid-19 cases started rising again in the last week of June and kept going up. As per records, over 1,200 patients were diagnosed with Covid-19 infection in July month alone. Additional director (health) Dr Sudhakar Pandey told TOI, “Covid-19 cases started increasing from June-end and kept rising in July and August. The highest count in a single day was 338 on August 25.” “However, the rate of recovery also started rising in mid-July and 5,690 patients have recovered. While 3,072 patients got cured and were discharged from hospital, 2,618 patients recovered in home isolation. The recovery rate is 72.80% in Prayagraj now,” he added. Similarly, in Pratapgarh district total 1,536 Covid cases were detected till August 25, out of which 913 got cured, while 24 patients lost the battle to the virus. In Kaushambi, total 773 cases were reported till August 25. While 562 patients have cured and have been discharged, there are 193 active cases. Kaushambi reported nine Covid deaths so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/covid-recovery-rate-picks-up-surges-to-73-in-city/articleshow/77769856.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Goa||For first time, Adpai bids Ganesha quiet goodbye||Ponda: For the first time in their collective memory, villagers of Adpai in Ponda taluka, whose grand and unique Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations are famous in the state, concluded the immersion ceremony without any festivity. The village’s noted son, Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik, who is recovering from Covid, was also missed. The village is well known for its 18 ‘kutumb’ or joint family Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations, which sees clan members from all over congregating at their ancestral home. In addition, it is a village tradition to mark the immersion ceremony with a tableaux procession —a practice unique to the Adpoikars. Local youth use this as an opportunity to express their creativity and set up intricate tableaux based on themes revolving around current issues and mythological subjects. The more senior ones said that never in the last 70-plus decades have they ever seen such a muted send off for the elephant god. The ‘kutumbs’ include the Kurdikar, Khandeparkar, Borkar, Mahalaxmi Bandodkar, Pokle, Soshebhatkar, Khumne Bhatkar, Mardolkar, Shivamba Lotlikar, Khandekar, Khalche Mule, Madhle Mule, Varche Mule, Mangni, Tari Lotlikar, Tari, Shanu and Vasta clans. “The families celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi for five days,” Somesh Naik, a member of Mardolkar kutumb, said. The Ayush minister belongs to the Soshebhatkar kutumb, and Somesh said, “We missed ‘bhau’ (Shripad is popularly known as ‘bhau’ in village) this year and pray for his early recovery.” Normally, the village environs would come alive on the evening of the fifth day as the 18 families along with their Ganesha idols and tableaux made their way down to the immersion point. “This year there were only 16 idols as two had to be immersed after one-and-a-half days due to some unavoidable circumstances,” Somesh said. All the idols were immersed in the Zuari. Several canoes were arranged to take the idols to the middle of the river for immersion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/for-first-time-adpai-bids-ganesha-quiet-goodbye/articleshow/77772546.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Teachers want PPEs to attend schools||Hyderabad: With the state directing teachers to attend school from August 27, the Telangana Progressive Teachers Federation (TPTF) requested officials to provide them with personal protection equipment (PPEs) and sanitation kits. As teachers have to meet parents for admissions and visit the households even in villages and remote areas to enquire about the infrastructure available with the students to attend digital classes, it is important that they are geared up with necessary equipment to protect themselves and others, TPTF said. “Starting from tomorrow, teachers will also be frontline workers. We will have to meet many parents and localities to gather the required information. So, it is necessary that we are provided with sanitation kits and PPEs,” said M Ravindar, president, TPTF. Teachers said after submitting several representations, the officials have moved the majority of Covid-19 testing centres from government schools. But teachers are worried whether the schools are sanitized properly or not. “We demand that they disinfect every nook and corner of the school immediately to stop the spread of Covid-19 and make the premises suitable for teachers and other staff,” said B Rambabu, general secretary. They said that in the Hyderabad district alone more than 30 government schools were used as Covid testing centres until Wednesday. Teachers further alleged that medical waste is visible everywhere in the premises, which can be a threat to staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teachers-want-ppes-to-attend-schools/articleshow/77772739.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Neet makes room for Covid concerns||CHENNAI: Students appearing for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (Neet) next month will do so wearing masks, gloves and will be allowed to take hand sanitizers and water bottles into halls. On September 13, students would be allowed into halls in staggered slots from 11am to avoid crowding and each candidate will be seated at least 6 feet from the other. The National Testing Agency (NTA), which is holding the exam, has increased the number of centres in Chennai to 45 from 31 last year. Across Tamil Nadu, the number of centres has gone up to 238 from 188 last year, but the number of candidates has come down to 1,17,990 from 1,34,714 last year. NTA officials have issued instructions to all exam centres on the steps to be taken before and after the exam and have been advised to let in 15 boys and 15 girls separately. Volunteers will be deployed outside the centres to ensure all rules are followed. Large schools in the city and its suburbs are being used as additional centres. “They have asked for a 500 sqft classroom,” a school principal said, adding that it will not be difficult to maintain social distancing as the number of students per hall had been brought down to 12 from 24. Several parents are still worried as public transport is yet to resume and hotels are not accepting bookings. Many have urged the government to advise hotels to open their bookings for those travelling into cities for exams. For those arriving in a city on the exam day, identifying centres and entering within the stipulated time would be a big challenge, said some. “There should be coordination between the NTA and state transport department on arranging transport. Candidates and their parents should be able to travel from their native places to nearby towns easily,” said N Vijayan, principal of Zion Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Chennai. Dr G R Ravindranath, general secretary of Doctors’ Association for Social Equality, said writing exams wearing gloves and masks would create stress among students. “If any student tests positive, the NTA should give him/her a second chance to write the exam,” he said. “Only after medical admissions, students will think about veterinary, allied health courses, agriculture and Indian medicine. Admission to these courses including engineering will be delayed if the exam is postponed further. So it is better to conduct Neet by taking extraordinary health precautions,” said career consultant Jayaprakash Gandhi. Conducting engineering admissions before medical admissions may leave huge vacancies in top engineering colleges. In 2019-20, around 400 seats had remained vacant in Anna University’s four campuses after students surrendered their engineering seats to join MBBS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/neet-makes-room-for-covid-concerns/articleshow/77772616.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: With entrance tests on hold, many turn to private universities||VISAKHAPATNAM: B Srinivasa Rao, parent of a recent Intermediate (10+2) graduate, has of late given much thought to selecting the best engineering institution for his son. But this year, the familiar story of students preparing for college admissions has been complicated by the Covid-19 outbreak. While major entrance examinations, including the JEE and AP-EAMCET, are yet to be conducted, private/deemed universities have already completed their admission process. Some private engineering institutions have also launched bridge courses for new entrants. Students who wish to study a particular discipline or at a particular institution are the most worried over the delay in entrance examinations. The uncertainty has meant that private universities, even those that have completed their admission process, are receiving numerous inquiries from parents concerned that their children may not be offered a place at their university of choice. Manyalso anticipate that private universities will have no seats left by the time the regular counselling process of EAMCET and other entrance tests are over. Sources at private universities said computer science under engineering is the most sought-after subject. Potential campus recruiters have also been inquiring about the academic schedule to plan for the placement season next year. For professional courses like engineering, conducting examinations on time is essential. Further, private universities have a greater focus on professional courses such as engineering, management, law and pharmacy. Prof H Lajipathi Rai, former vice-chancellor, Dr BR Ambedkar University, Srikakulam, said private universities are competing with government universities/institutions over professional courses in the last few years. “This is the right time for government educational institutions, especially in the wake of the New Education Policy, to take further advantage and provide the best academic services to students by leveraging technology,” said Rai. Gitam Deemed-to-be University vice-chancellor Prof K Sivaramakrishna said the institution has launched a bridge course for new students. “The university entered into a two-year agreement with a video conferencing software company to offer blended learning model education to the students,” said Prof Sivaramakrishna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/with-entrance-tests-on-hold-many-turn-to-pvt-varsities/articleshow/77771220.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 27, 2020||Jaipur||360-mtr wide strip of land to be acquired for northern ring road||Jaipur: The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) will acquire 360-metre wide strip of land for the 44-km ring road (North) corridor, proposed to connect Agra and Delhi highway.The decision was taken in a meeting called to discuss the route alignment, chaired by Jaipur Development Commissioner (JDC), Gaurav Goyal on Tuesday.The northern corridor will also be developed on the lines of 47-km, southern corridor (Agra Road to Ajmer Road) where road will be constructed on 90-metre wide land and 135-135 metres wide development corridor will be developed for commercial purpose. Not learning lessons from the past, the JDA is once again planning to acquire extra land for the ring road’s northern corridor which might raise protests by farmers in future.An official source at JDA said, “In the Master Plan 2025, the JDA has kept the northern corridor 360-metre wide, same as southern corridor. The JDA will develop the corridor on extra land. The idea, however, of acquiring additional land other than the transport corridor did not go well with farmers earlier and the state government faced many violent protests while taking possession of the land for the southern corridor.”This also became a major reason for delay in construction of the southern corridor, which is not operational till date. As National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) was earlier given the task to construct the northern corridor, it had asked Rs 1,808 crore for acquiring land for a 70-metre transport corridor.Sources said, “The JDA and state government cannot provide money to the NHAI for acquisition as its coffers are empty. In such a situation, it can only construct ring road adopting the old model, where it could earn revenue after selling the excess land on the corridor.”The agencies have identified land in 26 villages of three tehsils —Amber, Jaipur and Jamwa-Ramgarh — to acquire it for ring road. As per the initial plan, the ring road was proposed to be constructed in phases. In phase III, it was proposed to construct a road with a length of 97.75km in the northern part of Jaipur, to connect Agra Road, Delhi Road, Sikar Road and Ajmer Road. It will consist of a six-lane access-controlled expressway, a three-lane service road on both sides. “Now, the state government is only planning to construct the corridor to connect Delhi Road and Agra Road. Chandwaji Expressway would be used as Ring Road to Delhi Road and Ajmer Road via Sikar Road,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/360-mtr-wide-strip-of-land-to-be-acquired-for-northern-ring-road/articleshow/77772639.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Jodhpur||126 prisoners test positive for Covid-19 in Barmer jail||JAISALMER: In a major Covid-19 outbreak in Barmer jail, 126 prisoners tested positive in 24 hours since Tuesday evening. According to jail authorities, 43 prisoners were found positive on Tuesday night, while 83 inmates tested positive on Wednesday. Following the outbreak, the district administration has shifted 126 jail inmates to a Covid centre within the prison. The administration has also arranged security for them. On Monday, four prisoners tested positive in the Barmer jail after which samples of 189 prisoners were taken. According to sources, even after the four prisoners tested positive, the jail administration failed to take action due to which the numbers swelled. Other prisoners had also protested against the jail administration. Confirming the outbreak, Barmer SP Anand Sharma said that five wards have been set up for prisoners who tested positive. A medical team has also been deployed at the jail for 24 hours to take care of these inmates. He said a guideline has been drafted along with district collector Vishram Meena on how to treat these prisoners. It will be difficult to keep these prisoners outside the jail as making security arrangements for such a large number of people will be very challenging, he said. If any prisoner is released or granted bail while undergoing treatment, he will be kept at the Covid centre outside the jail and released after the period of quarantine. Chief medical health officer (CMHO) Kamlesh Chaudhary said that preparations have been made with the help of administration. "We have set up a Covid care centre in the jail. We are providing all facilities as per the guidelines for Covid centres. We have sanitised the jail and medical teams have been formed. We are fully monitoring the situation," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/126-prisoners-test-positivefor-covid-19-in-barmer-jail/articleshow/77775349.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Goa||Road safety awareness moves online||Panaji: Road safety activists in the state, who would otherwise travel to schools and colleges in an attempt to impart safety awareness, have decided to shift their focus online. “From September onwards, we will contact schools and organise webinars for students. This can be done only in collaboration with schools and colleges, as a session between regular lectures,” road safety activist and trainer Dilip Naik said. The programme will cover the road safety situation in the state, the country and across the world, road rules, the main causes of road crashes and how to overcome the problem by proper knowledge of road signs and markings. “Over 1.5 lakh people die annually die due to road crashes in India. For Goa, the annual number stands at over 300 deaths. The gravity of the situation is that India has just 1% of the world’s vehicles, but nearly 10% of the global road accidents,” Naik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/road-safety-awareness-moves-online/articleshow/77772586.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Surat||64-year-old ‘stressed’ Covid-19 patient in Surat hangs to death||Surat: A 64-year-old Covid-19 positive patient in home isolation took his own life in the city on Tuesday. Deceased identified as Liladhar Varu, a resident of Bhaktinagar Society on Ashwini Kumar Road hanged himself to death at his home in Varachha area in the city.According to police, Varu hanged himself from a hook of a swing in his room early on Tuesday morning. He left a suicide note in which he took sole responsibility for taking the extreme step. “I am taking this step because I am Covid-19 positive. Nobody is responsible for it. I have no problem and don’t harass anyone in my home,” Varu’s note stated.Police said that Varu had tested positive on August 9 and was in home isolation since then. However, police said that he was under severe stress after getting infected which led him to take this extreme step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/64-year-old-stressed-covid-19-patient-in-surat-hangs-to-death/articleshow/77769890.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Goa||315 govt primary schools have no playgrounds, 24 operating from rented premises||Panaji: Of the 742 government primary schools in the state, 315 do not have their own playgrounds and 24 schools do not even have their own premises. These 24 government primary schools operate from other premises like rooms provided by the local panchayat or municipality or the church. In some cases, the government is charged a nominal monthly rent for the hired space. But, in other cases, the state is shelling out as much as between Rs 20,000 and Rs 30,000 per month for the rented premises, according to government statistics. For instance, the government primary school at Zari-Zuarinagar is being run from a private building, for which the state is paying Rs 30,500 every month. The government primary school, Mandopa in Navelim, runs in a building hired from the local church costing the government over Rs 20,000 per month. A similar amount of rent is being paid to run the government primary school in Vasantnagar, Harvalem. Only in the case of government primary school, Gaulmol Velguem in Sattari, the house of Vaman Gaonkar has been offered at no rent to the state to run the institution. During the 2019 monsoon assembly session, chief minister Pramod Sawant, who is also the education minister, had said that the state government is taking measures to improve the infrastructure of government primary schools through the Goa Infrastructure Development Corporation. He was speaking at the time in reference to 19 more government primary schools shutting down during the academic year 2018-19 for want of students. At present, there are only 20,601 students studying in the over 740 functional government primary schools in the state. In a written reply to the question tabled by Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardessai, the chief minister during the one-day assembly session said that new buildings are being constructed for government primary schools in Borda, Ambewada-Khandola, Bicholim and Vithalpur-Sakhali. They are expected to be ready by February 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/315-govt-primary-schools-have-no-playgrounds-24-operating-from-rented-premises/articleshow/77772742.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Jaipur||126 prisoners test positive for Covid-19 in Barmer jail||JAISALMER: In a major Covid-19 outbreak in Barmer jail, 126 prisoners tested positive in 24 hours since Tuesday evening. According to jail authorities, 43 prisoners were found positive on Tuesday night, while 83 inmates tested positive on Wednesday. Following the outbreak, the district administration has shifted 126 jail inmates to a Covid centre within the prison. The administration has also arranged security for them. On Monday, four prisoners tested positive in the Barmer jail after which samples of 189 prisoners were taken. According to sources, even after the four prisoners tested positive, the jail administration failed to take action due to which the numbers swelled. Other prisoners had also protested against the jail administration. Confirming the outbreak, Barmer SP Anand Sharma said that five wards have been set up for prisoners who tested positive. A medical team has also been deployed at the jail for 24 hours to take care of these inmates. He said a guideline has been drafted along with district collector Vishram Meena on how to treat these prisoners. It will be difficult to keep these prisoners outside the jail as making security arrangements for such a large number of people will be very challenging, he said. If any prisoner is released or granted bail while undergoing treatment, he will be kept at the Covid centre outside the jail and released after the period of quarantine. Chief medical health officer (CMHO) Kamlesh Chaudhary said that preparations have been made with the help of administration. "We have set up a Covid care centre in the jail. We are providing all facilities as per the guidelines for Covid centres. We have sanitised the jail and medical teams have been formed. We are fully monitoring the situation," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/126-prisoners-test-positivefor-covid-19-in-barmer-jail/articleshow/77772638.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Aurangabad||3 barrages still remain on paper||Aurangabad: As many as three barrages proposed in the downstream area of Yeldari dam in Parbhani district are still limited only on paper even after official survey for gauging water availability conducted five years ago showed favourable results. These barrages were expected to arrest the overflowing dam water from going into Telangana — bordering with Maharashtra. While Yeldari and other dams in Marathwada are rapidly getting filled to their capacities, these barrages having combined capacity of 1.3 TMC would have served as additional storage. Water right activist Abhijit Dhanorkar on Monday said that over 3,000 hectare agricultural land from Parbhani and Hingoli districts could come under irrigation if the barrages concerned get constructed. “The state water resources department (WRD) had proposed a barrage each at Pota Jodparali, Pimpalgaon Kute and Mamdapur. The official survey has stated that these barrages could have desired water availability,” he said. In a memorandum submitted to the state government, Dhanorkar has said that the construction of barrages could help Hingoli district in overcoming the irrigation backlog. WRD authorities concerned could not be reached for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-barrages-still-remain-on-paper/articleshow/77727979.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Goa||‘Give hatchery to Benaulim fishermen’||Panaji: The fisheries department assumes that Goan fish farmers are incapable of setting up their own hatcheries, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Goa said on Thursday. AAP submitted a memorandum to the fisheries minister and director of fisheries with a copy to Benaulim panchayat stating that the local Benaulim fishing community is better suited to run the project. General secretary, AAP Pradeep Padgaonkar alleged that someone in the government was taking advantage of the current Covid situation to make money by handing over the project to a private partner. “AAP will carefully watch the developments in the days to come as the government had lost trust of the people due to rampant corruption even during the pandemic,” he said. AAP youth leader Hanzel Fernandes said that the people of Benaulim were capable of converting the project into a ‘world class facility’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/give-hatchery-to-benaulim-fishermen/articleshow/77772587.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Lucknow||Boy from UP's Ballia strikes big, bags Rs 1.6 crore package at McKinsey||LUCKNOW: Son of a school teacher from a non-descript eastern UP village with erratic power and battered roads, Animesh Anand Mishra, 29, has bagged a Rs 1.6-crore package with McKinsey & Company. His meteoric rise from humble moorings at Pokhra village in Ballia district to elite portals of University of Texas Southwestern Medical Centre bears the hallmark of resilience, academic brilliance and sacrifice by parents, who lived apart for 18 years to further his academic pursuits. Currently doing his doctorate in microbiota, Animesh clinched the job at McKinsey on basis of his stellar academic record. His mother, Saroj, took Animesh to Varanasi for schooling while his father Shri Prakash Mishra, a teacher at a government college stayed back in Ballia. From then on, there was no looking back. “There were no good English medium schools in Ballia and poor power supply was an issue. So, I had to take my son to Varanasi while my husband stayed back in Ballia. From class 12 till his PhD at University of Texas, he bagged scholarships all the way. I and my husband lived in different cities for 18 years for our son’s education and finally our sacrifice has paid off,” Saroj said. In 2009, when he was in class 12, Animesh cracked the Kishore Vaigyanik Protsahan Yojana, a Central scholarship programme funded by the department of science and technology and got enrolled at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Bhopal. He completed the integrated course in 2014 and again successfully cracked the prestigious Graduation Record Examination, a standardized test for admission in graduate schools in the United States and Canada and moved to Texas for doctoral studies. Talking to TOI, Animesh said, “I feel happy to have made it to one of the leading US companies. I have a dream to set up a good educational institution at Ballia. Research and problem solving is my forte. While pursuing my doctorate, I came to know about strategy and management consulting. I applied at McKinsey portal and after several rounds of the interview I was selected.” “Power supply and quality of education was a problem in my native Ballia, but these hurdles made me resilient. This job will help fulfil my dream to change the picture of Ballia,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-boy-bags-rs-1-6-crore-package-at-mckinsey/articleshow/77773057.cms||Mohita Tewari
August 27, 2020||Delhi||SDMC mayor to sit with begging bowl outside Delhi CM’s house||NEW DELHI: The mayor of the BJP-led South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has threatened to sit on a dharna with a begging bowl outside the chief minister’s house if the pending funds are not released within 15 days. While presenting a detailed report on SDMC’s financial conditions and future plans to generate revenues on Wednesday, mayor Anamika alleged that over the past few years, a sustained effort had been made by the AAP government to slowly turn the corporation into a deadwood by stopping its funds and grants. She claimed the condition had worsened in the current financial year with no help even for Covid activities. The leader of the House, Narendra Chawla, said SDMC had provided 9,630 workers in corona-containment activities of Delhi government and spent Rs 4.3 crore in various anti-Covid activities, most of which had been generated from voluntary deduction in salaries by SDMC employees. Standing committee chairman Rajdutt Gahlot said the corporation’s proposals to generate revenue through issuing municipal bonds and increasing one-time parking charges had also been rejected by Delhi government. The mayor called the politicisation of funds allocation against the basis of devolution of funds between states and urban local bodies. Actual receipts from Delhi government has been receding during the last five years, she alleged. Referring to Delhi’s fifth finance commission report, Chawla said Delhi government had partially accepted its recommendations, reducing SDMC’s share. AAP later said, “If BJP can’t run the corporation, they should resign immediately rather than cry and make excuses for every issue. They are so steeped in corruption that they can’t even pay the salaries of employees. AAP will run it efficiently in the present budget only.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdmc-mayor-to-sit-with-begging-bowl-outside-cms-house/articleshow/77772707.cms||Paras Singh
August 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Potential cancer drug may also benefit Covid-19 patients||Visakhapatnam: Even though the state government is yet to give its nod to conduct clinical trials for Covaxin—Bharat Biotech’s prospective Covid-19 vaccine—Andhra Medical College-King George Hospital (AMC-KGH) has got the approval to undertake two Covid-19-related clinical trials, one of which will be a drug trial while the other will be a vaccine clinical trial. The drug trial will be for 2-Deoxy-D-Glucose (C6H12O5) or 2-DG glucose molecule. This concept has been effectively used in cancer treatment. Explaining the concept, principal of AMC and KGH superintendent Dr PV Sudhakar said, “We are preparing to conduct clinical trial for 2-DG, which had been successfully used in certain types of cancer treatment. It works by inhibiting the transport of glucose molecule to the cells. Cancer cells need glucose for survival and when the supply of glucose is cut off, the cells die. Viruses like SARS-CoV-2 depend on chemical processes like glycolysis and glycosylation for infectivity and replication. These processes can be interrupted by using the glucose molecule called 2-DG. Like cancer cells, coronavirus cannot live and multiply if the glucose supply is inhibited.” “Phase 1 in-vitro or lab tests have shown positive results. Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), which has developed the molecule, is sponsoring the project for which we would be doing phase 2 human trials in KGH on the presumption that the 2-DG drug can lead to early recovery. The good thing about this drug is that it can be used for adjunct treatment simultaneously with other routine drugs used for Covid-19 patients,” Dr Sudhakar added. For the drug trial, audio consent from Covid-19 patients in the age bracket of 18-65 years will be taken. Patients with liver and kidney problems as comorbidities will be excluded from the trial. Covid-19 patients with minimal diabetes or mild hypertension will be allowed to participate, informed Dr Sudhakar. Apart from the 2-DG drug trial, phase 2 and 3 clinical trial of a vaccine developed by Serum Institute of India will commence soon. Discussion on the final protocol is awaited for the vaccine trial. Over 100 patient volunteers are expected to be recruited for the trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/potential-cancer-drug-may-also-benefit-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77771277.cms||Sulogna Mehta
August 27, 2020||Jaipur||Religious placesto open for publicfrom Sep 7 in Raj||Jaipur: Religious places closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic will be opened to the public from September 7. The decision was taken at a review meeting, chaired by chief minister Ashok Gehlot, on Wednesday. Those visiting religious places will have to take mandatory protective measures such as wearing masks and follow social distancing. These places will have to be sanitised from time to time. Collectors and SPs of respective districts should visit big religious establishments to check arrangements, ensure adequate security measures and social distancing are maintained properly. Chief minister said that cases of corona infections have been seen to increase where a crowd gathers. Along with the district administration, religious chiefs and visitors have been directed to ensure that the health protocol, issued by the Centre and state government, are strictly followed. He appealed to the general public to offer prayers and namaz at home as far as possible. According to guidelines issued by the Centre, it's prohibited to carry offerings, flowers, other material for worship and ringing bells. In view of the rainy season and pandemic, instructions were given to prevent crowding and congestion at sweet shops, street vendors, etc. Taking seriously complaints of overcharging of Covid patients and inflating bills by private hospitals, Gehlot instructed the medical and health department to monitor the situation and ensure that hospitals do not refuse treatment to Covid patients. In case of a Covid death, a private hospital should immediately inform the CMHO and families, which are unable to pay the bills, should not be harassed by the hospital, he said. He also directed to increase ICU beds for seriously ill patients in medical colleges, high flow oxygen beds and make arrangements to only send critical patients to tertiary care centres. Directions were also issued to make adequate arrangements for treating Covid patients in district hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/religious-placesto-open-for-publicfrom-sep-7-in-raj/articleshow/77772668.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Lucknow||UP waives institutional quarantine for international travellers under certain circumstances||LUCKNOW: The state government has waived seven-day mandatory institutional quarantine under certain conditions for international travellers coming to the state for more than seven days. It has also relaxed Covid-19 protocol for its natives travelling to other states for work for up to five days. Speaking on revised guidelines for international travellers, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said: “Earlier, anyone coming to the state from abroad for more than a week had to be quarantined for 14 days — seven days under institutional and remaining under home.” However, under revised protocol, pregnant women, people visiting the state in case of a death in the family, those suffering from serious medical conditions and parents whose children are below 10 years of age, can avail full 14 days of home quarantine. Prasad said travellers could also seek exemption from institutional quarantine by submitting negative reports of RT PCR test on arrival. “This test should have been conducted within 96 hours prior to the journey. The report should be uploaded on the portal for consideration and the passenger should also submit a declaration on the authenticity of the report and would be liable for criminal prosecution, if found otherwise. The test report could also be produced on arrival at the point of entry in India,” he said. “Any symptomatic person will be isolated immediately and tested. Also, those under quarantine will have to immediately report to the district CMO in case they develop any symptom,” Prasad added. AS for the domestic travellers, earlier, persons coming to UP after inter-state travel had to live under home-quarantine upon their return, but now asymptomatic returnees would not be required to stay in isolation. “People found to be symptomatic will have to stay in home isolation and undergo Covid-19 testing as per protocol. If found positive, they will have to be admitted to the hospital,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-waives-institutional-quarantine-for-intl-travellers-under-certain-circumstances/articleshow/77773097.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 27, 2020||Jaipur||HC notice to govt on making arrests mandatory in SC/ST atrocity cases||EDITED: 235 words Jaipur: Rajasthan High Court has issued a notice to the government on a PIL seeking repeal of the circular issued by ADG (Civil Rights) on May 29 and a stay on it. The circular had made the arrest of accused mandatory in atrocity cases under SC/ST (prevention of atrocities) Act. The petition filed by NGO Samta Andolan Samiti said the circular was in contravention of the provisions of protection of civil rights Act, accorded to an accused under CrPC. The petitioner said the circular illegally stated that provisions of CrPC would not be applicable under offences punishable under the SC/ST Act. The circular further stated that if safeguards given under Section 41(1)(b) of CrPC was allowed, Section 15(a)(3) of SC/ST Act would become ineffective. But the petitioner said Section 41 of the CrPC stipulated issuing a notice to the accused as mandatory before arrest as anticipatory bail was not available to the accused in such cases, while Section 15 of SC/ST Act protected the rights available to the victim which are not contradictory. The petitioner said circular deals with the right to life and liberty of and rights guaranteed to an accused to be addressed urgently. The state of Rajasthan has issued directions for immediate and effective implementation of the circular which means it encompasses many accused who would be denied their right of protection against frivolous and false complaints. The next hearing is on October 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-notice-to-govt-on-making-arrests-mandatory-in-sc/st-atrocity-cases/articleshow/77772657.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Jodhpur||Jaipur, Jodhpur report biggest single-day spike||JAIPUR: Health department director Dr KK Sharma and Jaipur (II) chief medical health officer Dr Hansraj Bhadaliya tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday on a day Jaipur reported the biggest one-day spike of 295 cases taking the cumulative state tally to 9,558. In the last 24 hours, three persons died in the city taking the district’s casualty count to 263. Jodhpur too recorded the highest single-day count with 304 cases. A health department official said Dr Sharma had symptoms and his samples was taken on Tuesday. His report, which was issued on Wednesday, tested positive for the virus. Currently, Jaipur has 3,110 active cases. Increasing number of active cases require more space in hospitals as patients require oxygen support, treatment and care. In addition to the three casualties in Jaipur district, nine more persons succumbed to the ailment taking the overall toll to 992. A far as cases were concerned, 1,345 new infections were detected taking the tally to 74,670. Health minister Raghu Sharma said the government is alert and has increased testing capacity. He said the state had the capacity to carry out 51,640 tests per day. Currently, testing facility is available in 22 districts and soon facilities will also start in remaining districts. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (304), Jaipur (295), Bikaner (147), Alwar (92), Ajmer (87), Pali (67), Sikar (51), Kota (45), Bhilwara (21), Jhalawar (20), Udaipur (19), Jaisalmer (14), Bharatpur (14), Nagaur (13), Sirohi (12), Dausa (11), Sriganganagar (11), Baran (10), Chittorgarh (10), Dungarpur (10), Jhunjhunu (10), Pratapgarh (9), Bundi (9), Dholpur (9), Tonk (8), Sawai Madhopur (8), Rajsamand (7), Churu (7), Banswara (7), Jalore (6), Barmer (5), Hanumangarh (5) and Karauli (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jaipur-jodhpur-report-biggest-single-day-spike/articleshow/77775448.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur, Jodhpur report biggest single-day spike||JAIPUR: Health department director Dr KK Sharma and Jaipur (II) chief medical health officer Dr Hansraj Bhadaliya tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday on a day Jaipur reported the biggest one-day spike of 295 cases taking the cumulative state tally to 9,558. In the last 24 hours, three persons died in the city taking the district’s casualty count to 263. Jodhpur too recorded the highest single-day count with 304 cases. A health department official said Dr Sharma had symptoms and his samples was taken on Tuesday. His report, which was issued on Wednesday, tested positive for the virus. Currently, Jaipur has 3,110 active cases. Increasing number of active cases require more space in hospitals as patients require oxygen support, treatment and care. In addition to the three casualties in Jaipur district, nine more persons succumbed to the ailment taking the overall toll to 992. A far as cases were concerned, 1,345 new infections were detected taking the tally to 74,670. Health minister Raghu Sharma said the government is alert and has increased testing capacity. He said the state had the capacity to carry out 51,640 tests per day. Currently, testing facility is available in 22 districts and soon facilities will also start in remaining districts. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (304), Jaipur (295), Bikaner (147), Alwar (92), Ajmer (87), Pali (67), Sikar (51), Kota (45), Bhilwara (21), Jhalawar (20), Udaipur (19), Jaisalmer (14), Bharatpur (14), Nagaur (13), Sirohi (12), Dausa (11), Sriganganagar (11), Baran (10), Chittorgarh (10), Dungarpur (10), Jhunjhunu (10), Pratapgarh (9), Bundi (9), Dholpur (9), Tonk (8), Sawai Madhopur (8), Rajsamand (7), Churu (7), Banswara (7), Jalore (6), Barmer (5), Hanumangarh (5) and Karauli (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-jodhpur-report-biggest-single-day-spike/articleshow/77772670.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Delhi||Unmasked: 1.9 lakh in Delhi shell out Rs 9.4 crore as fine||NEW DELHI: Since June 15, nearly 1.9 lakh people have been booked for not wearing masks in public by Delhi Police and the municipal corporations and fines to the tune of Rs 9.4 crore have been collected from them. While 20,865 people were booked for violating social distancing rules and crowding public places, cops distributed 2.2 lakh masks among street dwellers and the homeless, who didn’t have access to the face covers. While 1,576 people were booked by South Delhi Municipal Corporation, 804 were fined by East Delhi Municipal Corporation. Drives were conducted at public places where a large number of people had started gathering since the lockdown was lifted. On Tuesday, at least 50 people were booked for not wearing masks near India Gate. “If people are found with their masks pulled down to the chin while taking a walk or cycling, even they are booked as that is not permitted under the guidelines,” said Delhi Police spokesperson Eish Singhal. TimesViewThe Delhi Police statistics only reaffirm what ICMR director-general Balram Bhargav recently said — that irresponsible people are driving the pandemic in India. Such a cavalier attitude is a social menace that must be strongly discouraged. The Delhi Police drive should continue against such individuals who refuse to mend their ways.A watch is being kept by police particularly around places where people, especially cyclists and pedestrians, usually gather in large numbers. Anyone found violating social distancing norms is fined. Many cyclists claimed that the masks obstructed breathing during the ride. Strict warnings had also been issued to car drivers. While most people argued about the need of wearing a mask while inside their vehicle, police said the guidelines laid down by the government clearly mentioned that it was mandatory for them to cover their faces for their own safety. The government order stated that any person working at any site, office or workshop would have to wear a face mask. “No person or officer will attend any meeting or gathering without wearing a mask, which may be standard ones available with chemists or homemade ones that can be reused after washing and disinfection,” it added. Almost 95% of people caught spitting in public were found chewing tobacco. They spat on the road presuming no one would notice it. “We stop these violators and give them water bottles to clean up the roadside where they have spit. They are then fined for the offence,” said a police officer. Social distancing norms were found being violated, especially in the morning, near markets and bus stops in areas near the Delhi border where people gather in large numbers to board interstate or intrastate buses. “We have been using public address systems asking people to keep a distance. Despite this, many people violate the norms,” said a police officer posted in east Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/unmasked-1-9l-shell-out-rs-9-4cr-as-fine/articleshow/77772604.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Surat||Rs 24L stolen from Adajan ATM||Surat: A robber targeted an ATM booth of the State Bank of India in Adajan area and stole Rs 24 lakh cash from it. Police have booked an unidentified person and begun investigation. It is suspected that the accused used a key to open the ATM as there were no signs of break-in. The incident came to light when SBI branch manager Ranjit Vasava was informed by his colleague on Monday that there were no transactions in a few ATMs. When Vasava checked the ATM at Titanium Square building in Adanaj, he found Rs 24.2 lakh cash missing. He checked the CCTV footages of the past few days and found that on Sunday afternoon a person wearing a raincoat had entered the ATM booth with an open umbrella and had covered his face. A few minutes later the person is seen leaving the ATM booth with a bag. Vasava alerted his senior officers about the finding and approached the police with a complaint. “The ATM seemed to have been opened with a key. It appears that the person was aware about the entire process of opening the ATM,” said a police officer of Adajan police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rs-24l-stolen-from-adajan-atm/articleshow/77769920.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Delhi||Plea for an FIR against Anurag Thakur, Parvesh Verma rejected||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court has refused to order FIR against BJP minister Anurag Thakur and party MP Parvesh Verma in a complaint alleging inflammatory speeches by them during Delhi assembly elections. Additional chief metropolitan magistrate Vishal Pahuja, in his order, said that the complainants, CPM members Brinda Karat and K M Tiwari, hadn’t obtained a previous sanction from the “competent authority” in order to prosecute the BJP functionaries. While FIR against Thakur was sought for allegedly leading a chant “Desh ke gaddaron ko, goli maaro saalon ko” in reference to persons who participated in “peaceful protests against the CAA”, Verma allegedly threatened protesters of Shaheen Bagh. The court noted that for prosecuting the two men for certain alleged offences mentioned in the complaint a “prior sanction” of the central government was required according to Section 196 of Code of Criminal Procedure. “During the arguments by counsels for the complainants, a question was put to them as to whether any sanction has been procured by them to which the answer was replied in negative,” it stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plea-for-an-fir-against-thakur-verma-rejected/articleshow/77772741.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Jaipur||MLA Vishvendra Singh tests positive||JAIPUR: Rajasthan Deeg-Kumher constituency MLA and Congress leader Vishvendra Singh, who attended the Vidhan Sabha session on Monday, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday.Phalodi MLA Pabbaram Vishnoi (BJP), who had also attended the assembly session, was found infected with the virus on August 17. Singh tested positive two days after the conclusion of the assembly session. On the last day of the session, he was seen sitting in the third row. The session was attended by other MLAs who have now returned to their constituencies. Taking it as a responsiblity to make people and his colleagues in the state assembly aware about his health condition, he issued a statement.“I have tested positive for Covid-19 and am isolating myself. All those who have come in touch with me in the past few days should also isolate themseleves and get themselves tested,” said Singh. Singh came into light during the tussle between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and former PPC chief Sachin Pilot. Singh had attended the session for most of the time. During the session, the Congress government won the motion of confidence in the state assembly by voice vote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mla-vishvendra-singh-tests-positive/articleshow/77772692.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: NEET test centres doubled, frisking of students banned||BHOPAL: In order to follow the Covid norms and keep the students away from unnecessary contact, physical frisking of the NEET aspirants before entering the exam centre will not be done. Instead, candidates will have to go through a metal detector. In Madhya Pradesh there will be 144 NEET centres this year where 58,860 students will appear. There were 84 centres last year where 54,445 students had appeared. This year the number of centres in Bhopal has been doubled. Last year, there were 15 exam centres across the state capital. Several students in Bhopal on Wednesday downloaded their admit cards for the NTA NEET 2020, which is scheduled to be held on September 13. Like previous years, this year also the majority of the centres in the state capital are in CBSE schools. Some of the exam centres in Bhopal are IES Public School, Red Rose School, Gyan Ganga School, Campion School and Sharda Vidya Mandir. On the condition of anonymity, owner of a school whose school has been made an exam centre told TOI that there will be around 35 centres in Bhopal where 18,000 students are expected to appear. Notably, last year around 12,000 students appeared in 15 centres. “National testing agency (NTA) has not left a single stone unturned when it comes to the safety of the students appearing for exams at these centres,” said a school owner without quoting his name. Nearly 16 lakh candidates across the country had registered for the medical-based entrance exam. Last week, the Supreme Court had refused to entertain a plea seeking the postponement of the entrance exam. However, several political leaders have objected to it and have demanded the cancellation of exams. JEE (Main) will be held from September 1 to 6 and the hall ticket can be download at the website- jeemain.nta.nic.in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/neet-test-centres-doubled-frisking-of-students-banned/articleshow/77772725.cms||Ramendra Singh
August 27, 2020||Lucknow||Diverse missions, but rendezvous B-school||LUCKNOW: A metallurgical engineer who worked as a research engineer in Japan, a mechanical engineer who joined University of Washington for his MS after his departure from defence forces, and a liberal arts student who quit her job of a treasury dealer.  All these are students from diverse backgrounds of the new batch of IIM-Lucknow. The B-school began online classes for the batch of 2020-22 in the first week of August. Ketan Katkar: Till April, this 26-year-old metallurgical engineer from IIT-Bombay was working as a research and development engineer in Japan. Now, this Pune boy is among the 400-odd students learning management skills. “After two years in Japan, I wanted to implement my learning but I realised I lack certain things like business knowledge, leadership and soft skills. The best place to learn these was a B-school,” Ketan said. Stuck 4,000 miles away, Ketan is waiting for flights to resume operations. “With online classes, I get to interact with brilliant peers, seniors and alumni,” he said. Tejas Deepak Agham: Tejas’s dreams to serve the nation were dashed following an accident during his short stint at defence forces. Declared unfit, 26-year-old Tejas didn’t lose hope. In 2015, he worked for the Union ministry of new and renewable energy. “It was a three-year project where we developed an elector-based solar air conditioning system ,” Tejas said. A business analyst, Tejas later pursued a MS program in mechanical engineering at the University of Washington. Quitting his job where he developed agricultural solutions based on artificial intelligence, internet of things and data science, Tejas will now study agri-business management. “I was motivated to take up the course as I was working in the field of agriculture and its impact on society,” said Tejas, who cracked entrance test for admissions to IITs in 2012, but gave it up for his NDA dream. Megha Punjabi: This 26-year-old girl from Udaipur took the road less travelled and ended up working as a treasury dealer in leading banks until 2019 when she decided to go back to the classroom. Things became difficult as she suffered a spinal cord injury before the interview at IIML, and the Covid-induced lockdown limited her medical access. “It doesn’t matter till the end result – securing a berth at IIML -- was good,” said Megha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/diverse-missions-but-rendezvous-b-school/articleshow/77773066.cms||Isha Jain
August 27, 2020||Delhi||28% missed dialysis sessions during lockdown: Study||NEW DELHI: Before the Covid-19 lockdown, the urology and renal transplant division of Safdarjung Hospital would see 600 to 700 patients daily. Now, even after the restrictions on OPD visits have been eased, the number remained around 100. Dr Anup Kumar, professor and head of the department of urology and renal transplant, told TOI that not a single kidney transplant had taken place in the last five months. “Before the Covid outbreak, we were conducting seven to eight transplants a month,” he said. AIIMS has also started limited OPD services for non-emergency cases. Dr Sanjay Agarwal, professor and head of the nephrology department, said they were allowed to see 30 new and 30 old patients daily. “Only 40% of the patients who book appointments actually visit the hospital,” he said. AIIMS hasn’t conducted any kidney transplant either in the last five months and elective surgeries are being done at a limited scale because some of the beds as well as manpower of the department have been diverted for Covid care. Dr Vivekanand Jha, president of International Society of Nephrology, said policies and planning needed to be tweaked to handle non-Covid problems. A group of doctors from 19 major hospitals — eight public and 11 private — across the country recently participated in a questionnaire-based survey that sought to determine the effect of lockdown on the care of patients with kidney diseases, including those on dialysis, after the first three weeks of lockdown. According to the results published in “Kidney International Reports”, an official journal of International Society of Nephrology, the number of dialysis patients at these centres came down from 2,517 to 2,404. Approximately 710 — 28% — patients missed one or more dialysis sessions, 69 (3%) required emergency sessions, 104 (4%) stopped reporting, and nine (0.36%) were confirmed to have died. The study adds that outpatient attendance came down by 92%, and in-patient service by 61%. “Tele-consultation was started but was accessed by only a small number of patients.” The researchers say lack of preparedness before the lockdown posed an immediate adverse effect on the outcome of dialysis patients. “The long-term impact on the health of patients with less severe forms of kidney disease remains unknown.” In all, 23 top doctors from hospitals like SGPGMS Lucknow, AIIMS and Sir Ganga Ram in Delhi, Medanta-Medicity Gurugram, PGIMER Chandigarh and Madras Medical College participated in the study. “Things haven’t improved in terms of OPD attendance and admissions. But I have been told that September 1 onwards, elective surgeries for non-Covid problems, including kidney transplants, may resume in public hospitals,” Dr Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/28-missed-dialysis-sessions-during-lockdown-study/articleshow/77772673.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
August 27, 2020||Jaipur||Govt to hold fresh exam to hire 2,000 doctors||JAIPUR: The recruitment process of 2,000 doctors has ended abruptly after the state government found flaws in it. It has now decided to initiate the process afresh. “We have found some flaws in the examination, following which we constituted a committee. The committee said the examination should be held again. The government has decided to initiate the process afresh,” said Raghu Sharma, health minister, without divulging the details of what kind of flaws were detected in the recruitment. However, sources in the health department said initially there were some reports of ‘paper out’ before the examination following which police inquiry was carried out. Department officials said MBBS students who did not complete their internship also demanded to allow them to sit in the examination. Amid all this, the health department struck off the recruitment process and directed officials. The health department will now issue fresh advertisement for recruitment of 2,000 doctors. The health department officials will put efforts to complete the process within one-and-a-half month. Former health minister Kalicharan Saraf had raised questions on the recruitment process saying the state government had conducted the examination on July 12 and even though more than a month has passed, the result was not declared. Saraf said in May, Sharma had announced that in 45 days they will recruit 2000 doctors. But, almost four months have passed, doctors have not been recruited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-to-hold-fresh-exam-to-hore-2000-doctors/articleshow/77772708.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Delhi||Postpone or find another way to hold JEE, NEET: Manish Sisodia||NEW DELHI: With the dates for Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) and National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET) nearing, deputy chief minister and education minister Manish Sisodia has again asked the Centre to reconsider its decision of holding the exams in the prevailing pandemic situation. Sisodia urged the Central government to either postpone the exams or find an alternative way of conducting them. “The Centre has closed its eyes to the Covid-19 ground reality. Why is it forcing 28 lakh students to sit for the exams? They are saying that they will make all the necessary arrangements. But despite the arrangements, so many people have tested positive,” Sisodia said while talking to reporters on Wednesday. “The arrangements that we live in are much better. Our health minister still got infected. Chief ministers of several states have been affected. How can we be assured that the students will not get infected?” asked Sisodia. “The government can easily find an alternative. In times like this when countries across the world have come out of the entrance system model, we should not be stuck,” added the deputy CM. “We have to accept that the country is still in the grip of Corona. In Delhi and a few other states, situation may be better but in other states, the Covid-19 is on the increase," Sisodia wrote in a letter to Minister of Education, Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank. He even asked Nishak to think not as minister, but as a parent. Earlier on August 21, Sisodia had asked the Centre to find an alternative to the examinations. JEE (Main) is scheduled to be held from September 1-6, while NEET is scheduled for September 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/postpone-or-find-another-way-to-hold-jee-neet/articleshow/77772784.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Jaipur||State demands medical colleges in Rajsamand, Pratapgarh & Jalore||Jaipur: In a boost to the state’s medical education and healthcare facilities, buildings of two medical colleges at Bhilwara and Bharatpur and three super-specialty blocks in Kota, Udaipur and Bikaner completed at an estimated cost of Rs 828 crore was inaugurated on Wednesday.The state government has now demanded medical colleges for Rajsamand, Jalore and Pratapgarh from the Centre.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan was also present during the video conference for inauguration of the two medical college buildings and three super-specialty blocks. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said they have a vision that all the 33 districts should have a medical college. Gehlot demanded medical colleges in Rajsamand, Pratapgarh and Jalore.“Since there is already a private medical college in Rajsamand, we have demanded that the Centre provide relaxation in Medical Council of India norms allowing a government medical college in Rajsamand too. Besides, we have demanded medical colleges in Jalore and Pratapgarh,” said Raghu Sharma, health minister.Harsh Vardhan said of the 75 new medical colleges, Rajasthan got 15 of them. He said they had launched a drive on first-come-first-serve basis for allocating the new medical colleges. The Rajasthan government had promptly reacted to it and sent proposals for the medical colleges because of which the state got 15 new colleges.On the occasion, Gehlot demanded from the Centre to check the quality and test results of Covid-19 done by rapid antigen test. Gehlot made Harsh Vardhan aware that they had conducted a study on rapid antigen test, which is being used in different parts of the country, and found that the results of the rapid antigen test were not satisfactory and the use of the test should be reviewed.The inauguration of the super-specialty blocks in Kota, Udaipur and Bikaner will help patients in getting better care and treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-demands-medical-colleges-in-rajsamand-pratapgarh-jalore/articleshow/77772711.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Man, who killed & entombed West Bengal girl, gets life in prison||BANKURA: A court here on Wednesday sentenced a man to life imprisonment for the murder of his woman friend whom he had befriended on a social media site and lured her to Bhopal from her home on the false promise of getting her a job in the USA. After murdering the woman, her body was put in a trunk and entombed in the compound of the man's house in Bhopal. Fast Track Court, Bankura, Judge Suresh Biswakarma, who pronounced Udayan Das guilty of murdering Akanksha Sharma (28) on Tuesday, sentenced him to life term in prison on Wednesday. Chief public prosecutor Arun Chattopadhyay prayed for death sentence to Das claiming that it was a heinous crime and rarest of rare in nature. Abhishek Biswas, the lawyer representing Das, said that an appeal will be moved before a higher court challenging the conviction. The prosecution had submitted before the court during trial that Sharma had left her parental house at Rabindra Sarani on June 23, 2016 informing her parents that she was going to the USA for a job in an international aid agency. On reaching the residence of Das at Saket Nagar in Bhopal, the woman realised that she had been duped by Das, which led to arguments between her and the man. The prosecution submitted that on July 15, 2016, Das strangled Sharma to death and entombed her body in a platform in the compound of his house. It told the court that following the murder, Das used Sharma's mobile and sent messages to her family impersonating her to claim that she was working in the USA, but could not talk to them over phone since she was yet to get a SIM card in that country. He had also visited her family in Bankura in October, 2016. Suspecting that something was amiss since they could not talk to her for several months and had only received some text messages from her mobile number, Sharma's family members lodged a missing diary at Bankura Sadar police station. Tracking the location of the mobile phone, the police learnt that it was in Bhopal, following which the woman's father and brother went to Bhopal, but could not find her. Shivendra Narayan Sharma, the woman's father, lodged a case of kidnapping against Das on January 5, 2017, following which the Bankura Police went to Bhopal and arrested him on February 1, 2017. Das confessed to his crime during questioning and Sharma's remains were recovered from a trunk under the tomb in the compound of his residence, Chattopadhyay told the court. He said that the police filed the chargesheet in the case within 90 days of the arrest and 19 witnesses were examined during trial. Das is also accused of murdering his parents in Raipur. He allegedly buried their bodies in the compound of their house there after killing them.Agencies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/man-who-killed-entombed-bengal-girl-gets-life-in-prison/articleshow/77773002.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Lucknow||Book on how 24 UP teachers gave makeover to schools||LUCKNOW: From increasing enrolment and renovating buildings to installing projectors, white boards and audio-visual aids, Adarsh Primary School in Basti’s Moorghat block is now a model school. At this school, 70% students can converse in English. All this was made possible with the efforts of school headmaster Sarvesht Mishra, who won a national award for his work. Mishra is not the only one. There are 24 outstanding teachers including him from across the state who have been featured in ‘Ummeed ke Rang’ (Shades of Hope), a collaborative capsule of good pedagogy captured by teachers to inspire other teachers in the form of a book. The book was launched by the basic education department along with Tata Trusts on Wednesday. The book contains experiences and learnings of 24 teachers who have succeeded in re-shaping their schools through innovative pedagogical solutions, improved student enrolment, infrastructure and environment, through community participation. Basic education minister Satish Dwivedi (independent charge) said the capsule serves a dual purpose. “One, it gives recognition to meritorious teachers and two, for the wider cohort to cross-learn from their experiences,” he said. He added that teachers nurture a learner’s ability to think, cultivate a scientific outlook towards the world, develop good habits, and develop interest, instincts and values. The book captures best practices followed by teachers in order to motivate their counterparts. According to Tata Trusts’ education head in UP Vishambhar, the capsule is a result of a collective process, where a group of 60 teachers was identified and invited to a two-day workshop to share their teaching experiences. They were then trained on professional writing skills. Following some rounds of story writing and reviews, stories from 24 teachers were finally selected for publication.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/book-on-how-24-up-teachers-gave-makeover-to-schools/articleshow/77773105.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Tirupati MLA tests positive||Tirupati: A Tirupati YSR Congress legislator and former TTD trust board chairman, and his son have tested positive for Covid-19. The legislator was admitted to the district Covid-19 hospital at Sri Venkateswara Ramnarayan Ruia Government General Hospital premises after he complained of Covid-19 symptoms. The legislator’s son, who was tested Covid-19 positive first, is currently undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Hyderabad. Party workers held special prayers for the speedy recovery of the legislator and his son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tirupati-mla-tests-positive/articleshow/77771316.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
August 27, 2020||Vadodara||Testing, new cases make fresh peaks||Vadodara: New Covid-19 cases registered in the city made yet another peak with 120 cases being detected since Tuesday evening. With these, the total number of Covid-19 cases registered in the city went up to 7,460. Despite over 2,000 tests being performed in the city and the number going up consistently, the positivity rate has remained around five per cent. On Monday and Tuesday, this was pegged at 5.13% against 4.96% on Sunday. On Wednesday, it came down marginally to around 5.1%. In the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) limits, the highest number of cases were reported from the south zone where 37 persons tested positive. This was followed by the west zone where 21 cases were detected and the east zone where 17 cases came to light. The north zone of the city saw 11 new cases. Thirty-four cases were reported from the areas of the Vadodara district outside the VMC limits. The places where these cases were found included Karjan, Savli, Shinor, Dabhoi, Por, Padra, Karodiya, Koyli, Dashrath, Sokhda and Ankodiya. As many as 40 persons were discharged from different hospitals and home quarantine taking the total number of discharged persons to 5,745. This leaves 1,581 persons under treatment including 61 persons in a serious condition on ventilators or BIPAP machines. The VMC also confirmed the death of one more person due to Covid-19 as the primary cause of death. This took the total number of deceased in the city and district to 134 even as many more have died due to comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/testing-new-cases-make-fresh-peaks/articleshow/77769894.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Man shoots at wife, turns gun on self||LUCKNOW: A transporter committed suicide after shooting at his wife following a tiff over monetary issue in Naka area during the wee hours of Wednesday. The woman, who suffered gunshot injury on her head, is critical and undergoing treatment at the trauma centre of King George’s Medical University (KGMU). The couple have been identified as Anurup Singh (50) and Madhu Singh (45), residents of Pan Dariba in Naka. Station house officer, Naka, Sujeet Dubey said: “Anurup’s son Aryan (15) told us that he woke up to the sound of a gunshot around 2am on Wednesday and rushed to the bedroom to find his parents lying in a pool of blood.” “Anurup had two sons, Aryan and Aditya. While Aryan stays with his parents, Aditya is presently in Canada. Anurup was in a drunken state when he had a tiff with Madhu over some monetary issue,” he said. Aryan said his father opened fire on Madhu first with his licensed pistol and then shot himself on his temple. Police also said Anurup and Madhu were bleeding profusely when they reached their house. They were rushed to KGMU where Anurup was pronounced dead. Dubey said sub-inspector Fanish Singh would investigate the case. “Preliminary probe suggests that Anurup’s financial condition was not sound as he had suffered losses in his transport business due to Covid-19 pandemic,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/man-shoots-at-wife-turns-gun-on-self/articleshow/77773062.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Trichy||Accident rate dips in Trichy city, but not rash driving taking lives||TRICHY: There is a dip in the number of road traffic accidents till July compared to the corresponding period in 2019, but police say rash and negligent driving are still proving fatal on Trichy city roads. Going by the data of Trichy city police, there was 19% dip in the number of fatal accidents between January 1 and July 31 compared to the same period last year. Simultaneously, the fatality rate was also down by 20% during the period. In the case of non-fatal accidents, the cases plunged by 27%, as the number of injured went down by 35%. Though the number of accidents is decreasing, which is a great relief to police, they were concerned about the non-compliance of traffic rules by motorists. “Nowadays, head-on collisions are almost zero. We have even brought down the number accidents on the bypass roads in our limit by taking several measures. The concerning factor is the accidents happening on the city roads,” said deputy commissioner of police, crime and traffic, Trichy city, R Vetharathinam, advising motorists to keep their speed below 40 km/hr in city limits. Inspector of police, anti-human traffic unit (AHTU), in-charge traffic south investigation wing attached to Trichy city police R Sindhunathi listed out uncontrolled speed, overloading, turning without signal, speaking on the mobile phone while driving, drunken driving and riding bikes without helmet as the major reasons for accidents. Rash and negligent riding of bikers claimed the lives of many in the city. A 27-year-old MBBS student, a 38-year-old man, a 24-year-old man from Coimbatore and a 31-year-old man were some of the casualties of rash driving in the city in July and August this year. Sindhunathi also recalled a fatal accident of an overloaded auto-rickshaw toppling and killing a three-year-old girl on board the vehicle at Karumandapam a month back. District president of Road Users’ Welfare Association P Ayyarappan suggested police to introduce a system involving people to click pictures of traffic violators and send it to police to impose fine on the violators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/accident-rate-dips-in-trichy-city-but-not-rash-driving-taking-lives/articleshow/77773477.cms||Gokul Rajendran
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid testing centre at govt school shut||Secunderabad: A Covid-19 testing centre at Government Boys Primary School, Lalabazar, Tirumalagiri in Secunderabad was been shut on Wednesday, following instructions from state education department. Simultaneously, four other Covid testing centres will be shifted by Thursday. “We have received orders from the education department to shift the Covid-19 testing centres from the schools as online classes will begin from September and teachers’ training will begin from Thursday,” SCB senior sanitation superintendent, M Devender told TOI. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-testing-centre-at-govt-school-shut/articleshow/77772773.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Lucknow||Stay ahead of Covid-19, says UP CM; sets target of 1.5 lakh tests||LUCKNOW: Setting a target of 1.5 lakh Covid tests per day, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday that it was important to stay two steps ahead of the virus to tackle it. UP conducted over 1.44 tests in the past 24 hours. It was necessary to study the case history of recovered patients and understand how the virus had been defeated in individual cases, the CM said, adding that this knowledge would help the government formulate an effective strategy to control the spread of coronavirus. In a meeting with Team 11 on Wednesday, the CM said that it was necessary to think ahead to control the global pandemic. “The CM has said that case studies of successfully recovered patients should be studied to help us carve out a future strategy,” said additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi. He said that the state government’s pro-active policies in testing and treatment had resulted in a much lower death rate compared to not just other states but also other countries with a similar population. The CM has emphasised on early detection of Covid-19 cases to bring down death rate. He has given directions to all district magistrates and chief medical officers to intensify surveillance, contact tracing and door-to-door surveys. He has set a target of over 1.5 lakh tests a day across the state of which at least 85,000 should be done through rapid antigen testing while 45,000 should be RT PCR tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/stay-ahead-of-covid-19-says-cm-sets-target-of-1-5l-tests/articleshow/77773171.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Trichy||Boy arrested for sexually assaulting minor girl||TRICHY: A 16-year-old boy was arrested on Wednesday for sexually assaulting a 14-year-old girl in Trichy city. The Cantonment all women police arrested the boy on charges of trespassing into the house of the girl, sexually assaulting her and threatening her with dire consequences. The boy and the girl are neighbours. On Monday afternoon, the girl was alone at home as her parents were away for work. The boy barged into her house and sexually assaulted her. The girl managed to escape from him. She informed her parents about the incident when they returned home. Acting on a complaint filed by the girl’s father, police conducted inquiries and booked the boy under sections of the IPC and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. Police said that since he was a minor, he was produced before the juvenile justice board (JJB) and lodged at the government observation home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/boy-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-girl/articleshow/77773502.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi high court finds holes in Nitish Katara convict’s parole plea||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Tuesday rejected the parole plea of Vikas Yadav, who was convicted of murdering Nitish Katara, after finding gaping holes in his claims that his mother was seriously ill and had been admitted in a private hospital briefly. Yadav had approached the court after Delhi government had rejected his plea for parole on June 26. Yadav had produced medical documents endorsed by two doctors that his mother had visited Lok Nayak Hospital for treatment several times. TimesViewThe convict was lying before the court. In such cases, apart from dismissal of the application for parole, there should be punishment for perjury too. Only then will such fraudulent methods of gaining parole be deterred.For dismissing his plea, Justice Vibhu Bakhru relied on Call Detail Records (CDRs) furnished by police that showed Yadav’s mother was nowhere near Lok Nayak Hospital or the private hospital on the days shown by the documents. “The documents supplied by the petitioner indicate that his mother had visited Lok Nayak Hospital on three occasions — January 30, 2019, September 26, 2019 and November 18, 2019. The call records of the petitioner’s mother for January 30 are not available, but those of September 26 indicate that she was not anywhere near the said hospital on that date,” the court noted. Police informed the court that Yadav’s mother was in touch with her nephew, a doctor who was present at Lok Nayak Hospital on all three occasions, but her call records didn’t show her physical presence on those dates. Her call records also didn’t show her presence at the private hospital. The private hospital is owned by Yadav’s uncle and run by another relative. “More importantly, the call records indicate that the petitioner’s mother was travelling extensively. There are a number of visits from Delhi to various parts of Uttar Pradesh, including Ghaziabad,” the court observed. Justice Bakhru also considered the objections raised by key prosecution witness Ajay Katara and the victim’s mother, Neelam Katara, who feared for their safety if Yadav was released. Considering Yadav’s past conducts, the court said their fears that he would misuse his liberty couldn’t be stated to be unfounded. In his plea, Yadav claimed that he was suffering from mental trauma due to continuous incarceration for more than 18 years and required parole to connect with family members. The court, however, said his claim of continuous custody for 18 years was not entirely accurate. “This is so because the petitioner had been admitted to All India Institute of Medical Sciences and his visits extended to more than a hundred days. Further investigation revealed that he did not confine himself to the hospital, but was found near Vasant Kunj. The call records of the security officials assigned to secure the petitioner also established that they were at his farmhouse in Vasant Kunj. The contention that the petitioner had used his influence to move to his house on the pretext of availing medical treatment at AIIMS was found to be merited,” it noted. The claim that there was no one to look after Yadav’s mother was busted as his sister lives in Gurugram and his brother in Punjab. His younger brother lives in the same residence as their mother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-finds-holes-in-katara-convicts-parole-plea/articleshow/77772770.cms||Abhinav Garg
August 27, 2020||Mumbai||ICMR approves first indigenous finger-prick Covid diagnostic kit||MUMBAI: Soon, a simple finger-prick diagnostic test to detect Covid-19 antibodies in blood samples, will be widely available at nursing homes, hospitals and private laboratories. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has approved Delhi-based Oscar Medicare’s indigenous point-of-care (POC) rapid antibody test kits, which is perhaps the only firm to have received Department of Biotechnology funding, its group CEO Anand Sekhri told TOI. After the fiasco with Chinese ‘faulty’ kits and government cancelling their licences, the focus has been mainly on the ‘gold standard’ RT-PCR (real-time polymerase chain reaction) testing, and antigen testing. Experts say POC antibody tests have relevance for emergency testing for diagnosis particularly in remote areas, where labs may not be accessible, and could be convenient for people who find nasal swabs uncomfortable. The government has not allowed POC testing for Coronavirus yet, as antibody tests should not be used as the sole basis to diagnose the disease. Earlier, ICMR had said there is a definite need to increase the outreach of testing by introducing rapid POC diagnostic tests. Oscar Medicare, one of the largest manufacturers of pregnancy kits, also makes HIV, HCV, dengue and malaria POC diagnostic kits at its three plants. “We are planning to launch two lakh test kits in September, and have already tied up with distributors across the country. Our kits have the highest levels — 98% sensitivity and 99% specificity to detect antibodies and the immune response to the virus (which develops in individuals within 7-14 days of infection). The test is similar to a glucometer which checks diabetes, and will provide results in 20 minutes. It can be used at home, if permitted by the government”, group CEO Anand Sekhri told TOI, adding that the firm’s capacity is 5 lakh test kits per day. Dhiti Life Sciences, a group company, manufactured the raw material, ‘Corona fusion antigen’ used in its test kits, a first in the country, the company claims. The POC kits are expected to be priced at around Rs 200. Industry experts say there are a few rapid POC kits in the market, and sold online, but their reliability is under a cloud. At present, private labs are using ELISA/CLIA (chemi-luminescence immuno assay) technology with kits from Roche, Abbott, Siemens Healthineers, among others. Ajay Phadke head at SRL-Dr Avinash Phadke Labs said, “Rapid antibody blood tests depend on disease prevalence. In low prevalence populations, results of antibody tests may not be accurate to make an informed decision whether or not an individual has had a prior infection, or truly has antibodies to the virus. We will need to observe disease prevalence and sensitivity of these kits, and then use them as a screening tool”. In a recent statement on August 14 after validation of 104 antibody-based rapid tests, ICMR said these are not recommended for clinical diagnosis of Covid-19 infection or for enrollment of human subjects for any clinical trial. Kits of Voxtur Bio, VANGUARD Diagnostics, HLL Lifecare, Lab Care Diagnostics, NuLifecare, among others have been approved till now. “For Covid testing, point-of-care testing has limited relevance as PCR and lab-based antibody tests are gold standard. Other tests can supplement in remote locations”, Trivitron Healthcare CMD Dr GSK Velu said. In May, licences of Chinese companies Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech and Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics were cancelled by Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, while those of China’s Biomedomics and Korean firm, SD Biosensor were suspended, over quality concerns. In the early days of an infection when the body’s immune response is still building, antibodies may not be detected. This limits the test’s effectiveness for diagnosing Covid-19, and this is one reason serology tests should not be used as the sole basis to diagnose the disease, experts added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/icmr-approves-first-indigenous-finger-prick-covid-diagnostic-kit/articleshow/77773512.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
August 27, 2020||Trichy||Police advise pillion riders to be watchful following 3 deaths||TRICHY: City police have insisted pillion riders on two-wheelers to wear a helmet and hold on to handholds or the biker to avoid falling off the bike. This comes in the wake of back to back deaths of three women pillion riders reported in Trichy. The incidents were reported near Airport, Edamalaipatti Pudhur and Vayalur road three weeks back. Deputy commissioner of police, crime and traffic, R Vetharathinam said that all the three died of head injuries sustained after falling off the bikes. “We analyzed the causes and it was very clear that they were flung off the bike when the rider applied sudden brake to avoid hitting other vehicles, human and stray animals. The pillion riders particularly women were found without a helmet and had no grip on the bike or the rider leading to fatal hit on the road,” DCP Vetharathinam told ToI on Wednesday. In one of the incidents, a 22-year-old woman riding pillion on a bike with her husband was killed when she fell off the bike after her husband applied sudden brake to avoid hitting a dog on Trichy- Dindigul road on Monday. On figuring out the reason for the slip of the pillion riders from the bike, DCP ordered the police on traffic duty to advise the pillion riders to take utmost safety measures. DCP suggested women wear a helmet and hold firmly either the bike or the rider to get a grip even if the sudden brake is applied due to unavoidable situations. “In our analysis, we found that all the three deaths could have been prevented if the women had been seated safely,” he said. The police also pointed out the practice of women sitting sideways as one of the reasons for the easy fall on the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/police-advise-pillion-riders-to-be-watchful-following-3-deaths/articleshow/77773515.cms||Gokul Rajendran
August 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Boot camp gives a boost to student ‘entrepreneurs’||NEW DELHI: Learning about sustainability through producing bio-enzymes from waste materials, making bread from wildes to manufacturing prototypes, and taking their products to consumers — students of Delhi government schools on Wednesday shared their experiences of the first-ever boot camp held online. The boot camp, which was part of the entrepreneurship curriculum, was organised over four to seven weeks. The camp was held in 14 batches and around 400 students took part in it. Students were mentored by different organisations to help them explore their ideas, learn about teamwork and chalk out business plans. On Wednesday, students conducted a reflective session on the camp that was organised online due to Covid-19. The curriculum was introduced in 2019 to build an entrepreneurial mindset among students of classes IX to XII. Kiran, a Class XII student of SKV Begumpur, shared her understanding about sustainability. “From waste materials available in a house, we were guided to make bio-enzymes. We also made bread from wildes and sold it. It was a fulfilling experience.” Rajender, a student of RPVV Shalimar Bagh, had made handwash. “When I went to the market initially, no one bought it. Then I gave samples to my relatives who suggested some changes. I added more fragrances and could sell it,” he said. “The boot camp taught us not to get disappointed by failure.” In response to education minister Manish Sisodia’s query on how he finally sold the product, the Class XII student said, “I gave the shopkeeper my number and asked him to call me if anybody showed interest in my product. He helped me and I also sold it at a lower price.” The deputy chief minister said, “I congratulate all students as well as the curriculum team members for the successful completion of this online boot camp. You all have worked extremely hard for this.” Pushpinder, another Class XII student of RPVV Hari Nagar, composed a rap song based on the experiences shared by fellow students. Udhyam Shiksha, Akadasia, School of Future, Kidzpreneur, UltaBhonpu, The Global Education and Leadership Foundation, Alohomora and Youth Startup Network helped in organising the camp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/boot-camp-gives-a-boost-to-student-entrepreneurs/articleshow/77772825.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Permission revoked for 5 centres||Vijayawada: The health wing of the Krishna district administration on Wednesday cancelled approval granted to five private Covid Care Centres operating out of various hotels in the city. None of the centres that had their permission revoked had admitted a single patient to date and it was learnt that the management is no longer interested in running the centre. The district administration has kept a close watch on Covid Care Centres operated by private hospitals in the wake of the August 9 fire accident at the Swarna Palace Hotel. Since then, officials have inspected infrastructure at the centres and made enquiries about safety measures taken by the management. After the accident, several patients at other Covid Care Centres chose to move out, fearing a repeat of the incident. “We are committed to providing the best possible treatment for the patients. Many private hospitals had come forward to treat Covid-19 patients and we have given permissions. But many of these centres are failing to provide proper treatment. We have conducted inspections in all centres and are taking necessary action. Only nine centres are in operation as of now,” said district medical and health officer Dr Ramesh. “The number of Covid-19 cases in the district has also come down drastically in the last one month and we are now able to accommodate the cases in three dedicated Covid-19 dedicated hospitals in the district,” Dr Ramesh said, adding, “We will further check fire safety at all hospitals in the city and take action against hospitals with poor fire safety measures.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/permission-revoked-for-5-centres/articleshow/77771345.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Now, curbs on property registration without sanctioned plan, layout nod||HYDERABAD: Henceforth, properties in unauthorised layouts, apartments and buildings without sanctioned plans will not be registered. The registration and stamps (R&S) department on Wednesday issued a memo directing all sub-registrars to insist on layout approval or building permission copy for property registration. This is also applicable to plots going for second sale (resale). R&S department commissioner T Chiranjeevulu, in his order, said the mandatory permissions and approval were applicable to all municipal corporations in the state, including Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), municipalities and gram panchayats with immediate effect. The new order is likely to impact thousands of properties in the state, especially in and around Greater Hyderabad, where thousands of illegal layouts and constructions have come up. The decision has been taken by the government as many developers and plot owners were not coming forward to regularise their plots in unauthorised layouts under the layout regularisation scheme (LRS), now in vogue in newly-created municipalities and merged villages. “In unauthorised structures, second registration of a structure (flat) earlier will not be allowed. If a flat in an unauthorised building was registered earlier, it cannot be registered (resale) now without producing a sanctioned plan or building regularisation scheme (BRS) proceeding. However, properties which were regularised under BRS and building penalisation scheme (BPS) are eligible after producing the copy along with registration documents. Existing buildings in village grama kantam (settlement areas) can be registered as per the Panchayat Raj Act,” Chiranjeevulu said. To ensure planned development in the state, the government has made provisions in the Telangana Municipalities Act, 2019 and the Telangana Panchayat Raj Act, 2018 which say, no new plot or sub-division should be registered by the registration department unless approved by the authority, the order said. Similarly, no piece of land for building purpose should be sold by any property owner or developer, which is not a part of an approved layout as per the Panchayat Raj Act, and building should not be registered without sanctioned plan as per the Building Rules, the commissioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-curbs-on-property-registration-without-sanctioned-plan-layout-nod/articleshow/77772829.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 27, 2020||Lucknow||‘5% Covid patients have advanced kidney disease’||LUCKNOW: One in 20 patients undergoing treatment for coronavirus infection at the Rajdhani Covid Hospital of SanjayGandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences is suffering with advanced renal complications. “Many patients who have severe Covid 19 infection can also develop advanced renal failure warranting need for dialysis,” said Prof Amit Gupta, faculty department of nephrology, SGPGI on Wednesday adding: “at least 10-12 patients are undergoing dialysis at our centre every day.” He also stated that till date over 450 dialysis sessions have been done since March 2020. Officials also said that a number of non-covid patients were approaching SGPGI from other districts to get their dialysis done. “A number of these patients are screened for Covid-19 at the centre and some of them turn positive too. The institute is extending a dialysis facility to them too,” an official statement from SGPGI said. Experts pointed out that several studies have shown that 3 to 9% of Covid-19 patients may develop acute kidney injury (AKI) while another indicated a massive leak of protein in urine during their stay in hospital in about two-third of the patients “In the absence of effective antiviral therapy with smaller proportion requiring acute or urgent dialysis (known as Continuous Renal Replacement Therapy (CRRT)) may be given to the patients with AKI,” explained Prof Narayan Prasad, faculty SGPGI Nephrology department. He said experience from SARS and MERS – which are related to previously known coronavirus -- suggests CRRT was successful in treating acute renal issues caused by the virus. “For Covid-19, experts recommend relatively higher doses to clear the immune toxins and thus suggesting CRRT may play a role,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/5-covid-patients-have-advanced-kidney-disease/articleshow/77773091.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Goa||Students to pick up pens and brushes to protect forests||Panaji: A creative writing competition and art contest — Protect Mollem — has been organised for students as part of the people’s movement to protect the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park from three projects proposed through their forests. The two competitions are open to students studying in higher secondary schools and colleges in Goa as well as outside the state. Entry is free. Last date for submission of entries is September 7. The topics for the creative writing competition are — ‘A conversation between the trees of Mollem and humans’, ‘Amche Mollem: What I can do as a young citizen to save it’, and ‘A letter to the Environment Minister telling him why Mollem is irreplaceable for Goa’. Entries for the creative writing contest should be submitted to savemollemcreatwrite@gmail.com. Winner of the first place will be awarded a cash prize of Rs 10,000 while the second place will be awarded a cash prize of Rs 8,000. Winner of the third place will be awarded a cash prize of Rs 6,000. For the drawing competition the topics are, ‘Magic Mollem’, ‘Mollem our Superhero’, ‘The Enchanting Laboratory of Mollem’, ‘Eyes of Mollem’, and ‘Mollem, a place of peace’. In the primary school category, the winner of the first place will be awarded a cash prize of Rs 7,000, while the winner of the second place will be awarded a cash prize of Rs 5,000, and the winner of the third place will be awarded a cash prize of Rs 3,000. In the secondary school category, the winner of the first place will be awarded a cash prize of Rs 15,000, second place will be awarded a cash prize of Rs 10,000 and third place a cash prize of Rs 8,000. In the higher secondary and college category, the winner of the first place will be awarded a cash prize of Rs 18,000, second place will be awarded a cash prize of Rs 14,000 and third place Rs 10,000. Entries for the drawing contest should be sent to savemollemsanctuary@gmail.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/students-to-pick-up-pens-and-brushes-to-protect-forests/articleshow/77772847.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||No need to hear victim for bail in bailable Atrocity offences: HC rules||Ahmedabad: In an important judgment related to bail proceedings in cases under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act, the Gujarat high court on Wednesday held that courts need not hear the complainant/victim during bail hearings for bailable offences.The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala carved out this exception in bail proceedings while deciding a petition challenging the constitutional validity of Section 15A of the Act, which bestows the right on the victim/complainant/dependent to he heard by the court during hearings for bail or furlough of an accused booked under atrocity laws.The petition was filed by one Hemal Jain, who was booked under atrocity laws for allegedly hurling casteist slur at a worker. He had to spend time in jail because the court waited for the complainant to reply to Jain’s bail application. His advocate Virat Popat argued that though it was a bailable offence, the accused had to spend time behind bars due to this unreasonable provision in law.After hearing the case on the constitutional validity of the provisions, the high court said, “When a person is accused of committing only a bailable offence or offences under the Act, it is not mandatory to grant opportunity of hearing to the victim or the dependent as provided under Section 15A(5) of the Act in proceedings relating to granting bail”The HC clarified further, “However, before the court decides to decline such opportunity to the victim or the dependent, the court shall thoroughly verify and ascertain that the allegations against the accused disclose commission of only bailable offence or offences under the Act, by him.”Popat said that with the HC’s interpretation, it is now not mandatory for a court to hear the victim in offences, which are bailable or have lesser punishment such as abusing a person or simple assault where Section 323 of IPC is invoked.However, the high court rejected the petition and upheld the constitutional validity of the provisions. The HC said that Section 15A(3) is not in violation of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution; it is not arbitrary and it has to be construed as mandatory and not directory. The non-compliance of the provision of hearing the victim during bail proceedings would render the court order null and void.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-need-to-hear-victim-for-bail-in-bailable-atrocity-offences-hc-rules/articleshow/77771394.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Lapses in home isolation landing many in trouble||LUCKNOW: Failure to adhere to the dos and don’ts for home isolation is landing many in the hospital, suggests a situation analysis undertaken by the state medical education department. “Feedback from medical colleges has revealed that several patients under home isolation who were not able to monitor their health condition correctly had landed in hospital in serious condition. Experts are of the view that such patients had either failed to judge the seriousness of their symptoms or were not adhering to the prevention protocols properly. A good number of them also included those hiding their comorbid conditions from the health teams,” said additional chief secretary, medical education, Dr Rajneesh Dube. As of Wednesday, 25,269 of the total 51,317 active cases are under home isolation. Sources at KGMU and SGPGI revealed that 8-10 such cases were being attended to by their teams daily. The matter was also taken up during the meeting of Team 11 on Wednesday. “The CM has expressed concern over home isolated positive patients ignoring the warning signs and reporting late to health centres. He urged such patients to immediately get in touch with health officials on feeling mildly uncomfortable besides giving specific instructions to strengthen the monitoring of patients under home isolation,” said additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi. Experts noted that when Covid-19 progresses from mild stage towards a higher one, a good number of patients might need oxygen support which is not possible at home. “A number of patients press the alarm bell when they start feeling breathless. Considering the time that goes in transportation, many of these may start to deteriorate by the time they reach a facility. Any delay in between can prove fatal,” explained Dr Dube. Experts suggest strictest adherence to the health monitoring protocol to ensure that no one lands in trouble.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lapses-in-home-isolation-landing-many-in-trouble/articleshow/77773084.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 27, 2020||Trichy||UGD pits pose danger in Trichy as rain exposes shoddy corporation work||TRICHY: Two days of rainfall in the city has exposed the poor quality of roads in Trichy Corporation’s peripheral wards. The pits dug for underground drainage (UGD) chambers were exposed after the rain, disrupting the movement of residents in remote areas. The common factor between Sanjeevi Nagar falling under Srirangam zone and Balaji Nagar, New Town Nagar in Thiruverumbur falling under Ponmalai zone, which are 10 km apart, is unmotorable roads. The rapidly developing localities were selected for UGD project, and the corporation recently dug the roads for installing UGD chambers and laying pipelines. Although the pipe installation work was completed in most of the areas, the civic body has failed to fill and cover the UGD pits properly, local people said. The recent rain has battered the roads leaving the residents in trouble. “Even though the civic body completed the UGD work more than a month ago, the pits were not properly covered. The heavy downpour in our locality has made the roads slippery,” Eiswar Raj, a resident of Sanjeevi Nagar, said. In Balaji Nagar and New Town Nagar in Thiruverumbur, the roads have caved in where the patchwork is done by the civic body after the rain. Four-wheelers and heavy vehicles often get trapped in the pits. The residents of Sanjeevi Nagar and Thiruverumbur have urged the civic body to take up proper maintenance work to make their roads motorable in view of the ensuing monsoon. “We will inspect the venues to carry out the repair work,” a corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ugd-pits-pose-danger-in-trichy-as-rain-exposes-shoddy-corpn-work/articleshow/77773546.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 27, 2020||Delhi||Hindu Rao Hospital’s hotel bill for staff at Rs 2 crore||NEW DELHI: Almost two months after Hindu Rao Hospital started functioning as a dedicated Covid-19 facility, the north corporation has written to Delhi government to restore the normal status of the 980-bed hospital. Officials say that the presence of Covid patients has been low till now with more than 90% beds lying vacant. The hotel bill for healthcare workers has, meanwhile, exceeded Rs 2 crore, they add. “Before the hospital was turned into a Covid facility, more than 3,000 patients used to come here daily for OPD services. Mostly poor patients with lack of resources come here for treatment. Now, only 16 Covid patients are admitted here, while non-Covid patients are being diverted to other hospitals,” a senior official said. “The decision to restore our status can only be taken by Delhi government and DDMA. If they do not agree, we are willing to start a small 50-bed ward in a separate building,” said Jai Prakash, mayor of the north corporation. The mayor added that their letters for help in meeting hospital expenses and hotel bills for healthcare workers had yielded no result so far. “We had written to Delhi government to help us in payment of hotel dues when the first demand of Rs 90 lakh installment was made. But we have been told that help in the form of medical equipment and infrastructure can be provided and no money will be released directly,” added another official of the cash-strapped civic body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hindu-raos-hotel-bill-for-staff-at-rs-2cr/articleshow/77772801.cms||Paras Singh
August 27, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow University invites PM to centenary year event||LUCKNOW: Lucknow University has extended an invitation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to attend its centenary year celebrations in November this year. Coronavirus pandemic has hit LU’s centenary year celebrations forcing the university to postpone all events scheduled for the entire year. To make the culmination of centenary year special, authorities are planning to hold a grand function on the foundation day on November 25. Various events will be organised during the foundation day week which will be attended by personalities of national and international repute. The convocation will also be organised during the week. “We have written to the PM urging him to give us time on any day of the week-long celebrations. We plan to release a documentary on LU’s 100-year journey, a postal stamp and a coin,” said vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai. “Celebrations will include felicitation of illustrious alumni. We will invite all our old students. Those who can’t make it to the campus can join online,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-invites-pm-to-centenary-yr-event/articleshow/77773069.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||2nd round of sero survey begins in Telangana||Hyderabad: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) in the city has initiated the second round of SARS Cov-2 sero-epidemiological survey to monitor the transmission of the virus in the general population of the state in which 1,200 people will be covered in three districts. The survey, in association with the state government, began on Wednesday and is part of the nation-wide survey being spearheaded by the ICMR. The baseline survey was conducted in May in three districts of the state i.e. Jangaon, Kamareddy and Nalgonda. The data then showed only two positive cases in Jangaon (0.49%) and one each in Kamareddy (0.25%) and Nalgonda (0.25%) out of the population covered in the survey. In the second round that has been taken up, as per ICMR guidelines, 10 villages/wards are being selected in each of these districts and from each selected village 40 subjects above the age of 10, both male and female, are being randomly covered for the survey. The house-to-house survey will be done in 30 villages in Jangaon, Kamareddy and Nalgonda. “The population based sero-epidemiological study will help determine the trend in transmission of SARS-CoV-2 infection and to determine the socio-demographic risk factors for SARS-CoV-2 infection,” NIN said. Avula Laxmaiah, Scientist G & Head, Public Health Nutrition, ICMR-NIN told TOI that in the first round also 1,200 people were covered in the sero-epidemiological study. “The first study can be considered the base survey. The second survey will give us an understanding on the spread of the virus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2nd-round-of-sero-survey-begins-in-telangana/articleshow/77772854.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 27, 2020||Madurai||Plea to shift Periyar statue for road expansion work in Palani||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday ordered notice to the Dindigul district administration on a plea which sought to shift the statue of Periyar E V Ramasamy to carryout road expansion works at Palani.A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam ordered notice on the public interest litigation filed by K Sridhar, a resident of Palani.The petitioner stated that the Railway Feeder Road that extends up to one kilometre, is situated at the centre of Palani town. Since it is a narrow road, there is huge traffic during peak hours and festival seasons, as several devotees throng the town to visit the Dhandayudhapani Swamy Temple. Due to this, officials from the highways department planned to expand the road and started the work some four months back. He stated that in order to expand the road, officials had removed roadside encroachments and cut down the trees which were situated at the road.He stated that a statue of Periyar is also situated on the Railway Feeder Road. Though the statue was causing hindrance, officials were carrying out the road expansion work without shifting the statue. Since there was no response to the representation sent by him seeking to shift the statue to some other place, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-shift-periyar-statue-for-road-expansion-work-in-palani/articleshow/77773551.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Trichy||Trichy Corporation offers internship under smart cities mission||TRICHY: The Trichy Corporation under The Urban Learning Internship Programme (Tulip) has invited fresh graduates to apply for an internship in the smart cities mission projects. Around 60 internships are to be provided in the first phase. BE/B Tech graduates (civil, EEE, computer science), B Arch, BBA, BCA, B Sc (horticulture) and a diploma in environmental engineering can apply with a recommendation letter from their respective educational institutions on or before September 11 through www.internship.aicte-india.org. During their tenure likely to vary between minimum eight weeks to maximum 1 year, interns will get to know the roles and functions of the local body and the scope of smart cities projects. They will be exposed to a list of problem statements faced by various departments of the civic body. Solutions and suggestions from the interns will be considered for implementation.A monthly stipend of Rs 5,000 and a certificate will be provided, the civic body said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-offers-internship-under-smart-cities-mission/articleshow/77773539.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Lockdown helped smokers quit habit: Docs||Visakhapatnam: With shops shut almost throughout the day and stocks of cigarettes running low, the lockdown from end-March to early June saw a number of smokers quit the habit, said doctors dealing with cases of smoking cessation. “The lockdown was never a motivation to quit smoking. But it was definitely an opportunity to quit smoking. If you don’t stock cigarettes at home it was impossible to procure one during the active lockdown. If nicotine does not enter your blood for 72 to 96 hours at a stretch the urge to smoke will reduce. This is exactly what happened with many of my patients,” Srinivas Singisetti, a psychiatrist dealing with smoking cessation cases told TOI. As the supply of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco products fell, stock that was available was sold at exorbitant prices, another reason that forced many to give up the habit. Pulmonologists in the city confirmed that the habit of smoking and consumption of chewable tobacco products have also reduced. “This is good because smoking increases the chance of inflating viruses in the body of the person who is infected with Covid-19,” Dr KVV Vijaya Kumar, a pulmonologist from Visakhapatnam and a faculty member of the pulmonology department at Andhra Medical College told TOI. However, there are concerns of smokers relapsing into an old habit. Doctors at King George Hospital, that has an addiction cessation programme, said they apprehend that many who have quit smoking might pick up the habit once the situation normalises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lockdown-helped-smokers-quit-habit-docs/articleshow/77771417.cms||Arpit Basu
August 27, 2020||Goa||Stray dog with hurt paw gets new lease of life||Panaji: Restrictions arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic have affected not only people but several animals too, particularly strays. Margo, an Indie dog who was found in a sorry state at the Margao railway station in May, is one of these. Fortunately, she was given a new lease of life after being rescued by the NGO, Mission Rabies. “Margo had sustained serious injuries and her front paw had been cut off, possibly due to an accident. She also had a severe maggot-infested wound at the top of the severed limb. The vets at WVS Hicks had no choice but to amputate the leg,” Mission Rabies said. To minimise the risk of infection, the procedure was carried out once the wound had healed. Margo underwent two surgeries – one to amputate the leg and the other to close the wound. After three weeks of follow-up care and treatment, she was ready to be released. Monsoon SOS, which comprises a team that helps strays in distress during the rains, agreed to foster her for a while, during which Mission Rabies ran an adoption campaign to find her a good home. However, team manager Frank Fernandes stepped in and eventually offered Margo her forever home. The Mission Rabies team has been reaching out to several other suffering animals, too. In June, it rescued a puppy stuck and covered in tar, and with help from the Tailwaggers Pet Clinic, ensured that the pup recovered after several rounds of cleaning and intravenous fluids. A plea was even put out via social media for a foster home or for someone to adopt it. Within a few hours, a good Samaritan came forward and offered the puppy a loving home. He also covered the full cost of treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stray-dog-with-hurt-paw-gets-new-lease-of-life/articleshow/77772901.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Allahabad||With 5,898 fresh cases, UP Covid tally crosses 2 lakh-mark||LUCKNOW: The Covid tally for UP crossed the two-lakh mark on Wednesday with the addition of 5,898 cases in the past 24 hours. With this, UP became home to about 6% of all cases in India. Among big states, UP ranks number five in the top states’ list led by Maharashtra followed by Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. With government authorities claiming to do everything to contain the epidemic, TOI takes a look at the status. Last one lakh added in 23 days: It took 153 days to add one lakh cases in UP, but only 23 days for the next one lakh. This means that an estimated 4,300 cases were added every day in August. Also, cases jumped from 1.5 lakh to 2 lakh in just 11 days. Officials attribute monsoons as the main reason for surge in cases. “As the humidity levels are high pandemic virus gets many host particles to survive in the breathing range. Those not wearing masks are committing a crime against their dear ones,” said additional chief secretary, medical education department, Dr Rajneesh Dube. One third cases from 7 dists: The pandemic has shifted its base from western UP to eastern districts with seven out of top 10 districts in terms of case positivity rate belonging to eastern part of the state. However, 37% of all cases belong to just seven districts, including Lucknow, Kanpur. Case positivity below 5% despite rise: Health officials claimed that despite rise in Covid cases in August, the case positivity rate or the number of persons found positive among those tested has remained below 5% -- the benchmark approved by Union health ministry and WHO. “We are the only one to have conducted over 49 lakh tests in the country. Also, our daily average is more than one lakh,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. 73% patients have recovered: With the addition of 3,808 discharges in the past 24 hours, the total number of recoveries reached 1,48,562. Health officials said while 80% of the total cases were asymptomatic, 30% were women. Demographic break up indicated that nearly 50% of the cases are in the 21-40 years, while 8.5% are above 60 years. Data indicated that less than 2% of the total patients have died, but 75% of the deaths have taken place among those with comorbid conditions. 50% cases in 24 hours from 10 dists: About 50% of the cases belonged to just 10 districts. The state also recorded 82 deaths in the past 24 hours with Gorakhpur accounting for maximum nine deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/with-5898-fresh-cases-up-covid-tally-crosses-2l-mark/articleshow/77775202.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 27, 2020||Kanpur||With 5,898 fresh cases, UP Covid tally crosses 2 lakh-mark||LUCKNOW: The Covid tally for UP crossed the two-lakh mark on Wednesday with the addition of 5,898 cases in the past 24 hours. With this, UP became home to about 6% of all cases in India. Among big states, UP ranks number five in the top states’ list led by Maharashtra followed by Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. With government authorities claiming to do everything to contain the epidemic, TOI takes a look at the status. Last one lakh added in 23 days: It took 153 days to add one lakh cases in UP, but only 23 days for the next one lakh. This means that an estimated 4,300 cases were added every day in August. Also, cases jumped from 1.5 lakh to 2 lakh in just 11 days. Officials attribute monsoons as the main reason for surge in cases. “As the humidity levels are high pandemic virus gets many host particles to survive in the breathing range. Those not wearing masks are committing a crime against their dear ones,” said additional chief secretary, medical education department, Dr Rajneesh Dube. One third cases from 7 dists: The pandemic has shifted its base from western UP to eastern districts with seven out of top 10 districts in terms of case positivity rate belonging to eastern part of the state. However, 37% of all cases belong to just seven districts, including Lucknow, Kanpur. Case positivity below 5% despite rise: Health officials claimed that despite rise in Covid cases in August, the case positivity rate or the number of persons found positive among those tested has remained below 5% -- the benchmark approved by Union health ministry and WHO. “We are the only one to have conducted over 49 lakh tests in the country. Also, our daily average is more than one lakh,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. 73% patients have recovered: With the addition of 3,808 discharges in the past 24 hours, the total number of recoveries reached 1,48,562. Health officials said while 80% of the total cases were asymptomatic, 30% were women. Demographic break up indicated that nearly 50% of the cases are in the 21-40 years, while 8.5% are above 60 years. Data indicated that less than 2% of the total patients have died, but 75% of the deaths have taken place among those with comorbid conditions. 50% cases in 24 hours from 10 dists: About 50% of the cases belonged to just 10 districts. The state also recorded 82 deaths in the past 24 hours with Gorakhpur accounting for maximum nine deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/with-5898-fresh-cases-up-covid-tally-crosses-2l-mark/articleshow/77775201.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 27, 2020||Pune||Two Pune volunteers first to get trial dose of Covishield||PUNE: Two men from the city on Wednesday became the first in the country to receive doses of Covishield, a potential Covid-19 vaccine developed by Oxford University and made by the city-based Serum Institute of India. Covishield is the third vaccine candidate to enter human trials in the country, after Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D began tests in July. On Wednesday, a 32-year-old working professional and a 48-year-old healthcare worker received their first doses intramuscularly as part of phase 2 human trials at Pune’s Bharati hospital — one of Covishield’s 17 trial sites in the country. Both volunteers will be given another dose 28 days from now to test the candidate vaccine’s safety. The healthcare worker (whose wife and daughter have also volunteered to test Covishield) had also participated in human trials of the swine flu vaccine back in 2010. Bharati hospital had first picked five volunteers for the trial, but three dropped out after they were found to have Covid antibodies.  “We vaccinated both the men on their left arm muscles at around 1pm on Wednesday,” said Sanjay Lalwani, Bharati’s medical director. Both were kept under observation for 45 minutes after vaccination and then allowed to go home. “In phase 2, we will try to assess its safety profile while looking for side-effects like fever, nausea, dizziness or redness and swelling at the site of the injection,” Lalwani said. Watch Covid-19: Two Pune volunteers first to get trial dose of Covishield||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-pune-volunteers-first-to-get-trial-dose-of-covishield/articleshow/77772833.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 27, 2020||Lucknow||With 5,898 fresh cases, UP Covid tally crosses 2 lakh-mark||LUCKNOW: The Covid tally for UP crossed the two-lakh mark on Wednesday with the addition of 5,898 cases in the past 24 hours. With this, UP became home to about 6% of all cases in India. Among big states, UP ranks number five in the top states’ list led by Maharashtra followed by Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. With government authorities claiming to do everything to contain the epidemic, TOI takes a look at the status. Last one lakh added in 23 days: It took 153 days to add one lakh cases in UP, but only 23 days for the next one lakh. This means that an estimated 4,300 cases were added every day in August. Also, cases jumped from 1.5 lakh to 2 lakh in just 11 days. Officials attribute monsoons as the main reason for surge in cases. “As the humidity levels are high pandemic virus gets many host particles to survive in the breathing range. Those not wearing masks are committing a crime against their dear ones,” said additional chief secretary, medical education department, Dr Rajneesh Dube. One third cases from 7 dists: The pandemic has shifted its base from western UP to eastern districts with seven out of top 10 districts in terms of case positivity rate belonging to eastern part of the state. However, 37% of all cases belong to just seven districts, including Lucknow, Kanpur. Case positivity below 5% despite rise: Health officials claimed that despite rise in Covid cases in August, the case positivity rate or the number of persons found positive among those tested has remained below 5% -- the benchmark approved by Union health ministry and WHO. “We are the only one to have conducted over 49 lakh tests in the country. Also, our daily average is more than one lakh,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. 73% patients have recovered: With the addition of 3,808 discharges in the past 24 hours, the total number of recoveries reached 1,48,562. Health officials said while 80% of the total cases were asymptomatic, 30% were women. Demographic break up indicated that nearly 50% of the cases are in the 21-40 years, while 8.5% are above 60 years. Data indicated that less than 2% of the total patients have died, but 75% of the deaths have taken place among those with comorbid conditions. 50% cases in 24 hours from 10 dists: About 50% of the cases belonged to just 10 districts. The state also recorded 82 deaths in the past 24 hours with Gorakhpur accounting for maximum nine deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/with-5898-fresh-cases-up-covid-tally-crosses-2l-mark/articleshow/77773104.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 27, 2020||Varanasi||With 5,898 fresh cases, UP Covid tally crosses 2 lakh-mark||LUCKNOW: The Covid tally for UP crossed the two-lakh mark on Wednesday with the addition of 5,898 cases in the past 24 hours. With this, UP became home to about 6% of all cases in India. Among big states, UP ranks number five in the top states’ list led by Maharashtra followed by Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. With government authorities claiming to do everything to contain the epidemic, TOI takes a look at the status. Last one lakh added in 23 days: It took 153 days to add one lakh cases in UP, but only 23 days for the next one lakh. This means that an estimated 4,300 cases were added every day in August. Also, cases jumped from 1.5 lakh to 2 lakh in just 11 days. Officials attribute monsoons as the main reason for surge in cases. “As the humidity levels are high pandemic virus gets many host particles to survive in the breathing range. Those not wearing masks are committing a crime against their dear ones,” said additional chief secretary, medical education department, Dr Rajneesh Dube. One third cases from 7 dists: The pandemic has shifted its base from western UP to eastern districts with seven out of top 10 districts in terms of case positivity rate belonging to eastern part of the state. However, 37% of all cases belong to just seven districts, including Lucknow, Kanpur. Case positivity below 5% despite rise: Health officials claimed that despite rise in Covid cases in August, the case positivity rate or the number of persons found positive among those tested has remained below 5% -- the benchmark approved by Union health ministry and WHO. “We are the only one to have conducted over 49 lakh tests in the country. Also, our daily average is more than one lakh,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. 73% patients have recovered: With the addition of 3,808 discharges in the past 24 hours, the total number of recoveries reached 1,48,562. Health officials said while 80% of the total cases were asymptomatic, 30% were women. Demographic break up indicated that nearly 50% of the cases are in the 21-40 years, while 8.5% are above 60 years. Data indicated that less than 2% of the total patients have died, but 75% of the deaths have taken place among those with comorbid conditions. 50% cases in 24 hours from 10 dists: About 50% of the cases belonged to just 10 districts. The state also recorded 82 deaths in the past 24 hours with Gorakhpur accounting for maximum nine deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/with-5898-fresh-cases-up-covid-tally-crosses-2l-mark/articleshow/77775200.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 27, 2020||Surat||In Surat, 11-year-old boy killed for playing games on mobile||SURAT: An 11-year-old boy paid a heavy price for playing online mobile shooting game on his 19-year-old friend’s mobile phone in Surat on Tuesday. Police, who nabbed the 19-year-old Aman Shivhare, a native of Uttar Pradesh, on Wednesday revealed the heinous murder he committed in Pandesara area over a petty dispute. The accused, who used to work as an assistant in a chemical company, had lost his job around 10 days ago and was currently unemployed. According to the police, Aman allegedly killed Akash Tiwari, a student of Class IV, in a fit of rage after the latter did not listen to his pleas not to use the mobile phone. The murder was revealed only after the discovery of Akash’s body while cops were investigation into his kidnapping plaint. Investigation so far revealed that Akash had come to Shivhare’s room in Jivan Deep Society on Tuesday afternoon without the knowledge of his parents. Akash used to be a neighbour of Shivhare and were friends but the family had shifted to a new home in Hira Nagar located 100 metres away around a month ago. Akash always played games on Shivhare’s mobile phone and the duo would constantly fight over it. On that day too, Akash continued to play despite repeated warnings by Shivhare and in a fit of rage he throttled Akash and later covered the body with a shawl. He then hid the boy’s body under the bed. Shivhare was alone in the room at the time of the crime as his room-mate had gone to work. After the boy remained missing throughout the day and also failed to return till late in the evening, the worried parents started searching for Akash. Despite searching in all possible places when they couldn’t find him, Akash’s father, Santosh, who works in a security agency, lodged a kidnapping complaint in Pandesara police station. Meanwhile, Shivhare’s room-mate returned from work at night and after dinner when he was about to go to bed and couldn’t find his shawl, he searched for it and discovered Akash’s body. Since he knew that Akash’s family was searching for the boy, he immediately informed them and also alerted the cops. “Even Shivhare was helping Tiwari family to search for Akash in the evening. He had planned to dispose of the body later,” said a police officer. Accused will be arrested after his Covid-19 test, he added. Shivhare initially refused involvement in the crime but later broke down and accepted killing the boy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/11-year-old-boy-killed-for-playing-games-on-mobile/articleshow/77770074.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Fed up with ‘modernity’ banker’s wife kills self||AHMEDABAD: A woman from the Vastrapur area of city hanged herself with her dupatta from the ceiling fan in the pooja room of her house on the ninth floor of Casa Vyoma Apartments on Tuesday afternoon, police officials said on Wednesday. The deceased was identified as Manisha Pancharia, 47, whose husband Rakesh Pancharia is senior manager with the service branch of Bank of India in the Ellisbridge area. The family moved to the city 10 months ago as Rakesh was transferred here. They come from Mandsaur district of Madhya Pradesh. Police officers said that she had gone to the pooja room in the house and told her daughter, Shreya, 19, not to disturb her. At around 1.45pm, Shreya opened the room with a second key and found her mother hanging from the ceiling fan. She called her father who rushed to the house. He called the police control room at 2.39pm. On reasons for her suicide, a city police officer said, “Manisha was very religious and could not adapt to modern life. She had written 22 pages in her diary on her difficulty in adapting to a modern life style.” The officer further said she also wrote in the diary that her husband and daughter should not be held responsible as they will be saddest at her death. “She had also written that in modern times vulgar songs, videos and films are released which makes her and other religious person feel harassed. She also said she was fed up with life and no one should be held responsible,” said an officer. Vastrapur police registered a case of accidental death and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fed-up-with-modernity-bankers-wife-kills-self/articleshow/77771450.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Trichy||Fishers demand promised bait curve to protect boats||THANJAVUR: Fishermen from Mallipattinam in Thanjavur district have appealed to the state government to construct a bait curve near the newly established fishing harbour there to safeguard their boats from giant waves and winds. Despite the government allotting Rs 6 crore for the purpose, they said no work was done in the last two years. The government had constructed a fishing harbour at Mallipattinam at an estimated Rs 66 crore in 2018. Though a bait curve was also promised as that time, officials did not take up work on it, said A Thajudeen, general secretary of Tamil Nadu Fishermen Federation at Mallipattinam. Strong winds and giant waves were destroying the boats parked in the harbour as the trawlers swayed and hit each other. With the intensity of wind and waves high and abnormal these days, fishermen have to worry about their vessels almost the entire year. “Fishermen lost 230 boats during Cyclone Gaja in November 2018. Had the bait curve been constructed, we would not have suffered such losses”, Thajudeen lamented. Despite repeated representations to the government, fisheries department and local authorities, nothing has materialised. The fishermen appealed to the government to complete the project before the northeast monsoon sets in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fishers-demand-promised-bait-curve-to-protect-boats/articleshow/77773557.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
August 27, 2020||Madurai||Lack of action, insensitivity of officials keep illegal sand miners going: HC||Madurai: Noting that illegal sand mining was continuing unabated due to the lack of sensitivity of authorities, the Madras high court on Wednesday directed the Dindigul district administration to file a counter on a plea which sought to prevent illegal sand mining at Manjalar river in the district. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by K Venkidusamy, a resident of Nilakottai taluk. A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam observed that due to the lack of sensitivity on part of the district administration and police officials, such kinds of illegal mining activities are taking place right in front of their eyes. The judges observed that despite several GOs and orders passed by the court, no remedial measures were put in place by the authorities. The judges observed that from the past experience of the court in dealing with such cases of illegal sand mining, the authorities in their status reports are just reeling out the statistics but have not taken any action such as conviction or confiscation proceedings against those involved in such activities. The judges observed that the court, with a fond hope, has been marking the order copies to the chief secretary so that he would provide necessary guidelines to the officials in this regard, however, there was no proper response so far. The judges ordered notice and directed the respondents including the Dindigul district collector and superintendent of police to file individual counter affidavits on the present situation prevailing at Kulipatti village. The case was adjourned to September 15 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lack-of-action-insensitivity-of-officials-keep-illegal-sand-miners-going-hc/articleshow/77773563.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Vadodara||Man knocked down by car, dies||Vadodara: A 60-year-old man died after he was knocked down by a car on Old Padra Road on Tuesday night. Kanu Chauhan, a resident of Atladara, was returning home from work on a scooter when an unidentified car driver knocked him down near Akshar Chowk on Old Padra Road. Chauhan worked at a pathology laboratory near Rajvi Tower. Police said that the car driver rammed Chauhan from behind and as a result he fell down and suffered grievous injuries on his head. Chauhan was taken to a private hospital on Race Course Road. However, the doctors declared him dead before admitting. His son Nilesh lodged a complaint of rash driving and causing death due to negligence against the unidentified car driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-knocked-down-by-car-dies/articleshow/77769906.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Chennai||Disquiet comes to the fore in AIADMK front||CHENNAI: A year after stitching a grand alliance for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, a disquiet appears to have emerged in the AIADMK front. Even as the internecine clamouring over the chief ministerial candidate for 2021 assembly polls is raging in the AIADMK, alliance parties have started asserting themselves, perhaps reminding the ruling party that they cannot be taken for granted. A day after BJP national president J P Nadda’s onslaught on the state administration for “sheltering anti-nationals” — an attack presumably for the reluctance to rein in Karuppar Koottam, DMDK leader Premalatha said her party workers want to see Vijayakant become “king” (read: CM). If it is mere posturing from the DMDK to increase its bargaining power, the BJP’s aspirations to lead the front should not be taken lightly as the party is on a recruitment spree to bolster the cadres’ morale ever since L Murugan assumed office as the state unit chief. BJP state vice-president Vanathi Srinivasan said the ultimate goal of her party was to capture power in TN. She said the alliances stitched by both Dravidan parties are political arrangements which are intended for elections. “The Congress is in the DMK alliance, but they keep saying they want to establish Kamaraj rule. Similarly, the goal of the BJP too is to capture power in TN. It is to achieve that goal that we have been working hard for years,” she said. The ground situation was changing in favour of the BJP, she claimed. But for now, the NDA is intact in TN, she said. Another BJP leader said dalits were showing enthusiasm to join the BJP. “Lots of partymen want us to contest alone in elections,” he said. The confrontationist stand of the AIADMK with the Centre on a range of issues like NEET, OBC quota and three language formula has irked the saffron party. Taking to twitter, BJP state general secretary K T Raghavan accused the AIADMK leadership of being “duplicate secularists” — staying silent on denigration of Kanda Sashti Kavasam while condemning desecration of Periyar statue. The AIADMK leaders are hopeful that things would settle down and allies are merely posturing to buttress their importance. “These are pressure tactics to leverage bargaining power in the run up to the polls and take advantage of the confusion over the leadership in our camp. We will set our house in order soon and take all the allies along with us,” said a senior minister. The party is mulling over convening general council and executive committee meetings shortly to resolve the differences between OPS and EPS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/disquiet-comes-to-the-fore-in-aiadmk-front/articleshow/77771415.cms||Julie Mariappan
August 27, 2020||Trichy||CM to hold Covid-19 review meeting in Nagapattinam today||TRICHY: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami will visit Nagapattinam district on Thursday to lay foundation stones for various new projects and distribute welfare packages to beneficiaries. He will also inaugurate completed infrastructure projects before conducting a review meeting with officials. In a statement district collector Praveen P Nair said that the chief minister will lay foundation stones for various new projects worth Rs 207.6 crore in the district. He will also unveil various infrastructure projects worth Rs 43.6 crore. The chief minister will hold a meeting to review Covid-19 containment measures. The meeting will be attended by handlooms and textile minister OS Manian, MP and MLAs, district collector, other officials. Entrepreneurs, representatives from farming community and members of self-help groups will also participate in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cm-to-hold-covid-19-review-meeting-in-nagapattinam-today/articleshow/77773566.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Pune||ICMR: Hospitals must control number of study participants in Pune||PUNE: Officials at the four trial sites in the city for the Oxford vaccine plan to enrol about 1,000 volunteers for its phase 2 and phase 3 trials. But experts from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said volunteers should be spread out equally across trial sites in India to properly evaluate vaccine efficacy in diverse demographics. The national sample size to test the vaccine, for both phases, is 1,600 . “Pune trial sites alone cannot register so many volunteers. This will defeat the purpose of multi-centric trials across 17 sites in India. Equal representation is vital to the study design,” an ICMR official said. Bharati hospital is the first trial site in India to start phase 2 human trials. Jehangir hospital, which will start tests soon, hopes to enrol 250 to 300 volunteers. Cowasji Jehangir, chairman of the hospital said, “As a contribution to the society, we will conduct this trial at our centre for no charge. We will be waiving all professional fees for the study.” KEM hospital plans to enrol about 250 volunteers. “We will begin vaccinations from Thursday,” the hospital’s paediatric gastroenterologist, Ashish Bavdekar, said. S Chockalingam, the administrative controller at Sassoon hospital, said, “Clinical trials here will start most likely from next week. We have not started enrolling volunteers so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/icmr-hosps-must-control-number-of-study-participants/articleshow/77772845.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 27, 2020||Chennai||ASI’s Chennai circle split into two||CHENNAI: A long pending demand to bifurcate the Chennai circle of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) was realised on Wednesday when Union culture minister Prahlad Singh Patel announced the creation of a new circle headquartered at Trichy. In a tweet, the minister hailed the contributions of the Chola empire in Tamil Nadu, which is home for temples dating back to 3,000 to 4,000 years. “Trichy would be made a new circle,” he said. The move would facilitate better maintenance of ASI monuments while allowing addition of more heritage sites for explorations and excavations since the new circle will get separate fund allocations. Several sites in the state are in a state of neglect since Chennai circle had to maintain 411 monuments and sites with a meager annual allocation of Rs 5 crore. A team of ASI officials headed by a superintendent archaeologist would oversee monuments based out of Trichy. This apart, monuments in Kanyakumari, Tenkasi and Tirunelveli districts that are currently part of Thrissur circle in Kerala will be merged with Trichy circle, said ASI sources. The move would also pave the way for creation of new sub-circles at Madurai and Tuticorin districts. Archaeologists and heritage enthusiasts were elated over the news. R Komagan, chairman of Gangaikondacholapuram Development Council, which has been representing the Centre for bifurcation of Chennai Circle said that the move would help conserve ancient temples, rock paints and burial sites in Trichy and Madurai regions. Senior epigraphist and author S Rajavelu, who has been campaigning for ASI’s Trichy chapter for long, hailed the initiative, highlighting the archaeological potential of the southern districts of TN. “Most Tamil-Brahmi caverns in the southern part of Tamil Nadu are under threat due to blasting quarry work. Many Pandya rock cut caves are not preserved well,” he said. Archaeologists observed that the new circle would support better preservation and conservation of important monuments in central TN. “It would also give better thrust for historical research and the documentation of monuments and sites of this region,” said V Selvakumar of the department of maritime history and marine archaeology, Tamil University, Thanjavur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/asis-chennai-circle-split-into-two/articleshow/77771457.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
August 27, 2020||Mumbai||In bid to boost realty, Maharashtra cuts stamp duty for 7 months||MUMBAI: In a major decision to revive the stagnant property market, the state cabinet on Wednesday decided to reduce stamp duty on flats for seven months, starting September. The duty will be lowered from the existing 5% to 2% starting September 1 till December 31 and will be pegged at 3% from January 1 till March 31, 2021. Early this month, state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat had told TOI about the government’s plan to reduce stamp duty on property registrations to boost transactions. The state cabinet on Wednesday also approved a Rs 700 crore road tax waiver plan for commercial vehicles to compensate for losses the transport industry has suffered in the lockdown. TOI had on Tuesday reported that this decision was all set to be taken. The reduction in stamp duty, though temporary, could be substantial for a prospective home buyer. A flat costing Rs 1 crore attracts a duty of Rs 5 lakh. It will now be Rs 2 lakh from September to December end, and Rs 3 lakh from January 1 to March 31, 2021. After the lockdown began in March, the real estate market took a big knock as sales plummeted and construction workers abandoned project sites in droves. Builders urged the state government to reduce stamp duty and other premiums and taxes to revive sales and attract buyers who have been sitting on the fence. Nayan Shah, president of CREDAI-MCHI, which represents builders across the state, said the decision augurs well for revival of demand in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and is a “much-needed boost to the ailing sector.” “It will encourage homebuyers, fence-sitters as well as resale flat buyers. The reduction will provide a huge respite not only to them but also to developers suffering poor sales and limited cash flow due to Covid-19,” he said. Niranjan Hiranandani, national president, Naredco, said the reduction will help convert inquiries into sale closures. He added that if the Centre were to slash GST rates, it would act as a shot in the arm for the industry. A top city developer, not wishing to be identified, said the stamp duty cut is very similar to the decision taken by the UK government, which has led to housing sales and employment growth, creating positivity in the economy. Advocate Vinod Sampat said stamp authorities must also reduce the market value of apartments by at least 30% because currently many transactions are happening below market value as sellers are in need of funds. “The income tax is payable on the market value as fixed by stamp duty ready reckoner. The income tax (Section 50 of IT Act) is paid on the market value although the flat may have been sold at much a lesser price,” he said. Anuj Puri, chairman, ANAROCK Property Consultants said, “Apart from the obvious homebuyer benefits, the government can generate badly-needed revenue via increased registrations after the most severe downturn in recent history. Affordable and mid-segment properties, which are in maximum demand, would see the most traction from such a move.” “To ease inventory pile-up and cost overruns, many players have already topped off discounts with added incentives such as booking amount refunds, statutory fees waivers, cashback schemes, easy payment structuring and assorted freebies. A stamp duty rate cut could push sales into the green during the festive season,” he added. The government has also decreased stamp duty on properties in rural areas. It has been reduced to just 1% (from existing 4%) till December 31, 2020 and is pegged at 2% from January till March 31, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-bid-to-boost-realty-state-cuts-stamp-duty-for-7-mths/articleshow/77773600.cms||Nauzer Bharucha
August 27, 2020||Trichy||Thanjavur district’s positivity rate down from 14.6% to 6%||TRICHY: There is some happy news from Thanjavur which has been reporting high number of cases of late. The district’s positivity rate has plunged from 14.6% in the first week of this month to just 6% between August 16 and 22. According to the RT-PCR monitoring reports, the district which stood fourth in the state in terms of infection rate early this month is now 33rd in the state. Officials said intensive testing with primary contacts is the reason for this trend. A total of 1.25 lakh people have so far been screened at 2,619 medical camps conducted across the district. Out of 13,243 people tested in the district during August16-22, 798 tested positive, which was a little over 6%. The highest number of positives during the period was on August 18, when the positivity rate was 10.7%, and lowest on August 16, when it dipped to 4%. Except August 18, the positivity rate remained only in single digit for the remaining six days. The total number of Covid-19 positive cases reported so far in the district was 5,986 with 123 fresh cases recorded on Wednesday. Kumbakonam, Pattukottai and Thanjavur city corporation limits were the hot spots for a long time. District collector M Govinda Rao attributed the declining trend to intensified field camps, vigorous awareness campaigns and continuous monitoring in the district. “However, cases continue to come as there is a lot of movement of people. Still, a lot of behavioural change has come among the general public”, he told TOI. Social distancing, wearing of masks and hand washing have to become a way of life to reduce the cases further, he further stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thanjavur-districts-positivity-rate-down-from-14-6-to-6/articleshow/77773602.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
August 27, 2020||Nagpur||‘Curb kids’ screen time today for a healthy tomorrow’||With children compelled to stay at home due to Covid situation, their TV viewing time has increased. Though TV tops the list, all screen viewing — including mobiles, laptops, tablets etc — has also increased amid the lockdown. This is in addition to the online teaching, which has become inevitable. This increased screen time is definitely a matter of concern. Dr Akash Bang, additional professor, department of paediatrics, AIIMS Nagpur, speaks about the issue in detail: What are the harmful effects of increased screen time? There are many international and national studies which have thrown light on the ill-effects of higher TV and computer screen time. Risk of childhood obesity increases by 13% for each 1 hour/day increment in TV time. Poor sleep quality, higher scores in psychological difficulty, behavioural problems like anger, aggression, violence, poor oral hygiene etc are some of the impacts. In the long term, increased TV time has also been associated with increased incidences of heart attacks and paralysis. What if a child does regular exercise, in that case can’t parents allow increased screen time? In several studies, harmful effects of increased screen time were observed regardless of physical activity. This means exercise cannot compensate for these harmful effects. Researchers found that increased TV watching can affect us at genetic level too, as it shortens a part of our chromosomes called as telomere. This telomere length shortening is an indicator of cellular level ageing and predicts various age-related diseases, such as diabetes, heart disease, cancer, and even mortality. Every 1-hour increment in daily TV watching is associated with a decrease in telomere length corresponding to an ageing of approximately 1.2 to 1.8 years in biological age. There are many channels with good educational content. If parents put these on, is it not better? This is like arguing that sweet poison is better than bitter one! We all need to realize that content is just one part of the problem. It is the total screen time and the binge-watching that is the major concern here. So, what should be done? Online teaching is going to continue for some time. Since it is the individual school’s decision and not in parents’ hands, we need to focus on TV, smartphones and other leisure-time screen-viewing. Firstly, limit daily TV viewing of the entire family to 1-2 hours. Avoid frequent changing of channels and never watch TV while having meals. Parents must choose the content, be around and supervise while kids watch TV. What are the alternatives for screen time that parents may use instead of saying no? When staying indoors is unavoidable, encourage hobbies, play family games or team games like cards, carom where the kids learn to play in team. Games play a very important part in a child’s social development. They also enhance children’s Emotional Quotient (EQ). Parents must discuss the programmes soon after viewing. Find out the effects these shows had on the child and correct any faulty impressions. They should talk about how TV characters solve their problems and see if you and kids can find more realistic solutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/curb-kids-screen-time-today-for-a-healthy-tomorrow/articleshow/77771486.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 27, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath orders cancellation of arms licences of criminals||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed the police to identify criminals in the state who have arms licences and then start the process of their cancellation. During a review of the home department, the CM also said that it should be investigated how criminals were granted arms licences in the first place. The direction comes weeks after eight police personnel lost their lives at the hands of gangster Vikas Dubey’s men in Kanpur and a host of other murders across the state. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said that the CM has also directed the department to pursue provisions under Section 14 of the Gangsters Act for confiscation of property of gangsters. “The state has zero tolerance towards crime and those who break law will be punished for it. During the review, the CM also directed district magistrates to use Sections 107 (16) and 116 (3) of the Criminal Procedure Code to take action in case there is possibility of fights or arguments in villages,” Awasthi said. The CM has also given strict instructions to implement the law on wearing of masks, for which the state government can now fine Rs 5,000 for each violation under the Epidemics Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-orders-cancellation-of-arms-licences-of-criminals/articleshow/77773143.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Lucknow||6 held for attacking Dalits with acid in Jhansi village||JHANSI: Over two dozen people suffered burn injuries after they were attacked with acid by another group following a dispute over filling water from a hand pump in Basaar village under Uldan police station in Jhansi on Tuesday night. Five people suffered serious injuries and were rushed to Jhansi medical college while police registered an FIR against six people and arrested them. All the injured are from the Scheduled Caste community. SSP Jhansi Dinesh Kumar P said, “We have arrested all the six accused of community. Additional police force has been deployed in the village to prevent any unwanted incident while detailed investigation is on.” All the victims with acid burns had been discharged from the CHC and Jhansi medical college. The accused belong to 'sunar' (goldsmith) caste. SP city Rahul Srivastava told TOI, “Initial probe has revealed that the two groups had some disputes over the time and a minor incident escalated into a clash.” As per details, there are only two hand pumps in Basaar village. The incident took place when one Angoori Devi went to fetch water from the hand pump which was opposed by one of the accused Rajesh. This led to an argument which escalated soon as people from both sides gathered. As the argument heated up, a crowd collected around the house of the accused who threw acid on them from the roof. One accused was caught by the victims and thrashed severely while locals informed police about the clash and acid attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/6-held-for-attacking-dalits-with-acid-in-jhansi-village/articleshow/77773123.cms||Arindam Ghosh
August 27, 2020||Pune||Traders seek measures to prevent spread via brothels||PUNE: Nearly 400 traders working in and around Budhwar Peth have written to the district administration and elected representatives from the city, seeking adequate measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 through brothels in the area. The traders also sought help for sex workers to tide over the hardships they are facing after relaxations of norms. A delegation of traders met deputy collector Jayashri Katare on Tuesday. “Sex workers stopped working during the lockdown. They were getting help in terms of essentials. This helped in limiting the cases in our area and ensuring it became a green zone. Once the lockdown was relaxed, help for sex workers stopped and they had to start working,” Bhola Wanjale, a trader, said. “Once the lockdown relaxed and brothels started functioning, five including two workers and a customer tested positive. If the government provides appropriate aid to the sex workers, they can tide through the crises period,” he added. A social activist from Budhwar Peth stated, “Most sex workers are scared to restart work. If some sustainable relief is given to them, they will also not work until it is safe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/traders-seek-measures-to-prevent-spread-via-brothels/articleshow/77772855.cms||Rujuta Parekh
August 27, 2020||Chennai||Veshti sales take a hit this Onam||CHENNAI: The humble mundu or veshti is facing the brunt of Covid this Onam with sales estimated at just a third of the usual volume. Western regions of TN, a big supplier to Kerala, have been hit the hardest. A combination of factors, including Kerala being a poor market for online shopping, a second wave of Covid infections, and nature’s fury in the Munnar region, has affected demand. “We have zero billing to Kerala. The stocks are available from earlier, but we are not able to sell them,” Ramraj Dhotis MD Nagaraj Ramasamy told TOI. “Lockdown has hit production schedules too... There is no demand at all.” Kerala is one of the biggest markets for merchants in the Salem belt. Ramraj Dhotis alone sells around 3 lakh veshtis every year,said Ramasamy. Some manufacturers are offering generous discounts, as steep as 40%, to liquidate stocks, but to little success. They reported less than 30% of the usual festive season demand. “Bulk sales are not happening despite discounts. Shops are not operating as usual in Kerala and naturally, there is no demand. Some sales happen directly through the website, but they are just single orders. To give some perspective, only 100-150 dhotis are being sold in the place of the usual 5,000 bulk orders around Onam,” said Ragupathy Lingeshwar, proprietor of Salem-based Exclusive Dhoties. E-commerce seems to bring in some customers for the veshti makers and sellers. For Salem-based Sriram Textiles, the share of online sales went up this year. However, the total volume of sales is still less than 20%-25% of the usual. Dinesh H, another dhoti manufacturer, sees 10% of usual demand. “People don't have as much money in hand. They purchase lower priced dhotis just for the sake of festivities and are spending at least 30% less than the usual ticket size,” he adds. “We are going through tough times and need to support our weavers. By giving them minimum employment and wages, we can ensure that they stay with us when the demand is back,” said S Sriram of Sriram Textiles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/veshti-sales-take-a-hit-this-onam/articleshow/77771480.cms||Aparna Desikan
August 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Minor domestic worker hangs self||Ahmedabad: A 17-year-old old boy, who worked as domestic help at a bungalow in Goyal Park Society on Judges’ Bungalows Road in Bodakdev, allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his employer’s house on Tuesday afternoon. The boy hanged himself with a bedsheet from a swing support point on the ceiling. An officer of Vastrapur police said the boy was employed by Hemant Asarpota, a resident of bungalow No. 20, for around five years. “He had come to the house with his elder sister around five years ago and had been working at Asarpota’s house since then,” said an officer. “His sister got married a year ago, since which he was alone as the domestic help. The deceased’s father, a resident of Sirohi district in Rajasthan, told cops that he loved a girl had been engaged to another boy. This had upset him and he hanged himself,” said a police officer. Vastrapur police officer registered a complaint of accidental death and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/minor-domestic-worker-hangs-self/articleshow/77771484.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Banana exports from AP record over 143% growth||VISAKHAPATNAM: Banana export from Andhra Pradesh has seen a rapid growth over the last year. The state has registered growth of over 143% in 2019-2020 compared to the previous year (2018-2019). From a meagre 246 metric tonnes (MT) in 2016-17, the exports touched 45,000 MT in 2019-2020. A majority of banana farmers in the state grow Karpura Chakkerakeli, Tella Chakkerakeli, Budida Chakkerakeli, Amruthapani, Red-Banana, Sugandhalu (Karpura), Karpuravali (Budida Arti) and Rasthalu varieties of the banana. The banana has been identified as one of the growth-engine crops of Andhra Pradesh as it stands first in terms of area and production. The area under banana production has increased from a mere 0.79 lakh hectares in 2014-15 to 1.03 lakh hectares and productivity has risen from 44 tonnes to 60 tonnes. The Green Cavendish premium banana is regularly exported from Andhra Pradesh to countries such as UAE, Saudi Arabia, Iran, Qatar, Bahrain and Egypt. Chiranjiv Choudhary, commissioner of horticulture, said that during 2019-20 Andhra Pradesh flagged off India’s first fruit train (banana) from Tadipatri railway station with support of CONCOR to the Gateway Port (JNPT). It carried 11,000 MT of exports through 11 consignments in 40 wagons in each train. “We have fixed a target to export 75,000 MT of bananas during 2020-21 and roped in six major corporate companies to collaborate with local farmers to enhance the productivity, quality of produce, post-harvest treatment and packing, providing market linkage and ensuring higher prices with a regular increase in income year-on-year,” said Chiranjiv Choudhary, Banana cultivation has recorded a substantial growth in terms of the rapid increase in production and productivity due to the promotion of tissue culture laboratories and micro-irrigation which helped in the increase of the tissue culture area from 20% of the total area during 2014-15 to 50% during 2018-19. Due to proactive steps taken by the department of horticulture and adoption of modern technology, like fruit-care, the quality of production has increased significantly and promoted 75 banana farmer producer organisations (FPOs). Further, a consistent effort is being made to improve the post-harvest infrastructure facilities at the three integrated packing houses in at Narapalla and Kadavakallu areas in Anantapur district and Garividi area in Vizianagaram district. The department of horticulture has implemented projects in the PPP mode with INI-Farms, Desai Fruits and fruit-care activities in banana clusters with the active participation of FPOs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/banana-exports-from-ap-record-over-143-growth/articleshow/77779395.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Banana exports from AP record over 143% growth||VISAKHAPATNAM: Banana export from Andhra Pradesh has seen a rapid growth over the last year. The state has registered growth of over 143% in 2019-2020 compared to the previous year (2018-2019). From a meagre 246 metric tonnes (MT) in 2016-17, the exports touched 45,000 MT in 2019-2020. A majority of banana farmers in the state grow Karpura Chakkerakeli, Tella Chakkerakeli, Budida Chakkerakeli, Amruthapani, Red-Banana, Sugandhalu (Karpura), Karpuravali (Budida Arti) and Rasthalu varieties of the banana. The banana has been identified as one of the growth-engine crops of Andhra Pradesh as it stands first in terms of area and production. The area under banana production has increased from a mere 0.79 lakh hectares in 2014-15 to 1.03 lakh hectares and productivity has risen from 44 tonnes to 60 tonnes. The Green Cavendish premium banana is regularly exported from Andhra Pradesh to countries such as UAE, Saudi Arabia, Iran, Qatar, Bahrain and Egypt. Chiranjiv Choudhary, commissioner of horticulture, said that during 2019-20 Andhra Pradesh flagged off India’s first fruit train (banana) from Tadipatri railway station with support of CONCOR to the Gateway Port (JNPT). It carried 11,000 MT of exports through 11 consignments in 40 wagons in each train. “We have fixed a target to export 75,000 MT of bananas during 2020-21 and roped in six major corporate companies to collaborate with local farmers to enhance the productivity, quality of produce, post-harvest treatment and packing, providing market linkage and ensuring higher prices with a regular increase in income year-on-year,” said Chiranjiv Choudhary, Banana cultivation has recorded a substantial growth in terms of the rapid increase in production and productivity due to the promotion of tissue culture laboratories and micro-irrigation which helped in the increase of the tissue culture area from 20% of the total area during 2014-15 to 50% during 2018-19. Due to proactive steps taken by the department of horticulture and adoption of modern technology, like fruit-care, the quality of production has increased significantly and promoted 75 banana farmer producer organisations (FPOs). Further, a consistent effort is being made to improve the post-harvest infrastructure facilities at the three integrated packing houses in at Narapalla and Kadavakallu areas in Anantapur district and Garividi area in Vizianagaram district. The department of horticulture has implemented projects in the PPP mode with INI-Farms, Desai Fruits and fruit-care activities in banana clusters with the active participation of FPOs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/banana-exports-from-ap-record-over-143-growth/articleshow/77771474.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 27, 2020||Amaravati||Banana exports from AP record over 143% growth||VISAKHAPATNAM: Banana export from Andhra Pradesh has seen a rapid growth over the last year. The state has registered growth of over 143% in 2019-2020 compared to the previous year (2018-2019). From a meagre 246 metric tonnes (MT) in 2016-17, the exports touched 45,000 MT in 2019-2020. A majority of banana farmers in the state grow Karpura Chakkerakeli, Tella Chakkerakeli, Budida Chakkerakeli, Amruthapani, Red-Banana, Sugandhalu (Karpura), Karpuravali (Budida Arti) and Rasthalu varieties of the banana. The banana has been identified as one of the growth-engine crops of Andhra Pradesh as it stands first in terms of area and production. The area under banana production has increased from a mere 0.79 lakh hectares in 2014-15 to 1.03 lakh hectares and productivity has risen from 44 tonnes to 60 tonnes. The Green Cavendish premium banana is regularly exported from Andhra Pradesh to countries such as UAE, Saudi Arabia, Iran, Qatar, Bahrain and Egypt. Chiranjiv Choudhary, commissioner of horticulture, said that during 2019-20 Andhra Pradesh flagged off India’s first fruit train (banana) from Tadipatri railway station with support of CONCOR to the Gateway Port (JNPT). It carried 11,000 MT of exports through 11 consignments in 40 wagons in each train. “We have fixed a target to export 75,000 MT of bananas during 2020-21 and roped in six major corporate companies to collaborate with local farmers to enhance the productivity, quality of produce, post-harvest treatment and packing, providing market linkage and ensuring higher prices with a regular increase in income year-on-year,” said Chiranjiv Choudhary, Banana cultivation has recorded a substantial growth in terms of the rapid increase in production and productivity due to the promotion of tissue culture laboratories and micro-irrigation which helped in the increase of the tissue culture area from 20% of the total area during 2014-15 to 50% during 2018-19. Due to proactive steps taken by the department of horticulture and adoption of modern technology, like fruit-care, the quality of production has increased significantly and promoted 75 banana farmer producer organisations (FPOs). Further, a consistent effort is being made to improve the post-harvest infrastructure facilities at the three integrated packing houses in at Narapalla and Kadavakallu areas in Anantapur district and Garividi area in Vizianagaram district. The department of horticulture has implemented projects in the PPP mode with INI-Farms, Desai Fruits and fruit-care activities in banana clusters with the active participation of FPOs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/banana-exports-from-ap-record-over-143-growth/articleshow/77779393.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 27, 2020||Chennai||Student-run site simplifies complex legal jargon||CHENNAI: For the last three years, Aswini Ramesh, a fifth year student at the city’s School of Excellence and Law, has been visiting government schools to teach students about menstrual hygiene and ways to prevent and report cyber bullying. But the 22-year-old often found herself deluged with questions on fundamental rights, domestic violence, custody battles and more recently before the lockdown was imposed, the Epidemic Diseases Act. And so, to help people understand legal concepts, Aswini last month started a student-run portal — www.lawrewired.in — that demystifies the Indian legal system and provides diverse legal education to students as well as the general public. The site is managed by 19 students from across the country and breaks down important legislations to simplified information on what they intend to do and how they can be utilized. “We have three broad categories — a blog that updates you on the current legal news, a section on case analysis that takes you through some landmark judgments and a section with FAQs pertaining to various acts,” says Aswini, who along with fellow law students Aunnesha Dey, Riddhi Jangam, and Geerisha Mojee, forms the core team. The site functions under the supervision of an advisory board comprising legal experts and professors. “Complex legal jargon often makes people take the law for granted or intimidates them. But the fact is, laws are for the people and we want to simplify it for them,” says H B Keshava, a city advocate and member of advisory board. The team is now working towards improving the portal’s accessibility by launching it in regional languages including Tamil and Hindi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/student-run-site-simplifies-complex-legal-jargon/articleshow/77771507.cms||Saranya Chakrapani
August 27, 2020||Mumbai||Cost of Covid tests could drop in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: The cost of Covid-19 tests in the state could reduce further due to a significant drop in the base price for kits to around Rs 320, reports Sumitra Deb Roy. On August 12, the state had brought down the cost of the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, considered the gold standard of Covid-19 detection, to Rs 1,900, Rs 2,200 or Rs 2,500, depending on where the sample was collected. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday said, though, the base cost of RT-PCR kits that used to be Rs 2,000 in March has now dropped to Rs 320 due to an increase in number of domestic makers. A kit comprises a viral transport medium (VTM) where the swabs are kept, an RNA extraction kit and an RT-PCR kit, using which the machine detects the virus. Times ViewThe gradual reduction in the cost of materials used in testing will have a two-fold impact. One, the cost of tests in private labs for the average patient could drop, and secondly, price competitiveness of indigenous manufacturers will go up. Government should nudge changes in both directions. This will ease treatment for the common man and enable industry to boost exports by tapping into opportunities worldwide.ICMR chief Dr Balram Bhargava said in a press conference the cost of RT-PCR kit has dropped from Rs 1,150 in March to Rs 138 in August while that of the VTM has reduced from Rs 350 to Rs 93 and similar was the cost reduction for the RNA extraction kit. He said the overall cost of the test now comes to a little over Rs 320. Bhargava said there are 104 RT-PCR, 139 VTM and 112 RNA extraction kits approved in the market, a majority of which are indigenously manufactured. A senior state official said the capping on RT-PCR will be reviewed in a few weeks. “Some labs are offering several government the test at Rs 1,200,” said the official. TOI has learnt that the Maharashtra government has been offered the test for Rs 796 by one of the agencies. “Even if ICMR stops supplying us, we can procure and continue the testing momentum,” said a senior official from public health department. The state had completed 37.9 lakh tests as on Wednesday, of which over 27 lakh have been performed with RT-PCR kits. Private labs TOI spoke to charge Rs 2,200 to Rs 2,500 for RT-PCR. “The revised pricing by the government already factors in the drop in material input costs. However, we should also keep in mind, that there are associated costs like data entry, logistics and the input costs related to manpower, all of which have gone higher,” said Anand K, CEO, SRL Diagnostics.A Metropolis spokesperson said the testing costs associated with home visit patients, patients who walk into centres, and those samples tested through B2B channels are different and hence a single price across all models was not feasible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cost-of-covid-tests-could-drop-in-maha/articleshow/77773619.cms||Sumitra Debroy
August 27, 2020||Pune||Pune metropolitan region records 3,244 cases & almost as many recoveries||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region’s (PMR) Covid-19 case tally exceeded the 1.5 lakh-mark on Wednesday, with the addition of 3,244 cases in the last 24 hours. In an encouraging sign, as many as 3,212 patients, almost equal to the new case tally, recovered in the region in the last 24 hours, pushing the total discharges to above 1.18 lakh. Besides, a total of 62 fatalities was reported in the region on Wednesday, including 31 from the PMC limits, 15 from the PCMC areas and 16 from the rural as well as Cantonment areas. So far, the death toll in PMR has reached at 3,804. Among the discharges, 1,462 patients were declared cured in the PCMC limits, while 1,369 patients were discharges in the PMC limits. When it comes to the fresh cases, the PMC areas accounted for 1,617, while the PCMC limits reported 1,031. A PMC report stated that as many as 812 patients were at critical stage and were being treated at various hospitals. Of them, as any as 492 were put on ventilator support, while 2,744 were on the oxygen support. A total of 6,164 samples were collected and sent for the testing on Wednesday. The region’s sample testing on Wednesday stood at 11,774. PMC health officials said rigorous contact tracing had been under way in the containment zones to identify high- and low-risk contacts. Over 450 teams have been deployed for home survey of suspected patients. Meanwhile, the tally of active patients in PMR stood at 30,876 on Wednesday night, of whom 17,637 patients were admitted in various hospitals, while 13,239 patients were in home isolation. As for testing, more than 6.6 lakh samples have been tested in the region so far, including 4.2 lakh from the PMC limits and 1.6 lakh from the PCMC areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-records-3244-cases-almost-as-many-recoveries/articleshow/77772860.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Siddipet cop sets example, donates plasma thrice in August||HYDERABAD: A 33-year-old police constable from Siddipet has donated plasma three times this month alone since his recovery from Covid-19. Setting an example for others, Dasari Chandra Sekhar of Raipole police station in Siddipet police commissionerate donated plasma on August 16, 19 and on Aug 24 at three different hospitals in Hyderabad. He said there is a great need for plasma donation. Expressing concern over the poor response from plasma donors, he said: “Very few people are coming forward for plasma donation.” “This is the time to help people. This is something that cannot be bought for money. Since I have recovered, my wish is that more people should get a new lease of life because of me. This is giving me immense satisfaction,” Sekhar told TOI. Senior police officials of the Siddipet police commissionerate appreciated Sekhar’s gesture. He tested positive for Covid-19 on July 14. Five constables and a home guard in Raipole police station had also tested positive. Within a couple of days, Sekhar’s wife Rekha also tested positive. Rekha (30) is a staff nurse at a government hospital in Gajwel. “It was a tricky situation at home as both of us tested positive. We left our four-year-old son with my in-laws,” he said. Luckily, the son had tested negative. During the period of isolation, Sekhar followed all the Covid-19 guidelines by taking care of himself. Sekhar had joined the police force in 2009 having done his education in Siddipet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cop-sets-example-donatesplasma-thrice-in-august/articleshow/77772907.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad mosque turns clinic, treats 5 lakh slum dwellers for free||HYDERABAD: In a first, a mosque in the Old City has opened an exclusive women and child clinic. People of all religions will be provided free medical treatment including laboratory tests. The mosque will also provide free mid-day meal to children below 10 years across religious lines. The clinic offers facilities like nebulisation, intravenous fluid replacement, wound dressing and free lab facilities. It caters to the needs of people from as many as 31 slums around Wadi-al-Mahmood in Rajendranagar mandal. It will also focus on pregnant women offering them nutritious diet and medicines for normal delivery. It is being run by a city-based NGO, Helping Hand Foundation (HHF), in collaboration with SEED, USA. The clinic is located on the first floor of the mosque. Women and children living in 31 slums including MM Pahadi, Sulaiman Nagar, Chintalmet, Bhopal Nagar, Hasan Nagar, Indira Nagar, NTR Nagar, and Bara Imam Ki Pahadi will benefit from this initiative. The clinic will cater to nearly five lakh people. HHF managing trustee Mujtaba Hasan Askari said the clinic will be manned by an all-women team comprising a senior general physician and child specialist, obstetrician, gynaecologist, dental surgeon, dietician, nurses, counsellors and front desk staff. “The clinic provides basic primary care. Free third-party lab services including TIFFA scans for pregnant women during ante natal period will be provided,” he said. He added that all patients visiting the clinic will be assessed in a triage by trained counsellors, who conduct thermal screening and check oxygen saturation levels. They also enter the details in an ICMR developed risk assessment form. A dental chair has been installed to carry out dental health procedures in women and children. He further added that the clinic is fully Covid-19 compliant with special cabins for doctors protected with plastic curtains, glass mounted tables to protect front desk staff, a triage at the entry point, pedestal mounted sanitiser stands and large exhaust fans for free air flow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-mosque-turns-clinic-treats-5l-slum-dwellers-for-free/articleshow/77772878.cms||Syed Akbar
August 27, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Servitors of two temples move high court for financial aid from govt||Cuttack: The Orissa high court has sought a response from the state government on two petitions seeking financial assistance for servitors of Maa Mangala Temple at Kakatpur and Baldevjew Temple in Kendrapada since their livelihood has been adversely affected due to the closure of the two shrines for nearly five months owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The servitors of both the temples filed the petitions seeking direction to the state to provide them financial assistance of Rs 15,000 per month from the date of imposition of Covid-19 restrictions till lifting of the prohibition. While one petition was filed by Prakash Kumar Panda and 14 others of Maa Mangala Temple at Kakatpur, the other was filed by Suresh Chandra Partri and three others. The petitions were taken up through video-conference on Tuesday. The bench of Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq and Justice K R Mohapatra posted the petitions to September 14 for analogous hearing along with the response from the state government. Accordingly, notices were issued to the state government to file replies in both the cases by then. Counsel for the petitioners in both the cases, Akshaya Pandey, said notices were issued to the chief secretary, secretary (law department), special relief commissioner and commissioner, endowments. Notices were also issued to the district collectors of Puri and Kendrapada in connection with the Maa Mangala Temple and Baldevjew Temple, respectively. The trust boards of both the temples were also issued notices, Pandey said. In his petition, Panda said that the Shree Jagannath Temple Administration in Puri had provided its servitors financial support following Covid-19 pandemic. But the servitors of Maaa Mangala Temple at Kakatpur had been overlooked even as the shrine has close relations with the Lord Jagannath Temple in Puri due its role during the Nabakalebara. In his petition, Patri sought direction for financial assistance and other benefits to the servitors of Baldevjew Temple on a par with that provided to those of the Puri Jagannath Temple. Both the petitions have also sought quashing of the state government’s March 31 notification imposing restrictions on religious places and places of worship.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/servitors-of-two-temples-move-high-court-for-financial-aid-from-govt/articleshow/77770139.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
August 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM launches 30 irrigation projects worth Rs 1,469 crore||PATNA: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Wednesday launched altogether 30 projects of water resources department (WRD) worth Rs1469.73 crore through videoconferencing from official residence. The projects are related to strengthening of canals and the service roads built on their banks and renovation of different irrigation projects. One of the major projects which was inaugurated today was the strengthening and widening of the 122km-long service road on the bank of Patna main canal from Barun (in Aurangabad) to Bhusaula bridge near Phulwarisharif. A total sum of Rs366.66 crore was spent on metalling and widening of the service road. The CM also laid symbolic foundation stones for the civil works of a Physical Modelling Centre to be established at Birpur in Supaul district. The civil work of the centre would be completed at the cost of Rs94 crore. “Once completed, the proposed centre would prove very useful for Bihar,” Nitish said on the occasion. The CM further reiterated that he would provide irrigation water to all farmlands across the state, if people give him one more chance to serve the state after the forthcoming assembly election. He said the WRD has to play a very important role in providing irrigation water to all farmlands. While recounting the steps taken by the state government for the welfare of flood-affected people, Nitish said his government had been paying gratuitous relief (GR) to all flood-affected families since 2007. “This year, too, a total sum of Rs629 crore has so far been distributed among 10.48 lakh flood-affected families,” Nitish said and asked the disaster management department to ensure immediate payment of Rs6,000 per family as gratuitous relief to all remaining affected families. Speaking on the occasion, Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said only Rs3,415 crore was spent on different irrigation projects during the 15 years rule of Lalu-Rabri from 1990 to 2005. On the contrary, a sum of Rs22,000 crore was spent on the irrigation projects during the 15-year rule of Nitish Kumar between 2005 and 2020. While lauding the CM for doing excellent service to people, Sushil Modi said, Nitish Kumar by raising the peoples’ issue like silt removal from the bed of Ganga river and opening of Farakka dam gate, has ensured that the people of this state would give him another chance to serve the state. Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary, energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav and WRD minister Sanjay Kumar Jha also addressed the event through videoconferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-launches-30-irrigation-projects-worth-rs1469-crore/articleshow/77771504.cms||Madan Kumar
August 27, 2020||Nagpur||Six end life in separate incidents||NAGPUR: Six persons including a daily wager and a painter ended life in separate incidents in the last 24 hours. Police said most of the suicides were due to financial constraints being faced by the victims. In Dongargaon, a 40-year-old man Gulabrao Masram hanged himself on Tuesday over a trivial issue. Hingna police are probing. Daily wager Santosh Katekar, 42, a resident of Panchwati Nagar, also ended his life on Tuesday evening. Yashodhara Nagar police said he was facing he was facing financial difficulties. In Gittikhadan’s Indrayani Nagar, 30-year-old Simon George Thomas ended life on Tuesday evening by hanging himself. A painter, he was rendered jobless after Covid-19 outbreak. Gittikhadan police are probing. Naresh Khandal, 33, committed suicide by hanging himself at his house 6 am on Wednesday in Pawanshakti Nagar under Wathoda police station. Kapil Nagar police are looking into the suicide of Harshan Patil, 28, of Kapil Nagar that happened on Wednesday at 9.30 am. Similarly, Timki resident Ram Pure, 55, hanged himself on Wednesday at 11 am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/six-end-life-in-separate-incidents/articleshow/77771500.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Madurai||Send forensic report to CB-CID in boy custodial death: HC||MADURAI: Madras high court on Wednesday directed the forensic department to send the forensic report to the CB-CID which is probing the custodial death of a 17-year-old boy at Madurai. The court was hearing a petition filed by M Jeya of Kochadai who sought to probe her son’s custodial death at S S Colony police station in Madurai in 2019. When the case was taken up for hearing on Wednesday, the state government informed the court that the CB-CID officials had completed the investigation into the case and were awaiting the forensic report to file a chargesheet. Taking cognizance of the submissions, justice R Pongiappan directed the department to send the reports to the CB-CID within two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/send-forensic-report-to-cb-cid-in-boy-custodial-death-hc/articleshow/77773623.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Pune||Permanent jobs for doctors||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The general body meeting of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on Wednesday cleared the way for permanent appointment of 74 contractual doctors working with the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH) here. The corporators urged PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar to appoint doctors not practising in private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/permanent-jobs-for-docs/articleshow/77772876.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Madurai||HC upset with DVAC for delay in probing college irregularities||MADURAI: Taking a serious view into the delay on part of the DVAC to inquire into a complaint made in 2019, regarding irregularities in appointments made at the Devanga Arts College in Virudhunagar district, the Madras high court has put forth certain queries and sought a response from the agency director. Hearing a petition filed by S Rajasekaran, justice B Pugalendhi observed that the complainant in his petition had made it clear that the principal of the college himself had come forward and stated that the appointments have been made in a fraudulent manner. That apart, the complainant has also mentioned that he has obtained certain information under RTI Act that no call letters were despatched from the college to any of the candidates who had applied for the posts. “When these two materials itself make out a prima facie case that the appointments were not made in a proper manner, this court is unable to understand as to how the DVAC had taken a decision to refer this complaint for departmental enquiry,” observed the judge. Hence, the judge sought a report from the director of DVAC on the following queries as to why DVAC has chosen to refer the matter for departmental proceedings, instead of an inquiry on the complaint. The judge also sought the yardstick adopted by the DVAC in referring a complaint for departmental enquiry. The judge also sought response on the number of cases registered by the DVAC in the past five years in the state along with year-wise details and the time taken for getting approval as well as sanction on those cases and its stages. The judge observed that corruption is a menace to the society and the Prevention of Corruption Act (PCA) is enacted with an object to eradicate it from the society. “The principle of honesty, integrity and devotion to duty is slowly vanishing from the public servants, mostly because of the delay in the process of investigation and trial,” observed the judge. The judge further sought a report from the state government with regard to the mechanism adopted for grant of sanction for inquiry and the particulars on the pendency of the complaints at the stage of approval as required under PCA. The case was adjourned to September 8 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-upset-with-dvac-for-delay-in-probing-college-irregularities/articleshow/77773626.cms||Kaushik Kannan
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Experts advocate cybersecurity in Times NIE Webinar||HYDERABAD: With increased usage of cyberspace following Covid-19 pandemic, experts batted for increased cybersecurity, especially among students who are more vulnerable to crimes such as cyberbullying and online stalking, said panellists during Times NIE Hyderabad’s second digital conclave held on Wednesday. B Sumathi, deputy inspector general of police (DIG) of women safety wing, government of Telangana, Dr C Veerender, psychologist and managing director of You and Me Counseling Center and BP Padala, chairman of Roots Collegium attended the webinar that was sponsored by Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd in association with Roots Degree College. Stating that Hyderabad witnessed a rise in cybercrime during the lockdown, Sumathi said — “Most common cybercrime includes stalking and financial threats. A flash survey conducted by us across the state among teens and their parents indicated that many are unaware of online threats.” Experts busted the myth among students that sharing posts maintaining anonymity or in ‘incognito mode’ keeps the information secret. “Teenagers often criticize the government inappropriately or post views that may be hurting religious sentiments. They fail to understand that these days, social media profile is an important aspect in terms of securing an admission or bagging a job in future,” said Dr Veerender. “Almost 90% students will be able to overcome their addiction over social media by deleting unnecessary apps from their smartphones for some time. Too much information on the social media will also harm them,” said Padala. Results of Times NIE article-writing and news bulletin anchor contests were declared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/experts-advocate-cybersecurity-in-times-nie-webinar/articleshow/77772915.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Many jump barricades to immerse idols||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has put up barricades at several points along the riverfront to prevent people from immersing Ganesh idols, but many surmounted the barriers and jumped into the water on Wednesday. The AMC had even deployed police near the barricaded points. But the security was breached at several places including near Camp Hanuman. People jumped into the water at Indira Bridge as well. From the bridges, people also were seen pushing their plaster of paris idols through the gaps in the barriers. Owing to the Covid-19 situation, the AMC banned immersions and had decided not to set up artificial ponds along the riverfront. Authorities had urged people to install small idols and carry out immersions at home. However, officials said that about 30% of people in the city have installed plaster of paris idols which can’t be immersed at home. An AMC official said that the corporation has also sought police protection at the bridges lake and even at these place where immersions are likely to take place. He said that at the area near the cantonment as soon the police got to know that people were jumping the barricades they rushed to the spot and forced the people to leave the area. Police has been constantly patrolling these area, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/many-jump-barricades-to-immerse-idols/articleshow/77771523.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Pune||Groom’s father booked after bride’s grandmom dies & 11 guests test +ve in Pune||PUNE: The rural police on Tuesday booked the father of a groom and the manager of an agro-tourism resort at Narayangaon on the charge of violating social distancing norms during a wedding ceremony on August 13, after which the bride’s grandmother succumbed to Covid-19 and 11 more guests tested coronavirus positive. A Narayangaon police officer said, “The bride’s grandmother died a week after attending the wedding and her test report revealed that she was Covid-19 positive. It was during contact tracing by the health department when the police found that at least 49 people had attended the ceremony as per the entries in the register at the resort.” The police said the groom’s father was an affluent trader from Narayangaon and had secured police permission to hold the wedding ceremony with not more than 20 guests. However, the register at the resort showed 49 people had attended the wedding. The police said some eyewitnesses claimed the actual number of attendees seemed far more than 49. The trader and the resort manager have been booked for offences under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. Narayangaon’s medical officer, Varsha Gunjal, told TOI, “Eleven attendees tested positive after we contacted the relatives and took their swabs. On Wednesday, we sent 12 more swabs for testing. We have asked everyone who attended the ceremony to get tested for Covid-19. For now, all have been quarantined. Our department also alerted the police about this development.” A Narayangaon police officer said, “The manager of the resort had not taken any safety measures for the guests either. Our probe revealed that more than 50 people had participated in the ceremony. Investigation is on, as some more Covid test results of the attendees are awaited.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/grooms-father-booked-after-brides-grandmom-dies-11-guests-test-ve/articleshow/77772902.cms||Mihir Tanksale
August 27, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra CM unveils second jumbo hub in Pimpri virtually||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday said the government would start statewide survey of citizens with comorbidities from next month to spot and quarantine symptomatic patients to reduce mortality rate. The CM made this announcement during the virtual inauguration of Pune’s second Covid jumbo facility at Annasaheb Magar stadium in Pimpri. “Considering the possibility of the second wave, we cannot afford to let our guard down,” he said. The CM said the scientists were working on identifying probable patients on the basis of their voice samples in Mumbai. Deputy CM Ajit Pawar said the government was committed to bring the case fatality rate of Pune from 2.5% to zero. Pawar also announced that another 200-bed makeshift facility at Autocluster exhibition hall in Pimpri Chinchwad would be inaugurated on Friday. State health minister Rajesh Tope said contact tracing was the key to fight the contagion. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said the facility would admit patients within the next two days after sanitization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cm-unveils-2nd-jumbo-hub-in-pimpri-virtually/articleshow/77772892.cms||Piyush Bhusari
August 27, 2020||Lucknow||‘Prahari’ to track, eject unqualified bidders for projects||LUCKNOW: Aiming to usher transparency and ensure quality in construction, public works department (PWD) has come up with an initiative to evaluate the bidding capacity of contractors before allocating projects. For this, the department has enabled a software, ‘Prahari’, to track bidders, who often execute projects more than their capacity. In the first phase, the arrangement would be tried and tested in Lucknow before implementation across the state from September 16. Fresh contracts would not be allocated to bidders, if have projects more than their execution capacity, principal secretary, PWD, Nitin Ramesh Gokarn stated in an order. Speaking to TOI, Gokarn said, a contractor would be required to upload bid documents in ‘Prahari’ software, while applying for bids through e-tender. “The contractor would be required to fill 21 parameters that would help identify its bidding capacity. With increase in contracts, capacity of contractors would dip and subsequently freeze,” he said, adding this would help the department to timely execute projects, while ensuring quality. “Earlier, contractors would apply for projects more than their capacity. This led to delay in projects even as quality of construction got compromised. “The trial run in Lucknow will help us find technical glitches which would be subsequently rectified,” he said. Gokarn said, this would also give a chance to new contractors to apply, enabling a transparent mechanism for execution of projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/prahari-to-track-eject-unqualified-bidders-for-projects/articleshow/77773164.cms||Pankaj Shah
August 27, 2020||Lucknow||UP waives institutional quarantine for int'l travellers under certain circumstances||Lucknow: The state government has waived seven-day mandatory institutional quarantine under certain conditions for international travellers coming to the state for more than seven days. It has also relaxed Covid-19 protocol for its natives travelling to other states for work for up to five days. Speaking on revised guidelines for international travellers, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said: “Earlier, anyone coming to the state from abroad for more than a week had to be quarantined for 14 days — seven days under institutional and remaining under home.” However, under revised protocol, pregnant women, people visiting the state in case of a death in the family, those suffering from serious medical conditions and parents whose children are below 10 years of age, can avail full 14 days of home quarantine. Prasad said travellers could also seek exemption from institutional quarantine by submitting negative reports of RT PCR test on arrival. “This test should have been conducted within 96 hours prior to the journey. The report should be uploaded on the portal for consideration and the passenger should also submit a declaration on the authenticity of the report and would be liable for criminal prosecution, if found otherwise. The test report could also be produced on arrival at the point of entry in India,” he said. “Any symptomatic person will be isolated immediately and tested. Also, those under quarantine will have to immediately report to the district CMO in case they develop any symptom,” Prasad added. AS for the domestic travellers, earlier, persons coming to UP after inter-state travel had to live under home-quarantine upon their return, but now asymptomatic returnees would not be required to stay in isolation. “People found to be symptomatic will have to stay in home isolation and undergo Covid-19 testing as per protocol. If found positive, they will have to be admitted to the hospital,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-waives-institutional-quarantine-for-intl-travellers-under-certain-circumstances/articleshow/77773209.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 27, 2020||Bhubaneswar||People thrown mask norm to the wind||Koraput: People of Rayagada and Gunupur seem to have thrown caution to the wind by not even adhering to basic norms to prevent Covid-19 despite adequate awareness campaigns. Many are not even wearing masks in public places, a fact that came to the fore with the collection of fine. From July 23 to August 23, Rayagada police have collected Rs 8,57,500 as fine from 2,073 people for not wearing masks in these two municipal areas. According to the government order, not wearing masks when outdoors invites a fine of Rs 500 for first time violators and Rs 1,000 for subsequent violations. SP (Rayagada) Saravana Vivek M said most violators are caught while driving cars or riding motorcycles in the urban areas and had gathered unnecessarily in market places. “Our enforcement squad explains to the violators as how using face masks could keep them safe from Covid-19 infections but still people make lame excuses. In the days to come, our enforcement drive will be intensified and violators will not be spared,” the SP said. Police said if people have any genuine reason behind not wearing a mask they are spared from paying a fine and are being advised to wear a surgical mask. With 146 new Covid-19 positive cases recorded on Wednesday, Rayagada district’s caseload touched 3,566 with 1,509 active cases and 21 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/people-thrown-mask-norm-to-the-wind/articleshow/77770156.cms||Satyanarayan Pattnaik
August 27, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Kandhamal takes just 13 days to reach 2,000-mark||Berhampur: The total number of Covid-19 positive patients in Kandhamal breached the 2,000-mark on Wednesday with the detection of 41 new cases in the tribal-dominated district. Officials said while this has taken the infection count in the district to 2006, the death toll remains seven. The first positive case in Kandhamal was recorded on May 18, when a person who had returned from Tamil Nadu had tested positive for the virus. The district had become free of coronavirus on July 3 when all the active persons were discharged after recovery. But its positive cases had shot past 1,000 on August 13. The district had also registered a record single-day spike of 127 cases on the same day. It added another 1,000 cases in the last 13 days. “Door-to-door survey conducted by health teams to detect the suspected Covid-19 patients and making them undergo tests subsequently, has led to an increase in the positive cases,” a senior official said. Sources said that the rapid antigen test and collection of swab samples were going on in full swing at the village-level in the district. They added that of the new cases detected in the district, 23 were males and 18 females. While 22 positive cases were detected from the containment zones and following contact tracing, one was identified as a Covid warriors. Similarly, 16 cases were detected from the local areas. The other two cases were from outside the district, the sources said. The fresh cases were detected from different blocks, including Phulbani (17), Daringibadi (2), Tikabali (4), Kotagarh (4), Tumudibandh (2), Chakapada (1) and Phiringia (1) and K. Nuagoan (1), Khajuripada (2) and two others. “Most of the cases are asymptomatic and the district administration has allowed them to remain in home isolation,” district collector Brundha D said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/kandhamal-takes-just-13-days-to-reach-2000-mark/articleshow/77770179.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
August 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Immunity boosting bamboo shoots see rise in popularity||Visakhapatnam: It is that time of the year when people of Visakhapatnam Agency throng markets to purchase bamboo shoots. Locally called ‘veduru kommulu’ or ‘veduru kanji’, the demand for bamboo shoots have risen this year. “This time the high demand can be attributed to Covid-19,” said G Prabhakara Rao, project horticulture officer, Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Paderu. According to Rao, a diet rich in bamboo shoots can help boost immunity, relieves intestinal worms and bacteria. Earlier, only tribals usually consumed it during monsoon and now it has gained popularity in plains as well, he added. “Since human body requires high immunity to effectively battle the Covid-19 virus, bamboo shoot is one of the best options and people in the Agency consider it as a healthy food. People from Vizag city comes to the Agency to buy the shoots,” Prabhakara Rao told TOI. According to Dr A Srinivas from a primary health centre from Visakhapatnam agency, said bamboo shoots are also rich in Vitamin B-complex. The bamboo shoots are available in the dense forested areas of Chintapalli, Munchingputt, Araku Valley, Anantagiri, Hukumpeta, Paderu and Narsipatnam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/immunity-boosting-bamboo-shoots-see-rise-in-popularity/articleshow/77771509.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
August 27, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Ex-minister to face trial, as court declines to discharge him||CHENNAI: Former AIADMK minister, now a DMK MLA, V Senthil Balaji has to face trial in a job racket case, as a special court for cases against MPs and MLAs here refused to discharge him from the case. Dismissing the discharge application moved by him, sessions judge K Ravi said the court would frame charges against the accused on September 8. The issue pertains to complaints registered against Senthil Balaji alleging the former minister, through his accomplices, had collected an amount to the tune of Rs 2.8 crore during his tenures as a minister from 2011 to 2015 promising jobs in the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC). Based on the complaints, the Central Crime Branch (CCB) police registered FIR against Senthil Balaji and others. In February, the CCB carried out searches in 17 places that were allegedly connected with the former minister and the job scam. The cases were filed based on complaints from S Devasahayam, Ganesh and others, all victims of the alleged job scam. According to Ganesh, he had given money in 2014 and 2015 to the minister at his RA Puram residence . Besides Senthil Balaji, his relatives Prabhu, Sahaya Rajan and Anna Raj have also been booked in the case. On Wednesday, the special court dismissed the discharge petition moved by Senthil Balaji based on the complaint from Ganesh. Senthil Balaji in 2018 switched sides to the DMK and he is now an MLA from Aravakurichi assembly constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ex-minister-to-face-trial-as-court-declines-to-discharge-him/articleshow/77771511.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Business||Ahead of GST Council meet, opposition states accuse Centre of ‘betrayal’||NEW DELHI: A day before the crucial GST Council meeting to discuss compensation payment to states, states governed by opposition parties accused the Narendra Modi government of not honouring its commitment while ignoring their calls for providing aid to combat Covid-19. Armed with legal opinion from attorney general K K Venugopal, the Centre has stated that the burden of finding resources lies with the GST Council, although it is not shying away from its commitment. It is considering the option of resorting to market borrowings which might be discussed on Thursday. During a meeting with chief ministers of states where Congress is in office or in coalition with allies, as also West Bengal, Congress president Sonia Gandhi accused the Centre of “betrayal” and said it was crucial that compensation be paid on time, in line with the legal provisions. “I know this is not happening. Dues have accumulated. The finances of all states have been badly affected,” she said. Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray went to the extent of demanding a review of the current tax regime. “We need to see if the old (tax) structure was good or if there is any middle path,” he said. Amarinder Singh, his Punjab counterpart, suggested a meeting with the PM to press the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ahead-of-gst-council-met-opposition-states-accuse-centre-of-betrayal/articleshow/77774239.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Nagpur||Work on upgrading Amt-Chikhli highway to restart in November||NAGPUR: Work on upgrading Amravati-Akola-Chikhli highway, stalled since two years, will begin again from November. National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has awarded the tenders and is awaiting financial closure of the project by the contractors. The stretch is about 195 kilometres and the cost is about Rs 2,430 crore. At present, the condition of Akola-Amravati road is very bad. Accidents happen frequently and many lives have been lost in past two years. As population of both cities is over a million, the traffic on the road is quite heavy, according to Ashok Dalmia, national secretary of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT). He has demanded that NHAI immediately repair the potholes on the road. Work of Amravati-Chikhli highway was awarded to Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services (IL&FS) in 2017. The company ran into financial problems and stopped work in July 2018. After several show cause notices, its contract was terminated in August 2019. NHAI then retendered the work in November 2019 and letter of agreement was signed in February 2020. The final agreement was signed in July. Three chosen companies have applied for bank loans and as soon as they are sanctioned, work will commence. They have been given five months for financial closure as per NHAI norms. VP Bramhankar, NHAI project officer, said the stretch had been divided into four packages for early completion. “The contractors will have to complete the work in two years from the date of commencement,” he told TOI. The first package is 54.63-kilometre long Amravati to Kurankhed village. Its cost is Rs 658 crore. It has been awarded to Raj Path Eagle India Consortium. The second is 50-km long from Kurankhed to Shelad village. It has also been awarded to the same consortium and will cost Rs 583 crore. The third package is 45 km long from Shelad to Nandura. This work will be done by Montecarlo Ltd at the cost of Rs 530 crore. The fourth is also 45 km long from Nandura to Chikhli. The work will be done by Kalyan Infrastructure at the cost of Rs 534 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/work-on-upgrading-amt-chikhli-highway-to-restart-in-nov/articleshow/77771517.cms||Ashish Roy
August 27, 2020||Agra||State government plans development of SNMC as super specialty centre for Covid||Agra: Following orders of the state government, SN Medical College (SNMC) administration has started working on a plan to develop a super specialty centre for Covid-19.In the first phase, an 85-bed ICU facility will be developed for Covid-19 patients in critical condition. Here 30 ventilators will be made available. Besides, 20 bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP) and 25 high flow nasal cannula (HFNC) machines are being acquired. At present, the SNMC has an arrangement of 40 ICU beds. At least 45 more beds may be added. Besides, 30 isolation beds will be added to the 200-bed Covid-19 facility at SNMC. SNMC administration has also planned to increase the number of doctors on duty at Covid-19 facility. Doctors from anesthesia, medicine, pediatrics, chest and respiratory diseases, pathology and radio diagnosis will be involved in treatment of Covid-19 patients in critical condition.SNMC has also started working on a plan to set up an advanced pathology for diagnosis of health issues related to Covid-19 patients. For this, four modern machines have been acquired from a company authorized by the state. These include high-performance liquid chromatography, fully automated biochemistry analyzer, hormone analyzer, point of care testing and Elisa reader. SNMC principal Dr Sanjay Kala said, “We have started working on a plan for a super specialty centre for Covid-19 at SNMC. Modern machines are being installed. Number of ICU and isolation beds for Covid-19 patients will be increased. Our aim is to provide the best possible treatment to the Covid-19 patients of Agra region."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/state-government-plans-development-of-snmc-as-super-specialty-centre-for-covid/articleshow/77770208.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 27, 2020||Bhubaneswar||State to provide houses to 200 servitors’ families of Puri temple||Bhubaneswar: The state government has decided to provide housing units to 200 economically-weak servitors’ families of the Jagannath Temple in Puri by leveraging the existing housing schemes like the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-urban (PMAY). Development commissioner Suresh Chandra Mohapatra recently chaired a meeting to discuss the modalities for sanctioning the housing units. The meeting was attended by state housing and urban development secretary G Mathi Vathanan and works secretary and temple chief administrator Krishan Kumar. According to PMAY-urban guidelines, servitors with an annual income within Rs 1.8 lakh are eligible for availing the housing units. There would also be need of some kind of land records, said a senior government officer. Under the housing scheme, each eligible family will avail a central assistance of Rs 1.5 lakh and state assistance of Rs 50,000 to construct the house. Also, the beneficiaries are free to add any contribution of their own, official sources said. The Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) will soon hold a meeting with the Puri district administration and other stakeholders to finalise the detailed modalities for the identification of beneficiaries and other features of the housing programme. A detailed project report will also be prepared for the housing programme and placed for approval with the state government, said reliable sources. Land is one of the major issues for the housing project. The temple administration has been asked to take steps for making land available for the project. No decision has been taken on whether the land will be given free of cost or at a concessional rate or through any other mode, the official said. When the land will be identified through proper legal channels, the temple administration will finalise a plan to develop common infrastructure like road, drains and sewerage system for the project by sourcing funds from the Augmentation of Basic Amenities and Development of Heritage and Architecture (ABADHA) scheme. Earlier, the temple administration has announced two financial packages for the servitors, whose livelihood has been severely affected due to the closure of the temple since March 20 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/state-to-provide-houses-to-200-servitors-families-of-puri-temple/articleshow/77770197.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
August 27, 2020||Chandigarh||No revenue loss of stamp duty, fee in registrations without NOC: Dushyant||Chandigarh: The Haryana government on Wednesday said the state exchequer had no revenue loss due to loss of stamp duty or the registration fee in the alleged registries without NoC from town and country planning department. Haryana’s deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who also holds the charge of revenue and disaster management department said this to counter the call attention motion given by Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) MLA Abhay Singh Chautala. In a written statement submitted in the assembly, Dushayant also dismissed the allegation of Abhay that registries done were illegal. He, however, maintained that the registries done in violation of Section 7A of HDR Act are being scrutinised and so are the revenues officials concerned. Besides registering criminal cases against the revenue officials of Gurugram district, the revenue department has also recommended action against errant revenue officials in eight other districts, where 1,555 such registries were done between June 2015 and May 2020. These districts are Narnaul, Karnal, Sonipat, Rewari, Panchkula, Bhiwani, Faridabad and Kaithal. Abhay had sought reply from the government while alleging rampant corruption during the lockdown. He had alleged that nearly 30,000 illegal registries were done This issue had raised lot of furore in the state and amid allegation of corruption the state government had closed the registries. Last week, the government had started the registries of agriculture properties and the registries of urban properties will be begin next week, Box to go with Less IMR compared with 2019: Vij While dismissing the allegations related to infant mortality rate during lockdown, the Haryana government on Wednesday claimed that IMR was less in April to June this year as compared with the IMR of the same period last year. Haryana’s health minister Anil Vij disclosed this in his reply to the calling attention motion moved by Abhay, Kiran Choudhary and six other MLAs. The MLAs had based their allegations on the media reports and said the IMR had increased due to closure of OPDs. According to Vij, 1,208 IMR was reported between April to June this year and 1,264 last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-revenue-loss-of-stamp-duty-fee-in-registrations-without-noc-dushyant/articleshow/77772917.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Hubballi||Row over Rayanna’s statue in Belagavi takes a casteist turn||Belagavi: The row over the installation of freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna at Peeranwadi on the outskirts of Belagavi city has taken on a casteist turn, with organisations associated with the Kuruba community, of which he was a member, exerting pressure on the state government to ensure it is eventualised. Kuruba outfits, along with activists from various Kannada organisations, will protest on Thursday seeking the government’s nod for the installation of Rayanna’s statue. The protesters will take out a rally from Suvarna Soudha in Belagavi to the deputy commissioner’s office. On Independence Day, a group of Peeranwadi residents attempted to install a statue of Rayanna at the Y-junction on National Highway-Four, only to be thwarted in their endeavour by police. Law enforcement authorities have refused permission to install the statue at the junction citing a ruling of the Supreme Court that bars such structures on highways. However, a tussle within the Peeranwadi gram panchayat (GP) has also had its impact on the ongoing row. Data from the Peeranwadi GP indicates that, within its jurisdiction, the Kuruba population number roughly 3,000, while that of the Marathas is around 3,500. In the 45-member GP, 13 belong to the Kuruba community. They said that they have been fighting to get the statue of the freedom fighter installed for the past two years. Furthermore, the presence of a statue of Chatrapati Shivaji, which however has been erected on private property, has added another dimension to the whole problem. Former chief minister Siddaramaiah, considered a very prominent leader of the Kuruba community, tweeting on the row, asked police to be patient while dealing with an issue that is sensitive. Rural development and panchayat raj minister KS Eshwarappa, also a Kuruba, will visit the district on Saturday to take stock of the situation. Sources in the BJP said that both Siddaramaiah and Eshwarappa were trying to garner political mileage out of the row. Peeranwadi GP member Mahesh alleged that MLA Abhay Patil was not supporting the cause of the Kuruba community. Charging Patil with attempting to placate the Maratha community, Mahesh said, “Patil thinks that the Marathas are a more promising votebank.” Peeranwadi GP president Rakesh, regretted the casteist slant that the row had acquired, but asked the state government to allot an alternative plot for Rayanna’s statue so as to ensure that justice was served to the Kuruba community. Kannada activist Deepak Gundaganhatti rued the political turn that the controversy had taken. Stating that Rayanna was an icon of Karnataka, who transcended lines of caste and religion, he called on elected representatives to put an end to the row. CAPTIOn Members Karnataka Rakshana Vedike's Yuva Sene protest in Chitradurga on Tuesday, urging the Belagavi district administration to re-establish the portrait of Sangolli Rayanna at Belagavi town||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/row-over-rayannas-statue-in-belagavi-takes-a-casteist-turn/articleshow/77771209.cms||Shreyas HS
August 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Virus snatches 12 lives from dist, 472 test +ve||TNNLudhiana: Fourteen persons, including 12 from Ludhiana and one each from Hoshiarpur and Jammu, died of Covid-19 on Wednesday, when 472 from the district and 14 from outside tested positive here. The deceased from the district who died at various local hospitals included a 42-year-old anaemic woman of Bachit Nagar near GNE, a 73-year-old woman from Gurdev Nagar with BP and diabetes, a 64-year-old man from Vishnupuri with BP, a 47-year-old woman from Rajiv Gandhi Colony with rheumatoid arthritis and a 64-year-old man from Kuldeep Nagar at Basti Jodhewal with diabetes and chronic kidney disease. A 53-year-old woman of Sayar village with BP died at Rajindra Hospital in Patiala, where a 65-year-old man of Anand Nagar, Khanna, with diabetes and coronary artery disease and a 57-year-old woman from New Aman Nagar also breathed their last. An 85-year-old old man from Mohalla Vijay Nagar in Jagraon, who had diabetes and other diseases, also succumbed to the virus. A 60-year-old man from Sahnewal with diabetes and BP and a five-year-old boy from Noorwala Road with tuberculosis died at Ludhiana civil hospital. A 49-year-old anaemic man from Sherpur died at PGI, Chandigarh.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the total number of deaths from the district has risen to 345 and that of outsiders to 76.He said of the patients from Ludhiana district who tested positive, 63 were from the flu corner, 51 were positive cases’ contacts, 27 from OPD, four police personnel, 11 healthcare workers, one pregnant woman, 31 from tracing process, two severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) cases and three pre-operative cases.Local health department officials said the Ludhiana case count now stood at 9,219 and that of outsiders at 922.The civil surgeon said on Wednesday, 2,743 samples were sent for testing and so far, 6,881 patients have recovered in Ludhiana, which constitutes 74.63% of the total cases.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said there were 1,990 active patients in the district at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/virus-snatches-12-lives-from-dist-472-test-ve/articleshow/77770189.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Vadodara||50 duped of Rs 1cr in job scam, 3 held||Vadodara: The special operations group (SOG) busted a railway recruitment racket and arrested three men on Wednesday in the city. The accused trio used to dupe aspirants by promising them jobs in the railway court. The cops said that the gang has already duped over 50 persons from Vadodara, Surat and Valsad and siphoned over Rs 1 crore. This is the second time that this gang has been arrested in the last 14 months. According to the police, the accused used to lure job aspirants and promise them government jobs. “The gang approached job aspirants and told them that the railways is recruiting employees on different posts. They convinced the aspirants to apply for the job,” said A V Rajgor, ACP (D division). The gang of Kaushal Parekh and Dilip Solanki led by mastermind Tushar Purohit then asked the applicants to shell out money under several pretexts. “They used to charge money for the application form, preparing documents, setting up interviews and then for passing the applicants in exams. The gang charged Rs 4-5 lakh per person,” Rajgor told TOI. SOG sleuths said that Purohit used to set exam papers, interview the candidates and even gave appointment letters complete with railway rubber stamps. When asked how Purohit, a resident of Narmada district, got such detailed information about the railways, Rajgor said that the accused had probably worked temporarily in the railways. “But we are trying to ascertain if he has worked in the railways or has some connection there,” he added. The police have seized letter pads with railway ministry logo, rubber-stamps, identity cards, certificates and laptops from his office on Old Padra Road. In June last year, Purohit was arrested for committing a similar fraud along with four other men. The accused had conned many job aspirants by posing as railway officials. They promised jobs in the railways and took money from the applicants after training them, setting up interviews and even giving appointment letters. Purohit already has two cases of assault registered against him at Gotri police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/50-duped-of-rs-1cr-in-job-scam-3-held/articleshow/77769993.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Two women labourers among three dead in truck-tempo crash||TNNLudhiana: Three persons, including two women, died and eight others were injured, five of them seriously, after a collision between a tempo and a truck in Doraha on Ludhiana-Khanna National Highway, about 25 kms from here, on Wednesday morning.The deceased included 22-year-old Shakeel, brother of the truck driver from Muzaffarpur in Uttar Pradesh, Bala, 45, of Muzaffarnagar and Kajal, 20, of Meerut. Police officials said the tempo carrying eight to nine brick kiln workers, of whom seven were women, was coming from Uttar Pradesh and going to Moga. When it reached near Doraha around 6.15am, the driver suddenly applied brakes to turn towards the service lane to take the Southern Bypass route. Cops said as the tempo driver jammed on the brakes, the driver of the truck on way from Delhi to Amritsar tried to stop his vehicle but couldn’t, leading to a collision. The vehicles rolled over, and the labourers in the tempo were flipped into the air.Police officials said two of the women labourers and brother of the truck driver died on the spot. They added that eight others received injuries. Onlookers rushed to the spot and called the police and ambulance. As the accident spot was near the police station, cops didn’t take much time to reach there. Cops said an ambulance took the injured to Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) and ESI Hospital in Ludhiana and that the condition of three injured was critical.Police officials said the tempo driver has been booked under sections 279 (rash driving), 304-A (causing death due to negligence), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the IPC on the statement of truck driver Farman of Muzaffarpur. They added that the accused tempo driver is on the run. Doraha SHO inspector Nachhatar Singh said they have got the registration number of the tempo and the driver would be identified soon. He added that the case was registered against the tempo driver as the accident happened because of his fault. Plumber diesA plumber, Ashok Kumar, died after his motorcycle rammed into stray cattle on the Ludhiana-Khanna National Highway near Daheru village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/two-women-labourers-among-three-dead-in-truck-tempo-crash/articleshow/77770181.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Pune||ICMR’s second sero-survey to cover children aged 10 and above||PUNE: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), in its second sero-surveillance study, is set to also cover children aged 10 and above. The agency’s first sero-surveillance study, which looks for people with Covid-19 antibodies in their blood, had focused only on adults (those above 18). Scientists said the second study, to be conducted across the same 71 districts of the country as the first, aims to test a different population group. The sample size of 26,400 individuals will also remain the same. “The repeat survey will essentially cover the same districts. But this time, it will also cover children who are 10 and above. We are also surveying members of the same family. These are the new factors in the second survey,” said ICMR scientist Dr Rajni Kant, head of the department for research management, policy planning and communication. He said the survey, which has commenced in most of the districts, should be finished by the first of week of next month. The analysis of the results will take until the end of next month to be completed. In its early findings from the first sero-survey, the ICMR had said only 0.73% the population in India had showed exposure history to the new coronavirus. The first survey was conducted through April and May. The follow-up will be carried out during the “unlock” phase to understand infection patterns during both these periods. It will check if disease-control methods adopted so far have worked. The ICMR experts said the sero-surveys will help determine the proportion of population exposed to SARS-Cov-2 infection including asymptomatic individuals. The second study will also check what percentage of the community has developed antibodies and assess how close the country is to possible herd immunity. Giridhar Babu, a professor with Public Health Foundation of India, a government-private collaboration, said it is important to conduct sero-surveys across all age groups, and especially in children. But he added that such studies are ethically challenging in people who aren't adults yet. “Since it is complicated ethically, you don’t get to actually see the results from children in most surveys,” Babu said. However, he added that determining the level of infection spread and immunity among children will help governments decide when and where to open schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/icmrs-2nd-sero-survey-to-cover-children-aged-10-and-above/articleshow/77772903.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC notice to CID||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday issued notice to CID (crime) seeking status of investigation on a complaint filed by Electrotherm India Ltd chairman, Mukesh Bhandari, against his younger brothers and other people accusing them of fraud. Mukesh and his son Siddharth moved the HC again complaining that it has been nearly a year since they had lodged a complaint and the metropolitan court had ordered CID (crime) to inquire against company promoters — Shailesh and Nagesh Bhandari – CID has not filed any report. They also urged the court to ensure the status of the case. The HC has issued notice and sought reply from the probe agency in September, said petitioner’s advocate R J Goswami. The metropolitan court had in September 2019 ordered CID inquiry against Mukesh’s brothers – Shailesh, the company’s managing director, and Nagesh, chairman of Western India Speciality Hospitals Ltd. The complaints alleged them of forging Mukesh’s signature to avail of a Rs 400-crore loan from the Central Bank of India in the company’s name. Mukesh had also alleged that the younger brothers fraudulently diverted company funds of up to Rs 100 crore, Rs 75 crore to Hong Kong and Rs 25 crore to Singapore, through a bogus letter of credit. The payments were made against no receipts of goods by the company in India. Mukesh claimed that the transactions had taken place behind his back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/business-family-dispute-hc-notice-to-cid/articleshow/77751701.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Developers owe us Rs 15,276 crore in EDC, IDC charges: Govt||Chandigarh: The Haryana government on Wednesday admitted that Rs 15,276 crore is outstanding against the builders and colonisers on the account of external development charges (EDC) and infrastructure development charges (IDC). An amount of Rs 14,457.54 crore is outstanding as EDC and Rs 818.46 crore as IDC charges. The government has cancelled licenses of 39 defaulter developers and have initiated proceedings against 140 defaulters so far. This comes along with barring the defaulters from issuance of various certificates like completion certificate or occupancy certificate or grant of extension. The government responded to a question by Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) MLA Abhay Singh Chautala who had sought details of outstanding EDC and SIDC arrears as well as the steps taken by government to avoid further defaulting. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar holds the department of town and country planning. According to him, developers are bound by the bilateral agreements signed by them at the time of grant of licenses. The government also admitted that till April this year only Rs 652.98 crore has been received against EDC and Rs 23.56 crore have been recovered as SIDC under the rescheduling of the arrears announced in September 2018. Box: The case of missing rice Haryana government has admitted on Wednesday that a shortfall of 42,589 metric tonne of rice worth Rs 76.19 crore was detected from 1,207 rice mills in November and December 2019 and the stocks of 18,884 metric tonne was found short in 98 mills during the inspection carried out in June and July this year. Government said proceedings for the recoveries from errant mills has begun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/developers-owe-us-rs-15276-crore-in-edc-idc-charges-govt/articleshow/77772938.cms||Manvir Saini
August 27, 2020||Ludhiana||2 fake cops among 3 booked for taking Rs 5,000 from mask-less man||TNNLudhiana: Jagraon police on Tuesday evening booked two fake cops and their associate for taking Rs 5,000 from a man for not wearing a mask. The accused have been identified as Jang Bahadur of Sidhwan Khurd, Gill Sahib and Sukhdev Singh of Deherka village.In his police complaint, Balraj Singh of Sidhwan Khurd said, “Around 9.20am on June 21, when I reached near a power house in the village, Jang Bahadur, a lineman in the power department, intercepted my bike. The other two accused claimed that they were cops and asked me why I was not wearing a mask.” Balraj got scared when they asked him to produce the vehicle documents. “The trio then took me to the power house and demanded Rs 10,000. I sought some time and later, handed over Rs 5,000 to them. They threatened to implicate me in a fake case if I did not give the remaining amount. Jang Bahadur called me up and met me several times, asking for the money. After days, I learned that the men were impersonating as an ASI and a head constable,” he added.Police have booked the accused under sections 384 (punishment for extortion), 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC.Sadar Jagraon police station SHO inspector Raman Kumar said, “We are verifying the facts. The accused were not in uniform then. Their arrest will make things clear. One of the accused has been detained and is being questioned.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-fake-cops-among-3-booked-for-taking-rs-5000-from-mask-less-man/articleshow/77770224.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||IT offices & villas to come up in West Hyd||Hyderabad: The State Level Environment Impact Assessment Authority received at least 35 applications seeking environmental clearances (EC) in the last two months for large residential and office projects amid the pandemic. Most of the projects lined up for environmental clearances were regarding large investment projects for construction of IT offices and luxury villas in areas in west Hyderabad, as per the minutes of the authority accessed by TOI for the months of July and August. Big projects that have been issued environmental clearances are set to come up in Gandipet, Kokapet, Khajaguda, Puppalaguda, Tellapur, Serilingampally, Shaikpet, Nanakramdugda and Maddenaguda. Besides west Hyderabad, Bachupally is also expected to see a slew of real estate projects. According to the State Level Environment Impact Assessment Authority, Phoenix Living Spaces Pvt Limited was issued EC for expansion of a residential-cum-office-cum-hotel complex in Nanakramguda of Serilingampally in Rangareddy. Phoenix alone has applied for EC for around six projects in the past two months. “Initially, for around a month during the lockdown period, real estate activity was affected. Later, from June, the situation improved and now the sales have picked up. Not only in west Hyderabad, the villa projects in Bachupally and Gowdavelli are also in demand. Retirement homes as apartments too are in high demand. For instance, around 160 families visit a villa project in Gowdavelli per month. Land rates have gone up in all parts of GHMC and HMDA areas. Builders are also finding it difficult to procure land for construction projects,” G Ravi Kumar, vice-president, Telangana Real Estate Developers Association, said. Viana Homes at Kokapet, V Zone Hospitality, Niharika Projects in Khajaguda, Vamsiram Builders in Shaikpet, Harmony Vistas in Dollar Hills of Puppalaguda, Candeur 40 in Miyapur, SV Mall in Adibatla, Sri Developers in Bachupally, Miracle by Aira Projects in Kollur are some of the real estate firms that have applied for EC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/it-offices-villas-to-come-up-in-west-hyd/articleshow/77771555.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Final year exams in online, offline mode: Minister||Chandigarh: Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal said the final year examinations of the graduation courses could not be conducted on time due to Covid-19 and now the department has decided to conduct online or offline examination of the students. As per the guidelines of University Grants Commission (UGC), it is mandatory to conduct examinations for the final year of undergraduate and postgraduate classes, the education minister said in his reply to the objections raised by the members of the opposition regarding examinations being conducted during the Covid-19 pandemic, during the ongoing monsoon session in Haryana assembly on Wednesday. He said when a student works hard for 14 years to complete his graduation and does not get a proper degree, it is not appropriate. He said in view of this, the higher education department has decided to conduct online or offline examinations of the students. He said the department would ensure proper arrangements for this examination so that the rules applicable for Covid-19 are adhered to, and the health of all concerned is taken care of.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/final-year-exams-in-online-offline-mode-minister/articleshow/77772934.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Ludhiana||FIRs against traders no deterrent, confusion rules||EVEN-ODD DAY THREELudhiana: On the third day too, a big number of traders violated the even-odd system. Despite being an even day, odd number shops were also open. Patrolling and warning by police in several markets during the past three days failed to have any impact on the traders. To act tough, several FIRs were registered against shopkeepers who violated the rule on Tuesday. All the FIRs were registered by Division 8 police under Section 188 of the IPC. Division 8 SHO inspector Jarnail Singh said, “We have been conducting meetings with the shopkeepers’ associations on the even-odd system and they were duly apprised of it. But some shopkeepers violated the order, so action was taken against them. We request the traders’ fraternity to obey the system for their and their families’ safety.”Condemning the police action, Gurdeep Singh Gosha, president of Business Bachao Morcha, said, “It is shocking that traders are being harassed and forced to follow this system, which is a complete failure. I fail to understand how the government expects a shopkeeper to earn enough money to feed his family by opening shop for only 10-11 days in a month. Moreover, now there is no guarantee that the customers will turn up during these 10-11 days. A customer, who had been loyal to one shop, will go to the other on finding it closed. This will affect business and traders’ goodwill built over the years. The system will also destroy the livelihood of a huge number of workers as owners won't be able to pay their salaries. Therefore, we demand immediate scrapping of this system.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/firs-against-traders-no-deterrent-confusion-rules/articleshow/77770214.cms||Mohit Behl
August 27, 2020||Nagpur||JEE/NEET: Coaching fraternity divided||NAGPUR: Not all coaching classes are in favour of JEE/NEET being held in September, citing risks to lakhs of candidates. Not wanting to air their differences in the open, institute directors requested anonymity and added that economics also plays a vital role to decide which side of the divide one stands. One such owner said delay by just two more months won’t make much of a difference. “Academic session can be delayed and thus the need for an entrance exam can also be pushed back. Everyone is talking about a peak in Covid cases in September, hence the movement of lakhs of students across the country is not advisable at all,” said the owner. Outstation students will most certainly skip the test, he added. “How will poor students from Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh land up in Nagpur when inter-state buses are not functioning. Also frequency of trains is negligible,” said the owner. Another coaching class owner said regardless of Covid distancing, the fact that hundreds would gather in a common campus is risky. “On an average, 400 to 500 students are there in one centre. It’s not only about exam hall, but also outside. Students and their relatives gather outside the main gate at least an hour before the entry time, that’s also a risky part,” said the owner. On why majority of the coaching institutes disagree with this stand, he said the economic factor comes into play. “Not that it’s a bad thing, because all of us are dependent on the fee which students pay. Unless parents see that things are moving on, new admissions won’t get confirmed. As of now, everyone is holding back payments for new batch because there is uncertainty about academic year. So if exams are held on time, then it will give confidence to new batches, and cash flow will start,” said an owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jee/neet-coaching-fraternity-divided/articleshow/77772930.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Trader ends life, accuses wife, in-laws in voice message to daughter||Times News Network Ludhiana: A 38-year-old hosiery trader committed suicide at his house on Shekhewal Road early on Monday.Before taking the extreme step, Munish Sethi sent a voice message to his 12-year-old daughter, saying he is ending his life due to harassment by his wife and in-laws. Munish had got married to Deepika, 36, 14 years ago. Besides a daughter, the couple have a three-year-old son.Munish’s nephew, Shubham Gulati, 25, said in his police complaint, “The couple shared a strained relationship. Deepika and her family often harassed uncle for money. In March, the couple had a fight. Deepika and her family were asking uncle to transfer all his properties in her name and handover all gold jewellery to her. When uncle refused, Deepika left the house with both children and started living with her parents in Jalandhar Cantt.” Since then Munish was upset. “His daughter would often call him up and say that she was not happy there and that everyone beat her up. My uncle tried to resolve the matter, but to no avail. One day the previous month, his daughter escaped from there and came here to live with him,” Shubham added. Munish and Shubham’s family live in the same locality. “On Saturday around 9.30pm, uncle’s daughter came to our house. Earlier, she would often come to our house and live there for a few days. Around 12.22am, Munish uncle sent a voice message to his daughter that he was committing suicide and took names of all those responsible for it. His daughter saw the message in the morning,” he added. Relatives rushed to Munish’s house. “We scaled the wall to enter his house and found him hanging from a ceiling fan,” he said. Daresi police station ASI Gurwinder Singh said, “A case was registered on Tuesday night against Deepika, her father Mulakh Raj, mother Madhu Bala, brothers Deepak and Rishi and Rishi’s wife Tania under sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/trader-ends-life-accuses-wife-in-laws-in-voice-message-to-daughter/articleshow/77770234.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Patna||Left parties to contest Bihar assembly polls with Mahagathbandhan||PATNA: The Left parties will contest the coming assembly election as part of the Mahagathbandhan in Bihar. The decision was taken at a meeting of CPI and CPI(M) leaders with RJD state president Jagdanand Singh in his party office on Wednesday. “We agreed, in principle, to contest the assembly election with RJD, Congress, CPI(M) and other Left, secular and like-minded democratic parties to defeat the NDA in Bihar,” CPI state secretary Ram Naresh Pandey told TOI. The former MLA from Harlakhi said it would be premature at this stage to talk about the number of seats his party intends to contest. “But we are confident of getting a respectful number of seats, along with Congress and many other parties in the Mahagathbandhan. One thing is clear that the alliance will contest all 243 seats as Mahagathbandhan candidates,” he said. The move assumes significance in the light of Hindustani Awam Morcha (S) president and former CM Jitan Ram Manhi’s announcement recently that he would no longer be a part of the Mahagathbandhan. The support of Left parties is likely to cement the gap left by Manjhi as far as the weaker section votes are concerned. The Left parties still have some strong pockets of influence among the Mahadalit voters in the state. Briefing the media after their meeting, RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary said party leader Tesjashwi Prasad Yadav has authorized state president Jagdanand Singh to negotiate with the other parties for alliance and the meeting with the CPI and CPI9M) delegation lasted for two hours. When asked why CPI(ML) was not part of the delegation, Tiwary said it is already in the Mahagahtbandhan and had contested the last Lok Sabha election together with RJD. Former CPI MLA from Bachwara in Begusarai district, Awadhesh Kumar said all Left parties would join hands to defeat the NDA comprising JD(U), BJP and LJP in the state. “Seat sharing will be no issue at all,” said Awadhesh. The TOI had reported earlier that RJD would accommodate the Left parties to broaden the the base of the Mahagathbandhan, particularly after their crushing defeat in the 2019 Lok Sabha election. The CPI delegation, which met Jagdanand, comprised Ram Babu Kumar, Om Prakash Narayan, ex-MLC Sanjay Kumar besides Pandey and Awadhesh. The CPM delegation members were its secretary Awadhesh Kumar, party’s state secretariat member Sarvoday Sharma, Arun Mishra and Ram Pari Devi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/left-parties-to-contest-state-polls-with-mahagathbandhan/articleshow/77771582.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
August 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen upbeat as govt lifts restrictions on PPE export||Ludhiana: In a major relief for personal protective equipment (PPE) suit manufacturers, the central government has lifted all restrictions on the export of PPE suits. Fearing shortage of such suits within the country, the government had banned exports earlier.The development has special significance for Ludhiana, as there are more than 110 approved PPE suit manufacturing units here, with a combined capacity to produce 3.5-5 lakh pieces per day. Huge drops in both demand as well as rates of the suits were seen in the domestic markets due to stiff competition amongst the manufacturers of different states and excess stocks purchased by the government departments. Due to mounting losses, some of the Ludhiana manufacturers had even called it quits, but now they plan to be back in the business and starting exporting their products.Reacting to the development, taxation and customs matters expert Naveen Thamman said, "The policy regarding export of PPE suits and 2/3 ply masks has changed a number of times as per the availability of these items with the industry and on the representation of trade associations. Earlier, all these items were prohibited for export, but on June 29, the export of PPE medical coveralls was allowed up to the monthly quota of 50 lakh units. Now, the export of coveralls of all classes/ categories and 2/3 ply surgical masks have been allowed without any condition. Further, export of N95/ FFP2 masks has been allowed up to a monthly limit of 50 lakh units.”This is a big relief for the industry, especially because the industry is facing the problem of accumulated stocks and would have been forced to cut down production if exports were not allowed, he said, adding that the move would also fetch the much-needed foreign currency in this period of recession.Vinod Thapar, chairman of Knitwear Club, said, "Although the decision has come a little late, we are happy that the government has accepted our demand and lifted restrictions on export of these items. A large number of businessmen had stopped manufacturing PPE suits and masks due to the drop in sales. The rate of a PPE suit, which cost Rs 650 in April-May, has no taker for even Rs 200 now. Exports are the only hope for everyone at this time, because still there is demand for PPE suits and masks globally and rates are somewhat better than what we are getting in India.”Moreover, he said, there are also bulk demands from foreign countries and lifting of restrictions would give a new lease of life to the PPE suit manufacturers of Ludhiana. Now, more people would come forward for PPE suit exports, as owing to complications under the quota system earlier, they had not applied for permission to export.Prominent PPE suit manufacturer Harish Kairpal said, "This is a great development. Despite putting everything at stake to manufacture PPE suits for Corona warriors, we suffered huge losses, as day by day the rates kept crashing and thousands of pieces are still lying unsold with us. After our repeated requests, the government had introduced the quota system, which didn't prove beneficial for the industry. Finally, all the restrictions have been lifted and now we have started preparing for PPE suits exports. We are hopeful we will be able to get huge orders from countries like the UAE."The notificationAccording to notification number 29/2015-2020 dated August 25 issued by directorate general of foreign trade, medical coveralls (PPE suits) of all classes / categories are freely exportable now. Similarly, all masks except N95 and FFP2 or its equivalent too are freely exportable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-upbeat-as-govt-lifts-restrictions-on-ppe-export/articleshow/77770236.cms||Mohit Behl
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||New on the menu: A clutch of eateries and lounges||Hyderabad: Though surveys indicate a rough 2020 for Hyderabad’s hotel industry, it’s not all doom and gloom with at least half a dozen restaurants, cafes and lounges springing up in the city — largely along the Jubilee Hills-Hi-Tec City-Gachibowli belt. While some have already opened their doors to customers, others are gearing up to go ‘live’ in the next few months. Owners are certain the industry will pick pace soon. “We were apprehensive about opening. But the number of enquiries that we received about the new place gave us confidence. Within 15 days, the footfall touched impressive numbers. We saw at least 600 customers walk in over the weekend, even though seating was limited to 100 people at any given point,” said Abhishek Vuppala, owner of the sprawling 12,000 sft Sanctuary Bar & Kitchen that opened in Film Nagar on August 10. The response to Theory Dessert Bar & Cafe in Jubilee Hills, inaugurated soon after the lockdown was eased, has been overwhelming too. The primary clientele: young students and professionals. “Slowly, people have started coming out of their homes now. It’s been close to six months, everyone’s learning to live with Covid-19, albeit taking all precautions,” said Naren Pal Singh, founder of Brand Sardar that’s set to launch two high-end restro-bars by end of 2020 — Cock & Bull and Resign — in Madhapur. Also on the list of upcoming projects is Hush Cafe — which started briefly in January but is officially launching this week — a new branch of the popular hangout, Air Live, and a clutch of other clubs and lounges. “The uncertainty is going to be there for a long time. So, we decided not to wait and to take the plunge. Also, everybody now is used to wearing a mask and carrying a sanitizer,” said Kamesh Kandukuri, co-founder of Hush Cafe in Kavuri Hills. Agreed Ayush Agarwal who is busy getting the Air Live lounge in Gachibowli ready for launch in November. It was originally supposed to open in April. “Though the new space can accommodate up to 1,000 guests, we intend to limit it to 300-350 initially. We are certain within a few months, the market will bounce back,” said the co-founder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-on-the-menu-a-clutch-of-eateries-and-lounges/articleshow/77771581.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
August 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Minister Dalal also tests positive||Chandigarh: Haryana agriculture and farmers welfare minister J P Dalal is the latest minister to test positive for Covid-19 in Haryana. Now, nine MLAs, including chief minister Manohar Lal Khatta, speaker Gian Chand Gupta and minister Mool Chand Sharma, have the infection in the state. Besides, the CM’s officer on special duty Bhupeshwar Dayal also tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday. He is the second official from the CMO to test positive. Earlier, Khattar’s IT adviser Dhruv Mazumdar had tested positive, besides 10 security personnel of Khattar. Three employees of the MLAs hostel and 23 of the Haryana assembly also tested positive during the day. Among those who have already tested positive for Covid-19 are Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini, Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia and Hisar MP Brijendera Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/minister-dalal-also-tests-positive/articleshow/77772943.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Madurai||‘Act against officials for failing to check m-sand smuggling’||KANYAKUMARI: The Tamil Nadu M-sand Lorry Owners Welfare Association has lodged a complaint with the Kanyakumari district police seeking action against the district collector and mines and minerals and revenue officials for failing to prevent illegal transportation of m-sand, blue metal and gravel among other minerals from Tamil Nadu to Kerala. Association president, S Yuvaraj, said that several tonnes of minerals are illegally transported to Kerala every day in 300 trucks and police are spectators to the crime despite being equipped with CCTV cameras on the border checkposts. “They are mostly quarried in Tirunelveli district, and taken to Kanyakumari through Aralvaimozhi checkpost and then to Amaravila in Kerala through Kaliyakkavilai check post,” he said. This is also forcing the government to incur losses to the tune of several crores of rupees on a daily basis, he said. Citing a Madras high court order in the representation to the inspector of Kaliyakkavilai police, the association sought action against the collector and officials concerned on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/act-against-officials-for-failing-to-check-m-sand-smuggling/articleshow/77773655.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Ex-serviceman found murdered in village||TNNLudhiana: Sidhwan Bet police on Tuesday evening booked unidentified accused after an ex-serviceman was found murdered near Saleempura village. Kulwant Singh, 47, was found dead on his motorcycle.Harbans Singh, his brother who works as a labourer, said in his police complaint, “I have three brothers and a sister who is married. My brothers — Kulwant, Hakam Singh, also an ex-serviceman, Major Singh, a labourer — and I live in separate houses in Saleempura.”Kulwant worked as a security guard in Agra. “He had returned home in January and was jobless since then. Kulwant had got married to Manjeet Kaur about 22 years ago. The couple have a daughter, 18, and a son, 13. Around 6.50pm on Tuesday, we received a call from a villager that Kulwant was lying on a motorcycle near a sports stadium close to the village,” he added.When they reached the spot, they found blood on the road.“There was a wound on the back of his neck inflicted with a sharp-edged weapon. There were multiple injuries on his body too. He had Rs 100 in pocket at the time of the incident. My brother didn’t have any enmity with anyone. I had met him about a month ago. As there are no CCTVs at the spot, we are checking cameras installed in the villages for clues. We have told cops that we will not perform the cremation till we get justice,” he said. Sidhwan Bet SHO inspector Rajesh Thakur said, “We have some clues and the accused will be arrested soon. The deceased had given his farmland on contract and had gone there.”The body was later shifted to civil hospital.A case has been registered under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ex-serviceman-found-murdered-in-village/articleshow/77770227.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Jagtial addl SP dies of Covid||Hyderabad: Jagtial district additional superintendent of police K Dakshina Murthy died of Covid-19 on Wednesday morning. Tragedy also struck when an assistant SI of Armed Reserve (AR) died of coronavirus in Khammam district. With this, half a dozen cops have succumbed to the virus in the state in August month alone. Murthy was admitted to a hospital in Karimnagar a few days ago after testing positive for the virus. However, his condition worsened and died while undergoing treatment. According to official sources, Murthy suffered a heart attack at 5.30 am. His death came just five days before his retirement from service. Murthy was the first ASP rank officer in Telangana to have succumbed after contracting the virus. Sources said he toured flood-affected districts last week and was later admitted to the hospital after testing positive. Murthy belonged to the 1989 batch of SIs and had served at various places in erstwhile Warangal and Khammam districts as SI, circle inspector and DSP. He was the special officer at the Medaram jatara in February this year. He is survived by wife, two daughters and a son. District in-charge SP and Karimnagar police commissioner VB Kamalasan Reddy conveyed his condolences to the family of Murthy. Mahbubnagar district SP Rema Rajeswari also condoled his death. “A sad day for TS Police. We lost a great police officer to Covid19 today. Dakshina Murthy was a highly decorated officer. His contribution to anti-extremist work, Medaram Jatara and policing at large will never be forgotten (sic),” she tweeted. Meanwhile, ASI Sondu (50) also succumbed to the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jagtial-addl-sp-dies-of-covid/articleshow/77772946.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 27, 2020||Lucknow||ODOP mission to get international appeal||LUCKNOW: To promote ‘one district-one product’ (ODOP) scheme on an international platform and give them a wider appeal, the MSME department will soon be signing MoUs with National Institute of Fashion Technology, Indian Institute of Packaging and SIDBI. These pacts will help to make their design and packaging more attractive and to address the issue of working capital for artisans and industrialists. MSME minister Sidharth Nath Singh said that as per directions of CM Yogi Adityanath, it had been decided to help manufacturers of ODOP products widen their market. He said that the MoUs would not just remove difficulties of working capital being faced by MSMEs in the current Covid-19 slowdown but also make ODOP products more attractive, helping in giving them a better platform at a global level. “NIFT would provide design facility to textile, leather and carpet industries. It will also hold training workshops for them. NIFT will be developing a design bank for ODOP products in which manufacturers will be helped with material, fabrics, colour and quality in accordance with demands of US, European and other international markets which will give them the facility of brand identity and branding,” Singh said. He added that IIP will develop a new design for packing for ODOP products. Workshop-cum-training proposals will also be prepared with stake holders under which manufacturers will be given two to three days of training. The ODOP programme is also being looked at as a vehicle for generating employment for the migrant workers who returned to UP during the Covid-19 lockdown. Officials said that three aspects were being addressed which would help new people enter the market. “We are providing training under a particular trade. For instance, if someone wants to come to Bhadohi, the centre of carpet manufacturing in UP, we can train them in the skill of carpet making. If they want to set up their own unit, we will help them get funding in the form of loans and then, if some of them want to come together, we can even help set up a common facility centre,” said additional chief secretary, MSME, Navneet Sehgal. For any issues pertaining to registration by manufacturers of ODOP products, SIDBI will play an important role. MSME units would be provided with equity support, rebate in interest and other assistance. To handhold them through the process, a digital platform will be created under which they will get facilities like loan, listing under a stock exchange and access to e-market platforms under 59 minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/odop-mission-to-get-international-appeal/articleshow/77773153.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 27, 2020||Madurai||8.9 lakh to benefit from LPG bottling plant to open soon in Madurai||MADURAI: Construction work on the LPG bottling plant of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) at Kappalur on the outskirts of Madurai, has been completed and is to be commissioned soon. The work began in February 2019 on 22 acres at an outlay of Rs 80 crore – excluding the land cost. It is the 5th bottling plant of BPCL in Tamil Nadu. “Approvals have been obtained from authorities concerned and it will be dedicated in the next few days,” Sivasankaran Rajagopalan, BPCL’s LPG state head for Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, told TOI. The plant refilling 12,000 cylinders a day will be despatching 40 loads of cylinders to Madurai, Theni, Dindigul, Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram districts that have monthly demand for 4.5 lakh cylinders. Of the 55 lakh Bharat Gas customers in Tamil Nadu – 24.6% of the LPG market in the state – the Madurai plant will cater to the requirements of 8.9 lakh customers. It includes 2.6 lakh connections in Madurai. BPCL’s capacity in the state will increase to 585 TMT with the addition of the Madurai plant. The plant has been planned to meet the futuristic requirements of the region that is seeing a steady increase in LPG connections. “Production in the plant can be doubled to 24,000 cylinders a day,” Rajagopalan added. While the year-on-year increase in consumer connections on the domestic front is around 5%, it has climbed by more than three-fold to over 16% during the lockdown due to the work from home scenario, as cooking at home has gone up. During the lockdown, online payment for LPG refills has also increased manifold. While only 1.5% consumers opted for the online modes of paying for their refills prior to the lockdown it has now increased to 8%. “We are targeting at 25% by December this year,” Sivasankaran added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/8-9-lakh-to-benefit-from-lpg-bottling-plant-to-open-soon-in-madurai/articleshow/77773663.cms||M K Ananth
August 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Tarn Taran police seize 7,000 litres ‘lahan’ from Harike||Chandigarh: The Punjab police on Wednesday seized 7,000 litres of lahan (fermented raw material for distilling liquor) from ‘mand’ (area along rivers) of Marrar village under Harike alongside Satluj riverine area during an operation through drones fitted with sophisticated cameras. Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said a manhunt had been launched to track men from nearby villages, who are booked in the case. The operation was carried out by a team led by senior superintendent of police (SSP) Tarn Taran in which seven boats were recovered and six working stills were destroyed at the site. The lahan seizure included 10 drums and 10 tarpaulins. After vital inputs obtained through drone cameras, the Tarn Taran police officers and 125 police personnel, in coordination with the excise department and forest department, had conducted raids in the marshy ‘mand’ area early on Wednesday morning. A case has been registered under the Excise Act at police station Harike. The police claimed when the footage of the drone cameras was shown to residents of nearby villages to identify the suspects, they identified Daler Singh, Kulbir Singh, Laly, Manjit Singh, Fuman Singh, Mohan Singh and Balwinder Singh alias Nimma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tarn-taran-police-seize-7000-litres-lahan-from-harike/articleshow/77772947.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Patna||Tej Pratap leaves for Ranchi, set to meet Lalu today||PATNA: Amid the numerous political developments in Bihar ahead of the state assembly polls, the elder Yadav scion, Tej Pratap, left for Ranchi on Wednesday to meet his father and incarcerated RJD chief Lalu Prasad. Various speculations are being made about the meeting between the father-son duo. Few RJD leaders claimed that Tej had been summoned by Lalu after the former reacted against senior RJD leader, Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, comparing him with a pot of water and the party with an ocean. “This is a sensitive time and Lalu ji does not want any nuisance before the polls. He has, therefore, called Tej to make him understand the gravity of the situation. Also no one, except for Lalu ji, can explain this to him (Tej),” a senior RJD leader told TOI. Another RJD MLA said, “Raghuvansh babu is a principal founding member of the RJD and a very senior leader. Lalu ji will ensure that Tej does not react against such leaders.” According to sources, Tej may talk to Lalu about the seats he wants to give to the candidates of his choice. He may even discuss changing his own seat as he is not keen on fighting from Mahua. However, Tej denied all speculations and claimed that it would be a casual meeting between a father and a son. “He is my father and I felt like meeting him. There is no specific reason behind it,” Tej said over the phone while on his way to Ranchi and added that he had not given any statement against Raghuvansh. Asked if he would learn lessons from his father for handling the elections, Tej replied, “I have grown up with him and imbibed all such lessons.” RJD Jharkhand president Abhya Singh said, “Tej is slated to meet Lalu ji on Thursday and will leave Ranchi the same day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tej-leaves-for-ranchi-set-to-meet-lalu-today/articleshow/77770254.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 27, 2020||Nagpur||Walni sarpanch, brothers booked for murder||NAGPUR: Khaparkheda police have booked Walni Gram Panchayat sarpanch Laik Ansari for his alleged involvement in murder of a welder in the village on Tuesday. Police said Laik along with his at least 10 accomplices, including his brothers, had murdered Mohib Latif Khan over a trivial issue. After murdering Mohib, Laik and his brothers have absconded. According to police, on Tuesday at around 1.30pm one Asif Ashfaq Hussain 18, a resident of Walni coal mines, was riding a motorcycle with his friend Mohib Latif Khan. They were on way to Khaparkheda when Sohail Atiq Ansari (19), Hanif Ansari (24), Asif Ansari (20), Roshan Sahni (20), Laik Ansari along with five to six accomplices intercepted the duo. Before Asif and Mohib could understand anything, Laik Ansari and gang started beating Mohib with sticks and baseball bats. Leaving Mohib in a pool of blood, the accused fled the spot. Mohib was rushed to Government Medical College in Nagpur where he succumbed to the injuries the same night, said police. Following dying declaration of Mohib, the police have launched a manhunt to nab Ansaris and their accomplices. On Wednesday, Asif Ansari, Sohail Ansari and Hanif Ansari surrendered before the local crime branch at Parsheoni police station. Walni sarpanch Laik Ansari, his driver Lalya and other accomplices are still at large. Police sources said Ansaris are allegedly involved in sand smuggling. Police said Laik Ansari and his elder brother Mohd Lateef Mohd Hafeez Ansari with their accomplices had been charged four times under Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act (MCOCA). Laik had a meteoric rise in the district through political patronage and also clandestine support of a section in the police department. Having started with dealing in illegal arms and other criminal activities, the sarpanch and his brothers switched to illegal sand mining around a decade ago. Even slapping of MCOCA against them failed to stop their criminal activities in the town, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/walni-sarpanch-brothers-booked-for-murder/articleshow/77772937.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Farm activists booked for unlawful assembly||Bathinda: Nearly 200 activists of farm labour organisation Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union have been booked for unlawfully assembling at Bathinda to hold a protest for debt waiver. A case under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act has been registered at the Bathinda Civil Lines police station. The labour outfit had held a protest near Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s office at Bathinda on Tuesday. Those who have been booked include organisation state general secretary Lachhman Singh Sewewala, Master Sewak Singh, Tirath Singh, Hansa Singh, Gogar Singh and 190 unidentified persons. They had also held protests at other places, including Badal village. “We are not bothered by the cases and want the debt on farm labours should be waived and the dalit women, who have availed small loans by forming self help groups, should not be harassed by microfinance institutions for recovery of loans,” said Lachman Sewewala. Meanwhile, undeterred by the cases registered against farm labourers, the activists of farm organisation BKU Ekta Ugrahan continued assembling at various place and holding protests against three agri ordinances even on day two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farm-activists-booked-for-unlawful-assembly/articleshow/77772944.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||BITS Pilani gets good pre-placement offers||HYDERABAD: Beating the Covid-19 blues, Birla Institute of Technology (BITS), Pilani campus in the city has attracted 22% higher pre-placement offers and summer internships for 2021. Among top recruiters are companies such as Microsoft, Amazon, Walmart, etc. that have rolled out offers as high as Rs 45 lakh per annum to engineering students. A total of 121 students appeared for internships and pre-placement offers from BITS Pilani, Hyderabad campus. “Compared to 64 offers received during last placement season, we have already received 84 offers and are still counting. Given the present trend, we expect season growth of 28% compared to last year,” said G Balasubramanian, chief placement officer (India and Dubai). Key corporate brands that figure in the 259 offers include Uber, App Dynamics, Texas Instruments, Micron, CISCO, Analog Devices, NVIDIA, DE Shaw, Nutanix, Service Now etc. “While the process of rolling out pre-placement offers has still not concluded, we are confident of adding another 15 or so to the kitty,” said Balasubramanian. Information technology and software companies stole the limelight. Most of the offers made in the IT/software space were from the emerging technology space i.e. artificial intelligence, internet of things, robotics, etc. Students were selected for 2.5 months of internship with various firms through a written test and interview. Most students were offered virtual internships due to Covid-19 pandemic. According to chief placement officer, salaries have remained in the bracket of Rs 20 lakh to Rs 45 lakh. “Given the Covid-19-induced slowdown, I was not expecting a good package. To my surprise, the initial package offered was revised to a higher number,” said KN Sivaramakrishnan, a student who was placed with Oracle as member of technical staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bits-pilani-gets-good-pre-placement-offers/articleshow/77771590.cms||Preeti Biswas
August 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Corporation’s pool testing notice invites flak from private labs||COIMBATORE: A day after the Coimbatore Corporation instructed all commercial establishments in its limit to test their employees for Covid-19 every 15 days through pooled sampling method, private laboratories in the city say they can’t do pooled sampling at this stage of the pandemic. According to ICMR guidelines, pooled sampling can be done only when positivity rate is under 5%. But the current positivity rate of Coimbatore is well over 10%, say private labs. On Wednesday, the corporation issued an official notice asking companies to test their employees within 24 hours of receiving the notice and instructed them to repeat the process every “10 days”. Even as private companies began panicking on the cost implications of this, corporation commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath on a citizen’s WhatsApp group called “Namma Kovai”, stated that companies with more than 100 employees need to test 20 samples every 10 days and rotate it among their employees. “Companies with less than 25 employees need to test five samples every 10 days; firms with 25 to 50 employees have to test 10 samples every 10 days; firms with 50 to 100 employees have to test 15 samples every 10 days; and companies with more than 100 employees need to test 25 employees every day,” Jatavath said. “Pool test costs Rs 1,000 per sample, which is a fair criterion,” he added as a consolation. “Pooled sampling will work only if the positivity rate is very low,” a manager of Orbito Asia said. “In the current scenario, if we do pooled sampling with five people’s samples, there is a good chance that many pools will show positive, after which we will have to individually test all the employees, which is more expensive for companies and work for us,” he said. City-based Microlabs shares the same view. “ICMR guidelines itself recommend pooled sampling only when the positivity rate is below 5%. Among the Coimbatore samples we get, positivity rate is well over 10% now. Pooled sampling method will not work for us and we can’t do it,” said the Covid-19 in charge microbiologist in the lab. “We are already severely overworked.” R Sivakumar, secretary of the Coimbatore district hoteliers’ association, says the cost of testing all their employees every 10 days would be a huge burden on their finances. “Due to Covid-19, we are all running at a loss because people are scared to eat out. When one Covid-19 test costs Rs 3,000 a person, it is almost 20% of his monthly salary. And if we must repeat it every 10 days, it becomes 75% of his salary. It would be helpful if our employees could instead be tested at the corporation's fever camps itself,” he said. Later in the evening, Coimbatore collector K Rajamani clarified that shops and commercial establishments need to test either 10 employees or 10% of their employees whichever is lesser, every 10 days. “We did not mention pooled sampling. It is only an option. But the intention behind this move is to protect thousands of customers and will help brands also avoid long terms of closure and operations getting affected,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpns-pool-testing-notice-invites-flak-from-pvt-labs/articleshow/77771602.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Lifting of curbs on export of masks, PPE coveralls hailed||TIRUPUR: Textile units here praised the Centre for removing the restrictions on export of medical coveralls and N95 masks. Monthly export quota of 50 lakh N95 masks and unrestricted export of PPEs will help earn several crores in forex, exporters said. According to a notification from the directorate general of foreign trade issued on Tuesday, “The export policy for 2/3 ply surgical masks and medical coveralls of all classes and categories has been amended from restricted to free and these coveralls are now freely exportable.’’ The notification also said that the export of N95 masks or its equivalent has been revised from ‘prohibited’ to ‘restricted’ allowing export of up to 50 lakh units per month. In the initial months of Covid lockdown, when the Indian units started manufacturing medical coveralls and masks, the Centre had banned their export as there was a huge demand for the medical textiles within the country. Since then, Indian companies increased their production capacity to the extent that the domestic demand was met and there was surplus production. Now the relaxation is expected to give a fillip to the units manufacturing medical textiles as they can export to other countries. “We have been demanding the relaxation of the export ban for a long time,” said Apparel Export Promotion Council chairman A Sakthivel. Thanking Union minister of commerce Piyush Goel for the decision, Sakthivel said that the move will help manufacturers, particularly in Tirupur, where the textile sector has managed to take baby steps towards medical textiles. “We have a lot of manufacturers making N95 masks in Tirupur,’’ he said. Exporters said that they have been receiving several inquiries from international buyers for the products but were unable to supply because of the restriction. “Now, we will be able to create additional markets for Tirupur across the world,” Sakthivel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lifting-of-curbs-on-export-of-masks-ppe-coveralls-hailed/articleshow/77771597.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Goa||Forest dept has become deforestation dept: AAP||Panaji: Referring to the projects proposed in Mollem’s protected forest areas, AAP youth leader Lourenco da Sousa on Wednesday alleged that the department of forests was not protecting forests anymore and deserved to be called the ‘deforestation department’. Chief minister Pramod Sawant’s recent statement that foreign hand is involved in the opposition to the projects is an attempt to divert focus from the government’s all round failures of the past four years, Sousa said. He challenged the CM to name the ‘foreign hand’ and asked, “Does the CM see students, children and people who had met MLAs requesting them to ask questions in the one-day assembly on Mollem as foreign hands?” AAP said that information obtained under the RTI Act showed that the government had planted 6,90,000 trees from 2010 to 2015. “I would like to know whether these trees are planted in Goa or in Karnataka since the government is claiming it had no land to plant the trees,” party member Parshuram Sonnurlekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/forest-dept-has-become-deforestation-dept-aap/articleshow/77772953.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Agra||89 Covid-19 +ve cases in Meerut, 42 in Agra||Meerut/Agra: At least 89 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Meerut on Wednesday, taking the tally to 3,553, confirmed Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's chief medical officer. Also, two more deaths took the toll to 112. In Agra district, a home guard and an electrician on duty at residence of district magistrate (DM) Prabhu N Singh were tested Covid-19 positive. Two children of a family living on the DM's compound and a clerk of state government-owned discom were also found positive. A day after the additional city magistrate was diagnosed, DM on Wednesday ordered shut down of the collectorate for 24 hours to do mopping and contact tracing. At least 42 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra district till Wednesday evening, taking the district tally to 2,634. Also, 35 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Wednesday. Of the 2,634 cases reported in the district, 84.4% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 303 active Covid-19 cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/89-covid-19-ve-cases-in-meerut-42-in-agra/articleshow/77770273.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Jujumura’s water conservation project grabs PM Narendra Modi’s attention||SAMBALPUR: The innovation of stream-water harvesting in Jujumura block in the district has found mention in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mann Ki Baat twitter handle (@mannkibaat). The project has been implemented on the Kuturlatia water stream in Jujumura block’s Kayakud village. “The Jujumura block in Sambalpur, Odisha, harvests stream water for irrigation,” The PM tweeted through Mann Ki Baat Updates. This project was carried out under MGNREGS during 2020-21 financial year. Earlier, the perennial water source was being used by people for their daily needs and the excess water went waste due to lack of conservation measures. However, with the implementation of the project, the stream water has been channelized to a huge tank now and the farmers are using the water for irrigation purposes. Around 50 hectares of land will get irrigation facility from the tank water. Since the project was undertaken under MGNREGS, it also provided livelihood to labourers during the Covid crisis. Block development officer (BDO), Jujumura, Suraj Biswal said, “We first constructed a diversion weir at an estimated cost of Rs 7 lakh to check the water of the Kuturlatia stream. Later, to channelise the water of the stream to the tank, which is around 2 kilometrers away from the diversion weir, we developed a canal system, including earthen and concrete drains, at an estimated cost of around Rs 14 lakh. The water from the stream is now flowing to the tank through the canal system. The huge tank is now being used as a reservoir. People have already started using water from the reservoir for irrigation. Work on the project began in the month of March.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/jujumuras-water-conservation-project-grabs-pms-attention/articleshow/77770274.cms||Subrat Mohanty
August 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Rights panel seeks report on police beating minor boy||COIMBATORE: The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) on Wednesday issued a notice to city police commissioner Sumit Sharan, seeking a detailed report on police brutality on a 13-year-old boy who was roaming on motorcycle on Sunday, when complete lockdown was in force. In the letter, the SHRC said it has taken suo motu cognizance of the incident based on the article published in a vernacular daily on Tuesday and asked the city police commissioner to submit the detailed report in three weeks. “In the event of any default, the commission may proceed to take action as it deems fit and proper.” On Sunday, the boy from Surya Nagar at Ondipudur, along with two others, had gone to visit one of their friends. While returning, police constable Durgaraj, who is attached to Singanallur police station, stopped their motorcycle and questioned them for roaming on streets during the complete lockdown. According to police officials, the cop beat the boy with lathi when he attempted to escape from his grip for the second time while questioning. The boy was later allowed to go home. He narrated the incident to his mother, who demanded stringent action against the constable. The Singanallur police had visited the boy at his house the same day and pacified his family members. Sumit Sharan had also ordered an inquiry into it. Meanwhile, photographs of the boy with the injury marks that he sustained in beating went viral on social media. It is the second notice that the SHRC issued to the city police commissioner in the past two months. On June 30, the commission had sought explanation on another cop beating a 16-year-old boy following a quarrel with the boy’s parents for keeping their eatery open beyond the closing time during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rights-panel-seeks-report-on-police-beating-minor-boy/articleshow/77771619.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Coimbatore||District logs highest single-day spike of 484 cases, 10 deaths||COIMBATORE: The district recorded its highest ever single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, when it reported 484 new cases, taking the tally to 12,954. It was for the first time the daily count, which was hovering around 390 for more than a week, touched and crossed the 400-mark in the district. At least 359 patients were discharged from the facilities they were undergoing treatment in the day. With this, the number of active cases in the district stands at 3,250. The district also recorded 10 more deaths, taking the toll to 262. According to the state bulletin, two patients died within 24 hours of hospitalization and another one, a 51-year-old man, who died in the ESI Hospital had no comorbidities. With the city corporation limits continue to account for more than 90% of the daily novel coronavirus cases, local administration minster S P Velumani has asked the civic body to start street-wise analysis to identify the ones with more number of cases. Civic body officials said they had been recording cases street-wise. Dr Raja, city health officer, said, “We have always had data on the number of Covid-19 cases from each street in the city.” He said tracing the source of infection in densely populated areas such as Ukkadam, Selvapuram and Karumbukadai was not viable. “We can try going door to door to find people with flu-like symptoms and make them undergo Covid-19 testing. Many people are not coming to fever camps on their own. But at this point, finding source of infection is not easy.” There are, meanwhile, complaints from people about lack of facilities at the fever camps. People at Mettupalayam have already raised the need for a shamiana or shelter for them to wait in queue since the past few days have been extremely hot. On Puliakulam Road, people said they had to wait for more than an hour at the fever camp on Wednesday for the team to come and collect their nasal swabs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-logs-highest-single-day-spike-of-484-cases-10-deaths/articleshow/77771608.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Madurai||CB-CID searches for don Angoda Lokka’s accomplice in Madurai||MADURAI: CB-CID teams conducted a search in Madurai for an accomplice of Sri Lankan under world kingpin Angoda Lokka, to whom Madurai based advocate Sivagami Sundari had handed over the don’s pistol after his death. Although CB-CID officials did not divulge the details of the accomplice, who is being searched, CB-CID IG K Shankar confirmed to TOI that two teams are searching for him in Madurai and other areas. To ensure that he does not leave the country through illegal ferrying, security has been tightened in coastal areas of Ramanathapuram district, he added. Meanwhile, CB-CID local teams in Madurai searched for the weapon in the houses at Railar Nagar, where Sundari stayed. A source from Madurai CB-CID said, “We recently dug up the floor in the asbestos-sheeted house, where the lawyer stayed before shifting to three others houses. We also checked the water tank and other areas. Searches were also conducted in other houses too, but we did not find any weapons.” The source added that during investigation they received information that Lokka had stayed in the asbestos-sheeted house, taken on a monthly rent of Rs 2,000. He stayed there before he was shifted to the Coimbatore house. However, they are yet to collect concrete evidences to substantiate the information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cb-cid-searches-for-don-angoda-lokkas-accomplice-in-madurai/articleshow/77773668.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha records highest single-day death tally at 64||NAGPUR: Vidarbha recorded its highest single day death toll of 64 on Wednesday. This lowered the recovery rate to 60.66% from 60.88% a day before. Vidarbha now has 1,338 deaths of which 951 have come in August alone. The day also reported 1,903 new cases taking total cases count to 48,046. The previous highest death count of 57 was registered on Tuesday and August 23. Nagpur recorded 1,270 news cases and 48 deaths taking respective tallies to 26,826 and 862. However, 641 patients recovered too. Except Buldhana and Gadchiroli, all districts of Vidarbha reported Covid deaths. Amravati reported six, followed by Chandrapur and Yavatmal, two each, and Bhandara, Wardha, Washim and Gondia one each. Amravati also had second highest new cases of the day at 180. Rest all districts reported double digits tally only. GADCHIROLI: 20 patients recovered while 18 new cases were reported. Of the recovered cases, 12 were from Armori, five from Gadchiroli town, three from Korchi. Among the new cases were a medical officer and a patient from primary health centre from Chamorshi Ashti, one from containment zone, two from Atepalli, one SRPF jawan at Aheri, one Nagpur returned, and one prisoner. Total active cases reached 98 while case count was 936 and 837 recoveries. BHANDARA: There were 30 recovered cases and 28 new ones which took the case count to 927. Now there are 378 active patients. One death was also reported taking the toll to 16. Bhandara taluka reported 17, Sakoli five, Pauni four, Tumsar and Lakhni 1 new cases. CHANDRAPUR: Chandrapur registered fresh record of single day spike of 96 patients taking the Covid-19 total to 1,667 on Wednesday. Two more deaths during the day took the toll to 20. District also saw the discharge of 31 patients. This has taken the number of cured patients to 1,068. There are 579 active patients under treatment now. Health authorities informed that new patients include 36 from Chandrapur, 14 from Ballarpur, Mul-17, Nagbhid-4, Warora-5, Jiwti-6, Gondpipri-3, Korpana-2, Bhadrawati-3, Rajura-3, and two travelers from Wani in Yavatmal. They claimed that deceased include a 52-year-old person from Chamorshi in Gadchiroli, who was admitted in Chandrapur GMCH on August 19. A 55-year-old woman from Rani Laxmibai ward in Ballarpur also died. Both were suffering from breathing difficulty and pneumonia. AMRAVATI: The highest single-day spike of 180 cases on Wednesday brought the district just 20 shy of 5,000 case mark to 4,980. With six deaths today, the toll reached 118 while 124 recoveries took place. This left 1,234 active cases, including 19 taking treatment in Nagpur and 369 in home isolation. A CS office report said a 65-year-old female from Gulista Nagar, a 72-year-old Man from Belpura, a 57-year-old from Daryapur, a 62-year-old man from Dharni, a 72-year-old man from Yawali Shahid and a 58-year-old man from Nandgaon Peth died during treatment today. It was the 14th 100-plus single day spike of the month and the 16th overall and the highest so far, beating 163 reported on August 17. The rural belt accounted for 54 of the total day's cases, taking its count to 1,409. AKOLA: 37 new persons tested positive while 16 were discharged and two deaths reported. The caseload stands at 3,625. The deceased were an 87-year-old man admitted on August 23 while an 86-year-old man admitted on August 22. The new cases included 14 men and 21 women. Among them 31 are from Murtizapur, two from Charangaon, one each from Krishi Nagar and Telhara. WASHIM: The district recorded one death and 27 new positive patients while 25 were discharged. The total cases are 1,528 of which 383 are active while 1,127 have been discharged. The death toll is 28. BULDHANA: The district witnessed 55 new cases taking the tally to 2,744. With 46 new recoveries, 1,941 have been discharged. The new cases took active case count to 761. WARDHA: A 61-year-old man of Wardha died while 10 fresh person tested positive on Wednesday. Meanwhile, 30 persons were discharged from hospital after recovery. All new positive cases are men. Now, the total cases stand at 732 and active ones at 217 while 497 got discharged. Death toll has reached 18. YAVATMAL: Two more deaths, an 86-year-old man from Darwha and an 84-year-old man from Mahagaon, were reported on Wednesday. Though 83 patients have recovered and were discharged, there are 90 new positive patients. Of these, 49 are men and 41 women. Barring the tribal dominated Ralegaon, all tehsils in Yavatmal district are now affected by the coronavirus. There are 649 active positive patients admitted in various Covid-19 Care Centres in the district. 232 persons are home quarantined while 190 are kept in isolation wards. Today, Yavatmala sent 345 swab samples for testing which is highest number for a single day, Dean Dr R P Singh said. GONDIA: Biggest single-day spike of 62 cases reported on Wednesday. Of these, 51 are from Gondia tehsil alone. A 40-year-old patient hailing from Dasgaon died during treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbha-records-highest-single-day-death-tally-at-64/articleshow/77772956.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat revving up growth engine, infrastructure to provide thrust||Ahmedabad: Gujarat’s industrial growth is on the path to recovery after gradual lifting of the lockdown and is expected to bounce back faster than other Indian states. The growth acceleration is expected to be fuelled by way of government and private investments in various infrastructure facilities. Such projects include ports, logistics, power, renewable energy, creation of a gas-based economy and development of dedicated parks, desalination projects and special investment regions, among others. Senior officials from the state government, including energy minister Saurabh Patel and M K Das, additional chief secretary (ACS), industry and mines and ACS to CM, along with senior executives from Adani Group, ArcelorMittal Group and APM Terminals say that Gujarat is getting back on track and it’s ready for the next phase of growth in infrastructure space. The high-ranking officers and industry leaders were speaking at the ‘Infrastructure - Getting Future Ready’ session conducted Tuesday as part of Times Of India’s Virtual Conclave titled ‘Getting Back Dhandho: Making Gujarat Future Positive.’ The session was moderated by Sunil Parekh, advisor to Zydus Cadila Group and Jubilant Bhartia Group, and founding curator, Ahmedabad Global Shapers, a World Economic Forum Initiative. The three large companies have already made concrete plans to make big-ticket investments in the state. While ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steel maker, is ready to invest Rs 25,000 crore at the newly acquired steel plant facility at Hazira, APM Terminals Pipavav is ready to invest Rs 700 crore for capacity expansion at Pipavav port. APM Terminals is also in the race to acquire the assets of troubled Indian shipbuilder Reliance Naval and Engineering at Pipavav shipyard. Minister Saurabh Patel announced that the state government has chalked out plans to invest Rs 1.5 lakh crore to spend in the renewable sector in next five years. In his opening remarks, Patel said government policies, political stability and financial growth have contributed to Gujarat's growth. “Gujarat has always been the growth engine of the country. For the past 15 years, we have maintained a double-digit growth rate. This year too, if we maintain a GDP as high as last year, it will be a great thing in the wake of the pandemic, when the entire world is impacted. We are much better placed than other states.” The total size of this year’s budget is Rs 2.17 lakh crore. The state’s revenues have reduced by 23% during the April to July period due to the pandemic. However, the government has not cut down its spending, Patel said. “We expect that by the end of the financial year, in March, we’ll be able to reach the revenues we reached last year,” he said. He explained how most of the including chemicals and petrochemicals, ceramics and pharmaceuticals, among others, are bouncing back. “Gujarat is a state with maximum industries and industrial output. Last year our growth rate was more than 13% and industries and services sectors have led the growth,” said M K Das. He said that while globally there is a shortfall in the GDP, Gujarat aims for a holistic and balanced growth. The government was trying to focus on new sectors for growth. “Gujarat clocked a 240% growth in FDI last year,” Das added. The state is focusing on developing a number of greenfield ports and the Dedicated Freight Corridor (DFC) will be a reality in the state by December, Das said. The government is also planning a logistics park at Sanand that will attract private investment of Rs 50,000 crore, he added. Anil Sardana, CEO and MD of Adani Transmission Ltd & MD of Adani Power Ltd said a good thing in Gujarat is that the power sector is very disciplined and organized in the state. “Nowhere in India do discoms operate with so much discipline. This brings confidence in the industry that it can come and invest and operate in such a state,” he said. Citing the example of Korea, Sardana also emphasized on building townships of excellence in the industrial sector. “It is important that Gujarat becomes the launchpad in the Indian context, when some of these things take off. We are also spending US $10 billion towards importing solar panels and solar material in the next few years. At this stage, Gujarat must provide leadership in solar production,” Sardana said. He said a major change is happening in the telecom sector because of data seen as the new oil. As on today, close to 180-200MW data gets stored in India against a demand of 2,000 MW. Dilip Oommen, CEO of ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel India Ltd, said the company chose Gujarat for investing in the steel sector due to factors like favourable government policies and ease of doing business. The company has already lined up Rs 25,000 crore investment for Hazira, he said. Jakob Friis Sorenson, managing director, APM Terminals Pipavav (Gujarat Pipavav Port) said the port has taken a leap towards sustainability with initiatives aimed at addressing the challenges of conserving the environment as well as utilising resources in optimum way through the philosophy of ‘reduce, reuse and recycle’ under the Gujarat Green Gateway project. Photo quotes: “Looking at the GDP of several states such as Maharashtra, Telangana, Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, our GDP will be positive and better than other states. While other states may see a negative growth rate, Gujarat will be much better this year. The Atmanirbhar Package by the Union government has addressed liquidity issues to a great extent and has helped infuse capital to industries through subsidies as well.” Saurabh Patel, energy minister, Gujarat government “Gujarat clocked a 240% growth in FDI last year. Even during the Covid-19 pandemic, inquiries are pouring in for investments in Gujarat. Recently, we have received a proposal from one of the largest solar companies in the world to set up their project in Gujarat.” M K Das, additional chief secretary (ACS), industry and mines and ACS to CM, GoG “There will be a major revolution in data storage in India soon. It’s time Gujarat provides leadership to become a hub for data evolution.” Anil Sardana, MD of Adani Transmission, Adani Power “We are ready to double our capacity at Hazira. We are ready to invest Rs 25,000 crore for this, and want government support for land acquisition and single window clearance.” Dilip Oommen, CEO of ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel India “I have started to call Pipavav, Gujarat’s ‘Green Gateway’ looking at what we would like to create around the port of Pipavav. We will be able to create a special economic zone to facilitate companies coming to Gujarat, possibly even from China or other countries," Jakob Friis Sorenson, managing director, APM Terminals Pipavav||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-revving-up-growth-engine-infrastructure-to-provide-thrust/articleshow/77771716.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Rain leaves Covid isolation ward waterlogged||Kendrapada: The administrative block and Covid isolation ward of the community health centre (CHC) at Rajnagar was waterlogged on Wednesday due to incessant rain over the past few days. “There is ankle-deep water right from the gate. The hospital staff are draining out the excess water. All patients in the administrative block and Covid isolation wards have been shifted to safer places,” said Rashmi Ranjan Mohanty, medical officer of the CHC at Rajnagar. The rain has also left large areas of Jajpur and Kendrapada districts waterlogged and major rivers and their tributaries swelling. Flood threat has increased in riverside villages of Dasarathpur, Bari, Binjharpur, Barachana and Korei blocks in Jajpur district. The Baitarani was flowing above the danger mark at Akhuapada in Jajpur district on Wednesday. The district administration has stocked rice, flattened rice, molasses, kerosene and other items in all gram panchayat offices and in the block headquarters to be distributed among the people in case of any eventuality. “We have already arranged 38 power boats to face any emergency situation,” said collector (Jajpur) Ranjan Kumar Dash. River embankments in Dasarathpur, Korei, Binjharpur, Barachana and Jajpur blocks are not in good condition. “Though earlier the villagers had asked the authorities several times to repair the embankments, they are only paying lip service. Now around 40 villages are facing flash floods-like situation,” said Akshya Jena of Dasarathpur. In Kendrapada district, Gualigaon, Burodia, Mahuri, Pankigopalpur, Daraba, Manapur, Gahamapala, Bajarpur, Upalei and Mahurigan villages in Rajkanika block do not have strong river embankments. “With the Baitarani rising, 22 villages are facing flashfloods as the water level in the river is rising,” said Bhagabat Das, a retired school teacher of Manapur village. District emergency officer (Kendrapada) Sambeet Satapathy on Wednesday issued the first flood warning in villages under Aul, Rajkanika and Pattamundai blocks in Kendrapada district with the Baitarani in spate. He said the administration sounded caution as inflows are likely to increase further with heavy rainfall continuing. As a precautionary measure, one National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team has been stationed the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/rain-leaves-covid-isolation-ward-waterlogged/articleshow/77770283.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Vadodara||Narmada dam releases 25,000 cusecs water||Vadodara: Over 18 villages along Narmada River have been warned by the authorities after about 25,980 cusecs of water was released from Sardar Sarovar Dam on Wednesday. The authorities said that residents of these villages may be put on alert if more water is released from the dam. According to the Sardar Sarovar Nigam Ltd (SSNL) authorities, over 93,594 cusecs of water has been flowing into the dam whose water level went up by 3.5 metres in the last 24 hours. The water level in the dam is currently 130 metres. “Water from the dam is being released in the river and the main canal,” said P C Vyas, director, SSNL. Three riverbed power houses and canal head powerhouse of 200 megawatt each have been started from Tuesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/narmada-dam-releases-25000-cusecs-water/articleshow/77770039.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Patna||Gopalganj man held for rape and murder of 9-year-old girl||PATNA: A 24-year-old man was sent to jail on Wednesday for allegedly raping and killing his 9-year-old neighbourhood girl at a village under Sidhwalia police station area of Gopalganj district on Tuesday evening. The accused had stuffed the girl’s body in a sack and kept it on an overhead rack inside his residence to dispose it of later. The girl used to visit the nearby residence of the accused to play with his 2- year-old son, Sidhwalia police station SHO Ranjeet Paswan said. “However, no one else was present in the house when she reached there at around 12.30pm. The wife, along with the son of the accused had gone to her parental home while his mother had also been away to one of her relatives’ place,” the SHO said. The man was the prime suspect as his house had been locked. Police finally arrested him late in the evening after which he confessed to the crime. An FIR was lodged on the statement of the victim’s father. Gopalganj Sadar SDPO Naresh Paswan told TOI over phone that the man had pressed his hands on her mouth and nose to prevent her from shouting. “The girl died while he kept raping her. He realized it only later that she had died,” the SDPO said, adding the body was recovered after his arrest and confessional statement. The SDPO said the district administration has been requested to set up a medical broad for conducting postmortem. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gopalganj-man-held-for-rape-and-murder-of-9-yr-old-girl/articleshow/77771630.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Gold worth Rs 1.2 crore recovered from Dubai returnees||COIMBATORE: The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) on Tuesday extracted 2.6kg of gold worth Rs 1.2 crore that was smuggled through the Coimbatore International Airport in the form of paste on August 11 and arrested two Tirupur residents in connection with the case. DRI had received a tip-off about a Dubai-based gang attempting to smuggle gold through the airport, deputy director G Satish said. “We confronted a Palladam-based couple who landed here in an Air India Express flight under Vande Bharat Mission from Dubai after they completed immigration, medical and customs formalities. As they appeared nervous and gave contradictory answers, they were subjected to personal search. We recovered three packets stitched to their innerwear that contained gold in paste form,” the official said. “The couple, who visited the gulf country in March, was stuck there due to the Covid-19 pandemic. When they ran out of money and were struggling, a gang offered them accommodation and booked flight tickets to India,” the official said. “Smugglers are bringing in gold in paste form to dodge metal detectors and X-ray machines.” The couple was arrested on Tuesday after completing the 14-day quarantine, under the Customs Act, 1962. The gold was extracted in their presence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gold-worth-rs-1-2-cr-recovered-from-dubai-returnees/articleshow/77771611.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Pvt hosps suspect more reinfections||Hyderabad: Apart from the two cases of suspected reinfection being probed by the state health authorities, few others have been brought to the notice of the state health department by private hospitals as well. These suspected reinfection cases intimated by private hospitals are of medical professionals, just like the two others of field level medical professionals being investigated by the state health department. “There are a couple of cases which have surfaced in private hospitals. We are collecting information and will reinvestigate them now. We suspect that since these medical professionals are continuously exposed to the virus, working in ICU and isolation wards, they could be reinfected,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director of public health, Telangana adding that re-infection cases could be false positive cases too as each method of testing has its own limitations. “These are not very high in numbers and in most cases, patients were found to be symptomatic in the initial as well as the second instance,” added the official. Meanwhile, as per sources at government hospitals, there are at least three doctors who have tested positive for second time. Citing the first confirmed case from Hong Kong, the official said reinfection cases world over are reported as being less severe the second time. “Reinfection cases are showing mild symptoms as per research... In the Hong Kong case, the patient was first affected with a local strain. Later, when he moved from one part of the country to another part of the country, he was infected with the EU strain of the virus. This shows that if any country is having different strains of the virus, people may get exposed to different strains and may get re-infected,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvt-hosps-suspect-more-reinfections/articleshow/77772961.cms||Amrita Didyala
August 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Man arrested for stealing cellphones||COIMBATORE: The Race Course police arrested a 35-year-old man from Kerala for stealing mobile phones worth Rs 82,000 from a house on the Avinashi Road on Tuesday. R Naveendranathan of Thrissur district stole four mobile phones from the house of S Valuvoor on August 7, a police officer said. Naveendranathan was booked under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house) of IPC and remanded in judicial custody. The Ramanathapuram police on Tuesday booked a case against a couple for swindling Rs 18 lakh from their friend. The accused, Senthil Kumar and Nithya, who claimed to be in the business of sourcing computer spare parts, had requested complainant Vairamuthu Karthik, 40, to invest in their business. Though he transferred Rs 18 lakh to their account on July 31, the couple failed to respond, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-arrested-for-stealing-cellphones/articleshow/77771616.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Real estate agent held for raping builder’s wife||Ahmedabad: Krishnanagar police on Wednesday detain a real estate agent, Sunil Bhanderi, a resident of Hirawadi in Bapunagar, for allegedly raping a 38-year-old woman and subjecting her to unnatural sex, by threatening to publish a compromising video of her on social media. The complainant is the wife of a builder. Inspector J K Rathod said the woman had lodged the complaint on August 19. “We have detained the accused and have sent him for a pre-arrest Covid-19 test,” added Rathod. According to the FIR, the woman came in touch with the accused in 2017, as her husband is a builder. “In 2017, the accused came to her house and on finding her alone, sedated her with chocolates and raped her. She alleged that the accused made a video of the act and continued to rape her and subject her to unnatural sex at different place including some hotels in Naroda, by threatening to publish the video,” said a police official. Police sources said the woman grew tired of being blackmailed by the accused and decided to tell her husband about what had been happening since 2017. Police sources said that the woman also alleged that the accused used to threaten to frame her in a case if she told her husband or lodged a complaint. She also alleged that there were two other persons with the accused who used to threaten to kill her, sources said. Krishnanagar police officials said that as the prime accused has been held, they will soon identify the unknown persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/real-estate-agent-held-for-raping-builders-wife/articleshow/77771677.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Real estate broker held for cheating||COIMBATORE: The Sulur police on Tuesday arrested a real estate broker for cheating a man and two women in land transactions. The real estate broker, Anthony Raj, and owner of a piece of land at Perumampalayam sold the land to three different people over a period of three years. Anthony Raj was arrested based on a complaint filed by Vaadhi Anbu, a storekeeper at the Sulur Air Force. Anbu bought a 5.5 cent of plot from Subramaniam in April 2008. When Anbu recently placed the land document with a bank to apply for a housing loan, the bank while checking for encumbrances found that the same property was sold thrice — once in 2008 to Anbu and twice in 2011 to Podhumani and Kaniha. Raj had signed as a witness on all three property registration documents. Police say Raj received a commission of Rs 10,000 per cent each time he fraudulently helped sell the property. “However, legally the land belongs Anbu. Since the two women are victims, we registered a case and arrested the broker,” a sub-inspector of police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/real-estate-broker-held-for-cheating/articleshow/77771638.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Rain triggers flash flood fear in Odisha||BHUBANESWAR: The incessant rain over the last two days under the influence of low pressure on Wednesday triggered a flash flood fear in rivers Baitarani and Budhabalanga that would affect Bhadrak, Jajpur, Kendrapara and Balasore districts. The government in the wake of flash flood fear has kept collectors of these four districts on high alert, said special relief commissioner P K Jena. The SRC said they were expecting a ‘medium’ flash flood in Baitarani that will affect Bhadrak and Jajpur districts. He said the government sent National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force ( ODRAF) teams, one each to Bhadrak and Jajpur, for rescue operations. Jena also directed the district administration to evacuate people from low-lying areas. He said two more NDRF teams have been stationed at Balasore and ODRAF teams have been kept in readiness in Keonjhar and Mayurbhanj. Revenue minister Sudam Marndi said government was prepared to face any eventuality. He said direction was issued to evacuate people and carry out relief operation on a war footing. Official sources said the Baitarani was in spate and flowing above the danger mark at Akhupada and Anandpur and has started inundating its catchment areas. It is expected to create a flood-like situation by Thursday. Similarly, the Mahanadi and few more rivers like Brahmani, Budhabalanga, Jalaka and few more tributaries were rising in different pockets and have inundated some of their catchments. The other major affected districts due to rain or floodwaters include Mayurbhanj for Budhabalanga, Balasore for Jalaka and Kendrapara. Report said heavy rain claimed three lives, inundated low-lying areas and created flood-like situation at several places. Two persons were killed in Mayurbhanj district. One died in house collapse and another was electrocuted. At Keonjhar, a truck diver was washed away. Road communications were affected and vast stretches of agriculture fields were submerged. Engineer in-chief of water resources department Jyotirmaya Rath ruled out flash flood fear in any river except a ‘medium’ flood in river Baitarani. He also forecast that possible flood water of river Baitarani would recede within two to three days. A government release said nine districts received over 100 mm each and 11 more districts recorded 50 to 100 mm each in last 24 hours. The districts that received over 200 mm rainfall include Cuttack, Bhadrak, Jaipur, Kendrapara, Jagatsinghpur, Subarnapur, Keonjhar, Mayurbhanj and Boudh. Similarly, four blocks recorded over 200 mm rainfall in last 24 hours. Of them Marsaghai in Kendrapara district recorded highest of 234 mm rainfall. Director of IMD, regional centre, H R Biswas said the intensity of rain from low pressure would decrease on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/rain-triggers-flash-flood-fear-in-state/articleshow/77770307.cms||Siraj Mohammad
August 27, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Medical, paramedical students can pay fees in 4 instalments||AHMEDABAD: Students pursuing medical, dental and paramedical courses can pay annual fees in four instalments, the state government said on Wednesday. The decision was taken to provide them relief amid the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak. This will be applicable to students studying in the 515 government, grant-in-aid and self-financed colleges of the state. Students will have to pay the first instalment (25%) of annual fees in September, followed by three instalments in the subsequent three months. However, those who are financially well-off can pay the entire fees at once, a government statement said. Deputy CM Nitin Patel said that a total of 35,151 students will get relief as they can now pay fees in four instalments.  Of these, 12,307 students are from medical and dental courses, while 22,844 are from paramedical courses like nursing, BSc Nursing and physiotherapy. The annual fees for MBBS students in Gujarat range from Rs 3 lakh to Rs 15 lakh. A total of 5,360 MBBS students of six government medical colleges, eight GMERS colleges, three colleges run by municipal corporations and 11 self-financed colleges can avail of the relief, a government release said. The statement added that students can pay the first instalment of fees by September 30, the second by October 31, the third instalment by November 30 and the fourth instalment of fees by December 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/medical-paramedical-students-can-pay-fees-in-4-instalments/articleshow/77778993.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Medical, paramedical students can pay fees in 4 instalments||AHMEDABAD: Students pursuing medical, dental and paramedical courses can pay annual fees in four instalments, the state government said on Wednesday. The decision was taken to provide them relief amid the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak. This will be applicable to students studying in the 515 government, grant-in-aid and self-financed colleges of the state. Students will have to pay the first instalment (25%) of annual fees in September, followed by three instalments in the subsequent three months. However, those who are financially well-off can pay the entire fees at once, a government statement said. Deputy CM Nitin Patel said that a total of 35,151 students will get relief as they can now pay fees in four instalments.  Of these, 12,307 students are from medical and dental courses, while 22,844 are from paramedical courses like nursing, BSc Nursing and physiotherapy. The annual fees for MBBS students in Gujarat range from Rs 3 lakh to Rs 15 lakh. A total of 5,360 MBBS students of six government medical colleges, eight GMERS colleges, three colleges run by municipal corporations and 11 self-financed colleges can avail of the relief, a government release said. The statement added that students can pay the first instalment of fees by September 30, the second by October 31, the third instalment by November 30 and the fourth instalment of fees by December 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/medical-paramedical-students-can-pay-fees-in-4-instalments/articleshow/77771720.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Cuttack||Odisha leaves others behind in export preparedness||BHUBANESWAR: Odisha has bagged fifth position in overall rankings in NITI Aayog’s Export Preparedness Index 2020. Gujarat has topped the list followed by Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan. According to the report released on Wednesday, Odisha secured 58.23 points in overall category. A total of 36 states and Union territories (UTs) are in the overall rankings list. The report has divided the states and UTs into four categories – coastal (8 states), landlocked (11), Himalayan (9) and UT/city states (8). Odisha got fourth rank in coastal state category with 58.23 points. Gujarat, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu were in first three spots. Odisha’s export preparedness has left behind industrially developed states like Telangana, Haryana, Karnataka, Delhi, Punjab and Andhra Pradesh. The index ranked the state on four key parameters. It got second rank in export ecosystem pillar, which evaluates the degree of facilitation and development in fostering an export-oriented ecosystem by the state. But it secured 11th rank in each of other three parameters – policy pillar, business ecosystem pillar and export performance pillar. The report has also included 11 sub-pillars to review the performance of the states and UTs. These are export promotion policy, institutional framework, business environment, infrastructure, transport connectivity, access to finance, export infrastructure, trade support, R&D infrastructure, export diversification and growth orientation. The state has performed better in some sub-pillars and received praise from NITI Aayog. It has also under-performed in certain sections. “One of the surprising top-performances was Odisha among the coastal states. Although Odisha, unlike its other high-performing coastal and landlocked counterparts, has not been able to attract significant investments within the assigned period. However, it has taken other measures to create an enabling environment to attract businesses,” the report stated. In export ecosystem sub-category, Maharashtra, Odisha and Rajasthan have occupied the top three ranks. The state has performed well in terms of providing trade support. It has conducted 24 capacity building workshops to provide exposure to traders, guiding them into adopting best practices in exports. “Further, it is one of the top five states in terms of strengthening its research and development infrastructure. This has put the state at an advantage among others in this pillar,” said the report. “Despite being a coastal state, Odisha is an underperformer in transport connectivity sub-pillar owing to lack of multi-modal hubs and lesser freight capacity in terms of air-cargo facilities in comparison to other coastal states,” it read. Aluminum ingots has topped the list of export items from Odisha followed by ferro-chromium carbon counting and alumina calcinated. Except shrimps and prawns, most of the exported items are industrial products. Odisha has exported shrimps and prawns worth $392 million to 34 countries. Industry secretary Hemant Sharma said the state is transforming the industrial and entrepreneurial ecosystem. “We got good scores in some points and low score in other categories. We will focus on connectivity, testing laboratories of export products, specific export promotion policy and logistics to increase the scores and get a good rank. We are also discussing on transport connectivity issue to improve our export preparedness,” Sharma said. Utkal Chamber of Commerce and Industry (UCCI) president Ramesh Mahapatra said the state has brought several reforms to increase export. “The report has clearly pointed out the transport connectivity issue. Our government should work on this matter by providing connectivity to ports. We need special economic zones like other states,” Mahapatra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/state-leaves-others-behind-in-export-preparedness/articleshow/77782094.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
August 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||3.3% mortality rate in state, cases cross 90k||Ahmedabad: Gujarat in the 24 hours ending at 5pm on Wednesday added 1,197 Covid-19 positive cases, taking the total to 90,139. After three days, the state’s daily tally again inched towards the 1,200-case mark. The new cases included 253 from Surat, 163 from Ahmedabad, 124 from Vadodara, and 99 from Rajkot. With the update, cumulative cases in Ahmedabad reached 30,767, Surat’s reached 19,268, Vadodara’s 7,562, and Rajkot’s tally reached 4,243. The four districts accounted for 53.4% of daily cases on Wednesday. The state also recorded deaths of 17 Covid patients, taking the total to 2,947. The deaths include five from Ahmedabad, four each from Rajkot and Surat, two from Vadodara and one each from Dahod and Gir Somnath. With the update, the cumulative deaths in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot reached 1,697, 607, 124 and 83 respectively. A total of 1,047 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 72,308. The discharges include 174 from Surat, 164 from Ahmedabad, 108 from Jamnagar, and 51 from Mahisagar. As on Wednesday evening, active cases in Gujarat were 14,884, which were 16.5% of the cumulative positive cases in the state so far. Of the total, 80.2% patients got discharged, whereas 3.3% patients succumbed to the viral infection. Gujarat carried out 77,949 tests in 24 hours – one of the highest daily tests – taking the total to 19.69 lakh. The state health department claimed that it was 1,199 tests per day per million population. As on Wednesday evening, Gujarat has 4.77 lakh persons under quarantine, out of which 666 are in quarantine facilities, while the rest are under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3-3-mortality-rate-in-state-cases-cross-90k/articleshow/77771701.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||CCMB chief: Need to study reinfections||Hyderabad: All reports of Covid-19 reinfection need to be watched closely and investigated, Dr Rakesh Mishra, director, CSIR- Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad, has said. The most dominant clade (sub-strain) of the virus has changed from A3i to A2a in Hyderabad. A3i, which was dominant in the southern part of the country, is weaning out. The senior scientist said Covid-19 reinfection was not impossible but rare at the moment and could happen due to a variety of reasons. CCMB would like to research the cases, if it gets support from the authorities having samples of the suspected cases, he added. “There are very few suspected cases, including from Delhi, Telangana and Gujarat. Typically, in India all cases of reinfection have been those which are either health professionals or somebody who is handling samples. Security persons who are in this environment for long durations too have been affected. The issue is that we must be very sure that the person who is reinfected was tested correctly both times and there is no mistake in labelling samples, exchange of names and contamination (contamination is a big issue during sample process),” Mishra said. He said RT-PCR tests are extremely sensitive and can give false positive in case of contamination. Speaking about the two suspected cases of reinfection in Hyderabad, he said there are many things to validate before we can call it a genuine case of reinfection. “Both isolates should be sequenced to really figure out if there is a different clade of the virus (sub-strain) compared to first-time infection,” he said. Hyderabad currently is seeing most cases of a2a clade of the virus. “In case of SARS-CoV 2, the virus strain is only one but there are sub-strains. A small variation keeps changing the clade and even in one clade there can be a number of mutations. These mutations are not of much consequence but they are there and once in a while, it can make the virus stronger...” Hyderabad has largely only one clade, which is a2a, while earlier it was A3i which was seen in large numbers. “A3i has almost disappeared, going by what we sequenced the last time.” Predicting that infections will come down in the country soon, he said, “There is nothing unusual and unexpected happening with the virus so far. At the moment I don’t think reinfection is something that should bring any alarm but since it has been noticed, people should watch out carefully...”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ccmb-chief-need-to-study-reinfections/articleshow/77773000.cms||Amrita Didyala
August 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar Covid-19 cases cross 1.26 lakh marks||PATNA: Altogether 2,163 Covid-19 cases were recorded in Bihar on Wednesday, taking the total caseload to 1,26,990. The state health department also reported nine deaths, all from Patna, taking the statewide toll to 653. With 10,675 recoveries, active cases now stand at 19,570 in the state. The increase in the number of cases is the result of the continuous increase in the number of samples being tested. As per data shared by the health department, over one lakh samples were tested in the past 24 hours on Wednesday and so far more than 26.7 lakh samples have been tested in Bihar. There was a drop in the samples being tested in the past two days and as per the report, 62,215 samples were tested on Monday and 75,385 on Tuesday. State health minister Mangal Pandey stated on Wednesday that 2,234 people had recovered in 24 hours and the recovery rate in Bihar stood at 84%. Through a tweet, he stated that the state was witnessing a fall in the Covid-19 infection rate since August 1 and as of Wednesday it stood at nearly 2%. The maximum number of cases were registered in Patna with 339 people getting infected with this virus, taking the total cases in the district to 19,721. However, with 16,974 recoveries and 144 deaths, active cases stand at 2,603 in Patna. Other districts which reported a large number of cases are East Champaran (132), Muzaffarpur (124), Araria (117), Madhubani (97), Saran (97), Purnia (93), Begusarai (76) and Bhagalpur (73). As per information shared by the NMCH, two deaths were reported one each from Vaishali and Jehanabad. Both deceased were in their seventies. AIIMS-Patna Covid-19 nodal incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar informed about three deaths —a 79-year-old man from Samastipur, a 46-year-old man from Biddupur and a 60-year-old woman from Sheikhpura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-covid-cases-cross-1-26l-mark/articleshow/77771707.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 27, 2020||Coimbatore||4 Covid-19 cases reported in Nilgiris||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris district recorded only four new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 1,472. As many as 41 patients, who recovered, were discharged. The hill district has seen 1,121 Covid patients recovering so far. The district reported a Covid death on Wednesday. A 62-year-old man from Ebbanadu village succumbed to the virus. With this, the toll stands at 10. The new cases, including a woman, were reported from Kotagiri, Kilkotagiri and villages such as Uyilatti and Mallikorai. All the four cases were primary and secondary contacts of earlier positive cases with travel history. The district accounts for 341 active cases, who are being treated at government hospitals and Covid care centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/4-covid-19-cases-reported-in-nilgiris/articleshow/77771698.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Medical, paramedical students can pay fees in 4 instalments||AHMEDABAD: Students pursuing medical, dental and paramedical courses can pay annual fees in four instalments, the state government said on Wednesday. The decision was taken to provide them relief amid the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak. This will be applicable to students studying in the 515 government, grant-in-aid and self-financed colleges of the state. Students will have to pay the first instalment (25%) of annual fees in September, followed by three instalments in the subsequent three months. However, those who are financially well-off can pay the entire fees at once, a government statement said. Deputy CM Nitin Patel said that a total of 35,151 students will get relief as they can now pay fees in four instalments.  Of these, 12,307 students are from medical and dental courses, while 22,844 are from paramedical courses like nursing, BSc Nursing and physiotherapy. The annual fees for MBBS students in Gujarat range from Rs 3 lakh to Rs 15 lakh. A total of 5,360 MBBS students of six government medical colleges, eight GMERS colleges, three colleges run by municipal corporations and 11 self-financed colleges can avail of the relief, a government release said. The statement added that students can pay the first instalment of fees by September 30, the second by October 31, the third instalment by November 30 and the fourth instalment of fees by December 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/medical-paramedical-students-can-pay-fees-in-4-instalments/articleshow/77778994.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha leaves others behind in export preparedness||BHUBANESWAR: Odisha has bagged fifth position in overall rankings in NITI Aayog’s Export Preparedness Index 2020. Gujarat has topped the list followed by Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan. According to the report released on Wednesday, Odisha secured 58.23 points in overall category. A total of 36 states and Union territories (UTs) are in the overall rankings list. The report has divided the states and UTs into four categories – coastal (8 states), landlocked (11), Himalayan (9) and UT/city states (8). Odisha got fourth rank in coastal state category with 58.23 points. Gujarat, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu were in first three spots. Odisha’s export preparedness has left behind industrially developed states like Telangana, Haryana, Karnataka, Delhi, Punjab and Andhra Pradesh. The index ranked the state on four key parameters. It got second rank in export ecosystem pillar, which evaluates the degree of facilitation and development in fostering an export-oriented ecosystem by the state. But it secured 11th rank in each of other three parameters – policy pillar, business ecosystem pillar and export performance pillar. The report has also included 11 sub-pillars to review the performance of the states and UTs. These are export promotion policy, institutional framework, business environment, infrastructure, transport connectivity, access to finance, export infrastructure, trade support, R&D infrastructure, export diversification and growth orientation. The state has performed better in some sub-pillars and received praise from NITI Aayog. It has also under-performed in certain sections. “One of the surprising top-performances was Odisha among the coastal states. Although Odisha, unlike its other high-performing coastal and landlocked counterparts, has not been able to attract significant investments within the assigned period. However, it has taken other measures to create an enabling environment to attract businesses,” the report stated. In export ecosystem sub-category, Maharashtra, Odisha and Rajasthan have occupied the top three ranks. The state has performed well in terms of providing trade support. It has conducted 24 capacity building workshops to provide exposure to traders, guiding them into adopting best practices in exports. “Further, it is one of the top five states in terms of strengthening its research and development infrastructure. This has put the state at an advantage among others in this pillar,” said the report. “Despite being a coastal state, Odisha is an underperformer in transport connectivity sub-pillar owing to lack of multi-modal hubs and lesser freight capacity in terms of air-cargo facilities in comparison to other coastal states,” it read. Aluminum ingots has topped the list of export items from Odisha followed by ferro-chromium carbon counting and alumina calcinated. Except shrimps and prawns, most of the exported items are industrial products. Odisha has exported shrimps and prawns worth $392 million to 34 countries. Industry secretary Hemant Sharma said the state is transforming the industrial and entrepreneurial ecosystem. “We got good scores in some points and low score in other categories. We will focus on connectivity, testing laboratories of export products, specific export promotion policy and logistics to increase the scores and get a good rank. We are also discussing on transport connectivity issue to improve our export preparedness,” Sharma said. Utkal Chamber of Commerce and Industry (UCCI) president Ramesh Mahapatra said the state has brought several reforms to increase export. “The report has clearly pointed out the transport connectivity issue. Our government should work on this matter by providing connectivity to ports. We need special economic zones like other states,” Mahapatra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/state-leaves-others-behind-in-export-preparedness/articleshow/77770324.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
August 27, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Medical, paramedical students can pay fees in 4 instalments||AHMEDABAD: Students pursuing medical, dental and paramedical courses can pay annual fees in four instalments, the state government said on Wednesday. The decision was taken to provide them relief amid the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak. This will be applicable to students studying in the 515 government, grant-in-aid and self-financed colleges of the state. Students will have to pay the first instalment (25%) of annual fees in September, followed by three instalments in the subsequent three months. However, those who are financially well-off can pay the entire fees at once, a government statement said. Deputy CM Nitin Patel said that a total of 35,151 students will get relief as they can now pay fees in four instalments.  Of these, 12,307 students are from medical and dental courses, while 22,844 are from paramedical courses like nursing, BSc Nursing and physiotherapy. The annual fees for MBBS students in Gujarat range from Rs 3 lakh to Rs 15 lakh. A total of 5,360 MBBS students of six government medical colleges, eight GMERS colleges, three colleges run by municipal corporations and 11 self-financed colleges can avail of the relief, a government release said. The statement added that students can pay the first instalment of fees by September 30, the second by October 31, the third instalment by November 30 and the fourth instalment of fees by December 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/medical-paramedical-students-can-pay-fees-in-4-instalments/articleshow/77778995.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||35 schools in eastern part decide to slash fees||Ahmedabad: A couple of days after the state government rushed to the Gujarat high court complaining against private schools that they are not ready to reduce fees by 25% while they are shut due to the Covid-19 pandemic, 35 schools operating in the eastern part of Ahmedabad have resolved to reduce fees by 25% for the first term. A meeting was convened involving these 35 private schools situated in Nikol, Naroda and Vastral localities on Tuesday. The school managements resolved in the meeting that they would reduce fees for the first term, as the chances of opening of schools appear bleak now. The decision to give concession in fees will benefit nearly 60,000 students. Commenting on the decision taken by the school managements, district education officer (Ahmedabad-rural) R R Vyas said, “This resolution by the private schools will help parents a lot. The fees in these schools range between Rs 15,000 and Rs 60,000. Reduction by 25% will really matter because most of the students come from middle-class families.” Sources said that the schools agreed to reduce fees after education officials tried hard to persuade them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/35-schools-in-eastern-part-decide-to-slash-fees/articleshow/77771746.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fewer Guj students to take JEE-Mains||Ahmedabad: With students not keen to join engineering courses, there will be fewer students taking the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) -Mains this year as compared to the number last year. Against this, there is a marginal rise in the number of students who will be appearing in National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). This reflects the science students are leaning towards medical studies. The examination for JEE-Mains is scheduled in the first week of September, through September 1-6, and NEET will be held on September 13. The National Testing Agency on Wednesday declared the schedule and sitting arrangements for the JEE-Mains and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for those who want to pursue medical studies after school. The continual decline in interest in engineering is evident from the fact that last year 44,115 students had appeared in JEE-Mains from Gujarat but this year only 38,507 students applied from the state. Also, nearly 60% undergraduate engineering seats remained vacant last year. Since the applications were made much earlier, the reason for the lower number of students taking JEE-Mains cannot be attributed to Covid-19 pandemic, an academician said. Sources said the shift runs deeper and takers for A group in Class 12 have reduced and preference for B group (with biology) is on the rise. While nearly 79,000 students appeared in NEET last year, as many as 80,219 students have applied this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fewer-guj-students-to-take-jee-mains/articleshow/77771751.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Chennai||Todas lived in Nilgiris 3,500 years ago: Study||Until now, historians and anthropologists believed that Todas, a tribal group in the higher altitudes of the Nilgiris, reached there about 2,000 years ago. A new study by Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru researchers shows the community was already settled there 3,500-4,000 years ago when a climate change occurred in southern India. Latest research using radiocarbon dating, presence of charcoal, fungal spores associated with animal dung and steroids peculiar to human fecal matter proves the existence of humans at the higher elevation from 3,500 years ago. Team head Raman Sukumar said, "The study was carried out at Sandynallah in the Nilgiris where samples of peat soil (accumulation of partially decayed vegetation or organic matter) showed the presence of domesticated animals and human life 3,500 years ago when the climate was drier and extensive fires were recorded." Scientists infer that the Todas, who originally inhabited lower elevations with their buffalo herds, most likely adapted to sharply drier climate conditions by migrating to cooler and wetter higher reaches with their livestock. The buffalo-tending pastoral community is widely believed to be the earliest people to move into the upper Nilgiri plateau perhaps during the 1st century AD. It remained relatively isolated, until ‘discovered’ during the early 19th century by the erstwhile British administration. The higher slopes of the Nilgiris, above 2,000m above sea level, features a unique ecosystem of patches of tropical montane forests, locally known as sholas. Paleo-climatic reconstruction using stable carbon isotope analysis of peat from high-elevation valleys in the region suggests it had undergone phases of wet and arid climate, broadly in tune with well-known global climatic events since the Last Glacial Maximum, resulting in shifts in the relative dominance of mainly woody vegetation and herbs other than tropical grasses. Evidence from pollen studies also suggests presence of grassland and forest through moister and more arid phases in the Nilgiris. While these studies provided good understanding of past vegetation and associated climate, in particular strength of monsoon, the team didn’t specifically investigate human ecology associated with these changes. Several other proxies such as macro- and micro-charcoal sediments in abundance as a record of fires, including those of possible anthropogenic origin, fungal spores associated with animal dung, leaf wax lipids characteristic of different plant types and 100 steroid compounds indicative of animal and human faeces have been found and are useful to understand the relationship among climate, vegetation and human presence, said Sukumar. Lipid-biomarkers, powerful tools in resolving past plant or animal origin, have been hardly explored in paleo-ecological research in India. Based mainly on linguistic affinities of the Toda language with the common Dravidian languages of southern India, it was earlier suggested that the Toda origin in the Nilgiris is not more than 2,000 years old. The new study calls for fresh investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/todas-lived-in-nilgiris-3500-years-ago-study/articleshow/77771591.cms||P Oppili
August 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||City scores 100% for season||Ahmedabad: The city of Ahmedabad has received 100% of its annual rainfall of 798mm. In fact, rain in the city is going strong even after the century — 806mm of rain has been recorded so far. Over the past five days, the city got 106mm of rain, or 13% of its total seasonal rainfall. The city had received 70mm of rain at 7pm on August 21 and on August 26 at 7pm, the total figure touched 806mm. Officials said that over the past 24 hours, the city received 12mm of rain which was heavy in northwest and western parts. Thaltej, Gota, Ghatlodia, Memnagar, Naranpura, Paldi, and Usmanpura received heavy rain on Wednesday. The city had by August 26 in 2017 received 120% of its annual seasonal rainfall. In 2018, the figure was just 45% and in 2019 it was 65%. The officials said that this year, the south west zone of the city (Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Bopal-Ghuma, Sarkhej, and Maktampura) has received the highest rainfall of 907mm. The central zone has received 844mm. The officials said that this year, over 600 trees have been uprooted in the city so far following heavy rains. Nearly 10,000 areas have reported damaged roads. IMD officials said that the city is likely to receive light to moderate rain in some areas on Thursday. Maximum temperature reported in Ahmedabad on Wednesday was 32°C, 0.3° below normal. Minimum temperature was 25°C, 0.1° above normal. The state has received 108% (894mm) of the seasonal rainfall of 831mm. According to state government officials, only 32 talukas of the 251 have received rain below 500mm. According to the state revenue control room, in June Gujarat received 122mm of rain. The figure was 229mm in July and 543mm in August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-scores-100-for-season/articleshow/77771739.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Coimbatore||17-year-old boy arrested for molesting minor girl||COIMBATORE: A 17-year-old boy was arrested on Tuesday for sexually harassing a minor girl in the city. The accused, a student in a private college, used to live near the house of the girl, a student of Class IX. A few months ago, when the girl was filling water from a public tap near her house, the accused shot pictures of her on his phone. He threatened her to speak to him or he would post her pictures on social media, said a police official. Subsequently, he took her to a vacant site behind her house and attempted to molest her. But the girl fled from the spot, the official said. A few days ago, the accused again compelled the girl to accompany him to an isolated location. The girl informed her parents, who in turn filed a complaint at Ramanathapuram all women police station. Police arrested the boy under Protection of Children from Sexual Offenses (Pocso) Act, Information Technology (IT) act and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC. He has been lodged at a juvenile home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/17-yr-old-boy-arrested-for-molesting-minor-girl/articleshow/77771725.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||SOP story at Ahmedabad malls: Is trial an error? Not sure!||AHMEDABAD: These are trying times for shoppers at malls: can they try on clothes or not? Some outlets say yes, others assert that trials breach Covid norms. A couple of Ahmedabad malls were sealed recently because they had allowed customers to try on clothes and test personal items. The trials had apparently violated the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the civic authorities. So mall owners ordered retailers to stop allowing trials in line with the new SOPs. “We have asked store owners not to encourage trials of clothing or shoes, or testing of cosmetics,” said Aditya Shah, CFO, Gulmohar Park Mall. “We will continue to follow the SOPs for the safety of our patrons.” At Ahmedabad One Mall, trial of all products has been banned. Initially, when malls reopened in June, their owners issued advisories discouraging clothing trials. However, the final decision was left to individual stores. When TOI contacted several garment retailers in the city, responses were mixed about the trial protocols. An official at a department store in Jodhpur said that trials have been temporarily disallowed. But the store offers return or exchange options. The manager of a store in Prahladnagar said that only the garment finalized by the customer for purchase is given for trial and an alternate size is provided if necessary. He said customers are discouraged from trying on multiple outfits. Harshad Solanki, the director of the solid waste department of the AMC, said that Central Mall was sealed some time ago because social distancing norms were not being followed. He said that in several shops at the mall, people had queued up outside trial rooms. Solanki said there are no separate SOPs for shoes and cosmetics. He said a person buying shoes will have to wear socks before trying them on. Cosmetics like lipsticks should be tested on sanitized hands. “Our teams regularly check establishments,” Solanki said. The manager of a store selling women’s clothes on CG Road said trials are allowed. He said the outfit tried on is stored in a box for 24 hours, sanitized, and steam-pressed before getting back on the shelf. “The sole benefit of buying clothes from a store instead of online is the chance to try them on,” said a retailer at a mall. “The demand was already down. These SOPs deter customers from buying.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sop-story-at-malls-is-trial-an-error-not-sure/articleshow/77771749.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Goa||Villagers write to Javadekar on proposed projects in Mollem forest areas||Panaji: Over 300 distressed residents from villages around the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park have written to the minister of environment forests and climate change (MoEFCC), Prakash Javadekar addressing about three infrastructure projects within protected forest areas. “Our villages were not even informed about the projects in the early stages. We would like to bring to your notice that the felling of 59,024 trees and clearing of 250.285 hectares of pristine forest land will have a negative impact on our livelihoods, sustenance and cultural identity,” the letter to the minister states. The government has granted clearances for three major infrastructure projects; doubling of South Western Railway’s track from Hospet to Vasco, 4-laning of NH4A and the Goa –Tamnar power transmission project. The letter urged the Goa chief minister, the national board for wildlife, the state government and the high court to represent their voices, revoke the clearances of these three projects and help save the forests. The citizens also expressed anguish about the lack of clarity on the project clearances, “We were not even aware when our trees were marked for the laying of a line-in lineout (LILO) transmission lines. What is the risk of accidents and health hazard potential with heavy towers and strong electric and magnetic fields associated with the transmission lines, we don’t even know. Expansion of highways and railways would increase accident rates both in livestock and humans. They would disturb the integrity of our villages by letting in unwanted miscreants and disturbances. It is an utter shame that our natural resource rich forests are extremely underrated and treated as mere corridors for larger economic and infrastructural projects which are of absolutely no help to our villages.” The letter also highlights the consequences caused by mining and mismanagement of resources by mining companies in the past which have affected agricultural communities and livestock. It also shed light on the interconnectedness and dependency between these forests and various communities, as well as acquiring, refining and passing on knowledge about the forests for generations. “The Dhangars or Govali - one of the oldest tribal communities of the world, live in close proximity to the forests, they share an intricate relationship with these ecosystems largely depending on it for food, medicines, firewood, and other forest produce like honey. Forest undergrowth also provides a grazing source for the livestock owned by the Dhangars, who are primarily herders. They have been sustainably using these forest resources ensuring minimal disturbance to the ecosystem. Velips are yet another tribal community that share a close-knit connection with the natural resources of Mollem. A number of rare plants found in the forests form a part of our seasonal diets, our cultures, our rituals and all these resources are highly threatened by these non-eco centric development projects in our ecologically sensitive protected area,” the signatories wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/villagers-write-to-javadekar-on-proposed-projects-in-mollem-forest-areas/articleshow/77773053.cms||Nida Sayed
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC junks Karvy’s pleas challenging SFIO probe||HYDERABAD: In a setback for scam-hit Karvy Stock Broking Ltd (KSBL), the Telangana High Court on Wednesday dismissed the two petitions filed by the beleaguered company challenging the Union corporate affairs ministry’s (MCA) decision to order a probe into the company’s affairs through its investigation agency Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) and the Registrar of Companies (RoC). Justice A Rajasheker Reddy of the Telangana HC not only refused to accept KSBL’s argument that the Centre ordered the probe without sufficient material before it, he also brushed aside the company’s allegation that the Centre’s action was contrary to the provisions of the Companies Act. Agreeing with the argument of the assistant solicitor general (ASG) of India in the Telangana HC, Namavarapu Rajeswara Rao, that the MCA followed the law in all respects, the judge dismissed Karvy’s pleas. A copy of the judgment is yet to be uploaded onto the court’s website. In his argument, the ASG contended that markets regulator Sebi, the oversight committee of the ministry, the RoC, the regional director of the ministry, a forensic audit and several others have gone through the complaints against Karvy and concluded that a thorough probe is essential. The ASG stated that Karvy flouted the norms by pledging its clients’ shares without their consent to raise Rs 1,141 crore and diverted the money to its realty company. Reacting to Wednesday’s judgment, Karvy’s counsel said they will file an appeal against the high court order. Contending that Sebi’s order Sebi was ex parte and interim in nature and that the NSE order was temporary in nature, the Karvy counsel said the company has not yet made its representation. He said RoC has taken recourse to documents that are interim in nature and have not yet been explained by the company, which is why KSBL believes it they will be in a position to substantiate and submit the factual position with respect to most of the issues that have been raised. He also said KSBL has sorted out and effected payments to over 1.3 lakh clients and is in the process of settling the balances as soon as they mobilise the funds, which will be done very shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-hc-dismisses-karvy-petitions-challenging-probe-by-sfio-roc/articleshow/77771745.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Pharmacy colleges told to submit staff salary records||Hyderabad: After receiving complaints from faculty that colleges were not paying salaries and are sacking them during the Covid-19 pandemic, the Pharmacy Council of India (PCI) has directed college managements to submit bank statements of salaries paid since January 2020. The council has also asked managements to submit details of faculty who have been terminated or have resigned. “It has come to the notice of the council that some institutions are not paying salary to the teaching faculty and have even terminated the services of the faculty. In this connection, it is clarified that the release of salary to teaching faculty should be strictly done,” reads a circular from PCI. In the circular, PCI has asked colleges to submit total salary paid to a faculty member, TDS deducted, bank transaction id/date, the signature of principal, signature of the teaching staff concerned along with the faculty name, designation, and qualifications. The council also asked colleges to submit details of new faculty appointed in place of those terminated, qualification, experience, date of appointment and joining, along with signs of principal and newly appointed faculty. Faculty working with various pharmacy colleges in the city said that they are being paid hardly 25% to 50% of their total salary since April. “We have been struggling as the management is paying only 25% salary. We don’t even know whether or not the deferred salaries will be paid at a later stage,” said a faculty working at a pharmacy college located in the outskirts of the city. Members of the Telangana Technical Institutions Employees Association said that they had made several representations but no concrete action or steps have been taken to address the issue, except for issuing circulars. The college managements, meanwhile, said that they are doing their best to ensure that their staff gets at least a part of their salary to survive. “Right now, there is no clarity on whether the fee reimbursement amount will be paid for all 12 months or from the time classes will resume. Even with uncertainty, we are paying at least 50% of salaries to most of the staff. Once, the situation normalizes, we will pay complete salaries,” said K Ramadas, president, Telangana Pharmacy College Managements Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pharmacy-colleges-told-to-submit-staff-salary-records/articleshow/77771758.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
August 27, 2020||Goa||Shripad Naik improving, now on high flow nasal oxygen: Goa CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Wednesday that Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik has shown further improvement, and has been shifted from non-invasive ventilation (NIV) to high flow nasal oxygen, a form of respiratory support. “He will need 2-3 more days before being put on normal oxygen. I’m confident he will be cured,” Sawant told reporters. Naik has been in hospital for two weeks with Covid-19. After his oxygen saturation dropped on Monday, a team of doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and Armed Forces Command hospital rushed to Goa. While the team had come ready to evacuate him, they decided to continue his treatment here. Since Monday evening, Naik’s condition has gradually improved. Dr Shekhar Salkar, chief of clinical services at Manipal hospitals, where Naik is being treated, said “he (Naik) is much better today than yesterday”. However, Naik’s RT-PCR test for Covid-19 on Wednesday came positive. “It is mildly positive,” Salkar said. “We will repeat the test in 48 hours.” Meanwhile, Sawant clarified that it hasn’t been decided whether a specialist from AIIMS needs to be deployed in the state, but that a decision would be reached after consultation with the medical team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/naik-improving-now-on-high-flow-nasal-oxygen-sawant/articleshow/77773022.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fire safety: Gujarat HC seeks report from government, AMC||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday sought thorough and detailed affidavits from the state government and the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on what efforts are taken to implement fire safety laws and what is the condition of buildings – hospitals, malls, high-rises, schools etc. — so far as fire safety equipment and fire no-objection certificates (NOCs) are concerned. While dealing with the PIL seeking action in the Shrey Hospital fire case, where eight Covid-19 patients were killed on August 6, the bench of Chief Jutice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala issued notice to the authorities and sought detailed replies by September 30. Meanwhile, the HC has ordered the authorities to continue measures for implementation of fire safety laws. The HC also observed that the petitioner advocate Amit Panchal had drawn its attention “to a very interesting feature” that the Fire Safety Act, which was brought out to deal with poor fire-fighting capabilities in Ahmedabad, has not been applied to the municipal corporation limits. “…the State needs to explain as to why the eight municipalities in the State of Gujarat have been excluded from the purview of the 2013 Act,” the HC has sought to know because this law has introduced punitive measures for violation of fire safety rules. The judges took notice of a TOI report about only 91 hospitals having fire NOCs of the total 2,202 hospitals in the city, and said, “We make it clear that the court requires a thorough and complete counter affidavit.” The HC also made it clear that it will not restrict the scope of the PIL to hospitals only, “but it would encompass all the buildings which require fire safety equipment to be necessarily installed as per the (Fire Safety) Act, Rules and Regulations and its use to be permitted only after issuance of No Objection Certificate by the concerned Fire Department”.  The court said so because the petitioner raised “a much wider cause in public interest which relates to the statutory provisions relating to fire fighting equipment, No Objection Certificates in buildings which compulsorily require a No Objection Certificate from the Fire Department, installing necessary fire safety equipment in all buildings covered by the 2013 Act which include high-rise buildings, hospitals, office complexes, schools, malls, etc.”The HC has sought all necessary information about the situation prevailing across the state, not limited to the city of Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fire-safety-hc-seeks-report-from-govt-amc/articleshow/77771791.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Laddu prasadam distributed to 500 devotees||Hyderabad: Organisers of the Khairatabad Ganesh Utsav Committee distributed laddu prasadam to around 500 devotees who visited the pandal on Wednesday. The distribution process passed off peacefully. Two laddus were donated by sweetmakers to the nine-foot Khairatabad Ganesha on Ganesh Chaturthi on August 22. A sweetmaker from East Godavari district in Andhra Pradesh donated a 100 kg Tapeshwaram laddu, while sweetmaker from Miyapur in the city donated a 200 kg laddu. The prasadam distribution began at around 5 pm amid tight security and concluded within one-and-half hour. “We distributed the laddu prasadam to nearly 300 to 500 devotees who visited the pandal while maintaining physical distance. The next laddu distribution will be held soon,” organiser of the Khairatabad Ganesh Utsav Committee S Raj Kumar told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/laddu-prasadam-distributed-to-500-devotees/articleshow/77771797.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Reservoirs in state 76% full||Ahmedabad: The 204 dams in the state are up to 76% of their water storage capacity of 15,800 million cubic metres (MCM). Some 92 dams are completely full, while the Sardar Sarovar Narmada dam, the life line of the state, has 72.33% of its total storage of 9,460 MCM. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation is closely watching water inflows at Dharoi dam, where the water level is at 604 feet against its overflow level of 622 feet. The AMC is also keeping an eye on rainfall in Mehsana and north Gujarat. Officials said if water is released from Dharoi, the level in the Sabarmati will rise, forcing the authorities to evacuate people in low-lying areas of the city. State government data shows that the 140 dams in Saurashtra region are about 92% full. This is 936 MCM more than at the same point last year. The storage in the 17 dams in central Gujarat is at 84% . Officials said the water level in the Sardar Sarovar is 129.65m and inflows are 1.07 lakh cusecs. Officials said the overflowing dams mean upstream check dams have also also overflowed and this is good news for farmers. However, farmers will be concerned if heavy rain continues as it will damage crops. Officials said 92 dams are overflowing and 48 others are at 90% of storage capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/reservoirs-in-state-76-full/articleshow/77771815.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Goa||‘Underperformer’ Goa ranks 16 in Niti Aayog export readiness list||PANAJI: In NITI Aayog’s first report to examine export preparedness and performance of Indian states, Goa has been classified as an under-performer and has ranked 16th at the national level. NITI Aayog has categorised Goa among Union territories, where the state comes second to Delhi. As per the Export Preparedness Index (EPI) 2020 report, Goa has a score of 40.9 out of 100 and Delhi 45.8 for export preparedness. The national average is 50. The lack of export infrastructure, trade support, and research and development infrastructure cost Goa with the state picking up an embarrassing score of 8 out of 100 for export ecosystem. The state got zero marks for export infrastructure, trade support, and R&D infrastructure. What did work in the state’s favour are the dedicated export promotion policy and export performance with the state being classified as an over-performer in these categories. Goa got 66.16 for the export promotion policy and 52.16 for export performance. NITI Aayog prepared the report in partnership with the Institute of Competitiveness. It is meant to help states identify challenges and opportunities, enhance the effectiveness of government policies, and encourage a facilitative regulatory framework. “The Indian economy holds immense potential to become a strong exporter on the world stage. To realise this potential, it is crucial that India turns to its states and Union territories and makes them active participants in the country’s export efforts,” said NITI Aayog vice chairman Dr Rajiv Kumar. “It is hoped that the detailed insights from this index will guide all stakeholders towards strengthening the export ecosystem at both the national and sub-national levels.” The data in the report showed that pharmaceutical products, iron ore and fish form the major chunk for Goa’s exports. “Among the Union territories, Goa and Andaman and Nicobar islands have registered the best performance. For Goa, its mainly due to the high export to GDP ratio and increase in number of exporters,” said the NITI Aayog report. Overall, most of the coastal states are the best performers. Gujarat, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu occupy the top three ranks, respectively. Six of the eight coastal states feature in the top ten rankings, indicating the presence of strong enabling and facilitating factors to promote exports. Chief executive officer, NITI Aayog, Amitabh Kant said that the index would guide state governments to improve their performance with respect to export promotion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/underperformer-goa-ranks-16-in-niti-export-readiness-list/articleshow/77773025.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Nagpur||State shunts out isolated Mundhe as civic chief||Nagpur: Even as the city heads towards a peak in Covid-19 cases, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe was transferred out on Wednesday. He will now be member secretary of Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran (MJP), in his 15th posting as an IAS officer over 15 years. He headed Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) for seven months, probably his shortest tenure. Rumours of Mundhe’s transfer had been going around since ministers from the district, including guardian minister Nitin Raut, raised the demand in June. On Wednesday, the state government issued his transfer order and directed him to hand over charge to 2008 batch IAS officer Radhakrishnan B immediately. No reason was given for the transfer. Raut did not respond to TOI’s calls and messages. He was in Mumbai for cabinet meeting. Last month, Raut had said Mundhe was working under his guidance and he was impressed with Mundhe’s work in containing spread of Covid-19. Mundhe is currently in isolation since Tuesday after having tested positive for Covid. A few days ago, CM Uddhav Thackeray in an interview had said that there is unnecessary opposition against Mundhe and the people of Nagpur should be with him. Union minister and city MP Nitin Gadkari had also asked the central government to take action against Mundhe in July. This was after mayor Sandip Joshi alleged Mundhe was not valid CEO of Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSCDCL), and intentionally hurt the project. According to government sources, this was the main reason for his transfer. The National Commission for Women was also probing Mundhe for harassment, in a case filed by the company secretary of NSSCDCL. Some days ago, after reviewing the epidemic situation with Mundhe, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis had said ongoing disputes between civic chief and NMC office bearers were not proper. After assuming charge on January 28, Mundhe revamped the entire administrative set up of NMC, and stopped all works proposed by mayor and corporators citing NMC’s financial crisis and huge liabilities. Since then, the ruling party BJP was up in arms against Mundhe and ordered various inquiries. Joshi said, “Mundhe has been unfortunately transferred. NMC office bearers and I had never demanded his transfer. The government has powers to transfer, and Sena-Congress are in power. I don’t have any idea why he was transferred. But it is also unfortunate that he has been transferred 15 times in 15 years.” He added, “Mundhe should move forward in his career by taking public representatives into confidence. I had no personal enmity with him. As mayor, I only expected him to work along with public representatives. He had the unfortunate tendency to feel whatever he thinks was correct and public representatives don’t know anything.” Despite a tenure of three years, none of the last three municipal commissioners have completed their term in NMC. Mundhe is the third civic chief to be transferred out in two years. Virendra Singh, who had also stopped works citing NMC’s bad financial condition and not allowed relaxations to builders, had been replaced by Abhijit Bangar in six months. Bangar also worked for only 14 months though he had good rapport with all. Mundhe had gained popularity for stringent action against corrupt officials and resolving citizen’s complaints in just a day or two by means of an app and Janata Durbar. He had implemented proactive measures to contain spread of Covid-19, which were credited by the central government’s Rapid Response Team for fewer deaths and cases till May. Some measures implemented by him were later adopted by the government too. The city witnessed a surge in deaths and cases from beginning of August, after easing of lockdown. Mundhe had continued to enforce full lockdown in city even after the government issued orders for some relaxation. Two days ago, Mundhe told TOI the city may witness peak of coronavirus from end of August to September 15 or more. Having tested positive, he has continued working from home. Mundhe refused to comment on his transfer. West Nagpur MLA and president of city Congress Vikas Thakre was the first to demand Mundhe’s transfer. “People elect public representatives, and go to them to get problems solved. If they given any wrong suggestion or proposal, the civic chief should tell them. But he needs to listen and implement good suggestions,” he said. NCP corporator Duneshwar Pethe said, “Mundhe is an efficient and transparent officer and his transfer is a loss for the city. Be it action against encroachments or other civic services, he was perfect.” Ravindra Ghidode from Aam Aadmi Party said, “Mundhe was an honest and efficient officer. He paid the price for working for the people and city. Ruling as well as opposition in NMC wanted him gone as he had removed contractor raj and corruption. He was also improving NMC’s financial situation by not allowing unnecessary expenditure. He managed to control the epidemic and left the city in better position than other cities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-shunts-out-isolated-mundhe-as-civic-chief/articleshow/77772909.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 27, 2020||Goa||Goa students, CM keen for tests to be conducted||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Wednesday that all safety measures implemented in Goa while conducting the state board exams during the pandemic would also be taken in conducting the upcoming JEE and NEET. “Over 19,000 students took secondary and higher secondary board exams this year. None tested positive for Covid. We took sanitation measures. Even the Goa Common Entrance Test (GCET) was conducted with success. JEE and NEET can also be conducted with the same measures,” he said. Goa students too said they are eager for the exam to be held as they are tired of the prolonged deferment. “It is getting tougher and tougher as the days go by to keep studying, as we have been (studying) for the past two years for the exam,” said Gaurav Awasthi. “I personally feel the exams should be held at least where possible. Separate arrangements should be made for admissions of those from containment zones, etc.” Students said they are satisfied with the precautions mentioned in the centrally-issued notification with regards to safety measures, as only 12 to 13 students will be seated per class. “If there is any more delay in holding the tests, the performance of the students may be affected,” said Vyankatesh Prabhudesai of Mushtifund Aryaan Higher Secondary School, near Panaji, where students are trained to crack JEE and NEET.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-students-keen-for-jee-neet-to-go-ahead/articleshow/77773026.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Kozhikode||Communist Pacha’s entry to state had political reasons||KOZHIKODE: The ubiquitous invasive plant Communist Pacha or Siam weed (Chromolaena odorata) found in every corner of the state has a real political connection behind its accidental introduction to the state, apart from the plant being named after the Communist parties. A study conducted by researchers at Kerala Forest Research Institute (KFRI) on the socio-political reasons which led to the introduction and spread of invasive plants says that Siam weed made its way to the state mainly through the returning labourers who were recruited to Assam by the British government and agencies for World War II efforts. The political ecology behind spread on invasive plants was probed as part of the study conducted by researcher R Soumya and T V Sajeev, senior principal scientist at KFRI, and was published in the international journal Tropical Ecology. As part of the study, telephonic and email enquiries were conducted with officials of 30 botanical gardens across the country and established prior to independence about the presence of two major invasive plants —Siam weed and Lantana camara— in their gardens. The various situations leading to the introduction of Siam weed to Kerala were also traced by personal communication with World War II veterans. The study says that large-scale recruitment of people from the state by the British government and related private agencies to Assam and Sri Lanka provided a favourable setting for the accidental introduction of Siam weed from Assam to Kerala. “The undisputed opinion of all World War II veterans surveyed was that the war period was a time when Kerala witnessed several crises, including scarcity of food. The availability of sufficient food in military aggravated people to participate in World War II and many people were recruited to Assam and Sri Lanka as labourers during late 1930s and early 1940s,” the study said. According to accounts by 84% of veterans surveyed, they were assigned the task of forest area clearance, making roads and other facilities for the war. Also, the presence of C. odorata was reported in 1934 by Kanjilal in his study ‘Flora of Assam’, thus supporting the chance of the species being introduced to Kerala from Assam These accounts support the premise about accidental introduction of Siam weed through seeds of the plant clinging onto the clothing of the returning labourers from Assam. Leading expert on invasive plants, T V Sajeev said that the Siam weed earned the name ‘Communist Pacha’ in Malayalam due to its fast spreading nature which many considered akin to the Communist party which came to power in the first elections held to the state assembly in 1957 despite being banned earlier. The century-long practice of introduction and exchange of plants by colonial officials paved way for the accidental introduction of a number of plants, and Siam weed was one of the inadvertent introductions to the botanical gardens in the country in 1800s. Also, the researchers point to another possibility of the invasive plant making way to the state from Sri Lanka, a frontline British base during the war. The study has found that the introduction of another major invasive species Lantana camara to Kerala happened prior to 1872 as the first report of its presence was from Malabar area. The various possible pathways for the entrance to Kerala might be through missionaries, shifting cultivation and tribal movement. An invasive plant is one that is both non-native and able to establish on many sites, grow quickly, and spread to the point of disrupting plant communities or ecosystems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/communist-pachas-entry-to-state-had-political-reasons/articleshow/77771824.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Bhopal||162 more infections take Bhopal’s Covid count near 10,000||BHOPAL: A total 162 people, including a senior IAS officer of principal secretary rank, tested positive for Covid-19 in the state capital on Wednesday. The senior IAS officer, who had tested positive, lives at 74 Bungalows, which houses many other VIPs, including MLAs and ministers. The minister of the department, which is headed by the officer who has now tested positive, is currently in hospital for coronavirus, which was diagnosed around a week ago. The list of 162 positive people, diagnosed on Tuesday, includes 16 minors and 21 senior citizens. Of the 16 minors, seven are under 10 years of age and, of them, four children are aged below five years. With these new cases, the tally of Covid-19 patients in the city reached 9,845 on Wednesday. The list of people who have tested positive also includes five doctors from various localities of the city. Among the areas from where people have tested positive includes five people, including three of a family from Professors’ Colony, One person had tested positive from Arera Colony, two people from posh Char Imli area have also tested positive, while six from TT Nagar have tested positive. The list of people testing positive in the city also includes six employees of SBI’s local headquarters, said sources. Among the positive persons are also three jawans of the 3 EME center, Bhopal, added sources. There has been a spurt in number of cases in the city and more than 3,400 people have tested positive so far during August in the city. This averages to around 130 cases per day, which is below the average cases of around 150 that were reported in the month of July when the district administration has imposed a 10-day lockdown from the night of July 24 to August 3, in the city, said sources. So far, a total 270 deaths have been reported in the city due to Covid-19, added sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/162-more-infections-take-citys-covid-count-near-10k/articleshow/77773028.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Madurai||Madurai’s positivity rate is now lowest among 37 districts||MADURAI: The positivity rate of Covid-19 in Madurai has come down to 2.5%, the lowest among 37 districts, which is comforting as beds in Covid care centres were lying vacant at present, said minister for revenue, disaster management and IT R B Udayakumar. Speaking at a review meeting on the Covid-19 situation in Madurai on Wednesday, he said that not less than 3,500 samples were being tested in the district daily now. The positivity rate, which had been 5%, had gone up with the easing of lockdown and touched 20% due to lack of awareness among the people. Since then, due to the active coordinated efforts of various departments on the instructions of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, the positivity rate has come down. All the beds established in the covid care centres, including those in Madurai Kamaraj University, Thiagarajar College, Agricultural College, Thoppur hospital, Madurai Kamaraj University college, ESI hospital, railway hospital and IT park were now vacant. He said that as many as 3,678 fever camps had been conducted in the district in the last 15 days and 1,38,334 people had participated in them. Samples were collected from 18,850 people. The district has seen as many as 13,290 Covid-19 cases till date of which 12,300 have recovered. Welfare measures to the tune of Rs 1.87 crore were distributed to various beneficiaries at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurais-positivity-rate-is-now-lowest-among-37-districts/articleshow/77773718.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Chennai||If people don’t fight discrimination based on caste, they promote it||By M Ravindran On August 15, in the 74th year of India’s independence, V Amirtham, panchayat president of Aathupakkam near Gummidipoondi, was prevented from hoisting the national flag by her fellow office-bearers because she was a dalit. Read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/to-fight-caste-discrimination-is-about-changing-attitude-than-law/articleshow/77778710.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/if-people-dont-fight-discrimination-based-on-caste-they-promote-it/articleshow/77771830.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Goa||Goa speaker Rajesh Patnekar in GMC cardiac ICU for breathlessness||PANAJI/BICHOLIM: Speaker Rajesh Patnekar was admitted to state-run GMC for thorough cardiac evaluation on Friday morning. Patnekar, who has a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), diabetes mellitus and coronary artery disease, has been admitted to cardiac intensive care unit for breathlessness and minimal fluid retention. An angioplasty was performed on him in 2014. “His vital parameters are stable and the first stage of evaluation has been completed,” cardiology department associate professor Dr Manjunath Desai said. He is likely to remain in the hospital for a few days until his entire evaluation is completed, Desai stated. Earlier in the day, Patnekar posted on social media that he went to GMC with a prior appointment for a routine check-up. “My doctors advised me to do some further tests for which I have been admitted. I’m feeling perfectly fine and by the grace of god and by prayers of my family, friends and well-wishers, I hope to be back serving people at the earliest,” the speaker’s post read. He has asked his well-wishers not to visit him at the hospital in view of the Covid pandemic and to ensure that other patients and hospital staff are not disturbed. In the afternoon, Chief minister Pramod Sawant and health minister Vishwajit Rane visited GMC to inquire about Patnekar’s health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/patnekar-in-gmc-cardiac-icu-for-breathlessness/articleshow/77773029.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Bhopal||Helpdesk for Covid patients’ kin starts at Bhopal's Hamidia hospital||BHOPAL: A ‘helpdesk’ for Covid-19 patients and their kin started operating at Hamidia hospital from Wednesday. The platform will work as a bridge between a Covid-19 patient and his family members, so that they remain in touch and communication between them continues even while they can't see one another face-to-face during treatment of the infected person at the hospital. The need for such a platform was being felt for a long time as a patient ‘isolated’ from the family and vice-versa were adding to ‘anxiety and stress’ on both sides.Some of the Covid-19 patients died in the hospital during treatment without being able to talk to their kin from the hospital. “People are not so scared of coronavirus as much as going to hospital leaving his family behind and an uncertain future. Unfortunately if he dies, he wouldn't be able to talk to them. The same fear haunted the family as well. With this facility, they will be more assured,” said relative of a woman, who died of coronavirus infection at Hamidia hospital. Divisional commissioner, Kavindra Kiyavat, had mooted the idea of a helpdesk at Hamidia hospital sometime ago. On Wednesday, the helpdesk started functioning. NGO, Bhopal Group for Information & Action (BGIA) and Bhopal School of Social Sciences (BSSS) have come together to run the helpdesk. “Telephone counselling is different from face-to-face counselling. Voice modulation, empathy, prompt and effective response in a short span of time and distinguishing between genuine and crank calls, all this is important when you are manning a phone to be a bridge between a patient and his relatives,” said head of department, psychology, BSSS, Dr Vinay Mishra, who is counselling the students of his college before they start counselling the patients and their family at the hospital. The helpline is open from 8 am to 8 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/helpdesk-for-covid-patients-kin-starts-at-hamidia/articleshow/77773032.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||After long wait, GHMC begins clearing garbage||HYDERABAD: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) started clearing the garbage that had been dumped since March on Wednesday in the parking area of Jalagam Vengal Rao Park in Banjara Hills after a resident reported the apathy on TOI’s Citizen Reporter app. With Swachh auto tippers too dumping the garbage in the bins installed near the park, residents feared that their locality would soon turn into a designated dump yard. The parking area was filled with garbage, piles of mud and tree branches, and a few used PPE kits were also found dumped near the bins. “I thank TOI for resolving the issue, the sanitation issue was haunting dozens of residents living near the park, especially residents of Elite’s Pride Apartment, on Road No. 5, Banjara Hills,” said Ashok Singh, who had reported the issue to TOI. Residents said that the area had been filthy since March and despite reporting the issue to the authorities concerned several times, their grievance was not addressed. Hari Krishna, who maintains the sewage treatment plant near the park, said that the issue was not addressed despite several complaints to GHMC. “The officials did not address the issue despite several complaints. I urge the authorities to catch hold of the offenders who dumped the bio-hazardous waste near the park and take strict action against them,” he said. On Wednesday, a group of six sanitation workers and a truck to transport the waste were pressed into service. “The horticulture wing will continue the cleaning on Thursday too and measures will be taken to maintain cleanliness in and around the park,” said Dr Ravi Kanth, GHMC assistant medical officer of health, Jubilee Hills circle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-long-wait-ghmc-begins-clearing-garbage/articleshow/77771829.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Kochi||Delay in communication hit rescue work at Pettimudy||IDUKKI: Lack of timely communication affected speeding up rescue works at the landslide site in Pettimudy on August 7. According to sources, post-mortem found that some deaths occurred on August 7 morning, after eight hours of the incident. The delay of the communication also affected the rescue operations, said sources. Hadlee Ranjit, one of the rescue workers, said, “One of the main hindrance during the rescue mission was communication. I recall the last day when we found three dead bodies. The team couldn’t communicate with the base station due to lack of coverage. That day the whole team was split up into teams of 15-20 consisting of members from NDRF, fire force, adventure tour operators, and people from local villages. One of teams found all the three bodies. But since they couldn’t communicate with the base station or other teams, they stayed near the body for almost three hours. They waited for the other teams to come with a vehicle and wireless so that they could share the message.” Devikulam sub-collector S Prem Krishnan said, “I got information about the incident around 7:30am. An official from KDHP company informed about a mudslide in the layams at Pettimudy, and sought a JCB to remove the mud. I immediately arranged it. But we got the real picture of the accident after nearly one hour.” “Had we got information of the landslide, we could have started the rescue operations immediately and more people could have been rescued. But due to heavy rain and night time, I am unsure how much could have been possible in operations that day,” he added. Idukki MP Dean Kuriakose said, “It’s a mystery that the landslide information was revealed after eight hours of the incident. I would like to know from the government as to why the information was delayed.” Dr Jinu Abrham, forensic surgeon of Idukki medical college and part of the post-mortem team of bodies from Pettimudy, said that he had a close relation with the people at Pettimudy since he worked in Devikulam CHC. “Deaths in Pettimudy landslide could have been from various reasons. Death will be delayed in some cases when bleeding is slow. Bleeding is delayed if the body is in water or a cool place,” said Dr Abraham. Dr Prasanth V K,medical officer, KP Colony, Nedumkandam, and forensic surgeon who was part of the team, said, “I conducted post-mortem in seven cases and supervised 25 cases. Deaths were due to chocking, injuries sustained to chest, and few cases of multiple injuries sustained.” Tribal panchayat Edamalakkudy and many parts of Munnar and Marayoor don’t have proper mobile coverage. Lack of proper communication facilities is also affecting online studies of students in the district, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/delay-in-communication-hit-rescue-work-at-pettimudy/articleshow/77770470.cms||Sandeep Thomas
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 50,000 Covid-19 cases likely in August alone||HYDERABAD: Even as the number of cases in Telangana touched the one lakh mark, August alone is expected to eventually contribute to half the figure. Till Friday, the state had reported 39,463 cases. With one more week left, it is expected this month alone will have 50,000 cases. In July, the state had 47,429 cases and the total caseload touched the 64,786 mark. In the last one week, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 2% every day. The number is expected to reach the 50,000 mark in a month for the first time. The number of cases had sharp increase from May to June. By the end of May, the state had 2,358 cases which reached 17,357 in June. By the end of July, the cases touched the 64,786 mark, indicating a peak of cases in the state. Looking at the trend, 2,850 out of every 10 lakh people in Telangana have tested positive for the virus. At present, all the districts have reported cases. Looking at the increasing number of cases, state government has asked the medical and health officials to conduct tests on all the people in containment zones if any new cases are reported. While there is hope that cases will be under control in September, cases are being reported in forest areas also. Highly-placed sources in the health department told TOI all districts are recording cases in villages also. Cases are being reported in the remote forest areas also. “The moment Hyderabad and districts led the spurt in number of cases, officials have directed to make sure regular fever surveys are conducted in all the areas. With these surveys, the number of cases is expected to grow,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-expected-to-report-50k-covid-cases-in-august/articleshow/77771812.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 27, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Pay revision plan for MCH doctors gets Cabinet nod||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state cabinet decided to implement the pay revision for the faculties of medical, dental, nursing, pharmacy and non-medical streams in the state on Wednesday.  The pay revision has been implemented with retrospective effect since January 1, 2016. A decision was taken to continue the non-practising allowance and patient-care allowance which are being given to medical and dental doctors. The last pay revision of medical college hospital doctors (faculties) was done in 2006 and the next revision was due in 2016. This was the reason why government implemented the revision with retrospective effect since 2016. Medical college doctors were protesting the delay in implementing the pay revision since government had revised the pay structure of all other government employees, including doctors of the health service, twice after 2006. Other decisions The cabinet approved Rs 12 crore for strengthening e-governance in the department of agri development and farmer’s welfare. The amount was sanctioned under Rebuild Kerala initiative. This would ensure that all services to farmers are available online and funds can be sent directly to bank accounts. All services under the department will come under a digital platform and it will end procedural delays. An agricultural management information system will be implemented from Krishi Bhavan. All the compensations provided to farmers will be made online under this system. All the files under the department will be made e-files under the new system. The cabinet also approved Rs 2.92 crore towards the compensation for damaged fishing equipment from the chief minister’s relief fund. The cabinet appointed PK Sudheer Babu, who got retired from service as the new managing director of Kerala Health Research and Welfare Society. He was earlier the collector of Kottayam. Jafar Malik has been appointed as the managing director of Kerala Roads and Bridges Development Corporation. V Rateesh will hold the additional charge of the managing director of Kerala State Cooperative Agricultural and Rural Development Bank Ltd. He is the executive officer of Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/pay-revision-plan-for-mch-doctors-gets-cabinet-nod/articleshow/77771857.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Scuffle between two sweet shop workers ends in death||HYDERABAD: A scuffle between two sweet shop workers ended in the death of one of them at the eatery at SR Nagar on Wednesday. The other worker was taken into custody. An argument broke out between two workers — Srinivas and Ghouse, both 31— at Siva Reddy sweet shop at Madhuranagar. Withing seconds, it became a fist fight. The two were working at the shop for the past several months. “Before the lockdown, Srinivas had complained to the owner of the shop against Ghouse and another woman co-worker, Padma. He said duo chat instead of working,” SR Nagar inspector Balagangi Reddy said. When Srinivas had gone to his village in June, the owner scolded Ghouse and Padma for chatting during work hours. The duo found out about the allegations made by Srinivas. Ghouse allegedly bore a grudge against Srinivas, police said. “On Wednesday, co-worker Padma confronted Srinivas for complaining against them. Ghouse too picked up argument with Srinivas,” the inspector added. “They went to the cellar and continued their quarrel. Ghouse started raining punches on Srinivas.An injured Srinivas escaped from the cellar and fell unconscious in the shop,” the officer said. Srinivas succumbed after falling unconscious. According to police, he had sustained internal injuries. Ghouse was nabbed from his residence at Yousufguda and booked under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scuffle-between-two-sweet-shop-workers-ends-in-death/articleshow/77772614.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Madurai||Call to use plastic to lay roads as menace rises under lockdown||MADURAI: In the age of plastics, banning them is not the way to manage the menace, instead put them to best use to lay roads which guarantee zero maintenance for seven years, says Padmashri Dr R Vasudevan, the patentee for plastic roads. Though the state government banned single use plastics since January 1, 2019, they are very much in circulation. Single use plastics of less than 50 micron size have been flooding the market during the lockdown, says the professor of Thiagarajar College of Engineering, Madurai. The packaging industry has been using plastics the most with carry bags, tea cups, sheets and films, multilayered films and thermocole accounting for 35% to 40% of them. However, all these could be reused to lay durable roads. As of now, 1.5 lakh kms of road have been laid in India using plastic technology. India produces about 55 lakh tonnes of waste plastics a year, 60% of which is recycled and 40% littered. Plastic materials melt when heated to a temperature of about 120 degree C to 150 degree C in molten state at which they can be used as a binder. Only if heated above 250 degree C is there a danger of toxic gases being released into the environment, he said. While laying roads, plastic wastes are shredded and added to granite stone heated to around 170 degree C. This coats the stone in 30 seconds. Bitumen is added and mixed, and it is ready for laying roads. Dr Vasudevan said plastic tar roads laid between 2002 and 2006 have not developed even a crack till date despite being exposed to the elements. The cost of laying plastic-tar roads is 50% cheaper than plain bitumen roads, he said adding they also have an excellent anti-skid property and can be used even for runways. However, sources in the state highways department said there were a lot of challenges with plastic roads. Obtaining plastics for even a kilometre of highway roads was a big challenge. ``Plastics usually become invisible after becoming waste, and collecting them would be a big economical burden. Instead, laying bitumen roads in the ideal temperature of less than 165 degree C would give roads the same quality,’’ an official said. “Plastic roads may work for rural loads of less traffic, but highways involve a lot of structural engineering aspects,’’ he said. Environmental scientist and former vice-chancellor of Periyar University Dr K Muthuchezhian said that plastic roads could go a long way in managing plastic pollution. But, as plastics were shredded while laying roads, there was the danger of these micro plastics producing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) which attract pollutants. This could result in the micro organisms in the soil getting affected and the dependent ecosystem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/call-to-use-plastic-to-lay-roads-as-menace-rises-under-lockdown/articleshow/77773721.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Vain bid to burgle temple||Hyderabad: Burglars attempted to break the hundi at Sri Chennakesava Swami temple in Chandrayangutta, but failed to steal money. The priest found broken hundi and alerted cops. According to cops, no money was stolen as the burglars could not break the main lock inside. An attempt to theft case was registered. On Wednesday morning when the priest went into the temple at Keshavagiri, he found that the hundi (collection box) was damaged. Priest then informed the temple officer. When they checked, the outside lock of the hundi was broken. But, the burglars could not succeed in breaking the main locker inside the hundi, said police. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vain-bid-to-burgle-temple/articleshow/77772763.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Mysuru||Online veggie sellers a big hit in Mysuru||Mysuru: Sujatha SH (name changed), 64, a retired teacher and a resident of Jayanagar is a home alone woman while her son lives in Bengaluru. The biggest challenge she faced post Covid-19 breakout in the city was getting essential items like vegetables as she was uncomfortable to visit the nearest outlet and his son was unable able to visit every week like earlier. This is not the story of Sujatha alone. The fear of infection has forced the senior citizens to stay indoors. What has come to their rescue are online vegetable marketplaces. In the last few months, several new players have entered the online vegetable business helping both farmers and consumers. Horticultural Producers Co-operative Marketing and Processing Society (Hopcoms), one of the major players in the organised vegetable supply market was the first among those who entered the online sector in the city. “We are getting a good response for our online shop. Daily we are getting an average of 100 to 150 orders in Mysuru. Our initiative is aimed at helping farmers,” said Pramod Paul, marketing in-charge of Hopcoms, Mysuru. Balakrishna KN, who was running a vegetable outlet in Jayanagar, started Farmers Fresh, an online platform to sell vegetables and other farm products 15 days back. He said he is connecting vegetable growers with customers directly. “There are no middlemen and 30-40 customers are placing orders on my platform. I am planning to expand it,” he said. BS Prashanth, who launched two online platforms — FARMAR to connect growers with vegetable shop owners and My Veggie Box to supply fresh vegetables to customers — said, the new initiative is helping the economy in many ways beside ensuring safe supply of vegetables to households. “We are connected with 130 stores and 62 farmers. If no precaution is taken, the vegetable suppliers and sellers can become super spreaders. Many new jobs are being created in this space now,” he said. Fund My Crop, an award-winning city-based agri startup has tied up with two food delivery aggregators to connect between vegetable vendors and customers. “Our farmers supply vegetables to vendors, who then sell to customers,” said Sharat Patil, founder of the startup. “We enter into pre-buying agreements with farmers which helps them in many ways. In Mysuru, we have connected with customers through eight vendors. Our idea is ensuring customers get vegetables at wholesale rate,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/online-veggie-sellers-a-big-hit-in-mysuru/articleshow/77771135.cms||Shrinivasa M
August 27, 2020||Mysuru||After a fortnight at hospital, 92-year-old woman succumbs to Covid-19||Mysuru: A nonagenarian lost her battle against covid after being in hospital for two weeks. The 92-year-old woman died on August 24. She got admitted to hospital with respiratory infection on August 10. She had hypertension. Another 81-year-old woman too fought the virus for seven days before succumbing to infection on August 22. A total of 20 deaths were reported on Wednesday taking the death count to 381 in Mysuru, according to a health bulletin. A total of 10656 have won the fight against the virus. Mysuru recorded the highest coronavirus case of 951 and the tally of positive cases rose to 14880. According to district authorities the rise in number is due to a backlog of data that was pending for a few days. As of Wednesday, total active cases stand at 3843. DC Abhiram G Sankar says of total cases, 543 are primary contats and 196 individual with ILI symptoms tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/after-a-fortnight-at-hospital-92-year-old-woman-succumbs-to-covid-19/articleshow/77770200.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Increase HCjudges no. to 42: Kishan||Hyderabad: Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy on Wednesday met Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and urged him to ensure that Telangana high court gets more number of judges. The minister, who handed over a letter to Prasad, said two lakh cases are pending in the high court. “There are only 14 judges, including the chief justice, as against the sanctioned strength of 24 judges,” he said. Kishan Reddy demanded that the sanctioned strength be increased to 42. The minister said the high court has the infrastructure to accommodate 48 judges. He expressed concern that with more number of fresh cases being filed, it would be difficult for the present judges to deliver justice in time. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/increase-hcjudges-no-to-42-kishan/articleshow/77772449.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Kagaznagar MLA tests Covid +ve||Hyderabad: Kagaznagar MLA Koneru Konappa and his wife tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. He had been participating in various events, including providing essentials to the needy. He had faced criticism in March when he returned from abroad and travelled without following the 14-day quarantine. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kagaznagar-mla-tests-covid-ve/articleshow/77772683.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Mangaluru||DK, Udupi see fresh spurt in Covid cases, 12 deaths||Mangaluru/Udupi: The upward surge of Covid-19 cases continued in the coastal districts, with Dakshina Kannada (DK) and Udupi combining for 565 fresh cases on Wednesday. The day presented a grim reminder of dangers that the novel coronavirus poses to people with co-morbidities, as a dozen of them succumbed to it, including 11 in DK. Six victims hailed from outside its limits. The lone death in Udupi district was that of a 49-year-old man from Udupi taluk. Around 41% or 129 of the 314 new cases reported in DK district were diagnosed as influenza-like illness (ILI) cases. Deputy commissioner K V Rajendra said the source of infection in 78 people is being traced, 88 were primary contacts of people who were already infected and 19 were diagnosed with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). The split between symptomatic and asymptomatic patients was almost equal, with 158 of them being asymptomatic and 156 being symptomatic. Mangaluru taluk continued to push the Covid-19 graph north, accounting for 215 cases. Bantwal accounted for 52 cases, Belthangady-10, Puttur-8 and Sullia-2. A total 27 cases were of patients from outside DK. Discharge of 296 patients and 11 deaths meant that the active cases stood at 2,339, total discharges at 8,423 and overall Covid-19 fatalities at 330. A majority of those discharged —245—were placed in home quarantine, Dr Rajendra said. Primary contacts—114 of them— contributed to Udupi’s 251 cases. The source of infection in 90 patients is being traced, 45 had ILI and one each was a case of SARI, and detected in a domestic traveller. In all, 74.5% of the total cases were asymptomatic, DC G Jagadeesha said. Health authorities discharged 246 patients including 147 in home isolation, taking the tally of active cases in Udupi to 2,629. The lone death meant that the death tally in Udupi touched 92.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-udupi-see-fresh-spurt-in-covid-cases-12-deaths/articleshow/77771337.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Ryot booked in suicide case||Hyderabad: Narayanpet district police on Wednesday booked an abetment to suicide case against a 20-year-old farmer in connection with the death of a 16-year-old Intermediate student. According to Makthal police, the girl’s father saw her talking to the farmer in agricultural fields and reprimanded her. The girl went home and consumed pesticide. She succumbed while undergoing treatment at a nearby hospital. “The girl’s father lodged a complaint alleging that she ended her life because of the farmer’s constant stalking. We have registered a case under section 306 of the IPC. The girl’s body was sent for post-mortem,” Narayanpet SP M Chetana said. No arrests have been made yet. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ryot-booked-in-suicide-case/articleshow/77772717.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Surat||New Alzheimer’s therapy has a Surat link||Surat: If millions benefit from the new therapy for Alzheimer’s diseases in the next few years, the role of a scientist from Surat would be etched in the memory of many.Dr Kumpal Madrasi, who did his schooling and college in Surat, has played a key role in development of the therapy that uses aducanumab, an antibody, which delays Alzheimer’s related deterioration of the patient’s cognitive abilities.Two companies - US-based Biogen and Japan's Eisai - are jointly leading the phase 3 clinical trials for this therapy for which the USFDA has granted them application priority review, cutting time allotted for the review to six months from 10 months.“Aducanumab is an antibody derived from people who have successfully resisted Alzheimer’s disease. The preliminary data from the trials show that it is effective in slowing down the decline of cognitive abilities,” Dr Kumpal, 35, who studied in Surat’s Umrigar Memorial School, told TOI.Dr Kumpal, 35, was responsible for preparing simulation models using complex calculus and physics rules to understand the uptake of the drug in various body tissues, including the brain. “The simulation models were used by Biogen to determine the dosage regimen for the new drug,” he said.“Aducanumab has shown promising results in not only reducing symptoms but also slowing down the brain damage in Alzheimer's,” explained Dr Kumpal, who completed his biomedical engineering from Florida International University in Miami, the US.In addition to aducanumab, he prepared predictive simulations other kind of drugs too that were clinically tested for their efficacy, a study in which he found that aducanumab was by far the most successful in lowering levels of amyloid beta plaque, one of the proteins whose buildup causes dementia."If approved next year, aducanumab will be the first clinically proven therapy that can be used to delay Alzheimer’s related decline of cognitive abilities,'' said Dr Kumpal, who currently works as a principal scientist at EMD Serono.According to estimates, nearly four million people in India suffer from some form of dementia including Alzheimer’s disease. With quality of life improving and people living longer, the diagnosis of Alzheimer’s is life changing for the patient and their family members, he added.In a statement issued August 7, Michel Vounatsos, CEO, at Bioge, said: We believe that aducanumab marks the beginning of a new era of potential treatments for Alzheimer’s disease that will inspire even more discovery and innovation to bring hope to those affected by this devastating disease.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/new-alzheimers-therapy-has-a-surat-link/articleshow/77748029.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
August 27, 2020||Kolkata||App cab driver arrested for molestation in Kolkata||KOLKATA: An app cab driver was arrested for allegedly misbehaving with two young women passengers on Southern Avenue and snatching their handbags. Cops have slapped the driver Swapan Biswas (40), a resident of Tollygunge Road, with the charges of molestation and theft. The incident that happened around 8.30pm on Tuesday was reported around 48 hours after another app cab driver of the same aggregator was arrested on charges of misbehaving with and pushing a 35-year-old woman. The complainant (19), a model and a resident of Haridevpur, said she was returning home from a photo shoot with her friend (25), a resident of Tollygunge from Monoharpukur Road. The complainant asked the driver to drop her friend at Tollygunge, but he allegedly refused her, saying that the point, where she had asked for the drop, was not anywhere near the route on his GPS device. This resulted in an argument between the woman and the driver, who allegedly foul-mouthed and stopped the vehicle at the Southern Avenue-Jatin Bagchi Road Crossing. The woman alleged that the driver had alighted from the cab and asked them to get off. When she asked him to mind his behaviour, he allegedly picked up a disinfectant and sprayed it on the faces of the two women and snatched their handbags. Though the women chased the driver down the road, he fled the spot with the cab. “We got the details about the accused driver from the cab aggregator and nabbed him in the wee hours of Wednesday from the Kabardanga area under Haridevpur police station. We seized the vehicle and the handbags from Choto Rajbari Math in Tollygunge,” said an officer of Rabindra Sarobar police station. However, the accused driver denied the allegations. “During interrogation, the driver claimed that the women had left behind the bags in the vehicle and that he was not aware of this and did not bring the bags with him to Haridevpur,” said a police source. Cops have started a probe into the incident and are checking CCTV footage to ascertain the exact chain of events. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/app-cab-driver-arrested-for-molestation/articleshow/77771836.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 27, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Customs recovers 25 idols, going back to 9th century AD, worth Rs 35 crore||KOLKATA: The Customs (preventive) department has seized 25 antique stone, ashtadhatu and terracotta idols, most of them dating back to the period between 9th and 16th century AD, from an area near India-Bangladesh border in North Dinajpur. The antiques, according to experts from the North Bengal University, are valued at Rs 35.3 crore, accounting for the biggest haul of antiques by Customs officials in recent times. Based on a tip-off, Customs officials started following some leads and reached an area off Kaliagunj in North Dinajpur. On August 23, they zeroed in on a small goods carrier heading towards the India-Bangladesh border, supposedly transporting paddy. A team of nearly 11 officers stopped the vehicle on the road and started to conduct a search. As soon as the operation began, the driver reportedly fled, but suddenly, a large group of people from the area converged on the spot and tried to stop the Customs officials. More people reportedly joined in and the officials, who were outnumbered, were allegedly intimidated by them. Meanwhile, the officials contacted police; following intervention by district police top officers, the team managed to leave after seizing the artefacts, reportedly on the way out of the country. The last antique haul was around seven months ago, when the consignment seized was valued at Rs 11 crore. The seized antiques included seven stone idols of Parvati, Manasa, Vishnu and Surya and seven other idols, made of ashtadhatu. They were taken to experts at Akshaya Kumar Maitreya Heritage Museum under North Bengal University. Describing the antiques, an expert said one of the of the idols recovered was that of Sun God that dated back to the 9th century AD. Holding two lotuses in his upraised hands and blessing with two other hands, the Sun God is seen here, flanked by his two attendants, Dandi and Pingala. According to mythology, while Dandi was the Sun God’s measurer, Pingala was the recorder, who noted down mankind’s deeds, the expert said, adding that the Sun God’s crown was set off by a large halo with lotus petal decorations. Another antique was an 11th-century AD idol of Gauri/Parvati with chakra, mace, kalash and flower in her hands, the expert said. Along with her, were her two sons—Ganesha and Kartikeya —standing on a full-bloom lotus in “sampadstanaka” mudra. There were five more idols from the same period—one of Manasa (Snake Goddess) and four of Vishnu. “We have also recovered six metallic artefacts, mostly belonging to the 12th century AD. We have also recovered terracotta idols, which are nearly 300 years old,” said a Customs (preventive) official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/customs-recovers-25-idols-going-back-to-9th-century-ad-worth-rs-35cr/articleshow/77771881.cms||Rohit Khanna
August 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Don’t postpone JEE & NEET, say parents||BENGALURU: “Enthusiastic children will suffer the most if competitive exams like the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) Main and the National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET) are postponed. They will lose focus and interest. Kids like my child will end up joining other institutions rather than missing out on a year. They will give up their dream to join IIT and IITs will miss out on some good talent,” Swaroopa (name changed), mother of an SSLC and CET topper told TOI. Like Swaroopa, several parents and students are anguished over the demand for postponement of JEE Main and NEET. There have been widespread protests and demand on virtual platforms by students and parents to shelve the two crucial exams, with hashtags trending. JEE Main is for admission to IITs and NITs and NEET (undergraduate) is for entry to medical colleges. While the former is scheduled to be held between September 1 and 6, the latter will be held on September 13. Manohar (name changed), a parent, told TOI that the pandemic must be dealt with tact and the exams, which are important stepping stones for students, must not be put off any further. “The world has understood how to deal with it. We can follow the guidelines, maintain distance and go ahead with this,” he said, adding: “The solution cannot lie in avoiding important things. We never know what will happen next year.” An open letter written by a group of parents in support of the exam says that with so much media and political uproar over the issue, they would like to highlight the fact that there are people who think differently. As per the letter, all students applying for the exams are adults “who can make a decision best for them”. The letter goes on to say that the decision to write the exam must be left to the examinees, but the matter should not be forced on everyone. “The small group of people and politicians do not represent each and every student whose career is at stake,” it adds. Social media platforms too are abuzz with messages favouring the conduct of the exams. “Suppose #JEENEET is put off for December. Suppose #COVID19 and flood situation remains unabated until then. Another postponement? Then in April? The fresh batch of Class 12 pass out will also be out. Can engineering/ medical colleges accommodate two batches together?”, tweeted netizen Rakesh Goswami.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/dont-postpone-jee-neet-say-parents/articleshow/77770607.cms||Farheen Hussain
August 27, 2020||Varanasi||Boat operations banned as Ganga level rises; ghats submerged||VARANASI: Due to continuous rise in the water level of Ganga, the district administration has imposed a ban on boat operations in the river till September 15. The river continued to rise in Mirzapur, Ghazipur and Ballia also but was flowing below the danger mark. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said the restriction has been imposed for the sake of public safety. The police stations of the respective areas have been directed to enforce the compliance of the order. The swelling river has broken the connectivity of the ghats and made them slippery. It has submerged steps of the steps along the entire stretch of the riverfront in the city. Besides, the river is also on the rise in neighbouring districts, officials said. According to the flood bulletin of the Middle Ganga Division-3 of the Central Water Commission, the water level of Ganga rose up to 0.5 m in the last 24 hours in the city. The river was flowing at the mark of 65.79 m on Wednesday, about 5.47 mt below the danger mark (71.262m). In Mirzapur, the river’s water level rose up to 0.54m in the last 24 hours, though the river was flowing 6.56m below the danger mark (77.724m) on Wednesday. Ghazipur too recorded a rise of 0.40m in water level of Ganga on Wednesday, though the river was flowing 3.74m below the danger mark (63.105m). Ballia is facing a grave flood threat with water level approaching the danger mark. Though a rise of 0.14m was recorded in the last 24 hours, the river was flowing just 1.21m below the danger mark (57.615m) on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/boat-ops-banned-as-ganga-level-rises-ghats-submerged/articleshow/77771847.cms||Binay Singh
August 27, 2020||Mysuru||Wild animals destroy plantations in Kodagu villages||Madikeri: Farmers in Abhyathmangala and Ontiangadi villages near Siddapur are in distress over the growing menace of elephants and bisons. The wild animals are entering paddy fields and arecanut and coffee plantations and destroying the crops. Over 30 elephants have camped in Neelagiri estate. They are barging into surrounding fields and estates and trampling standing crops. There are three bisons freely roaming in the area. The animals have damaged more than 60 arecanut trees in the estate of Anchemne Sudhakar at Abyatmangala village. Coffee plants have been ruined. Paddy fields were damaged..The grower is worried about his future. Forest officers who visited the spot expressed their helplessness. A grower has installed a solar fence around his estate in Chettimoole village. The fencing is obstructing the chasing operation planned by the forest department. “We have been requesting the grower to temporarily remove the fencing to enable the chasing operation to save all other growers who are badly affected. However, he is not responding,.” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/wild-animals-destroy-plantations-in-kodagu-villages/articleshow/77769879.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Vadodara||GFC gets DGCA nod as first drone training school||Vadodara: Gujarat Flying Club (GFC), one of the oldest flying clubs in the country, has become the first aviation training institute of the state and 12th overall to get approval for drone training from country’s civil aviation regulator – Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). Sources said that the ministry of civil aviation has granted permission in line with the policy decision of government of India (GOI) and the union ministry to regularize and regulate drone operations in the country. The training centre will facilitate drone training using the remotely piloted aircraft systems (RPAS) or drones. The permission has been granted so that the centre can provide right skills and guidance to those who aim to build a successful career in the unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) industry. Joint secretary at the Ministry of Civil Aviation, GOI, Amber Dubey recently issued order granting conditional permission for remote pilot training to the club that operates from the civil aerodrome, Harni. According to ministry officials, drone training is expected to give a boost to young drone entrepreneurs focusing on mining, agriculture and infrastructure applications among others. The institute will have to fulfil all the conditions regarding “aerial photography, safety, insurance and clearances from local administration, defence ministry, home ministry, Indian Air Force and the Airports Authority of India.” “We will shortly start training for drone operations. All the necessary approvals are already in place. We will be buying ‘Made in India’ drones for this,” said group captain Prashant Bharadwaj, chief administrative officer at GFC, Vadodara. “While the classes will be held in our present complex, for flying purpose, we will be tying up with a college or a university. Drones are the future. Be it in the field of security, mapping or logistics, drones are going to play a big role,” he said. Started in 1958, GFC, is one of the few category one training schools in the country. “Around 20% aviators in the country have been part of GFC,” he said. Since 2018, GFC has been acquired by Flight Simulation Technique Centre in which ex Air Force pilot captain D S Basraon is director. In July this year, DGCA had awarded permission to Bombay Flying Club which has become country’s first drone training institute. Later, permissions were granted to institutes in Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gfc-gets-dgca-nod-as-first-drone-training-school/articleshow/77770092.cms||Prashant Rupera
August 27, 2020||Bareilly||Swollen Ramganga river wreaks havoc, floods Moradabad-Tehri Bypass||Bareilly: The rising water level in Moradabad’s Ramganga river due to incessant rainfall in the adjacent state of Uttarakhand has wreaked havoc on the Moradabad-Tehri Bypass-2 that continues to be flooded for over a week now, giving harrowing time to commuters crossing the road. The road connects the city to Haridwar-Dehradun and Thakurdwara-Kashipur. Officials at PWD said due to rise in water level, which is hovering close to the danger mark in Ramganga, the river water has reached to the main road located just a kilometer from the water body and affecting several villages and agricultural fields. Sandbags have been put along the roadside in around 90 metres to keep the water from entering the main road for convenience of commuters. The department is on its toes to avert any untoward incident and for the purpose, PWD has deputed workers to guide vehicle users on the road. “The approximately 50 meters stretch linking the city to Haridwar-Dehradun has been flooded for over a week and road users are wading through the water that has been overflowing by Ramganga. Flood-like situation on the road has resulted in significant damage to the road. In order to cut the flow and keep the water from entering the road, we have put sandbags along the roads,” PWD Moradabad executive engineer Lakshmi Narayan told TOI. “Temporary repairs will be carried out once the water flow reduces in the area,” Narayan added. The water level in Ramganga has reached 190 metres (around 30 metres below the danger mark), hampering free traffic movement. “Crossing the road has become tedious as the road has been partially submerged in water,” said Anuj Saxena, a resident of Kanth, Moradabad. Rising water level in the river has also reached the agricultural fields, and destroyed standing crops in several villages including Islam Nagar, Kafiyabad, Peepalsana and other adjacent places. Ramganga river originates from Doodhatoli ranges in the Pauri Garhwal district, Uttarakhand. The river flows to south west from Kumaun Himalayas. It is a tributary of the Ganges river, which originates from Gangotri glacier in Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/swollen-ramganga-river-wreaks-havoc-floods-moradabad-tehri-bypass/articleshow/77770500.cms||Maria Khan
August 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Waqf board asks GUVNL for power subsidy||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat State Waqf Board has requested Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd (GUVNL) to extend the subsidy in electricity costs to Islamic organizations, in the way a 40% subsidy is given to other organizations registered with the charity commissioner. In a letter written by the board on August 21, it asserted that it is an equivalent body to the charity commissioner. It was set up by the state government through the Waqf Act in 1996 and all organizations such as mosques, graveyards and madrassas, that were earlier registered with the charity commissioner’s office, had their registration transferred to the Waqf Board. The board said it has been making representations to the power company to apply the reduced power tariff to the organizations affiliated with it, but the request was tuned down on pretext that the 1989 notification by the industries and mining department, which resolved to grant the 40% concession to charitable organizations, did not mention the board. However, the board came into existence later, and is equal in status to the charity commissioner. It has been getting constant complaints from Muslim organizations that the concession is not extended to them. It further stated that looking at various representations, a new tariff structure came into being in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/waqf-board-asks-guvnl-for-power-subsidy/articleshow/77771886.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Files can be retrieved as e-file system in place: FM||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Even if the Secretariat is gutted as a whole, government files can be retrieved as they have been digitised and maintained, finance minister T M Thomas Isaac said on Wednesday. In a Facebook post, Isaac said e-file system has been in place in the Secretariat since 2014. “All documents are scanned and digitised. The digital files are secured by National Informatics Centre (NIC),” he said in response to the raging controversy that crucial files were destroyed in the fire in the GAD (political) section of Secretariat on Tuesday. On earlier occasions too, the government has testified the efficiency of e-file system in the Secretariat, terming it an effective system that made the administration easier. During the lockdown, almost all Secretariat employees could work from home effectively because of the system. In a reply to a question in the assembly on March 7, 2018, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said e-office system has been implemented in all the departments in the Secretariat as part of implementing paperless government offices. In the Secretariat, almost 2,500 officials are handling the e-office system and are registered under it, but only 800 to 1,000 officials are active users at a time. The Secretariat uses three dedicated lines for running the e-office system — Powergrid, BSNL and RailTel. Nevertheless, there are still physical files in circulation, Secretariat officials say. “In big departments like the revenue and local self-government, there still exists old and bulky files that are still in physical format. While many of such physical files have been migrated to e-files, some of them exist in physical forms,” general administration department sources said. Also, when a certain matter is to be placed before the cabinet, a hard copy is mandatory, even if the original file is in e-format. However, a major issue with the e-office files, according to those who have handled the system in the IT cell of the Secretariat, is to handle bulk files. Also, the speed with which the files can be processed in the e-office system is a major concern towards the end of a financial year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/files-can-be-retrieved-as-e-file-system-in-place-fm/articleshow/77771921.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Three of family found dead in 70ft-deep well||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Three members of a family, one of them a woman, were found dead in an abandoned well near Devala in Gudalur taluk. Fire services personnel retrieved their bodies from the well after a four-hour operation on Tuesday night. The deceased were identified as S Suganya, 22, her brother Thamizhazhagan, 24, and their cousin A Murali, 24. They were residents of Vadamoola near Vazhavayal in Devala. According to police, the three had ventured inside the reserve forest area under Pandalur range about 500m away from their house on Tuesday. Police suspect that they might have jumped into the 70-ft-deep well in the forest area. “As of now, we don’t know what really happened. An inquiry is on,” a police official said. The bodies were handed over to their families after postmortem on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/three-of-family-found-dead-in-70ft-deep-well/articleshow/77771924.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Dehradun||Space crunch in assembly, lawmakers mull over ways to hold session amid pandemic||Dehradun: Even though the state government has notified a three-day assembly session in Dehradun from September 23-25, the authorities are now in a fix over how to decide on proper seating arrangements with social distancing in place. The main hall of the legislative assembly can accommodate 70 MLAs and a nominated member from the Anglo-Indian community apart from the assembly secretary, two assembly reporters and support staff, but all these without social distancing. Officials said that they are now contemplating on removing the glass partitions and making space for everybody in a single hall, or pitching a tent on the premises for the session. They added that the assembly session is also likely to be held at a different location. Speaking on the issue, assembly speaker Prem Chand Agarwal said, “Under the present circumstances, it is not possible to maintain adequate social distancing. Hence, we had a primary meeting recently to discuss how to ensure the safety of legislators, staff and media persons. We are mulling several possibilities and will contact the assembly officials of the other states too where sessions have been held in the post-Covid scenario.” “We have a month’s time and the modalities will be worked out during this period,” he added. The speaker further said that keeping in view the Covid-19 crisis, only legislators, officials and bare minimum support staff would be allowed on the assembly premises, adding that a decision on whether to allow vehicles into the compound or not would be taken soon. Assembly secretary (officiating) Mukesh Singhal said that the speaker would take a decision on the matter after consulting the leader of the house and the leader of opposition. Leader of opposition Indira Hridayesh when queried, said, “All we want is that proper social distancing is maintained, and the safety of legislators and assembly staff be made the priority.” The budget session of Uttarakhand assembly this year was held at Gairsain from March 2-7. It was then decided to continue the session at Dehradun for three more days from March 25 but by then, the Covid-induced lockdown was announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/space-crunch-in-assembly-lawmakers-mull-over-ways-to-hold-session-amid-pandemic/articleshow/77769225.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 27, 2020||Kolkata||Metro can resume operations but with restrictions: West Bengal CM||KOLKATA: A day after Metro Railway officials in Kolkata said that they are awaiting a clearance from the ministry of home affairs (MHA) to restart Metro services, Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said that the railways can resume restricted services while maintaining social distancing norms. In response to this, railway officials in Kolkata said that they could resume services only after receiving the go-ahead from the MHA and the ministry of railways. “The Metro can start operations if it wants but physical distancing will have to be maintained. Operations of local trains can also resume gradually. Maybe, they can start with a fourth of the total number of trains. We have no problems if the railways wants this. The railways can speak to us on this matter,” said the chief minister. A senior railway official in Kolkata said that neither Metro nor Eastern Railway or South Eastern Railway have the authority to take a decision on this. Only after the Centre issues a notification on resumption of services, the modalities can be worked out. If the state desires so, it can convene a meeting with railway officials to work out a strategy and then pass it on to the MHA for consideration. “To prevent the spread of Covid-19 among railway users stringent restrictions will have to be in place. The crowd management will not be possible without assistance from the state government. Even Metro that can impose certain restrictions on the entry of people will find it difficult to manage crowds, let alone the suburban networks. There are absolutely no restrictions on the entry of people in suburban stations. If any restrictions are imposed, there is the possibility of a law and order crisis. There is also no mechanism for 100% ticket checking in the suburban network that could help to check overcrowding,” said the official. While the possibility of running suburban services under the circumstances seem bleak, Metro is also concerned about the logistics involved in restricting the number of passengers in every coach and on platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-can-resume-ops-but-with-restrictions-cm/articleshow/77771918.cms||Jayanta Gupta
August 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||SMC invites applications from cops||Ahmedabad: The state monitoring cell (SMC), which works directly under the supervision of the director general of police, Ashish Bhatia, is now looking for cops to work in the cell. In a fax message to police commissioners and district superintendents of police across the state, additional DGP of the SMC Neerja Gotru has asked that they invite applications from their personnel of the rank of inspectors, sub-inspectors and lower ranks, for those wanting to work in the SMC. It states that such personnel should have a clean track record should not have been subjected to any kind of departmental inquiry or action. The message says personnel applying should be acquainted with investigation, technical analysis, field work and should be good writers. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/smc-invites-applications-from-cops/articleshow/77771933.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Kanpur||Audio clip nails don’s khaki mole||KANPUR: There’s more damning proof that disgraced cop Vinay Tiwari, who fled ground zero Bikru on the night of the bloodbath in which eight of his colleagues died, had tipped of slain gangster Vikas Dubey about the impending raid. Another audio clip has surfaced, minutes after the ambush in which the now suspended SHO Vinay Tiwari could be heard talking to his senior about the unfolding horror. In the over 2-minute audio, Tiwari was being asked whether his force could regroup and fight back and he’s heard saying that at least 16 policemen were under siege by gangster’s henchmen, who were firing from rooftops. “I am constantly trying to make phone calls to policemen to enquire about their well-being, but in vain,” he’s heard saying, clearing showing he's not in the thick of things. Further, the officer is heard telling the SHO that Dubey has been tipped off by Chaubeypur police as the gangster seems to be well prepared and had enough time to plan the ambush. This was perhaps the fourth instance when the moles in khaki were exposed. At one point of time, the officer is heard asking the SHO whether they had come too close to the gangster’s house and cop is heard saying that gang members were positioned on roof-tops, while they were stuck in the by-lanes. Earlier, Daya Shankar Agnihotri, an accomplice of the don, who was arrested on July 5 in Kalyanpur, had admitted that Dubey received a call from Chaubeypur police station about the police raid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/audio-clip-nails-dons-khaki-mole/articleshow/77773047.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
August 27, 2020||Nashik||13 women duped of Rs 82,000||Nashik: A woman has been booked by Upnagar police for cheating as many as 13 women of Rs 82,000 on the pretext of helping them get loan under a government scheme for setting up small business. The woman is a resident of Pathardi Phata and she collected Rs 7,000 each from the women. “A complaint against her has been filed by Asha Harishchnadra, a resident of Nashik Road area. After taking the money, the suspect stopped responding to the phone calls made by the complainant and other women. Later, she lodged a complaint with us,” a police officer said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/13-women-duped-of-rs-82000/articleshow/77769227.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Containment zone relief for Ballygunge, Behala; Beliaghata still a worry||KOLKATA: There is further relief for the residents in Ballygunge in the south and Beliaghata in the north, even though some pockets of the city continue to figure in the containment list. Now, the city has three containment zones in Beliaghata, two each at Ballygunge, Barisha and Chetla and one each at Amherst Street and Khidderpore, according to the new list released on Tuesday night. All the three containment zones at Rowland Row in Ballygunge have been dropped from the list. Four days after Patuli had walked out of the containment list, the turn came for Garia to be dropped off the list. “With this, one of the worst- affected zones in Garia-Patuli-Mukundapur-Baghajatin-Santoshpur-Jadavpur is now out of the containment list,” said an IPS officer at Lalbazar. However, Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s health department officials said the intense RT-PCR and antigen tests will continue in the wards. At 11, the city has the lowest number of containment zones as compared to the past two months. The previous list had 17 containment zones. This is for the first time not a single new containment zone has been added to the list. This gives a major respite to people in the areas like Alipore, Bhowanipore, Phoolbagan and Ultadanga that had featured in the list sometime in the past 60 days. Both the containment zones in Ballygunge are located next to each other in Queens Park. Similarly, the two zones in Barisha near James Long Sarani and Chetla’s Sabji Bagan Lane and Chetla Road are close to each other. “Several containment zones are located next to slums. Hence, the decision was taken to continue with the containment policy for a couple of days,” said a police officer. However, the Beliaghata area continues to have the maximum containment zones in the city with three entries. This includes a condo near Subhas Sarobar, Barwaritala Road at Kulia in Beliaghata and the Mia Bagan slum near Beliaghata Main Road. The two containment zones at Barwaritala and Mia Bagan, which are still in the list after more than two weeks, keep the police and KMC officials on their toes. At the same time, cops said some additional precautions for Motilal Basak Lane in Phoolbagan and Suren Sarkar Road near Subhas Sarobar worked out as both the areas were finally struck out from the list after more than a fortnight. For the second time, there are no standalone flats in the list. There are three complexes and one slum. The rest of the seven containment zones include flats, single houses and shops. “We are now putting equal stress on both the slums and apartments. Specific targeted testing, along with awareness drives, is being carried out in complexes with more than 30 families and slums. We have also requested KMC officials for regular sanitization of the area when it’s brought under the containment zone,” said a senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/containment-zone-relief-for-ballygunge-behala-beliaghata-still-a-worry/articleshow/77771936.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 27, 2020||Varanasi||PM praises Annapurna Trust for services to needy during lockdown||VARANASI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi appreciated the Kashi Annapurna Annakshetra Trust for the service done to countless people during the lockdown period after the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. The PM sent separate letters of appreciation to the head priest of Maa Annapurna Mandir and mahant Rameshwar Puri and chief trustee of Kashi Annapurna Annakshetra Trust Jeevnandan Jha expressing his gratitude for their service to mankind. “I am glad to know the voluntary work done by the Maa Annapurna Mandir Annkshetra. You not only fulfilled your social responsibility but also gave a new dimension to the service of people,” said the PM adding that the works like arranging food and ration kits for the needy, distributing face cover and sanitisers and arranging food for the animals are praiseworthy. “Modi ji’s note of appreciation for our works boosted our morale to continue our service to the society in a better way,” said Mahant Rameshwar Puri wishing good health to the PM. According to the trust authorities, with the blessings of Maa Annapurna, the kitchen of the Annakshetra continued to supply food to the needy people during the lockdown period. Annapurna Mandir, situated near the Kashi Vishwanath Temple, is one of the most revered temples for the Hindus. The temple is dedicated to Maa Annapurna, the Goddess of nourishment and a form of Goddess Parvati. The Annapurna temple enshrines two idols of the goddess including one made of gold. The gold idol can be only seen only once a year on the occasion of Annakut festival. The Annakshetra of the temple also arranges free food to people on normal days. According to legend, once Lord Shiva said that everything in the world including food is ‘maya’ (illusion). It annoyed Goddess Parvati and she decided to demonstrate the importance of food by disappearing all the food on earth. The world started suffering in want of food. Lord Shiva finally came to Goddess Parvati and acknowledged the importance of food, begging for food at her door. Goddess Parvati became happy, and offered food to Lord Shiva. And then made a kitchen in Varanasi for the devotees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pm-praises-annapurna-trust-for-services-to-needy-during-lockdown/articleshow/77771914.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||‘Short circuit led to Secretariat fire’||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A preliminary investigation by two separate teams – police and disaster management authority – inferred that a faulty electrical circuit of a wall-mounted fan caused the fire at the Secretariat building on Tuesday. While the police team is led by SP (special cell) V Ajith under the direct supervision of ADGP (administration) Manoj Abraham, the team constituted by chief secretary Vishwas Mehta is headed by disaster management commissioner A Kowsigan. Both teams visited the general administration department (political) section situated in the north sandwich block on Wednesday. “Officials in the section had informed the maintenance division about the faulty fan and it was fixed on Friday. But, the fan continued to function erratically. The electric switch was left in the on position most of the time, which seems to be the reason for the ‘ignition’,” government sources said. The ignition resulted in the burning of the electrical wire and it spread to the fan that fell down and the fire then spread to the files. The primary inference of the fire and rescue team is that the fire was caused by short circuit. Cantonment police registered an FIR under the Section 306 (1)(c) (FA) of the police standing order on the basis of a complaint by state additional protocol officer A P Rajeevan. In the FIR, police said the files on allotment of accommodation in government guest houses in the past and copies of gazette notifications were burnt in the fire. Officials from the forensic team and electrical inspectorate also visited the spot. Since the issue has a political dimension and there are allegations of sabotage, government ordered a foolproof investigation. PWD buildings division that examined the spot, gave a primary report to PWD minister G Sudhakaran. In the report, it has been said the short circuit led to the fan catching fire which then melted and the fire spread to nearby curtains, shelves and papers. The minister said before the high-level team completed the investigation and submitted a report to the government, the opposition should not resort to anti-government propaganda. Meanwhile, the cabinet entrusted additional chief secretary (home and vigilance) to take all necessary steps to strengthen the security shortcomings at Secretariat. KSDMA and fire and rescue departments had conducted fire audits and had submitted the reports, but those haven’t been implemented yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/short-circuit-led-to-secretariat-fire/articleshow/77771941.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Bareilly||Two groups pelt stones, fire gunshots over construction work issue; police arrests 6||Bareilly: Sambhal police on Wednesday arrested six people after a fight ensued between two groups in Raya Buzurg area under Asmoli police station in Sambhal. According to police, two groups from the same area indulged in stone-pelting over construction work that was going on in one Haroon’s house. People from the other group opposed it and even fired gunshots, in which people were injured. Six people have been arrested, the police said. The complainant, Haroon, a resident of Raya Buzurg told the police that few men from the same area came to meet him and got into an argument regarding construction work that was going on at his place. “A few men came to my house and started misbehaving with me and my family members. Later, they indulged in a fight and started pelting stones. One Faisal even opened fire, in which my brother received bullet injury on the right hand. They later fled from the spot.” Asmoli’s SHO Ranvir Singh said, “Six accused, including Saleem, Salim, Mushtaqeesh and Faisal, have been arrested and an FIR has been registered under section 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 307 (attempt to murder), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the IPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-groups-pelt-stones-fire-gunshots-over-construction-work-issue-police-arrests-6/articleshow/77770566.cms||Maria Khan
August 27, 2020||Nashik||11 fail to get guarantors, sent back in judicial custody||Nashik: The Nashik city police have sent 11 people with criminal records back in judicial custody after they failed to get guarantors to execute bonds of good behaviour sought from them under sections 107/110 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). The police obtain bonds of good behaviour from people with criminal records for a certain period under the chapter proceedings, a provision under the CrPC. Senior police officers said when there is a riot, fight between two people or groups, these cases reach the police stations and necessary action is taken against the individuals involved. Often, those involved rake up previous feuds. In such cases, under the chapter proceedings, the police get a bond of good behaviour executed from the arrested suspects. The hearing in these case is held in front of an officer of the rank of assistant commissioner of police (ACP). The hearing of the 11 people took place recently before ACP Mangalsingh Surayawanshi. The criminals are from the Bhadrakali and Gangapur police station areas. None of them could get a guarantor, following which, they have been remanded in judicial custody for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/11-fail-to-get-guarantors-sent-back-in-judicial-custody/articleshow/77769232.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Bareilly||UP actor claims father beat her up for refusing to marry man of his choice||BAREILLY: A 21-year-old TV actor Tripti Shankdhar, who has appeared in both movies and serials, took to social media on Tuesday night claiming that her father was pressuring her to marry a 28-year-old man and even beat her up when she refused. Based on a complaint lodged by the actor, Bareilly police took her father Ram Ratan Shankdhar into custody but let him off on a personal bond later as she said that she doesn’t want any legal action against him. However, Tripti refused to live with him anymore and walked out of the house with her mother. The actor, hailing from Bareilly, had come back to her hometown from Mumbai amid the Covid-19 crisis. On Tuesday night, she shared a string of videos on her social media account alleging that she was thrashed by her father and sought help. As soon as the videos went viral, Bareilly police summoned both the parties to the police station. SP (city) Ravindra Kumar said, “Tripti said that she doesn’t want any legal action against her father and we have released him after registering a case under section 151 (preventive custody) of CrPC. She and her mother have refused to live with her father and he has given in writing that he will not interfere in their affairs anymore.” The actor said that she wants to return to Mumbai and pursue a career in acting. “I have spent two years in the industry and want to build my career in Mumbai. However, my father is forcing me to marry a 28-year-old man,” she added. Meanwhile, countering the allegations, Ram Ratan said, “I have given both my daughters all the luxury that they wanted even if I had to forsake them. I personally went to Mumbai and spent Rs 10 lakh to help her get settled. Recently, I suggested to her that she should get married to have a stable life but never knew that she would behave like this. I never thrashed her, instead, she was the one who threw chilli powder in my eyes in front of the neighbours.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-actor-claims-father-beat-her-up-for-refusing-to-marry-man-of-his-choice/articleshow/77770590.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur: Woman held for killing her baby over constant crying||KOLHAPUR: The Solapur police have arrested a woman on the suspicion that she strangled her nine-month-old boy with a mobile charger cord. The woman told the police that she was “mentally disturbed” by the constant crying of the baby. Initially, the woman had filed a police complaint stating that a robber had barged into her house and attacked her. She said the robber also tied her up, before strangling her son using the wire of a mobile charger. The man also fled with a gold chain weighing 2gm, she told the police in her initial statement. Solapur police said the incident took place on August 22 at the Wangaradi village of Barshi tehsil of Solapur district. Siddheshwar Bhure, the deputy superintendent with Barshi police division, said, “We had a suspicion about the complaint given by the woman. We took the help of the local crime branch. After investigating for three days, we found that there were no signs of any theft and no robber had broken into the house.” The police then questioned the woman again. This time, she confessed to having killed her child. “She has claimed that she was mentally disturbed due to the constant crying of the baby. We have filed a case under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code,” Bhure said. Bhure said the woman was arrested on Tuesday and has been remanded in police custody. The police may add more charges related to the false complaint she registered earlier. The police are investigating whether she was assisted by any other person to carry out the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/woman-held-for-killing-her-baby/articleshow/77769230.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Ward councillor in Tirupur arrested for threatening panchayat president||COIMBATORE: The Tirupur rural police have arrested a ward councillor under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act for threatening a woman panchayat president to withdraw the police compliant that she lodged against him for attempting to assault her and using casteist slur against her and her husband. The Dharapuram police identified the accused as S Kuppusamy, 40, councillor of Kavandachipudur village panchayat ward six. A police officer said problems between the ward councillor and panchayat president R Selvi, 33, began in May when the latter, along with other public representatives and panchayat officials, decided to distribute immunity boosters and safety gears to sanitary workers, who were in the frontline to contain the spread of novel coronavirus. Selvi said, “As the work needs to be carried out on emergency basis, we decided to distribute the safety gears in a simple manner and informed most of the ward members through telephone. On May 4, when I was discussing with other members, Kuppusamy rushed into the office and questioned me for not keeping him in the loop. Without listening to my explanations, he started to abuse me with my caste name and attempted to assault me.” Selvi lodged a complaint with the Dharapuram police, who according to her registered a first information report only after several visits to the police station. Meanwhile, Kuppusamy and his friends Gopalakrishnan and Deva threatened Selvi and her husband Ramesh on August 14 to withdraw the police complaint and used casteist slurs against them. The next day, Selvi lodged a fresh complaint with the Dharapuram police, who booked the trio under sections 3(1)(p) (institutes false, malicious or vexatious suit or criminal or other legal proceedings against a member of a SC/ST) and 3(1)(r) (intentionally insults or intimidates with intent to humiliate a member of a SC/ST in any place within public view) of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and Section 506(1) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. However, they were not arrested. After Selvi and several outfits petitioned the district administration, police arrested Kuppusamy on Tuesday and launched a manhunt for his accomplices. Kuppusamy was, however, diagnosed with high blood pressure during the mandatory medical check-up and admitted to the Tirupur government medical college and hospital. It was for the first time Kavandachipudur village panchayat president post was reserved for a woman candidate belonging to the scheduled caste. Selvi contested as an independent and won the election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ward-councillor-in-tirupur-arrested-for-threatening-panchayat-president/articleshow/77771942.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Kochi||Open StreetMap community maps disaster-prone Munnar||KOCHI: Soon after landslide hit Pettimudy on August 7, Open StreetMap India created a task for mapping the roads of Munnar on Humanitarian OpenStreet Map Team (short for HOT), an international team dedicated to humanitarian action and community development through open mapping. The purpose was to map minor and major roads in the region, which witnessed intense rainfall, for rescue workers, who may be unaware about the terrain, to reach the spot without delay. Volunteers mapped buildings and streams in the area to generate data that would be helpful for authorities to assess the impact of a disaster. On Sunday, Open StreetMapping community in Kerala created an event called Virtual Mappy Hour to bring attention to Rajamala where the landslide happened. “In Rajamala, one of the major issues that rescuers faced soon after the landslide was finding routes to reach the spot," said Arjun Gangadharan, one of the task managers for the project. The Periyavara Bridge on the Munnar–Rajamala main road was washed away in the rain and a temporary one was also damaged, which made access to the site difficult. The OSM community responds to calls for disaster mapping on Hotosm website and works online using satellite imagery to generate map data. Mapped data is made available via the Humanitarian Data Exchange. Anyone will be able to create data to create printed maps for analysis and navigation on the ground. “We started disaster response mapping during 2018 floods. The community mapped 10,000km of roads spread across districts using satellite imagery. Around 6L buildings were also mapped then,” said open data enthusiast Naveen Francis, a task manager for Hotosm. Open Street Mapping is also attracting a lot of students who want to learn the ropes while participating in community events. “I tried to plot the tiles that were not plotted. Some of the work done had to be validated,” said Amita K Biju, a fourth year student of civil engineering from Amal Jyothi engineering college, a contributor for Mapathon Keralam project. Manoj Karingamadathil, a member of OSM community, said besides roads he also tried to map line houses in the region, similar to the ones swept away during the landslide. “Once we finish Munnar, we plan to undertake mapping of Wayanad, which is also prone to landslides. We would also focus on banks of flood-prone rivers like Periyar,” said Arjun, who works as a geospatial engineer. The community depends on satellite maps provided by Bing and Esri, an international supplier of geographic information system software.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/open-streetmap-community-maps-disaster-prone-munnar/articleshow/77770595.cms||Binu Karunakaran
August 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Man-gaur conflict comes down in Nilgiris||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris has seen a lull in man-gaur conflict since the outbreak of Covid-19, largely due to less human movement at tea estates and along forest fringes, where such incidents used to occur at an increasingly alarming rate. While three people had died and 16 others injured in gaur attack in the Nilgiris forest division last year, only had one died and six injured so far this year. Guru Swamy Baddal, district forest officer, said, “Since mid-March, there has not been much human movement or activities either in tea estates or along forest fringes because of the pandemic. This is the main reason for the decrease in number of man-gaur conflict.” Pointing out that the forest department had given advisories to tea estate managements on suitable working style for their field staff, he said that has yielded results. Forest staff have also been doing their bit by monitoring the movement of gaurs in areas where their menace has been on the rise, he said. According to the animal census conducted in the Nilgiris forests, excluding Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, in September 2019, there are more than 2,000 gaurs in the hill retreat. “It is a large number. But we also see an increase in mortality rate of gaurs,” Baddal said. The forest department has sought permission from higher officials to relocate aged and problematic gaurs to the forests in upper Nilgiris. According to Baddal, it’s the shrinking forest cover and shortage of water that are forcing gaurs to stray into the plains. “Also, human habitats are located along forest fringes, where carrot, beetroots, cabbage and other crops are cultivated. These crops attract guars.” He has requested people living along forest fringes not to venture out late in the evenings to avoid conflict with gaurs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-gaur-conflict-comes-down-in-nilgiris/articleshow/77771948.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Pune||Pune 28th in ‘internal’ ranking of smart cities||PUNE: The city slipped to the 28th position in the internal ranking of smart cities from the last year’s 17th, prompting the Pune Smart Development Corporation Limited authorities cite delay in updating data as the reason for the slide. “This is not the final annual ranking. It is just a weekly update. The city’s rank has fallen because the updated information was not shared with the authority concerned. The ranking will improve once the data is updated,” said Rubal Agarwal, the chief executive officer (CEO) of the Pune Smart Development Corporation Limited (PSCDCL), adding that lack of manpower triggered the delay in updating the data of the city. Nashik surpassed Pune in the “weekly update” and clinched the 15th position. Pimpri Chinchwad also slipped from the 29th position to 61. A source in the PSCDCL said the consultants appointed for the data update and other works had been discharged from their duties and no fresh recruitment had been made. So, the update works were pending, he added. Agarwal, the PSCDCL CEO, said, “Data updating has not been done since 2018. The PSCDCL will work out a mechanism to complete the data entries and share it with the authorities concerned. The ranking will improve after that.” Factors such as project implementation and funds utilisation are considered before finalising the ranks of the cities under the Smart Cities Mission. Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar, also the chief executive officer of the Pimpri Chinchwad Smart City Limited (PCSCL), said there was a dip in the ranking from 29th to 61st because the evaluation process had changed. “Now, more focus is on the completion of projects. Many of our projects are on the verge of completion within next 3-6 months. So, there is nothing much to worry. We shall bounce back in terms of ranking in the future. The work related to the smart city projects was hampered because of the lockdown, but it has now resumed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-28th-in-internal-ranking-of-smart-cities/articleshow/77773065.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Pune||Travel firms, citizens want scrapping of e-pass system||PUNE: People facing delays in emergency and business travel due to the e-pass system for inter-district commute want an end to the arrangement. Travel firms said such delays were on an average affecting close to 40%-50% trips. Ravikiran Jadhav representing R K Travels, a travel firm in Katraj, told TOI, “At least 25 people willing to travel on Wednesday cancelled their plans at my firm due to non-issuance or delay in getting e-passes. Most of them had to go to l Mumbai, Ahmednagar, Nashik, Kolhapur, Hyderabad and Bengaluru.”  Girish Makhijani, owner of Hare Krishna Comfort Tours, said, “The e-pass system is not there in other parts of the country. We fail to understand why it is there in Maharashtra. A customer of mine wanted to travel for a funeral on Tuesday evening, but he could leave only the following day because he first had to apply for an e-pass” The director of a car rental agency said, “There are instances of passengers getting the e-passes, but not drivers. This leads to cancellation of trips.” A citizen, who recently visited Mumbai, said, “I had to travel last minute for an urgent business trip and could not wait for a pass. The Mumbai police stopped me on asking for a pass.” Another citizen making a last-minute inter-district travel said, “I paid four times more than the usual cab fare.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/travel-firms-citizens-want-scrapping-of-e-pass-system/articleshow/77773064.cms||Neha Madaan
August 27, 2020||Bareilly||Services of MGNREGA APO, 3 others terminated for fraud||Pilibhit: District magistrate Pulkit Khare on Wednesday terminated the services of additional program officer (APO) of MGNREGA Ajay Gangwar, and three rozgar sevaks, all posted at Amaria tehsil headquarters, for ‘fraudulent activities’. The DM has ordered the deputy commissioner (DC) of MGNREGA, Mranal Singh, to get an FIR lodged in the matter. As per the district magistrate, an inquiry had earlier been ordered in the matter by the state administration during the pre-lockdown period following which the chief development officer (CDO) Shri Niwas Mishra had detected the fraudulent role of the four persons in implementing the MGNREGA projects. The orders were issued by the additional chief secretary after taking stock of the CDO’s report. “The four defaulters have been handed over to the police,” the DM said. Talking to TOI, DC of MGNREGA, Mranal Singh, said the APO, Gangwar, had established his own firm in the name of ‘Ma Durga Enterprises’ for supplying construction material for the MNREGA projects. “As per the government rules, no government official is authorized to do that. On the review of the banking dealings of the said firm, it was found that the bank account of the firm was being operated by the APO himself although he had reshuffled the firm’s partners in March this year,” Mranal Singh said. In the case of 3 rozgar sevaks, who were identified as Harish Kumar, Suresh Verma and Gurvinder Singh, it was found that they were hiring people from other villages in place of those belonging to the area where the work was being carried out. He said under the MGNREGA norms, it was mandatory to employ the job card holders of MNREGA of the same village where the project has been initiated. Singh said a written complaint is being filed against the four defaulters to the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/services-of-mgnrega-apo-3-others-terminated-for-fraud/articleshow/77770591.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Kolhapur||797 fresh cases, 16 deaths reported in Kolhapur district||Kolhapur: The district on Wednesday reported as many as 797 cases of Covid-19 — highest one-day spike — along with 16 deaths. With addition of these numbers, the death toll has increased to 605, while the total number of cases stands at 20,348. “On Tuesday 470 cases were reported across the district. It was the lowest figure in recent weeks. Of the 797 cases, 277 were reported from Kolhapur city,” a health official said. “The number of active cases is currently at 7,839. So far, 11,904 people have been cured and got discharged from various hospital across the district,” he added. Sangli reports 26 deaths Meanwhile, in Sangli district, as many as 26 deaths were reported on Wednesday along with 444 new cases. The total number of cases in Sangli has now gone up to 9,414 while a total of 383 people have succumbed to the contagion. District collector Abhijeet Chaudhari on Wednesday appealed to the private hospitals to refrain from asking partial payment from the kin of Covid-19 patients. Since last few days, several complaints were being reported stating that the hospitals are denying admissions if part payment is not deposited by the kin. Chaudhari has also appealed to citizens to register complaints on time and get the bills audited after treatment. 40,000 rapid test kits ordered To step up testing and early detection of patients, Sangli administration has ordered 40,000 rapid antigen test kits. “20,000 kits will arrive in the next couple of days. Private laboratories have also agreed to start antigen testing at government fixed rates,” Chaudhari said. “The RT-PCR machines in government labs are now equipped with special software. There is no need of availing the test report manually. People can now get their test result text message. Also, they are now being provided with direct links for downloading the test report,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/797-fresh-cases-16-deaths-reported-in-kolhapur-district/articleshow/77769244.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal government plans to set up plasma units at 20 blood banks to facilitate therapy||KOLKATA: The state government plans to set up plasma units in 20 blood banks across the state, given the increasing need for convalescent plasma for the treatment of Covid patients. So far, Medical College and Hospital (MCH) was the only state-run institute in Bengal to have a plasma unit . “After careful consideration, in a bid to ease the demand for plasma, the Bengal government has decided to set up 20 Convalescent Covid-19 Plasma units in 20 state-run blood banks across the state,” said a senior health department official. To be given free of cost, the banks will cater only to patients admitted to government and government-acquired Covid hospitals, according to the availability at the time of requisition. In Kolkata, apart from the five teaching medical colleges, Central Blood Bank and ESI Hospital Maniktala will have the plasma units in its blood banks. The rest will be spread over other districts, including North 24 Parganas, Midnapore, Bankura, Hooghly, Nadia, Murshidabad and Burdwan. Even though clinical trials on the efficacy of plasma therapy for those contracting the novel coronavirus are yet to lead to any conclusive result, ICMR has allowed hospitals to use the treatment “off label”. “Convalescent plasma can be prepared in the state-run blood component separation units by separating whole blood unit from a recovered Covid patient,” said an order from the state health department. So far, MCH was the only state-run institute with a plasma unit. The plasma collected from the bank is being used in the clinical trial being carried out at Infectious Diseases and Beliaghata General Hospital (IDBG). “So far, we have been able to collect plasma from more than 40 donors,” said Prasun Bhattacharya, head of the immuno-haematology and blood transfusion department at Medical College and Hospital. While some private hospitals in the city have already started plasma therapy as an off-label management for Covid patients, state-run facilities are yet to initiate the use of plasma in treatment. Only ID Hospital is using it for clinical trial, but MCH may soon take the lead in the therapy. “Selection of patients is an important criterion for the use of convalescent. We are going to form a committee that will select such patients for the ‘off-label’ use of plasma, according to the ICMR guidelines,” said MCH medical superintendent and vice-principal Indranil Biswas. Blood banks have been asked to identify potential CCP donors from the list of recovered Covid patients. The government recently also launched a section in the health department’s website, where plasma donors can register. Blood banks also have been told to rope in and coordinate with voluntary organizations working in this field, arranging for plasma for Covid patients. “We would love to chip in with all our efforts in this government’s initiative to set up more plasma units,” said Ajay Mittal of Project Life Force. The organization has already started its own campaign to list potential plasma donors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-plans-to-set-up-plasma-units-at-20-blood-banks-to-facilitate-therapy/articleshow/77771946.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 27, 2020||Kolkata||KMC workers to record medical history||KOLKATA: Civic health workers will soon visit households containment zones to record medical history of patients who have been advised home isolation. They will also note down whether any family member or a Covid-suspect has any major illness. According to a KMC health official, the idea is to create a data bank of Covid patients, complete with their other ailments, which will be sent to the state health department as ready reckoner so that the officials can suggest hospitalization of people with comorbidities. Besides arranging for hospitalization of such Covid patients, KMC medical officers at ward levels will be available on phone for suggesting medicines to patients with less serious symptoms. “We will send our team to containment areas to collect data on Covid patients and record whether they have high BP, sugar, heart problem, renal failure etc. This data will be shared with Swastha Bhawan,” said a KMC health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-workers-to-record-med-history/articleshow/77771951.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Pune||Accused of molestation, man thrashed in Pune||PUNE: People caught and thrashed a 30-year-old Pimpri resident on Ganeshkhind Road on Tuesday evening after a young woman accused him of molesting her. The police identified the man as Avinash Ashok Kuchekar. The 26-year-old complainant, a homemaker, and her mother were walking after buying some pooja material when Kuchekar reached there on a two-wheeler. “He parked his vehicle on the roadside and started following them. He then moved his hand on the complainant’s back,” senior inspector Anil Shewale from the Chatushrungi police said on Wednesday. Shewale said, “The complainant and her mother noticed this and caught him. They started thrashing him and raised an alarm, following which people also thrashed him before handing him over to police.” “Investigations have revealed that the women and Kuchekar are not known to each other,” Shewale said. The woman has registered an FIR under section 353 (molestation) of the IPC. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/accused-of-molestation-man-thrashed/articleshow/77773071.cms||Asseem Shaikh
August 27, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Denying leave for hubby not reason for wife’s suicide’||The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) has clarified that they hadn’t denied leave for one of its constable, whose wife committed suicide recently in Coimbatore. Sangeetha, wife of K Rajesh Kumar, a constable with 78 battalion, CRPF, Nagaland, had hung herself to death on August 21 during a video call with her husband, allegedly after he turned down her request to come home. The issue, which led to the suicide of constable Rajesh Kumar, was not due to denial of leave by the department, said a clarification issued by the CRPF. “CRPF is committed to the welfare of its men and their families. We also have a strong grievances redressal mechanism to address the sufferings, if any, faced by our men,’’ it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/denying-leave-for-hubby-not-reason-for-wifes-suicide/articleshow/77771957.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Probe into absence of fire-force team||KOLLAM: The fire and rescue service personnel posted at the Secretariat were not at the spot when the fire broke out on Tuesday. Though six fire and rescue officials were posted to handle emergency situation in the Secretariat, only one was available for the rescue work. Director general of fire and rescue services DGP Sreelekha has ordered a probe into the issue. While the six-member team under a station officer was deputed at the Secretariat, it has been pointed out that at no stage they were dedicating their time for ensuring the safety of the building. There are also allegations that some of the personnel, who were functionaries of Kerala fire service association, never wore uniforms while on duty. “The association’s interest is to facilitate posting of personnel who seek transfers to places where work load is comparatively lesser. These influential association leaders manage to continue in the Secretariat and no senior officer dares to touch them,” said a fire-force personnel on the condition of anonymity. There are also complaints that association leaders get themselves posted on deputation at the Secretariat as they enjoy the patronage of the ruling party. “As they have political patronage, they need not work. In the last four years, they haven't attended a single call for fire and rescue operation,” the officer added. As per the norms, every official has to be transferred on completion of three years at a station. But the functionaries of KFSA have been allegedly continuing in the Secretariat for the last four years. About the absence of personnel at the Secretariat, DGP Sreeelekha told TOI that there was no sanctioned post for firemen in the Secretariat and the legislature. “The six personnel were on deputation and as per norms, there should have been at least three personnel on duty at a time. I have noticed that there was only one person at the time of incident,” she said. “Disciplinary action would be initiated against erring personnel,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/probe-into-absenceof-fire-force-team/articleshow/77771986.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Money stolen without OTP||Ahmedabad: If you do not get a one-time password (OTP) message for transactions on your mobile it does not mean you are safe from cyber cheats. They might be using a system that does not even give the victim a hint that they are being cheated. Krinal Shah, 26, a resident of Paldi who works with a private firm on Ashram Road, in her FIR with Paldi police stated that she had on August 17 received three messages for money deducted from her account on her phone. She said that she lost Rs 25,000 to cyber crooks and did not share her banking details nor did she get an OTP for the transaction. She finally approached police and filed a complaint of cheating. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/money-stolen-without-otp/articleshow/77771956.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Varanasi||UP CM extends help of Rs 3.6 lakh for vegetable vendor’s surgery||GORAKHPUR: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath approved Rs 3.6 lakh for operation of spinal tumour of a vegetable seller in Gorakhpur following an appeal through letters by MP Ravi Kishan and MLA Fateh Bahadur Singh. The vendor’s story came into light after a few social workers of the village posted it on social media. Umesh Kannoujia (40) of Chaumukha village under Campierganj area in Gorakhpur runs a vegetable and general store in the village. He has two sons studying in class 6 and 9 and a daughter pursuing graduation. He has been diagnosed with spinal tumour and the doctors at Medanta hospital in Lucknow told him that the surgery would cost Rs 7.20 lakh. Due to lack of funds he was not able to go for the operation for the past four months. One Sriprakash Agrahari appealed to CM Yogi on social media to help the family after which the CM approved a financial assistance of Rs 3.6 lakh for operation.  “I am very thankful to CM Yogi Adityanath and I was sure that he will help me as a few days ago he helped a student of our area Madhulika Shukla for her heart operation. He approved Rs 9.9 lakh to her and I am sure that the CM would help me if there is a need of more money for the treatment,” said Umesh Kannoujia said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-extends-help-of-rs-3-6l-for-vegetable-vendors-surgery/articleshow/77771949.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Pune||PMC to pay Rs 20 crore to acquire land for flyover||PUNE: The civic body has decided to pay Rs20 crore for completing the acquisition of land owned by defence establishments for the Chandni Chowk flyover project. The amount will be handed over to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in phases. The NHAI is expected to make the payment to the defence ministry for the acquisition of 0.48 hectares of land on the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) behalf. The project was delayed due to land acquisition issues. Nearly 15 hectares of open plots and 100 properties were to be acquired for the project. Around 98% of the acquisition has been done at the cost of Rs450 crore. “An undertaking for paying the acquisition cost to the NHAI was supposed to be given. The proposal to this effect came before the standing committee and we have given approval,” said Hemant Rasane, head of the PMC’s standing committee. As per the proposal, the NHAI will pay the land cost to the defence department. The PMC will compensate it later, for which budgetary provisions will be made. The work for the flyover has started on Mulshi road, Vedvihar road, Shringeri Road, near Ramnadi road and on the road towards Mumbai. Around 20% work has been completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-pay-rs-20-crore-to-acquire-land-for-flyover/articleshow/77773067.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Salem||300kg ganja worth Rs 30 lakh seized||NAMAKKAL: A truck driver and cleaner were arrested with 300kg marijuana (ganja) near Murugan temple bus stop in Namakkal town on Tuesday night. Police pegged the value of seized contraband at Rs 30 lakh. A police source said the duo were caught during a vehicle check that was conducted by sub-inspector Velusamy and team from Namakkal town police station. Namakkal superintendent of police (SP) S Sakthi Ganesan said, “They were entering the town from Salem-Madurai national highway. During the vehicle check, the team found 15 bags of ganja in the truck.” He identified the arrested as Palani, 55, and D Rajkukar, 34, both residents of Pethanaickenpalayam in Salem district. Palani was at the wheel of the truck. On Wednesday morning, the two were produced before the judicial magistrate of Namakkal district combined court and later lodged in the Salem Central Prison under judicial custody. The SP said they had arrested 13 ganja peddlers from across the district since July 17. “We have seized 410kg ganja worth Rs 41 lakh in the past 40 days.” Police had seized 9.5kg of ganja on July 17, 10kg on July 19, another 10kg the next day, 44kg on July 21, 10kg on July 25, 5kg on July 29, and 20kg on July 29. The SP warned that ganja peddlers would be detained under the Goondas Act after the arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/300kg-ganja-worth-rs-30-lakh-seized/articleshow/77771985.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Pune||Steady number of applications for courses in institutes of Pune||PUNE: Going by the current trend in applications for courses in nearly 15 private and state universities as well as autonomous institutions in Pune, the number of applications from outstation students for the new academic year is steady despite the Covid-19 situation. All colleges and universities are conducting their admission processes online and institutes have received applications from nearly 12-15 states this year. Some institutions expected a massive dip in applications from outstation students, but the trend so far looks encouraging, according to institute heads. Savitribai Phule Pune University has received over 35,000 applications for an intake of 5,500 seats. The process is still underway while the last day of applications is extended till August 31, said admissions head, Uttam Chavan. At the Ajeenkya D Y Patil University, there were initial inhibitions about outstation students but as the process began, the response was above expectations. Director of the university, Hridayesh Deshpande, said 70% of their students come from outside Pune. “We had been expecting a decline in applications this year from outstation students but to our surprise, the quota is 50% full as against last year. The decline in applications is marginal as some parents and students are still apprehensive about taking admission out of their hometowns,” he said. The Symbiosis International University also attracts a large number of students from outside Maharashtra. “In fact, about 85% of students come from other states. This is because we have an all-India entrance test for both undergraduate and postgraduate programmes. Surprisingly, this year even international students have taken admissions with the hope that the borders will open up soon. We have started online courses from July 15 for postgraduate students and will start from September for undergraduate students. We are awaiting UGC directions for starting physical on campus courses,” principal director of the university, Vidya Yeravdekar, said. Rakesh Jain, director of JSPM’s Rajarshi Shahu College of Engineering in Tathawade, said admissions will start post the common entrance exams. “Pune will attract many students from outside. With the situation slowly appearing to be easing out, we expect a good response although the number of applications may not match up to last year,” he said. Anurag Kashyap, principal of MKSSS’s Dr Bhanuben Nanavati College of Architecture for Women said their admission procedure will start after the National Aptitude Test for Architecture on August 29 and the results in the first week of September. Kashyap said, “Every year, parents visit the college, look at hostel and accommodation facilities. This year with travel restrictions in place this has not yet started.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/steady-no-of-applications-for-courses-in-institutes-of-pune/articleshow/77773088.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
August 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Officers appointed to assist private hospitals in securing oxygen, ICU beds in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has appointed officers for 37 private hospitals in the city to assist in arranging more oxygen and ICU beds within a week. District collector Daulat Desai on Tuesday ordered these officials to increase the number of beds within a week to cope with the rising number of coronavirus cases. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti has given the responsibility of helping the hospitals in managing the said resources to these officers. One officer has been appointed at each of the 37 hospitals. In addition, the hospitals have been asked to arrange money from their coffers for arranging the required equipment. Deputy commissioner of KMC and monitoring officer for DY Patil hospital Nikhil More said, “We have reserved 80% beds from private hospitals for Covid patients. However, not all are fitted with oxygen beds or ventilator units. Now, we are facing severe shortage of such beds. Currently, most of the beds with the private hospitals are for asymptomatic or mild symptom patients who do not need oxygen or ventilators. We have adopted home isolation for such patients. Patients with symptoms needs special care.” The officer also said that the number of oxygen and ventilator beds to be made available has been fixed only after the consent of the hospitals and that there is no unilateral imposition of the demand. Currently, there are 920 beds available with private hospitals, of which, only 56 are fitted with ventilators. More said that 105 ventilator beds and 165 ICU beds will be arranged in private hospitals within a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/officers-appointed-to-assist-private-hosps-in-securing-oxygen-icu-beds-in-kolhapur/articleshow/77769282.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||GPS: Government to exempt goods vehicles||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Government has decided to exempt goods vehicles from installing GPS equipment and transport minister AK Saseendran directed the transport commissioner to make necessary amendments in Motor Vehicles Rules in this regard. As per Central Motor Vehicles Act 2016, GPS was made mandatory for all public service vehicles. And as per rule 151 A of Kerala Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989, the government made it mandatory that all public service vehicles should be equipped with location tracking devices and one or more emergency buttons and all goods carriage vehicles shall be provided with location tracking devices. The list included education institution buses, vehicles carrying school children, contract carriages, KSRTC buses, stage carriages and goods vehicles. The association of goods vehicles operators had requested the government for exemption for old goods vehicles. Location tracking devices are mandatory for heavy passenger vehicles and newly-registered goods vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/gps-govt-to-exempt-goods-vehicles/articleshow/77770676.cms||---
August 27, 2020||India||7 opposition CMs want NEET, JEE put off, will seek SC rethink||NEW DELHI: Six states and a Union Territory will petition the Supreme Court against the holding of NEET and JEE examinations from September 1, flagging concerns of a risk due to Covid infection and seeking a postponement till the situation improves. The seven include four governed by Congress (Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Puducherry), two where the party is in alliance (Maharashtra and Jharkhand) and West Bengal, where Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool is in office. In a virtual meeting chaired by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday, the seven CMs felt while the apex court had okayed the holding of exams, it had in the past shown consideration for students in sensitive situations. While Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal did not attend the meeting, his AAP government also opposed holding of the exams right now. Even Tamil Nadu government, led by BJP ally AIADMK, has been asking for the exams to be deferred. The debate on whether the entrance exams to engineering and medical colleges should be held or deferred has become a polarising one with the opposition parties wading in. On social media, comments flew thick and fast, with allegations of hashtags and trends being manipulated and traded as well. The discussion appeared to have split opinion even as the government and the National Testing Agency said arrangements have been made keeping the needs of social distancing and sanitation in mind. The Supreme Court recently dismissed appeals against holding of the exams noting that “life should move on. We have to go ahead. Precious one year of students will go waste”. Banerjee said she has written two letters to PM Narendra Modi asking for the Centre to approach the Supreme Court to defer the exams. “If the government of India cannot go to court, we, as elected state governments can approach the court on behalf of lakhs of students whose future is at stake,” she said. Punjab CM Amarinder Singh said, “I endorse Mamata Banerjee’s view that we should collectively approach the Supreme Court again.” On Tuesday, Sonia Gandhi reached out to Mamata Banerjee and Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray among other leaders to hold a meeting of the opposition chief ministers. Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren said, “Exams must happen but we are in too much hurry. In my state, we have very few centres. To accommodate these students, we will have to open all hotels and buses.” The meeting was politically significant as the CMs of three key regional parties— Trinamool Congress, Shiv Sena (Uddhav Thackeray) and JMM (Hemant Soren)— and Congress (Ashok Gehlot, Amarinder Singh, Bhupesh Baghel, V Narayanasamy) decided to forge a common platform to fight “injustice” at the hands of BJP and also resolved to meet the President and the Prime Minister. They made a special mention of the “use of central agencies” to arm-twist them. That the Congress chief coordinated the rallying cry added weight to the exercise, especially in the wake of the approaching Parliament session and mounting protests from states over the Centre’s new policy measures -- alleged favouring of corporate houses, privatisation of airports, railways and coal blocks, and draft EIA guidelines. These issues were flagged in the meeting by CMs. “Darna hai ya ladna hai” Thackeray asked his counterparts to decide, as he sought a united front to confront what he said is a vindictive Centre. “We scramble to come together when we face problems. Why cannot we meet regularly. If we stay together, the problems will disappear,” he said. Soren said, “the opposition voice feels weak” and BJP is taking advantage of it by employing agencies to scare the states. Gehlot said the Centre is focused on toppling governments. “Their game succeeded in MP, Karnataka. We survived in Rajasthan.” About tax arrears and Corona aid, Amarinder Singh said, “We should meet the PM together and force the issue. We are not asking for something out of the blue but for what is our rightful share and what we should get.” Watch Seven opposition CMs want postponement of NEET, JEE, will seek SC rethink||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/7-oppn-cms-want-neet-jee-put-off-will-seek-sc-rethink/articleshow/77774332.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Dehradun||Highest single-day spike takes Covid tally to 16,549 in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: The Covid-19 tally in Uttarakhand rose to 16,549 on Wednesday with the single highest day spike of 535 fresh cases while the death toll reached 219 after six more patients succumbed to the disease. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid 19 control room,said that the maximum of 170 Covid-19 cases were reported from state capital Dehradun. This is the biggest single-day spike in Dehradun so far. Nainital reported 81 fresh cases, followed by 80 cases from Haridwar, 65 from Udham Singh Nagar, 36 from Tehri Garhwal, 25 from Pauri, 22 from Chamoli, 20 from Champawat, 15 from Uttarkashi, 13 from Bageshwar, and eight cases from Pithoragarh. Of the six Covid-19 deaths on Wednesday, four were reported from AIIMS in Rishikesh and the other two from Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani. Anoop Nautiyal, member of Social Development for Communities Foundation, an organisation closely tracking the Covid-19 scenario in the Himalayan state, said that based on their analysis, the four plain districts — Udham Singh Nagar, Haldwani, Haridwar, and Dehradun — together account for 78% of the active Covid-19 cases in the state. Notably, 66% of the total population of the state lives in these four districts. “The nine hill districts share just 22% of the total active Covid-19 cases in the state. Among the hill districts, Uttarkashi is the worst-affected district that has recorded 207 cases per lakh population, followed by Tehri that has 142 cases per lakh population,” added Nautiyal. In some good news, a total of 323 Covid-19 patients recovered on Wednesday, taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 11,524. The recovery rate is now 69.6%, said Nautiyal. At present, Uttarkashi has 179 active cases of Covid-19 while the district so far has reported 712 coronavirus cases. Meanwhile, Tehri Garhwal has 187 active cases of the virus and the district has so far reported 932 cases. Meanwhile, a health department team visited Udham Singh Nagar’s Jaspur area on Wednesday after locals protested against making the locality a containment zone. District magistrate Ranjana Rajguru said that the health team inspected the area and managed to convince the residents that it is for their own good that the area gets sealed and hence, there will be no outsider movement in the area. “The matter is resolved now as the health department team managed to pacify people,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/highest-single-day-spike-takes-covid-tally-to-16549-in-ukhand/articleshow/77769311.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 27, 2020||Pune||Rs 5 lakh insurance cover for Cantt staffers||PUNE: Around 1,000 cantonment employees working with Pune, Khadki and Dehu Road cantonments in the district will benefit from a life insurance scheme launched by the ministry of defence on Tuesday, providing a coverage of up to Rs5 lakh each. The ‘Chhavni Covid Yodha Sanrakshan Yojana,’ a group insurance scheme through the Life Insurance Corporation, will provide coverage to 0,000-odd permanent and contractual employees of the 62 cantonments across the country. Defence minister Rajnath Singh launched the scheme during a two-day webinar on August 24-25, attended by the chief executive officers of all the 62 cantonments and the director general of defence estates (DGDE). The webinar discussed ways to improve implementation of centrally-sponsored schemes in the cantonments. The two-day event discussed welfare schemes such as Ayushman Bharat, Pradhana Mantri Awas Yojana, Smart Cities Missionetc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rs-5-lakh-insurance-cover-for-cantt-staffers/articleshow/77773094.cms||Sandip Dighe
August 27, 2020||Pune||Pune: Valuables worth Rs 75,000 burgled||PUNE: Burglars broke into the flat of an IT professional at Gurukrupa Memories housing society in Kharadi on Tuesday and stole a gold chain and two wrist watches, collectively worth Rs75,000. Police said the flat owner Kirti Vaibhav Nimbalkar (35) had gone away to her relative’s place after a few cases of Covid-19 cropped up in the society. Some other residents at the society too had gone to their relatives’ houses. Assistant inspector Gajanan Jadhav from the Chandannagar police said, “The thieves took advantage of the situation and broke into complainant Nimbalkar’s house between August 23 and 24.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/valuables-worth-rs-75k-burgled/articleshow/77773095.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Pune||Crack in Junnar village land damages 3 houses||PUNE: A 300-metre crack in the land at Bhiwade Budruk village in the hilly terrains of Junnar, about 110km from the city, damaged three houses, triggering concerns about a landslide. The Junnar tehsil officials have approached the Geological Survey of India (GSI) seeking an assessment of the crack and apt recommendations. Junnar tehsildar Hanumant Kolekar told TOI over the phone on Wednesday after visiting the site, “The cause behind the development of the crack will be known only after a scientific assessment by geologists. For now, we have shifted the three families to a safer place and they will get financial assistance once a panchanama of the damage to the houses is done.” Shekhar Sarkar, the GSI’s former deputy director, who has examined several landslide sites in the Northeast and in Maharashtra, said, “Excessive seepage of rainwater changes soil properties rapidly. In these conditions, the soil behaves like a liquid and starts moving downwards wherever it gets a slope even up to 20 degrees.” He said, “In the instant case, the 300m length of the crack means the soil properties have changed to a high level in a quick period. Immediate investigation is required to find out the exact reason to avoid further complications at the village.” Bhiwade Budruk village is about 40km from Malin in Ambegoan taluka, which had witnessed a massive landslide on July 30, 2014. A total of 151 people were killed. Former MP Shivaji Adhalrao Patil, who visited the village on Wednesday, said, “The villagers belong to tribal community and are economically poor. The district administration should construct houses for them under the welfare scheme at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/crack-in-junnar-village-land-damages-3-houses/articleshow/77773092.cms||Sandip Dighe
August 27, 2020||Madurai||Solve tax issues under Samadhan: Grain traders||MADURAI: With a lot of cases pertaining to various taxes like value added tax, general sales tax, luxury tax and entertainment tax still pending Tamil Nadu Food Grains Merchants Association (TNFGMA) has urged the state government to convene Samadhan scheme to amicably resolve the issues. The association has sent a petition urging the same to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Wednesday. The taxes were in force before the implementation of Goods and Services Act in July 2017. Cases related to the old taxes are still pending before various courts. S P Jeyapragasam, president of TNFGMA said that Samadhan scheme will help the state government to collect the pending revenues soon. Whereas the traders will be benefitted if the cases are resolved at the earliest. He said that the state government made an announcement in the 2018 assembly that Samadhan scheme will be introduced, but they are yet to do it. In 2019 central government unveiled Sabka Vishwas, a dispute resolution scheme to solve the pending cases related to central excise and service tax. Up to 70% of the pending tax amount was waived off with minimal interest and penalty. “Likewise, we request the state government to bring in Samadhan scheme and waive off a considerable amount of pending tax. About 25% of the pending taxes can be collected without interest and penalty to help the traders. The revenue collected through the scheme can be used by the government in its fight against Covid-19 pandemic,” Jeyaprakasam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/solve-tax-issues-under-samadhan-grain-traders/articleshow/77773777.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Parties stir poll pot, ready for Dubbak bout||HYDERABAD: Political parties have drawn swords in the run up to the Dubbak constituency by-election even before the Election Commission announcing the schedule for the poll. The by-election has been necessitated following the death of sitting TRS MLA Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy. In a tit for tat strategy, Congress was the first party to blow the bugle against the TRS. Though Congress legislator T Jayaprakash Reddy had jumped the gun to announce that the party will not field its candidate from Dubbak, within a couple of days, Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy announced that the party has decided to contest the polls. Although Congress has not won any by-election against the TRS since the formation of Telangana, it has insisted on contesting in Dubbak of Medak district as a rebuke to TRS for Narayankhed and Palair polls.The TRS had in 2016 decided to contest the polls in both Narayankhed and Palair constituencies despite Congress appealing for an unopposed election as they were fielding the widow of late MLA Venkat Reddy, whose death caused the vacancy in Palair, and son of late legislator Kishta Reddy in Narayankhed. Meanwhile, TRS former MP and state planning commission vice-chairman has said that every political party has a right to field its candidate in a democratic election. “The TRS will sweep the by-poll, exposing once again that neither Congress nor the BJP is a match for it in Telangana,” he said. Interestingly, Telangana Jana Samithi too has decided to field a candidate from Dubbak in retaliation to Congress, which has fielded its candidate despite giving the seat to TJS in 2018 Assembly polls. “Dubbak is our seat. The TJS had contested it in 2018 Assembly polls. After giving the seat to us, the Congress fielded its candidate,” said TJS general secretary G Venkat Reddy. Political analysts said equations on tie ups between political parties and other factors will emerge as polling date nears but added that the TRS had won the Huzurnagar by-election at the height of TSRTC strike. They said that it is yet to be seen if the KCR-government’s performance on Covid-19 front would have an impact on the Dubbak by-poll.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parties-stir-poll-pot-ready-for-dubbak-bout/articleshow/77772002.cms||Roushan Ali
August 27, 2020||Erode||State against NEET, says K A Sengottaiyan||School education minister K A Sengottaiyan on Wednesday said the state government was against holding NEET for medical admission. Inaugurating developmental works to the tune of Rs 4.3 crore in his Gobichettipalayam constituency in Erode, Sengottaiyan said compared to last year, 2.35 lakh more students have enrolled in government schools across the state so far this year. Another 20,000 students will be enrolling in the coming days, the minister said. He said a few private schools in the state had collected 100% fees instead of 40%. Citing a Madras high court order, the minister said the private schools should not collect 100% fees. “Parents should come forward to lodge a complaint with the chief educational officer if any private school collects 100% fees,” he said. Private candidates who are to appear for Class X board exam, will have time to apply online till August 27. All the private candidates have requested the state government to declare them ‘all-pass’. “The chief minister will take a decision on this,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/state-against-neet-says-sengottaiyan/articleshow/77772000.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Genco CMD vows more safety at plant||Hyderabad: Telangana Transco and Genco CMD D Prabhakar Rao on Wednesday said better safety measures would be in place for the benefit of electricity employees to avert untoward incidents like the fire mishap at the Srisailam power plant last week. Nine employees had died in the accident. The CMD asked the employees not to harbour any insecure feelings and said they should work with renewed vigour and commitment. Prabhakar Rao visited the plant on Wednesday and went around the underground hydel power plant where the accident took place on August 20 night. “It was the most unfortunate accident and it is painful to lose our colleagues. When some of our colleagues die, it leads to insecurity among the employees. But, we have to work with more dedication,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/genco-cmd-vows-more-safety-at-plant/articleshow/77772015.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Kochi||ED probes source of commission paid to Swapna Suresh||KOCHI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED), which is probing the money trail in the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case, has recorded statements of Vinod P V, the director of Sane Ventures LLP, which was involved in the Life Mission-Red Crescent project, and Venugopal, a chartered accountant who co-owned a locker with key accused Swapna Suresh from which cash and ornaments were seized. The agency on Wednesday informed the special court for PMLA cases that it is in the process of recording more statements and has issued summons to persons who are alleged to have paid the commission to Swapna. The details were submitted as part of a request for remand extension of Sarith P S, Sandeep Nair and Swapna, filed by special prosecutor (ED) T A Unnikrishnan. Details of Vinod’s statement “wherein he, inter alia, stated that he did not pay any commission to the accused A2 (Swapna)” were also included in the report submitted to the court. “Further, summons to other persons who are alleged to have paid commission to Swapna are also issued for recording their statements," the report said. The ED had earlier revealed Swapna’s claim that she had received the commission from UAFX solutions and Forth Force as well for executing deals with the UAE consulate. Sources said statements from officials of these companies would also be collected. Venugopal’s statement was recorded on August 19. “He admitted that as a joint locker holder, he is answerable to the cash and valuables kept in the bank locker and the 2nd accused (Swapna) has not informed him of the source of said cash and gold,” the ED report said. It was earlier revealed that Swapna opened the locker jointly with Venugopal as per the instruction of the CM’s former principal secretary, M Sivasankar. The court extended judicial custody of Swapna, Sarith and Sandeep till September 9. The National Investigation Agency is learnt to have conducted raids at the Kozhikode residence of a relative of one of the accused, T M Samju. NIA records arrest of four more persons NIA in a statement on Wednesday said that they recorded the arrest of four more accused in Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case on Monday. The arrested were identified as Jifsal C V, a resident of Kozhikode; Aboobacker P, a native of Malappuram; Muhammed Abdu Shameem, hailing from Kozhikode; and Abdul Hameed P M of Malappuram district. The accused were earlier arrested by customs probing the smuggling aspect in the case. They were arrested for conspiring with other arrested accused people and for financing smuggling of gold through import cargo addressed to the UAE Consulate at Thiruvananthapuram, besides receiving such proceeds from the crime, NIA said. NIA said on Wednesday that it has conducted searches at the houses of these accused persons in Malappuram and Kozhikode. Searches were held at Malabar Jewellery owned by Aboobacker, Ameen Gold in Malappuram owned by Abdul Hameed and Ambi Jewellery owned by one Shamsudheen. During the searches, digital devices and incriminating documents were seized, NIA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ed-probes-source-of-commission-paid-to-swapna/articleshow/77772007.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Varanasi||38-year-old man rapes, blackmails student||GORAKHPUR: A 38-year-old school manager raped and blackmailed a 15-year- old student of the school in Gorakhpur, around a month ago. When her father made a complaint with senior police officials on Tuesday, police became active but by that time the accused managed to escape. The police have launched a search to nab the accused. The police have registered a case against the school manager under charges of rape and POCSO Act, police said. As per reports, the manager Harendra Yadav (38) called the girl, a class VII student and a resident of a village in Gorakhpur, at his house in Gola area on July 30. He raped her and recorded a video clip of the girl. He then started blackmailing her and also threatened her of making the video viral on the internet. After a few days, the student told everything to her family after which her father informed the police station of the area. After the police was not able to find the accused even 20-22 days, the girl’s father along with her met police officials. “The girl made a complaint to police officials that on July 30 her school manager called her at home and raped her. The case has been registered and police are searching for the accused,” CO Gola Shyamdev said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/38-yr-old-man-rapes-blackmails-student/articleshow/77772003.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Pune||Extortion slur on siblings||Pune: The Kothrud police on Tuesday registered an offence against two brothers after a 25-year-old woman accused them of forcing her to purchase a smartphone worth Rs14,000. An officer from the Kothrud police said the elder brother was stalking the woman for the past few years and also putting oressure on her to marry him. “Recently, he also forced her to transfer Rs7,500 to his account by threatening to upload her morphed photographs on social media platforms,” the officer said. On August 19, his younger brother contacted the woman and forced her to buy a smartphone for him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/extortion-slur-on-siblings/articleshow/77773096.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Madurai||South TN reports 29 Covid deaths||MADURAI/TRICHY: Once again the number of fresh Covid-19 cases came below the 1,000-mark in the southern districts of the state with 906 people in the region testing positive on Wednesday taking the tally to 75,257, which include 9,271 active cases. Twenty-nine deaths pushed the toll to 1,511. Meanwhile, the central region of the state continued to report 600-plus cases for the third consecutive day on Wednesday. The eight districts reported 632 fresh cases taking the tally to 28,696, which include 5,446 active cases. The death toll of the region touched 437 with the 15 more Covid-19 fatalities on Wednesday. Theni continued to have the highest number of single-day cases with 184 people testing positive on Wednesday. The number of samples tested in Theni district was 2,061. A man and a woman died of Covid-19 related issues in the district. Kanyakumari recorded 159 new cases, Tirunelveli 156 and Tuticorin 105 new cases. Tenkasi (98) and Virudhunagar (79) were the only other districts that have reported more than 50 cases. Sivaganga reported 18 cases, the lowest in the region, followed by Madurai (31), Dindigul (37), and Ramanathapuram (39). Except Tenkasi, which has 99 deaths, all the other nine districts reported more than 100 casualties. Deaths were also reported in Tirunelveli (6), Kanyakumari (5), Virudhunagar (4), Dindigul and Theni two each, Ramanathapuram and Theni three each and Madurai one. In the central districts, Thanjavur and Pudukottai recorded six and four deaths, while Ariyalur and Tiruvarur recorded two deaths each. One death was reported in Karur. Out of 15 fatalities, three patients were below 50 years of age. Several of them had comorbidities. Pudukottai emerged on top with 149 fresh cases on Wednesday. The district tally was 5,517. Thanjavur came second with 123 cases pushing its tally to 5,986. Trichy saw a dip in fresh cases as it tested 83 positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday taking the tally to 6,957. Trichy’s death toll of 111 was the highest in the region followed by Thanjavur (106), and Pudukottai (83). Perambalur remained low with 16 casualties. Tiruvarur’s 105 fresh cases pushed its tally to 3,062. Nagappattinam recorded 84 fresh cases. Covid-19 cases were also reported in Ariyalur (44), Karur (32) and Perambalur (18). Pudukottai district has 1,299 active cases, the highest in the region followed by Trichy (910) and Thanjavur (795).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-reports-29-covid-deaths/articleshow/77773785.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Tranquilised wild elephant starving, in critical condition||PALAKKAD: The wild elephant that was grievously injured in its mouth as it bit off explosives is starving for more than a week now as it is unable to consume water or food. Veterinary experts feel that it is in its fag end of fight for survival. Animal lovers here said that the forest department should have shifted the elephant to an elephant camp and provided treatment. The elephant is now unable to walk and may collapse any time, local tribes people said. Though the elephant was injured in both its jaws and its tongue got cut the forest department has not registered an FIR to investigate and find the culprits of this serious wildlife crime. The injured wild magna (male without tusk) elephant whom local residents nicknamed ‘Bulldozer’ was found with grievous injuries on its jaws in Sholayur, Attapadi, last Monday. It was given treatment after tranquilising it on Saturday. Another wild tusker aged five years was injured in its mouth due to explosives and died two months ago at Veettikundu near Kottathara near the same place where the injured ‘Bulldozer’ was found. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tranquilised-wild-elephant-starving-in-critical-condition/articleshow/77770714.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Probe sought into ‘ineligible’ contractual civic workers||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) branch at the divisional commissioner has sought an inquiry into allegations that four people who have been absorbed by the civic body in its electrical department do not possess the required qualifications for the posts. An internal letter, accessed by TOI, has asked the AMC administrator to revert with action taken report. The letter was issued a month ago. A senior official said the deserving candidates who did their engineering in electrical trait were left out while those with electronics and telecommunication (ENT) engineering background were given jobs. When contacted, civic body administrator Astik Kumar Pande said, “Matter will be enquired and corrective measures will be taken as per rules.” In 2017, Maharana Agency Security and Labour Suppliers bagged the contract for supplying skilled and unskilled manpower to AMC. Around 680 workmen, including several engineers from different streams supplied by the agency, are working on contract. AB Deshmukh, the head of department of the electrical department and deputy engineer (town planning), said, “Some of them have already been removed while we are of the view that we will need at least two for working with the signals section.” Deshmukh defended the postings, saying that he himself is a civil engineer and is currently holding additional charge of the electrical department. However, a civic official said. “There is no scope for an engineer from any other stream to work in the electrical department.” In the complaint lodged with the authorities, serious questions have been raised over the civic body’s labour department as well as the labour supply agency. The complaint also alleges that these junior engineers are allegedly being deployed to help out a private contractor currently carrying out LED-related works in the city. “Those holding degrees in electrical engineering were fired from the electrical department while those with degrees in other streams have been retained,” alleges the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/probe-sought-into-ineligible-contractual-civic-workers/articleshow/77769327.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Opposition boycotts standing panel polls||Kolhapur: The opposition in the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) — Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Tararani Aghadi alliance — has decided to boycott the election for the post of chairman of the standing committee. Wednesday was the last day for filling the nominations and the opposition camp did not field any candidate claiming that the election was being imposed in the midst of the pandemic. Only NCP corporator Sachin Patil filed his nomination for the coveted post. The election is going to take place on Friday through video-conferencing. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao has directed collector Daulat Desai to conduct the election in a fair manner. The post is lying vacant since the resignation of former chairman Sandip Kawale. Satyajeet Kadam, senior corporator of Tararani Aghadi, said, “The election is being imposed on us. The ruling alliance have no seriousness about the pandemic and the election is being held only to keep the corporators happy. We have not fielded a candidate this time and will not take part in the election.” Meanwhile, the Congress-NCP corporators have claimed that the opposition does not have a majority and to avoid another defeat the nomination has not been filed. The panel has 16 members, out of which nine are from Congress and NCP. Ut is clear that Patil will become the next civic panel chief. He, however, will hold the post for just one-and-a-half month as the five-year tenure of the current civic body is going to end in October. The ruling alliance are expecting to extend the tenure since the elections are unlikely to be held owing to the ongoing pandemic. The chances of dissolution of the civic body are high and an administrator will be appointed to carry out regular affairs of the civic body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/opposition-boycotts-standing-panel-polls/articleshow/77769335.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Dehradun||Akhada Parishad discusses Kumbh preparations, Palghar lynching & Bharat Ratna for former VHP leader||Haridwar: The members of the Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP), the apex body of seers of all 13 akharas of the country, met at Maya Devi temple in Haridwar on Wednesday to discuss issues like the ongoing preparations for Haridwar Kumbh 2021, need for a CBI probe into the mob lynching of three men, including two saints Kalpavriksha Giri Maharaj, Sushil Giri Maharaj, in Palghar district of Maharashtra, and Bharat Ratna for former Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) leader Ashok Singhal. During the meet, all seers unanimously adopted a resolution demanding Bharat Ratna, the country’s highest civilian honour, to be conferred on Ashok Singhal posthumously for “forging a rare unity of the Hindus and seers across India” for the cause of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. “Besides, memorials should be raised in Haridwar to commemorate the significant roles of eminent ascetics of different akhadas for the Ram Temple movement,” said ABAP president Swami Narendra Giri. The issue of Palghar killings was also discussed. “We will meet Maharashtra chief minister Udhav Thackeray and try to convince him that his government should demand for a CBI probe into the killings,” Giri added. Regarding the Kumbh 2021 preparations, the seers said that chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat should immediately deliver on his promise of giving Rs 1 crore to each akhada. The seers added that the arrangements should be expedited as Covid-19 outbreak has hit the pace of Kumbh preparations. “If Covid-19 situation doesn’t improve, a decision will accordingly be taken about the scale of Kumbh in keeping with the government guidelines,” Giri said. The seers also reached a consensus on the demand for land from the government for burial of seers. “The ritual of “jal samadhi” pollutes Ganga and thus, the government should provide land for the burial of seers,” Giri demanded. It was also decided that these matters would be taken up during their meeting with CM Rawat which is scheduled on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/akhada-parishad-discusses-kumbh-preparations-palghar-lynching-bharat-ratna-for-former-vhp-leader/articleshow/77769345.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
August 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: With business hit by Covid, many private bus operators surrender permits||BENGALURU: Facing financial hardship owing to poor demand and Covid-related travel restrictions, many private bus operators are surrendering their permits and thinking of exiting the business. They say it’s no longer viable to operate buses due to the high Motor Vehicle tax, rising cost of insurance, diesel, maintenance and spare parts, and staff salaries. Karnataka levies one of the highest road taxes in the country. L Hemanth Kumar, additional commissioner for transport and secretary, State Transport Authority, said: “There is an increase in the number of private bus operators surrendering permits up to six months. They don’t need to pay MV tax or insurance during this period.” “Earlier, they used to surrender permits in case of an accident, when they needed time to repair the buses...Now, bus operators are plying only in places like Udupi where state-run bus corporations don’t have monopoly,” added Kumar. Many operators have not decided whether to buy new buses in the next three years and some are planning to sell their business as they’re finding it difficult to pay EMIs. S Nataraj Sharma, chairman of Karnataka State Travel Operators Association, said: “We are planning to surrender all our vehicles and permits on September 3 if demands are not met. Many operators may be forced to wind up operations.” Operators say though their peak season is between April-June and October-December, demand is less due to the Covid-19 scare. KT Rajashekar, managing director of SRS Travels, said: “We haven’t had any business for over four months...We need to spend at least Rs 2-3 lakh on maintenance of each bus.” He said SRS Travels alone has surrendered 4,000 of 5,000 buses.  Meanwhile, KSRTC on Wednesday resumed services to Kerala after a gap of nearly four months. Officials said they are operating Onam special buses from Bengaluru and Mysuru till September 5. “We hope to restart inter-state services by September second week,” said an official, adding that no separate approval/e-permit will be required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-business-hit-by-covid-many-pvt-bus-operators-surrender-permits/articleshow/77770593.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
August 27, 2020||Bengaluru||With 1.5L discharges in 25 days, recovery rate shoots past 70%||Bengaluru: In keeping with the trend in states and countries in which cases have peaked, Karnataka’s recovery rate has improved significantly with an average of 6,186 patients being discharged each day as of August 25. August, which accounts for most number of deaths reported in the state, also saw a staggering 1.5 lakh discharges which pushed the overall recovery rate past 70% from just 40% as on July 31. Karnataka had face a dip in pace of recoveries from late June and the trend reversed only after July. Experts point to multiple reasons, including a change in discharge policy for the rate increase. They say the rule of allowing people to be discharged if they do not show symptoms for more than three days in a row has reduced the turnaround time. “Although this is on expected lines, it is still a positive sign,” Dr Giridhara Babu, member, ICMR task force on research and surveillance, had told TOI earlier. “But as recoveries increase, we will soon reach a stage where the growth rate of recoveries will plateau till active cases come down. The focus must continue to be on conducting more tests and detecting cases.” While the state’s overall recovery rate is at 70.1%, there are 19 districts whose rate is even better than the overall rate (see map). Belagavi, with 58.2% has the lowest recovery rate, while Bengaluru Rural with 85.4% has the best. In the same period, the state also added more than 1.6 lakh new cases at the rate of 6,708 cases per day, while the 25 days have seen 56% of all deaths recorded in the state. Also, as of August 25, authorities have not been able to pinpoint the source of infection in more than 40% of the cases, while they have managed to do it in more than 1.7 lakh patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-1-5l-discharges-in-25-days-recovery-rate-shoots-past-70/articleshow/77770518.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Six held for gangrape in Nizamabad||Hyderabad: Nizamabad police on Tuesday arrested six persons including two juvenile offenders in a gangrape case. The accused, Vicky, Syed Sohail, Dhanush, Govind, and two 17-year-old juveniles, are from Nizamabad. According to Nizamabad I Town inspector A Anjaneyulu, police arrested all of them from the crime scene. “Our patrolling vehicle noticed four persons at an open plot near the railway station in suspicious circumstances. We arrested two of their associates while they were sexually assaulting a 26-year-old,” Anjaneyulu said.  “The accused saw the victim near a government hospital and in the guise of providing her help they took her to an isolated place and raped her,” the inspector said. tNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/six-held-for-gangrape-in-nizamabad/articleshow/77772031.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Agra||Pigeon sporting and disposal of waste near Agra air base put flight opeartions at risk: Air Force||AGRA: Days after the fatal air crash at Kerala’s Kozhikode airport, the inspection officer at Kheria air base in Agra has written to the district magistrate (DM) claiming that rampant pigeon sporting and irregular waste management pose a serious risk to flight operations. Taking cognisance, DM Prabhu N Singh has set up a three-member panel to look into the issue and submit a report within seven days. Additional district magistrate (city), additional divisional railway manager and additional city magistrate are part of the panel. The letter issued by Wing Commander Ajit Kumar Tiwari who is also the inspection officer of the Air Force station in Agra read that irregular disposal of garbage and filth by locals and meat selling shops within 500 metres of Azam Para and Prithvinath railway crossing are attracting scavenging birds. People are also flying pigeons and feeding kites as part of sports, the letter further read. It goes on to mention the concerned places: Arjun Nagar, Kamal Khan area along with Jagner Road and near Khwaja Sarai area, Kheria Mode at Railway Bridge Agra Cantt. The letter cautioned that with the prevailing monsoon coupled with the associated mismanagement of filth, garbage by residents and meat shops owners and pigeon sporting, it has become nearly impossible to fly safely. On Wednesday, additional district magistrate (city) Prabhakant Awasthi told TOI, “Illegal meat shops operating in the areas around the Air Force station will be prohibited. On the basis of the investigation, the necessary arrangement will be made for disposal of waste. Awareness against pigeon sporting for safe operation of flights will be created among the residents."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/pigeon-sporting-and-disposal-of-waste-nearagra-air-base-put-flight-ops-at-risk-air-force/articleshow/77770736.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 27, 2020||Kolhapur||160 artificial ponds for immersion of idols||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) on Thursday will install as many as 160 artificial ponds at various locations in the city for people to immerse their Ganesh idols Other than the artificial ponds, the civic body will also deploy over 500 workers on the ground to facilitate eco-friendly immersion. Moreover, over 50 local groups will also assist the civic body to ensure social distance is followed and gatherings are avoided at the immersion sites. A group from R K Nagar is going to bring in water from Rankala Lake and Panchganga river which will be poured into the artificial ponds. This is to make people believe that they have immersed the idols in natural water bodies. The local corporators from some areas are going to install immersion kunds on the trolleys of the tractors for door-to-door collection of Ganpati idols. People will not have to walk long distance and they can immerse the idols in such mobile kunds. The workers deployed by the civic body will assist people to immerse idols in these mobile kunds. The corporators have appealed to the people that no more than two people from a family should move out to immerse the idols in mobile kunds. A senior civic official said, “We have put barricades along the entry of the rivers and lakes. Immersion in rivers and lakes has been banned. The decision has been taken not just to ensure no pollution of lakes and rivers, but also to avoid gatherings at these places.” Many activists have welcomed the decision of the civic administration to not allow immersion in rivers and lakes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/160-artificial-ponds-for-immersion-of-idols/articleshow/77769363.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Chennai||Man kidnapped for Rs 2 crore ransom: Chennai cops probe ‘hawala’ angle||CHENNAI: The city police on Wednesday arrested three people, including Thoufique, a Muslim radical, and launched a hunt for seven others for kidnapping a printing press owner for ₹2 crore ransom on August 17. According to police, the kidnappers abandoned Diwan Akbar, 45, on East Coast Road (ECR) after collecting the ransom from him. Though Akbar didn’t lodge a police complaint, the Muthialpet police conducted an inquiry with Akbar after they got a tip about the incident. According to police, the gang led by Thoufique kidnapped Akbar from his house at Muthialpet in Mannadi on August 17 and kept him at houses in Vadapalani and ECR for a few days. They extorted the money and dropped him on ECR and escaped with the cash. NIA booked Thoufique in ThanjavurAs the victim didn’t file a complaint, police and income tax officials are probing possible involvement of hawala money. The National Investigating Agency had earlier booked Thoufique of Athiramapatinam in Thanjavur. Thoufique had floated two outfits “Muslim Defence Force” and ‘Iraivan Oruvaney’ a decade ago and had tried to rope in youngsters. Sleuths of the state police and internal security wing were monitoring him for the past few years. Two suspects, Albert and Uma Maheshwaran, have also been detained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-kidnapped-for-rs-2cr-ransom-city-cops-probe-hawala-angle/articleshow/77772037.cms||A Selvaraj
August 27, 2020||Kozhikode||Mahe-Thalassery bypass: Bridge under construction collapses||KOZHIKODE: Four beams of an under-construction bridge on Mahe-Thalassery bypass road at Nettur collapsed on Wednesday afternoon. No one was injured though labourers were working a few metres away from the spot. The cause of the collapse is not yet known. Experts will examine the site on Thursday. A Perumbavoor-based company has taken the contract for constructing the bridge, which is one among the four on the Mahe-Thalassery stretch. The construction of the bypass, which is expected to ease the heavy rush at Thalassery, was inaugurated by Nitin Gadkari, Union minister for road transport, highways and MSMEs, in 2018. There was widespread protest against the delay in the construction of the 15-km stretch between Azhiyur and Muzhappilangad, though land was acquired long ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/bridge-under-construction-collapses/articleshow/77770760.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-hit taxi operators, shopkeepers demand relief package from govt||Mussoorie: Suffering heavy financial losses due to Covid-19 pandemic, local taxi operators and shopkeepers have demanded a relief package from the government. In a joint press conference on Wednesday, the representatives of these groups highlighted their plight and pushed the demand for a financial relief package from the government.  Rajat Aggarwal, president of Mussoorie Traders Association, said that medium small micro enterprises (MSME) traders are the worst affected due to the pandemic. “In Mussoorie alone, there are 950 MSME traders. All of them are facing financial losses due to lack of tourism activities in the state. The government must provide financial support to them in order to enable them to sustain,” Aggarwal said. Representatives of taxi unions also expressed their plight and said that taxi drivers as well as taxi operators are in a dire state. “The government must provide a financial support of Rs 5,000 for each taxi driver while providing a two-year rebate on road tax. Also, the duration of moratorium on loans must be enhanced,” said Sunder Singh Panwar, secretary of Mussoorie Taxi Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-hit-taxi-operators-shopkeepers-demand-relief-package-from-govt/articleshow/77769435.cms||Anmol Jain
August 27, 2020||Kochi||Provide details on road safety fund: Kerala HC to government||THRISSUR: A division bench of the Kerala high court has directed the state government to submit details of steps taken for the creation of Road Safety Fund, the purpose for which the fund is created, and how it is spent. The bench comprising Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly gave this direction in their interim order while considering a petition filed by Congress leader Advocate Shaji Kondankandath. In his petition, he pointed out that Kerala Road Safety Fund (KRSF) was constituted in accordance with Kerala Road Safety Authority (KRSA) Act, 2007. As per Section 11(3) of the Act, the Authority should be receiving 50% of fines imposed on all traffic offenses as well as the total amount collected by Kerala government as road safety cess at the time of vehicle registration. He pointed out that the KRSA was constituted in the backdrop of rising number of accidents and fatalities in the state. As per official figures, the number of deaths in road accidents in Kerala were 4,355 in 2019, while it was 4,303 in 2018 and 4,131in 2017. Similarly, the number of persons grievously injured in accidents were 32,414 in 2019, when compared to 31,672 in 2018 and 29,733 in 2017, the petition said. The state had set a target of reducing the accidents to 50% by 2020 when the authority was constituted. However, the current statistics prove that KRSA has miserably failed in achieving its objectives despite being one of the first states in India to set up a standalone authority for road safety. The authority has been rendered ineffective due to lack of funding from government and lack of proper administrative strength, the petitioner alleged. RTI replies received by the petitioner in March this year had revealed that the authority should have received an amount of Rs 894 crore from the government while it had received only Rs 177 crore till then and the balance of about Rs 717 crore was pending with the government. The petitioner has appealed to the court to direct Kerala government to immediately transfer the amounts due towards Road Safety Fund, so as to enable KRSA to utilize the fund for implementing road safety policies effectively. The judges have directed the secretaries of the department of finance and transport to file replies ensuring that they must specifically address the prayers in the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/provide-details-on-road-safety-fund-hc-to-govt/articleshow/77770841.cms||T Ramavarman
August 27, 2020||Madurai||Police teams to patrol at early hours, evening to curb crimes||MADURAI: The city police have introduced special patrolling at specified timings to prevent robberies and snatching incidents. The measure comes after several incidents were reported between 4am and 7am and 5pm and 9pm. Deputy commissioner of police, crime, K Palanikumar said that two patrolling teams have been formed in each police range in the city. Palanikumar also congratulated a special team that arrested an organized gang involved in a string of snatching and robbery incidents in the last two months. Police on Tuesday arrested Pandiarajan, J Abbas, Kalimuthu and recovered 15 sovereigns of gold jewellery, mobile phones and two bikes from them. Stephen Verghese, TNSTC driver and his advocate wife Kottai Eswari were also arrested for harbouring the gang. Earlier, leader of the gang, Tools Pandi and two youngsters were arrested by the district police in separate incidents. Palanikumar said, “Verghese and Eswari harboured the gang by providing accommodation in their house in Kannanendal even as special police teams were searching for them everywhere. We have written to the concerned authorities to debar Eswari and take departmental action against Verghese.” Palanikumar said the gang of six, who were involved in 25 cases, including 17 since lockdown, had taken a house on rent in Thanakkankulam. “The gang committed crime for the sake of pleasure apart from money. They randomly chose their targets. They were always under the influence of liquor or ganja or drugs used to treat psychiatric problems,” Palanikumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/police-teams-to-patrol-at-early-hours-evening-to-curb-crimes/articleshow/77773819.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Varanasi||Bhadohi court issues NBW against jailed Gyanpur MLA’s MLC wife||VARANASI: Bhadohi court has issued a non-bailable warrant against the jailed muscleman and Gyanpur MLA Vijay Mishra’s wife Ramlali Mishra, who is an MLC from Mirzapur-Sonbhadra, in the case of alleged grabbing of property of their relative. The plea of their son Vishnu Mishra for interim bail against his arrest in the same case has also been rejected. Mishra had been arrested from MP on August 14. Just before his arrest it was claimed that Ramlali is missing mysteriously from Prayagraj. Talking to TOI on Wednesday, SP Bhadohi RB Singh said, “The court of chief judicial magistrate on Tuesday had issued NBW against Ramlali as she is absconding.” Inspector Gopiganj Krishnanand Rai said that their son Vinshu’s plea for interim bail against his arrest was also rejected by the district judge court on Tuesday, after which police moved application to get NBW against him. Police claimed that search for the duo had been intensified and they will be arrested soon. Ramlali Mishra is the co-accused with her husband and son in a case lodged on August 8 by her relative Krishna Mohan Tiwari. On a complaint of Tiwari, Gopiganj police station registered a case against the trio under sections 325 (voluntarily causing grievous), 506 (criminal intimidation), 347 (wrongful confinement to extort property, or constrain to illegal act), 387 (putting person in fear of death or of grievous hurt, in order to commit extortion) and 449 (house-trespass in order to commit offence punishable with death) of IPC. The complainant has alleged that they had grabbed his property. On August 13, Mishra had released a video message fearing life threat to him and his family. A few hours before Mishra’s arrest in MP on August 14, Ramlali’s gunner Ishwar Chand informed the higher authorities that she was missing from George Town in Prayagraj mysteriously since August 13 night. However, the SP Bhadohi ruled out that she was missing and held her move as an attempt to evade her arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhadohi-court-issues-nbw-against-jailed-gyanpur-mlas-mlc-wife/articleshow/77772050.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Goa||Goa airport gets 2 art installations||Vasco: In a bid to enhance passenger experience and promote Goan heritage and culture, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) on Wednesday unveiled two installations at the Goa International Airport, Dabolim. A cannon and a representation of the traditional Portuguese group dance, ‘Corridinho’, were inaugurated by South Goa MP Francisco Sardinha. The cannon has been handcrafted from seasoned pinewood and iron and is a replica of the vintage cannons present in many of Goa’s forts. “These art works in different parts of the terminal building will enhance aesthetics besides creating a feel-good factor for guests,” airport director Gagan Malik, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-airport-gets-2-art-installations/articleshow/77773176.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Nashik||Docs hired on contract can continue pvt practise||Nashik: Senior officials of the health department have said that doctors recruited on a contract basis are free to continue with their private practise after their duty hours in the government medical facilities. Therefore, physicians, MBBS and BAMS doctors should consider attending the walk-in interviews that are being conducted to address the shortage of doctors, which is being felt due to the rising number of cases. The walk-in interviews began on Wednesday on the premises of the Nashik civil hospital. Senior doctors of the district health department said many candidates are under the impression that they would have to leave their private practice if they are appointed by the government. This is not true. After government duty hours, the doctors are free to take up their private practice, they said. There are five posts of physicians in the district. However, no candidate has come up for the interview for these posts. The response for MBBS posts has also been poor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/docs-hired-on-contract-can-continue-pvt-practise/articleshow/77769462.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 27, 2020||Nashik||Conmen stealjewellery from65-yr-old man||Nashik: Two criminals disguised as policemen targeted a 65-year-old man and escaped with his gold chain and two rings totally worth Rs 45,000 near in the Indiranagar area over a week ago. The senior citizen was too shocked to reveal the matter to any of his family members and chose to remain quiet until his son realised that something was wrong and questioned him, said police. The man narrated the story to his son, following which both of them lodged a police complaint on Tuesday, said police. According to the Indiranagar police, the victim was walking around 5.15 pm on August 18, when the two criminals told him that they were police and asked him to remove his jewellery for safety reasons. Police sub-inspector Zakir Shaikh said the criminals pretended to help the victim and took the jewellery before fleeing from the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/conmen-stealjewellery-from65-yr-old-man/articleshow/77769432.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||70-yr-old’s body dumped on footpath, 3 held||Hyderabad: Civic workers caught three people, including an auto driver and an 18-year-old girl, while they were trying to escape in an auto after dumping the body of a 70-year-old woman on the footpath near Tipu Khan bridge on Wednesday. Around 2 am, GHMC sanitation workers noticed an auto slowing down near Tipu Khan bridge and people disembarking from the vehicle to place a body on the footpath. “The GHMC workers saw that some people were dumping the body on the footpath. They intercepted the auto and alerted us,” Golconda inspector K Chandrasekhar Reddy said. Police took 18-year-old toddy shop operator, Manju of Habeebnagar, her customers Khader and Saidulu, auto drivers, into custody. According to Manju, Grace Mary, 70, was working at her toddy shop. On Tuesday night, she asked Manju to drop her to her relative’s place in Bandlaguda. Manju requested the other two accused to help her in taking Mary. However, she died en route. “The three suspects said they decided to leave the body on the footpath so that municipal authorities will cremate it. There are no external injuries,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/70-yr-olds-body-dumped-on-footpath-3-held/articleshow/77772098.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Madurai||Dialysis patients more vulnerable, need better cover from Covid, say doctors||MADURAI: With chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients who need dialysis to survive being a high risk group and vulnerable to Covid-19 infection, doctors feel that Covid testing norms should be eased for them and home-dialysis and other measures encouraged to ensure they get better and safer care. In Madurai district, 12% of Covid-19 deaths were of patients with CKD. “Since dialysis patients have a higher chance of mortality as well, we are educating our patients and attenders about Covid-19 and precautions as best as we can. Covid-19 screening has been made mandatory at all hospitals before dialysis treatment. However, it is still difficult to ensure all patients follow precautions and stay safe,” said Dr T Dhinakaran, chief nephrologist and director, Madurai Kidney Centre and Transplantation Research Institute. The doctor said that dialysis patients need to exercise extra caution even at home to stay safe. “The problem is that if we have to take more precautions for dialysis patients, the expenses and work at home also increase. We have to ensure periodical disinfection of the room, restrict him from going out, and isolate him from even family members, which will be difficult for him mentally too,” said K Nisha, daughter of a dialysis patient. There was also the fear about hospital visits, which would involve exposure, putting both her father and the family at risk. Doctors said that making Covid-19 screening and testing more accessible and cheaper can greatly aid dialysis patients. “It is not like a surgery where one can just test negative and proceed with treatment. Some dialysis patients who came to our hospital even had asymptomatic Covid-19 positivity, so definitely if there is a suspicion, testing is a must. Already, hospitals have protocols in place for separate dialysis units for such patients with staff also wearing PPEs, so patients need not worry,” said Dr K Sampathkumar, secretary, Nephrology Association of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry (NATPU). The doctor said that reducing dependence of dialysis patients on haemodialysis can also help CKD patients stay safe from Covid-19.  “Peritoneal home dialysis is not as popular in India. However, in other countries, it was found to have helped reduce incidence of Covid-19 among dialysis patients. Home dialysis can be encouraged with support from the government under these circumstances so patients can avoid hospital visits and stay safer,” said Dr Sampathkumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dialysis-patients-more-vulnerable-need-better-cover-from-covid-say-doctors/articleshow/77773834.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Power bus meltdown shut exhaust fans, lights: CID||Hyderabad: Damage to the internal power supply bus at Srisailam hydel power project caused a complete power shutdown at the facility, rendering exhaust fans and emergency lights non functional. As a result, nine workers, who got engulfed in thick smoke and darkness, lost their lives. Investigators are trying to understand what triggered the fire in control panel 6. After the preliminary examination of the Srisailam left bank hydel power station, where the fire accident occurred on August 20, Crime Investigation Department (CID) sleuths have identified that the fire occurred in control panel 6 located on the top floor of the four-storied underground facility. There are six control panels, connected to six power generation units comprising of turbines, generators and water inlet valves, set up at different levels below. Each unit has 150 MW power generating capacity. The investigators found that when the mishap occurred the staff were in the process of replacing batteries, providing DC power to six panels. A battery set is connected to control panels 1 and 2, while the second battery set is connected to control panels 3, 4, 5 and 6. Though it was initially suspected that change of battery could be one of the reasons for the mishap, it is not yet clear why the fire occurred only in control panel 6, when the particular battery was connected to three other control panels, an investigator said. As the five-member high-level inquiry committee, constituted by TS Genco, is currently conducting a probe at the power plant, CID team is now waiting for their report. “As the internal bus was damaged, backup emergency power could not be supplied to exhaust fans and emergency lamps. With exhaust fans and emergency lights off, smoke quickly engulfed the facility, making it difficult for the nine people to get out,” a CID officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/power-bus-meltdown-shut-exhaust-fans-lights-cid/articleshow/77772186.cms||Mahesh Buddi
August 27, 2020||Nashik||50% rise in chain-snatch cases this yr||Nashik: The city reported nearly 50% more chain-snatching incidents in the first seven months of this year in comparison to the previous year. However, the rise in numbers was observed mostly till March, as the lockdown was in force after that. According to police records, there were 27 chain-snatchings last year between January and July. This year, during the same period, the number increased to 41. A senior police officer said the highest number of chain-snatching cases were reported between January and March this year. A couple of cases were also reported recently. However, there were hardly any cases in the months of April, May and June. Police officers said no chain-snatching cases were reported during the lockdown as most citizens stayed indoors. Moreover, the checkposts set up across the city and its borders averted chain-snatching cases. The detection rate of chain-snatching cases has been low. The police have been able to crack only two such cases this year. The police said overall 2,283 offences (including robberies, thefts and chain-snatchings) were reported between January and July-end last year. This year, the figure dropped to 1,786 during the same period. However, the number of chain robberies have gone up in the first three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/50-rise-in-chain-snatch-cases-this-yr/articleshow/77769478.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 27, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Vigilance court orders probe||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The vigilance special court here ordered a preliminary inquiry into the alleged irregularities in sand mining in Pamba-Thriveni. The court ordered a preliminary inquiry in the petition submitted by opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. The preliminary inquiry has been ordered against Pathanamthitta district collector P B Nooh and former chief secretary Tom Jose. Beside the officials, the petition also arraigns managing director of Kannur-based public sector undertaking Kerala Clays and Ceramic Products Ltd (KCCPL). The petition alleged that the government tried to sell off the sand, that was accumulated in the floods of 2018, to a private company under the cover of a PSU, and caused a loss of Rs 10 crore to the state exchequer. Earlier, Chennithala made a similar complaint to the vigilance director, but his demand for an inquiry was turned down by the government. In his petition to the vigilance director, he had pointed out that over 1.25 lakh cubic metre of sand was deposited in Pampa-Thriveni after the floods, and the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) had given a one-time approval to the state government to remove them. He said that 20,000 cubic metre was allotted to Travancore Devaswom Board for construction at Pampa and Sannidhanam, 15,000 cubic metre was cleared for retail sales and 55,000 cubic metre for sale through e-auction. However, no action has been taken yet, he said. Chennithala said that in contradiction to all these decisions, Pathanamthitta district collector had given permission to KCCPL to remove 1,28,193 cubic metre of sand and silt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/vigilance-court-orders-probe/articleshow/77770868.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Kolkata||Global scam: Lens on 40 fake BPOs in south Kolkata||KOLKATA: Around 40 BPOs in the city, located mostly in the Regent Park-Jadavpur-Tollygunge area, are now under scanner for duping customers across the globe, mostly from Australia, USA, Germany and the UK. The cops have already busted five such units and they said there is a chance of more arrests. A formula adopted by Bidhannagar police a couple of years ago in Sector V, and replicated by both Kolkata Police and the CID in the Kasba-Tiljala area, is likely to be followed to fast track the probe. “We are collecting information — literally going door-to-door of various fly-by-the-night computer institutes and BPOs in this part of the city. We will ascertain how many of them have the mandatory trade licences,” said an officer. The fact that some of the BPOs busted so far, especially in Jadavpur and Survey Park, have managed operations from rented flats for the past three years has become the biggest challenge. “Some of these BPO owners employed young men and women, and one of them had even managed to buy a Mercedes with his profits. Many criminals are taking this up for quick money. The arrest of history-sheeter Sk Vinod from the same area for committing the same crime has come as an eye-opener,” said a source. Among those arrested so far are people from Bihar and UP, along with some from Kalimpong, Burdwan and Hooghly. Sources say that criminals take advantage of residential neighbourhoods of IT professionals, where odd hours hardly get noticed, to set up such illegal businesses. In the past three years, Kolkata Police, Bidhannagar police and the CID have unearthed at least 30 such fake BPOs operating from areas like Sector V, New Town, Park Street, Sukantanagar, Tiljala and Tangra, Kasba and Lake Gardens, forcing cops to form crack teams who took help of apex bodies, like NASSCOM. “These people keep shifting their bases. It is not heard to guess why the Jadavpur-Tollygunge belt was chosen after Tiljala and Kasba,” claimed a source. “The modus operandi is more or less the same. The usual targets are citizens living abroad. They usually place calls through VOIP applications, like Skype, and tell the targets that their computers have been compromised and that their personal data is on the verge of being hacked or destroyed if immediate action is not taken,” the officer said. Thereafter, they usually offer a “solution” to the target, who by then gets anxious, or a charge that could be anything between $50 to $10,000,” said a source. But it is the rise of cases locally that has the police fast-tracking the probe. “We believe that a section of these criminals are also involved in the OTP and QR code scams. Beyond Jamtara, we believe they have set up operations here in these times of pandemic,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/global-scam-lens-on-40-fake-bpos-in-south-kol/articleshow/77772213.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 27, 2020||Rajkot||Youth attempts self immolation in Rajkot, rescued||Rajkot: A 23-year-old Dalit youth attempted self immolation outside University police station on Tuesday night.Police said Ravi Vadher had poured inflammables over his body and was about to set himself ablaze when he was rescued by the cops. Vadher’s cousin Jaideep Vadher (19) also joined in the protest. He banged his head against the wall of the police station. “The Vadher brothers alleged that the residents of Radhe Krishna Society on University Road did not allow them to live in the society. The society members had even made a representation against them at the police commissionerate office for allegedly creating nuisance in the society,” said an official from University police station. In order to lodge a protest, Ravi Vadher tried to immolate self.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/youth-attempts-self-immolation-in-rajkot-rescued/articleshow/77769488.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Lucknow||UP’s ODOP model to be adopted across India||Lucknow: Uttar Pradesh’s One District-One Product (ODOP) model is set to be adopted across the country. Recognising the potential of the scheme, launched by chief minister Yogi Adityanath in 2018, Union minister Piyush Goyal will hold a video conference with industries ministers of all states to chalk out a plan for its pan-India implementation. The ODOP project recognises speciality products and handicraft of various districts and implements a programme of training, skilling and marketing to uplift the art and provide them with a market, both national and international. In a letter to all industries ministers, Goyal acknowledged the potential of the programme to uplift rural India. “To recognise the potential of rural India and align it with the clarion call of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to make ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat, the ministry of commerce and industry is in the process of putting in place an institutional mechanism to propagate ODOP as a movement across the country, with the help of all state governments and union territories,” he said in his letter. He said, the ministry intends to drive this project on mission mode with specific targets to be achieved by 2022, when the country celebrates the 75th year of independence. It will be crucial to drive economic growth and uplift rural economy, he said. Under this, states and UTs will be required to identify and map district-wise unique products, identify inputs on branding, logistics, packaging and branding to standardize the product, provide training and skilling and establish market linkages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ups-odop-model-to-be-adopted-across-india/articleshow/77773184.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Hubballi||Farmer growing ganja on areca farm raided, arrested||Davanagere: Posing as farmers, cops raided the garden of Palakshappa, a farmer in Nallur village of Channagiri taluk in Davanagere district, on Wednesday. Accused Palakshappa, 65, was arrested and produced before the JMFC Channagiri town on charges of cultivating ganja in his arecanut garden. The police team led by Dy SP Thirumalesh from the IGP Eastern Range) recovered around 400 grams of dry ganja leaves worth around Rs10,000 kept in his house at Nallur. Police also seized around 40 ganja plants to the tune of over 50 kg, worth Rs 50,000. The cops uprooted the plants from the garden, said Channagiri Dy SP Prashanth Munnolli. During interrogation, the accused said that he had cultivated the ganja plants for his personal use; he used to consume it after making a dry powder out of it, the Dy SP added. "We are investigating if he had sold ganja leaves at any time," the Dy SP added. Villagers said that the accused hails from a good family and may not have known that it is a crime to grow ganja plants. Channagiri taluk police have booked a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/farmer-growing-ganja-on-areca-farm-raided-arrested/articleshow/77769764.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Mangaluru||PIL seeks probe into Pachanady disaster, HC orders notice||Bengaluru: The high court on Wednesday issued notice to the state and central governments, the KSPCB and the Mangaluru city corporation, in a PIL over last year’s Pachanady landfill disaster in Mangaluru city. The PIL filed by Karnataka State Legal Services Authority has sought for a probe by a district judge into the disaster, where a garbage mound slid down the landfill, submerging 4 houses, a couple of temples and crops on 18 acres. The petitioner has also sought for the release of Rs 22.4 crore as interim compensation to 50 affected families, apart from giving directions to the state government to strictly adhere to the provisions of Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. The KSLSA has further claimed that the incident had occurred on August 4 last year, and even after a year going by, garbage is still dumped at the spot, and no action has been initiated by the KSPCB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pil-seeks-probe-into-pachanady-disaster-hc-orders-notice/articleshow/77770677.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Chandigarh||227 acres of forest land vacated from illegal possession in Ambala||Ambala: The Haryana forest department has got about 90%, i.e. 227 acres of forest land, vacated from the illegal possession of farmers, especially in Naraingarh block of Ambala district this year, officials said on Wednesday. On Tuesday, the forest department got about 63 acres of forest land vacated from the illegal possession of about 20 farmers in Chhajju Majra village of Naraingarh block. Earlier this year in June, the department got 164 acres of forest land vacated. It was spread across four villages including Kathe Majra, Jharsaila, Badi Rasour and Shahpur of Naraingarh sub-division, told the forest officials. Ambala deputy conservator of forest Hairatjeet Kaur said, “This year, we have got about 90% of the forest land vacated from illegal possession in Naraingarh block of Ambala district. These lands are closed as deemed forest under Sections 4 and 5 of Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA) and they had been encroached upon for the past many years. Earlier, there were lapses at many places and this area was lost as the department did not have any idea about it. About one and half years ago, we started to trace the area and started to vacate them after fighting a legal battle.” “Now, we have demarcated all these areas by erecting boundary pillars and the forest guards have been instructed to ensure that no encroachment takes place. The private and forest land have been marked with boundary of eucalyptus trees and trenches. All boundary pillars have been geo-tagged and each forest guard can access the details on mobile by entering the geo-reading, whether the pillar is intact at its location or shifted to some other place,” she added. Hairatjeet said efforts are being done to identify more such lands in Ambala. Naraingarh forest range officer Mohan Lal said, “With the help of forest officers, employees and police department, the possession of 63 acres of forest land in section 4-5 area at Chhajju Majra village was taken on Tuesday. This land was under illegal possession of about 20 farmers and after erecting the boundary pillars on all sides, a plantation drive has been initiated.” In the initial phase, the department has planned to plant about 20,000 saplings of indigenous trees of different species at the piece of vacated land at Chhajju Majra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/227-acres-of-forest-land-vacated-from-illegal-possession-in-ambala/articleshow/77772217.cms||Jaskaran Singh
August 27, 2020||Mysuru||Woman hacks husband to death||Hassan: A 50-year-old woman on Tuesday night killed her husband with a machete for having an extra marital affair at Vaginakere Kallahalli village of Belur taluk. The deceased had not visited his wife for nearly a year. Chandregowda, 54, was from Hosapete of Chikkamagalur district while his wife Indramma, is a native of Vaginakere Kallahalli. The couple were living in the same village since their wedding. However, for several years, Chandregowda had an extramarital affair with a woman at Daaradahalli village near Banakal of Chikkamagalur district where he was working as writer in a coffee plantation. This illicit relationship had led to permanent differences between the couple. Chandregowda had not met his wife for a year as they had frequent quarrels before. However, on Tuesday he came to a village in Belur near his wife's native to attend the funeral of a relative. Later he decided to stay the night with his wife. Indramma had allegedly hatched a plan to kill her husband. Accordingly, after having dinner, she hacked him to death with a machete. She is now in police custody. The couple’s 23-year-old son too had attended the funeral but decided to stay in a relative house near his father's native in Chikkamagalur district. He runs a bakery in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/woman-hacks-husband-to-death/articleshow/77770934.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Aurangabad||HC acquits man accused of murdering his son||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court recently acquitted a 40-year-old man who was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment by a trial court for poisoning his 14-year-old son to death. The acused — Rama Maroti Ghongde, a resident of Khanapur in Nanded — was arrested after a complaint was lodged against him by his wife, Vithabai, for poisoning their eldest son on December 12, 2013. On the day of the incident, the couple had a fight and the neighbours had to intervene. After the fight, Vithabai went to the neighbour’s home, while Ghongde left with the eldest son, Ashutosh, towards Khanpur Phata. After an hour, the accused called the neighbours and informed that his son had consumed poison. Following this, the neighbours and Vithabai rushed to the spot and took the son to Degloor hospital from where he was referred to the Nanded civil hospital where Ashutosh died during treatment. The last rites were performed on December 19, while on the following day Vithabai lodged a complaint against her husband with the police. Based on her compliant an offence was registered against Ghongde under Section 302 of the IPC. The trial went on for around two years and on August 19, 2015, additional sessions judge sentenced him to life imprisonment. Ghongde then moved high court, challenging the sessions court verdict through the legal aid service that appointed lawyer R S Mubashir Ali, to represent the accused in the high court. While acquitting Ghongde the bench, comprising justices T V Nalawade and Mangesh S Patil, observed: “The trial court has committed an error and the prosecution has failed to prove the case beyond all reasonable doubts. The benefit of doubt needs to be given to the accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-acquits-man-accused-of-murdering-his-son/articleshow/77772187.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
August 27, 2020||Rajkot||Four booked for copper theft from Sikka power plant||Rajkot: Four including an engineer were booked on Wednesday for the alleged copper theft from a state government-run power plant in Sikka of Jamnagar district.Police said the accused, Viral Visrolia, junior engineer serving with the plant of Gujarat Energy Transmission Corporation Limited, Arwind Odedara, Vikram Vaghela and Prakash Katara, had allegedly stolen 132 kg copper worth Rs 53,000 from the factory. “The accused had hidden the copper pieces in a tanker. The Central Industrial Security Force personnel deployed at entry and exit points of the factory detected the theft and informed the factory authorities,” said K R Sisodiya, sub-inspector with Sikka police station.The tanker driver revealed the names of the accused who were booked on the complaint of Nilesh Parmar, an official at the plant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-booked-for-copper-theft-from-sikka-power-plant/articleshow/77769508.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Mangaluru||NITK set to start placement drive from Saturday||Mangaluru: Notwithstanding the climate of uncertainty prevailing over the economy in India, there appears to be no dearth of opportunities for graduating engineers at the National Institute of Technology-Karnataka (NITK), Surathkal, where the recruitment drive is all set to start from Saturday. Officials at NITK confirmed that of the IT companies that are on its recruitment roster, nearly 90% will participate in the placement drive this year. As has been the case with all other educational institutions, NITK too has borne the brunt of the pandemic, and has had to adjust to the altered circumstances. The new academic year at the premier institution started in July. Chairman of NITK’s Career Development Centre Vijay Desai said neither recruitment nor offers for internship had registered a dip at the college owing to the Covid-19 crisis. “While students in their final year will participate in the placement drive, juniors can attend interviews to get an internship. The recruitment drive is being held virtually, which means that all aspirants will have to sit through the interview process while staying home,” Desai told TOI. Admitting that the economic slowdown that the Covid-19 crisis had brought about had resulted in many people getting laid off, freeze in hiring and reduction in salary, companies were still recruiting freshers, Desai said. “Core companies in other sectors such as electronics and mechanical engineering are expected to start recruiting graduates in the coming days,” he added. Desai said that the entire process was expected to be completed in a few days. Last year, the IT department registered 100% placement, while 98.97% of the students in the computer science department were placed. The figure was 94% for electronics. The civil engineering and mining departments registered 70% placement. Opportunities galore *In 2019-20, more than 270 companies, including seven public sector units and Isro, recruited NITK students *As many as 934 students, of whom 600 were from BTech, 228 from MTech students, 73 MCA students, 17 MBA students and eight each from MSc (physics) and MSc (chemistry) were placed in the last academic year *Rs 10.5 lakh per annum was the average salary paid to undergraduates *Rs 51.5 lakh per annum was the highest package that an NITK student received last academic year||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/nitk-set-to-start-placement-drive-from-saturday/articleshow/77771410.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
August 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Inmates of girls’ paying guest accommodation thrash intruder||Mangaluru: A man, who frequented a girls’ paying guest accommodation near Sharavau Temple here was allegedly thrashed by the inmates. The incident took place on Tuesday night and police said the accommodation management failed to hire a security guard in spite of their advice. Police said a person, who eked out his livelihood by begging, was alleged to have been thrashed by the inmates after he illegally entered the premises and was spying on girls on Tuesday night. Police added that the same person had entered the paying guest accommodation last December after which they had advised PG owner to appoint a security guard, which was not yet done. In December, the intruder had allegedly stolen the inner wear of the inmates. The accommodation has about 40 inmates, who are working in various parts of the city. The intruder, who had received injuries during the incident, was treated at a nearby clinic, police added. When asked if the PG owners had filed a complaint, jurisdictional police said they are unwilling to do so. “We have asked them to visit the police station. Last time the person walked out freely as the PG owner did not file a complaint,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/inmates-of-girls-paying-guest-accommodation-thrash-intruder/articleshow/77769816.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Hubballi||KLE Technological University bags Band A in ARIIA ranking||Hubballi: KLE Technological University, Hubballi, has bagged ‘Band A’ (06-25 Ranking) ARIIA (Atal Ranking of Institutions Innovation Achievement) Ranking from the Ministry of Education, Government of India, in the category of university and Deemed to be University across India. The university won the recognition in the ‘University & deemed to be university (Private-Self-Financed)’ category in ARIIA 2020, announced on August 18. The university is placed among the top six to 25 institutions in the country which places it in the Band A in a survey conducted by the All-India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). ARRIIA ranks institutions based on their focus on creating an environment to convert research into innovation. Some of the parameters include quality and quantity of programmes conducted on crucial topics like creating IPR, pursuing research, raising venture capital. It also considers the budget set aside by the institution for such programmes and actual output in terms of innovations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kle-technological-university-bags-band-a-in-ariia-ranking/articleshow/77770882.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Rajkot||Leopard found dead in residential compound||Rajkot: A leopard carcass was recovered from a residence in Krishna park society of Gir Gadhada taluka of Gir Somnath district on Tuesday night. According to the forest department, the carcass was found from the residence of one Jalpesh Jani, which is a very rare phenomenon. The carcass is of a male leopard aged around 15 years. Foresters believe that the wild cat must have been sick and therefore sought refuge in the backyard of the residential premises, which was isolated. The carcass has been sent for post mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/leopard-found-dead-in-residential-compound/articleshow/77769534.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Hubballi||Congress members plant saplings in potholes to protest apathy||Hubballi: Irked by the worsened condition of roads in Hubballi central assembly constituency, Hubballi-Dharwad Central Youth Congress wing protested by planting saplings in potholes on a road at Badami Nagar here on Wednesday. The Youth Congress workers under the leadership of Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagar Jilla Congress president Altaf Hallur and Jilla Congress general secretary Rajat Ullagaddimath and others protested near former chief minister Jagadish Shettar’s residence at Badami Nagar and planted saplings in potholes. Ullagaddimath said that despite representing the constituency over the decades former CM and MLA Jagadish Shettar has failed to take up development works in his constituency. “The poor condition of the roads near Shettar’s residence is a classic example of Shettar’s concern towards development and providing basic facilities to people. Though BJP has ruled Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) for three terms, the condition of roads has remained unchanged or rather worsened,” he alleged. The protesters threatened to continue their protest if immediate action is not taken to improve the condition of city roads. Youth Congress office bearers Shahazman Mujahid, Shiva Bendigeri, Basavaraj Gadgimath, Shamseer Khan, Sourab Masekar Laxman Gaddi, Jaysheel Balmi, Shashank Iavalli, Sanjay Kundgol, Shamsher Yargatti Mohammed Pinjar and others were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/congress-members-plant-saplings-in-potholes-to-protest-apathy/articleshow/77771471.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Now, ‘affordable’ Poland a new option for Telugu students||HYDERABAD: Poland is emerging as an unlikely choice for students to pursue higher education as many view it as a gateway to explore opportunities across Europe. Chandana Rao, a Hyderabad native, pursuing her Masters in International Business at Uniwersytet Ekonomiczny we Wrocławiu (University of Economics) in Wrocław says: “The country is better than many alternatives because it is affordable and easily accessible for middle class families. The local currency one złoty is Rs 20 (approx). Courses cost 10,000-20,000 zloty (Rs 2 lakh - Rs 4 lakh approx) on an average a year. An additional 15,000 zloty (Rs 3 lakh aprox) is enough for expenses every year if you are working part-time.” Rao adds that good job opportunities, including in banks and IT companies, are a huge draw for international students. The strong industrial set-up in the country is an added benefit. Satya Ravindra, another Telugu student in Poland, who is doing his Masters at Politechnika Wroclaw in electrical engineering suggested that students should in fact travel for their undergraduate education to Poland. “There are a lot more opportunities and chances of getting hired easily if one completes a Bachelors’ programme here,” he said. Ravindra hopes to settle down in the country and says students will not regret it. In an email interaction, Parikshat Kadan, the first secretary of Embassy of India in Warsaw confirmed that there are currently around 4,000 Indian students in Poland. “The number has been rising steadily over the last 4 to 5 years. We have Telugu students there as well,” said Kadan. About the choice of country as an education destination, he said: “Students should choose Poland due to quality of education offered here, which is almost half the price if compared with Western Europe. Most universities offer courses in English for international students.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-affordable-poland-a-new-option-for-telugu-students/articleshow/77772226.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Agra||In UP village where 5-year-old died of hunger, 2,000 Dalit families don’t have ration cards||AGRA: Of the 5,000 families who live in the gram panchayat where a five-year-old died with no food, 2,000 families — all Dalit — do not have ration cards. Most are not covered by any welfare scheme and only 191 families, most from the dominant castes, are enrolled under the Ayushman Bharat scheme, a survey by a child rights activist found. Following TOI’s reports on the death of the five-year-old girl, Sonia, in Agra’s Nagla Vidhichand village, a child rights activist, Naresh Paras, surveyed the gram panchayat. “After Sonia’s death, the district administration hurried here and provided help to her family — but only hers. Others are still struggling,” said Hemant Kumar Gautam, a resident of Nagla Vidhichand.  A tuberculosis patient waiting for government helpThe five-year-old, daughter of a construction worker and daily wager, had died after days of going without food when her family ran out of money. A elderly woman standing outside her house. She stays alone in a roofless house. Not covered by any government scheme.The administration said it is prioritising the matter. “We are very concerned about their well-being. For now, Sonia’s family has been looked after. Other poor people in the village will be covered under the government scheme soon,” chief development officer J Reebha said. They’re starting with documentation. Sub-divisional magistrate (Sadar) M Arunmozhi said, “We are setting up a special camp in the village to issue ration cards to all poor families. Arrangements are also being made to issue Aadhaar cards to every person in the gram panchayat.” The story of Sonia and her family is that of every one of the 2,000 Dalit families here. Like Mala, 38, her three kids and her husband. “I can’t get work these days. Sometimes we get food, sometimes we don’t. My husband’s health is getting worse, he has tuberculosis. But I can’t buy his medicines,” said Mala. She does not have a gas cylinder, nor an Ayushman Bharat cover or a ration card. Most don’t. The Nainana Jat gram panchayat in Agra’s Baroli Ahir block is a Jatav-majority cluster. It covers five small villages — Nagla Vidhichand, Ambedkar Nagar, Swaroop Nagar, Hari Nagar and Nainana Jat. “About 2,000 families — all Dalit — do not have ration cards. There are about 65 Muslim families as well who have not had access to welfare schemes either. Only 191 families, from the dominant castes and OBCs, are enrolled with the Ayushman Bharat scheme,” said Paras after wrapping up his survey. What this means is that those most in need are also the ones most far removed from welfare schemes. “The Covid-19 outbreak made things worse for poor families," siad Paras. On the basis of what he saw, Paras has written to the Agra district magistrate,Prabhu N Singh, with a request to ensure basics for the panchayat — Aadhaar, ration card, Ayushman Bharat enrolment, free health checkups and medicines, getting children into schools and rehabilitation for child labourers. The DM said he will look into the grievance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/in-up-village-where-5-yr-old-died-of-hunger-2000-dalit-families-dont-have-ration-cards/articleshow/77770863.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad district reports 132 fresh cases||AURANGABAD: The district recorded 132 fresh Covid-19 patients on Wednesday, including 67 from the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) limits and 65 from the rural parts, taking the total number of cases to 21,515. As many as 16,440 patients have recovered in the district so far. There are 4,430 active cases. A total of 645 patient have succumbed to Covid-19, including three deaths reported at the government medical college and hospital (GMCH) on Wednesday. GMCH administration said a 60-year-old woman, a resident of Pisadevi Harsul, who was referred to the GMCH facility from the civic hospital was among the deceased. A 70-year-old woman from N-11 Cidco and a 63-year-old woman from Ektanagar, Harsul area were also among the three deceased. The GMCH administration said 302 patients are currently undergoing treatment at the hospital, of which 181 are in critical condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-dist-reports-132-fresh-cases/articleshow/77772247.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Kanpur||Couple tonsured, paraded inKannauj for illicit relations||Kanpur: In a shocking incident, people of a village in Gursahaiganj Kotwali area of Kannauj district severely thrashed a widow and a physically challenged man, tonsured their heads, blackened their faces and paraded them through the village on Wednesday morning as ‘punishment’ for their illicit love. The woman, a mother of five children, and the physically challenged man had been caught in a compromising position previous night by her uncle and his sons. “They locked them in a room, thrashed them severely, shaved their heads, garlanded them with shoes and painted their faces black before parading them across the village,” said sources. The locals informed the village head who went and rescued the two. The incident came to light when a video of the incident went viral on social media. In the video, the couple is seen passing through lanes while little children are hooting at them. Police rushed to the spot on getting information and launched an investigation. Additional superintendent of police Vinod Kumar said, “We came to know about the incident and rushed a police team to the village and started investigation. Those found guilty in the probe would be booked and arrested.” However, no arrest had been made till the filing of this report. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/couple-tonsured-paraded-inkannauj-for-illicit-relations/articleshow/77772234.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
August 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Constable dismissed for extortion||Aurangabad: A 37-year old Naik police constable from Beed district has been dismissed from his service for conniving with a couple of women and other accomplice who is a criminal on police record for laying honey trap and extorting money running into lakhs. As a modus operandi, the suspect would identify men belonging to well off families, especially teachers, doctors and businessmen. The women would then befriend them through Facebook. Gradually, these women would develop physial relations with them, click their pictures in compromising positions and extort money from them. The suspect constable, who was attached to the Neknoor police station, has been dismissed by Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar by using powers granted under section 311 of the constitution. He told TOI, “It has come to the fore that the constable has been indulging in crimes of kidnapping and blackmailing in an organised manner. We found that he has been misusing his official position of being a policeman and so has been dismissed.” The officer said that since the registration of the offence, the constable is on the run and several teams are working on to nab him. Those privy to the investigation said that the gang has allegedly extorted money from several people, but they are not coming forward with complaints fearing social stigma. So far, two offences have been registered against the constable, Ganesh Thorat, a known gangster having over two dozen offences along with their accomplices, including two women. Except for the prime suspect, all the accused have been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/constable-dismissed-for-extortion/articleshow/77772239.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Rajkot||Mandvi MLA’s son locks up factory office, booked||Rajkot: Alleging that a factory owes him several crores of rupees, Mandvi BJP MLA Virendrasinh Jadeja’s son locked up its office in Bhanushali Nagar of Bhuj on Tuesday. According to police who booked an offence againt Hardeepsinh Jadeja said that he had also allegedly threatened the staff on August 22. Police said Jadeja locked the office of Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy Pvt Ltd, as he claimed that the company was not paying him his outstanding dues of nearly Rs 8 crore. Manager of the company, Sanjay Kumar (42), drove to Bhuj from Vadodara to meet him. “When Kumar asked for the key from Hardeepsinh, the latter refused saying that the company owed him Rs 7 to Rs 8 crore and that he would hand over the keys only after his dues were settled,” said S B Vasava, inspector with Bhuj B division police station. Meanwhile, Hardeepsinh and his two unidentified accomplices who had locked the office went underground and the police have launched a manhunt to nab the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/mandvi-mlas-son-locks-up-factory-office-booked/articleshow/77769563.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Nashik||Bank warnedover delay in releasing cash to farmers||Nashik: District collector Suraj Mandhare on Wednesday warned the Nashik District Central Cooperative (NDCC) Bank to speed up release of funds meant for farmers under the Mahatma Jyoti Rao Phule Karja Mukti Yojana after it was found to be delaying it. The collector, who reviewed the process of loan distribution to farmers expressed dissatisfaction over the functioning of the NDCC Bank. “The has failed to expedite the process to distribute loans among the beneficiaries. The delay is unpardonable,” he said.“The NDCC Bank has so far distributed only Rs 88 crore, up from Rs 32 crore last week, as against its target of Rs 972 crore. Hence, we have asked its chief executive officer to take steps to improve the situation. We have written to cooperative commissioner and the state government about the inaction by the bank,” said Mandhare.The district has received Rs 1,267 crore as part of the loan waiver scheme and the amount has to be transferred to farmers at the earliest.“We have started the distribution, which has now reached Rs 176 crore. The major portion of Rs 972 crore has to be distributed by the NDCC Bank while other nationalised banks have relatively smaller share,” he said. “The onion farmers were entitled for Rs 30,000 but the NDCC has given only Rs 10,000, for which we have sought an explanation,” said Mandhare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bank-warnedover-delay-in-releasing-cash-to-farmers/articleshow/77769565.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 27, 2020||Nashik||More than 350 citizens donate Ganesh idols||Nashik: Hundreds of citizens across Nashik district bid adieu to Lord Ganesh in an eco-friendly manner on Wednesday, after celebrating the festival for five days. Many citizens — nearly 350 people — chose the eco-friendly path by donating their idols to the volunteers posted by the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) or those in the rural areas. Kalpana Kute, director of solid waste management department of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), said a large number of people had booked their slots for immersions through the online process. "This ensured easy and congestion-free access to immersion spots marked by the civic body. It also helped ensure physical distancing to contain the spread of Covid-19,” Kute said. As many as 300 people had booked their slots at different immersion points. Of them, 230 turned up for the immersion, the official said. Kute added that another 600 people had taken the ammonium bicarbonate powder from the administration for immersion of the Ganpati idols at their homes. The powder is to be mixed in a bucket full of water, before immersing the Ganpati idol. Similar efforts were made by the local government bodies across the district. Authorities prepared artificial ponds for people to immerse the Ganpati idols, instead of going to nearby waterbodies for visarjan. “This is a good movement which is helping people celebrate Ganesh festival in an ecologically-safe manner. We used to immerse Ganapati idols in Godavari river; but ever since the gram panchayat made these facilities available, we have stopped the tradition,” Santosh Pekhale, resident of Eklahara village, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/more-than-350-citizens-donate-ganesh-idols/articleshow/77769544.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Beneficiaries will get double bedroom houses by Dec: KTR||Hyderabad: Municipal administration & urban development (MA&UD) minister KT Rama Rao announced that the 85,000 houses being built under the Telangana government’s double bedroom housing scheme will be handed over to beneficiaries by December. The government has allocated Rs 9,700 crores for the construction of these houses. KTR reviewed the works along with officials at Buddha Bhavan here. At the review meeting, the minister directed officials to finalise the beneficiaries by mid-September. “For beneficiaries under the GHMC limits, the government is constructing one lakh houses. On average it is 4,000 houses per assembly constituency,” said a GHMC official. There are 24 assembly constituencies in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. He instructed officials to up the development of infrastructure facilities like water supply, electricity, and other amenities. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/beneficiaries-will-get-double-bedroom-houses-by-dec-ktr/articleshow/77772254.cms||Nabinder Bommala
August 27, 2020||Delhi||Business losses: Two Delhi jewellers kill selves||NEW DELHI: A 47-year-old jeweller and his 42-year-old brother allegedly died by suicide in their shop in north Delhi's Chandni Chowk on Wednesday afternoon, according to police, who also revealed that a suicide note was found on the site in which the brothers talked about their straitened financial condition and asked that no one be blamed for their deaths. The cops identified the deceased as Ankit Gupta and Arpit Gupta, who ran Krishna Jewellers at Maliwara in Chandni Chowk. Some relatives and neighbours have, however, alleged that the two men were being harassed about paying back a loan they had taken from a financer in the locality. The twin deaths were discovered in the shop at around 3pm on Wednesday when the bodies were found hanging from a rod fixed across the ceiling. The men had used a dhoti to kill themselves. The suicide note, allegedly signed by the two, lay on the table. A fallen chair and stool nearby seemed to indicate they had been used in the suicide. Some family friends are reported to have told the cops that recovery agents had been visiting the brothers frequently and pressing them to repay the loan. The third of the Gupta brothers, Namit, who also assisted in the family business, alleged that the financer had been threatening the brothers if they did not return the money they had borrowed from him. “He also sent his henchmen to the shop to threaten my brothers,” claimed Namit. “But how were they expected to repay the loans where there was no business after the lockdown?” An employee, Vishnu, also maintained that the financer’s men came to the jewellery shop every day to issue threats to the two brothers. The cops have, for now, launched an inquest under Section 174 of CrPc. Residents of Bazar Sitaram, the brothers had faced heavy business losses recently, police said after questioning relatives and neighbours. The cops apparently were informed about multiple loans availed by two that they had been unable to repay after business was hit by the Covid-19 lockdown. Of the two, Ankit was married and had two children. Their father ran a realty business from the ground floor of the same building where they died. The bodies of Ankit and Arpit have been removed to a hospital and will be handed over to the family on Thursday after the autopsy formalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/biz-losses-2-jewellers-kill-selves/articleshow/77772327.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Chandigarh||2 IGMC students suspended on ragging charge||Shimla: The police have registered a case against two students of the Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Shimla for allegedly ragging a third-year MBBS student. The accused senior students were also suspended after a decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of the Anti-Ragging Committee of the medical college on Wednesday. In his complaint to the police, the third-year student has alleged that the two seniors in inebriated condition manhandled him near the hostel gate and the entire incident was recorded in the CCTV cameras installed there. The complainant also accused his seniors of ragging him. Sources said that the CCTV footage shows two groups of students clashing with each other during the night hours. The Anti-Ragging Committee has submitted its report to the Shimla police, who are investigating the matter. Shimla SP Mohit Chawla said based on the student’s complaint, a case under sections 323 (causing hurt on provocation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC and Section 3 of the Himachal Pradesh Education Institutions Prohibition of Ragging Act has been registered at the Sadar police station. He said the police are investigating the matter and a report has been sought from the principal of the college. As of now, a prima facie FIR has been registered on the complaint of the aggrieved MBBS student and his medical examination has been conducted. IGMC principal Dr Rajnish Pathania said both senior students, against whom allegations have been made, have been suspended from the medical college. He said the action came on the basis of the report submitted by the Anti-Ragging Committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-igmc-students-suspended-on-ragging-charge/articleshow/77772307.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Disaster management on high alert||Aurangabad: Aurangabad district collector Sunil Chavan has asked the disaster management team to be on high alert in case an untoward incident takes place in view of the rising water level of Jayakwadi dam. Stating that the district received satisfactory rainfall so far and considering the remaining monsoon period, Chavan said that arrangements have to be in place as a precautionary measure. The district has recorded good rainfall in the last two-and-a-half months with ample storage in different water bodies. Chavan had convened a meeting of officials concerned on Tuesday evening to assess the situation on account of heavy rainfall and expected showers in the remaining days of monsoon. He has also asked the irrigation department and others concerned to ensure that all preparations are in place in case the levels of Jayakwadi dam increase. He asked the officials concerned to alert the villages situated on the banks of rivers, particularly Godavari river.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/disaster-management-on-high-alert/articleshow/77772278.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Two women drown in Ameenpur pond||Hyderabad: Two women drowned in a pond while washing clothes in Ameenpur limits of Sangareddy district on Wednesday. The victims were identified as V Ashwini and Varalakshmi, both 19-year-old from Ilapur village in Ameenpur. According to police, the victims accidentally slipped into the water and drowned. Their bodies were shifted to Patancheru hospital for postmortem and an case was registered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-women-drown-in-ameenpur-pond/articleshow/77772280.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Chennai||Portal to connect readers, publishers launched||CHENNAI: The pandemic has impacted people across industries, and publishing has not been an exception. With stores closed and book fairs on hold, publishers are struggling to remain afloat. That’s why a group of them in Chennai have come together to launch an online portal, Virtual Book Fair (VBF), which will give a global platform to local publishing houses. “There is a huge gap between the reader and the publisher so we came up with the idea of launching this information portal -- www.thevirtualbookfair.com – to bridge it,” says Murali Kannadhason. The pandemic has made getting books and information about them to the end users a challenge. And publishers have now decided to work around the limitations imposed. “All book fairs, which were a major source of income, have been cancelled. Sales in our shops have also gone down. Those with e-commerce sites are making 20% of what they did earlier and others are not managing to sell,” says K S Pugalendi, owner, Sixthsense Publications. That’s why, for the past two months, Kannadhason, along with his father Gandhi Kannadhasan, Pugalendi, Kannan, Badri Seshadri, and Karthikeyan Pugalendi have been working on the initiative, which was launched on Wednesday. More than 200 publishers from across TN are expected to be part of the initiative. “We have never had all publishers and their books on one digital platform,” says Murali, adding that many publishers do not have a presence online. VBF will feature blogs, reviews, events, author corners and book fairs. “Every quarter we will have a fair, with book launches, author meets, children’s programmes and will offer discounts,” says Murali, adding that the first one will be launched in November. “Each publisher's shop will be a 2D replica of the stall they take in a book fair,” he says, adding that the site will also host book launches every month. The site will feature Tamil and English books from across genres. “If the user selects novels and further fine tunes the search by adding the author, all the books by the author under the category will show up along with the information of the store where it is available,” says Murali, adding that the reader can either use search option or click on the publisher or seller. “All the books uploaded by the publisher or seller will be displayed. Along with an image of the book, some of the pages will also be made available, depending on what the seller wants. The customer read reviews or click on blogs to get more information about the book before the purchase.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/portal-to-connect-readers-publishers-launched/articleshow/77772285.cms||Priya Menon
August 27, 2020||Surat||Surat industry to bring workers back in ‘chartered’ trains||SURAT: After flying down some key mid-level skilled workers from Uttar Pradesh last week, the powerloom sector in Surat has decided to sponsor trains to bring back nearly 5 lakh migrants who had returned to their native in Odisha. As a first step, the Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) has proposed to sponsor Shramik special trains to bring back the migrant workers from Odisha, working in the powerloom sector, to Surat. The country’s largest man-made fabric (MMF) hub Surat is finding it difficult to restart operations as migrant workers are unable to return to Surat with the passenger train services yet to be fully restored. At present, less than 15% of the powerloom units are operational with skeletal presence of about 1.5 lakh workers. Another major reason behind urgency in bringing back migrant workers is that the MMF sector in other states have resumed operations up to 65% of its capacity, while Surat was still lagging behind. Dinesh Navadiya, president of SGCCI told TOI, “We have proposed to sponsor two Shramik special trains from Puri to Surat. Each train will accommodate about 1,800 migrant workers from Ganjam and Behrampur in Odisha. We have submitted the proposal to union minister of state for shipping, Mansukh Mandaviya and state BJP president, C R Paatil for the same.” Navadiya said, “We need 250 trains to bring back 5 lakh migrant workers who had returned to Odisha. The SGCCI and the powerloom sector are ready to sponsor the trains and the government has to facilitate the operations of the Shramik special trains between Puri and Surat. SGCCI will manage the bookings of the workers willing to come to Surat.” Hari Kathiriya, leader of the powerloom sector told TOI, “Other powerloom centres in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu etc. have started with 65% capacity, while Surat is lagging behind with just 15% units operational post-lockdown. If workers don’t return in the next 10-15 days, we may lose our share to other centres.” Ashish Gujarati, president of Pandesara weavers association told TOI, “Textile sector is unable to resume normal operation as 80% of its workforce is yet to return. We too are willing to sponsor the trains to bring back workers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/industry-to-bring-workers-back-in-chartered-trains/articleshow/77769614.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Aurangabad||MSEDCL engineer felicitated||Aurangabad: The Maharashtra Rajya Vij Tantrik Kamgar Sanghatana, a technical workers union at the MSEDCL, recently facilitated outgoing chief engineer of Zone 4 Ganeshkar for his work and dedication in ensuring 94% recovery as well as bringing down power leakages by 14%. Union general secretary Syed Zaheeruddin said that during Ganeshkar’s four-year tenure, there were no agitations by workers. Ganeshkar has now been transferred to the Bhandup zone. During his tenure with Zone 4, the MSEDCL also saw extensive 64% survey of agriculture pumps, said Zaheeruddin. Meanwhile, the union welcomed new chief engineer Bhujang Khandare who promised to take along all the people to ensure better performance of MSEDCL. Zaheeruddin also said that since Khandare was from Aurangabad, he knew the region well and promised that the technical workers would firmly stand behind him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/msedcl-engineer-felicitated/articleshow/77772305.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Rajkot||Man stabs co-passenger to death over seat sharing||Rajkot: An altercation over occupying seat resulted in a murder in a state transport bus near Vijarakhi village of Kalawad taluka in Jamnagar district on Wednesday evening. A passenger allegedly stabbed his co-passenger to death over seat sharing.Police, which are yet to ascertain the identity of the accused, said that the accused had stabbed Hitesh Pandya (33) to death after an altercation. “The passengers in the bus caught the accused who tried to flee from the bus. They tied the accused to an electric pole by the roadside and called us,” said an official from Kalawad taluka police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-stabs-co-passenger-to-death-over-seat-sharing/articleshow/77769598.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Goa||Govt gets notices over lack of public sites for final rites||Panaji: The Goa Human Rights Commission has issued notices to the chief secretary and district collectors over lack of public crematoria and burial places. The government has been given until September 2 to submit replies in the complaint filed by Rajan Ghate. Ghate, in his complaint to various authorities and the commission, referred to the recent incident of the crematorium committee/Assonora panchayat refusing cremation of a deceased on the flimsy ground that the person was not a resident of the village. This is despite his son, a government employee, owning a house in the same village where the deceased was living with him. The deceased was a state awardee teacher. “The final rites were later conducted in the crematorium at Mapusa after a long delay,” Ghate stated, adding that the issue has been recurring. He stated that while some Hindus are cremated in their family properties, others are cremated at community-wise crematoriums, while the rest suffer indignities in the absence of public crematoria. “Christians of non-Catholic faith also face hardship in burying their dead in cemeteries managed by Catholics. Muslims of various faiths also face similar difficulties,” he stated. The issue was deliberated by the Goa Law Commission in 2009 and their report is gathering dust, he said, adding that the former chairman of the law commission Ramakant Khalap submitted a report and draft bill to the government on the issue in July 2012 requesting the chief minister to enact a legislation on the subject and declare public crematoria and burial places. Ghate appealed to the state government to declare existing crematoria and burial places in towns and villages as public crematoria and burial places and place them under controlling committees appointed by the government. He also appealed for last rites to be allowed in public crematoria and burial places according to religion and faith, and sought a proper legislation to establish public crematoria and burial places in public interest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-gets-notices-over-lack-of-public-sites-for-final-rites/articleshow/77773325.cms||Lisa Monteiro
August 27, 2020||Nashik||Citizens can approach SDO for grievances through WhatsApp||Nashik: District collector Suraj Mandhare has announced ‘WhatsApp grievances redressal’ system for the sub-divisional offices (SDOs) so that those who have queries or issues can approach the officials at the SDOs for solutions. The district administration is focusing on bringing all the work online and it’s main aim is to cut down people’s visit to the office after they have already placed their applications.“We are now replicating the district headquarters’ experience of WhatsApp-based grievances redressal – that has benefited more than 15,000 since July last year - in the sub-divisional office (SDO) where the maximum number of permissions, applications and complaints are attended,” Mandhare said.He said people come from rural areas to district headquarters just to know the status of the applications and many a times officer may not be available, so to save time and energy WhatsApp grievances redressal has been startedAs this is a WhatsApp based inventory, the dates of application, raising grievances and resolving the grievances are automatically registered and any delay whatsoever in the resolution will be dealt with. The citizen who has already placed his application with any of the departments only has to place a request mentioning few details and send it to the WhatsApp number of the respective SDO. It will be the officer’s responsibility to convey the information in return to the concerned citizen in a stipulated period.The residents of Nashik sub-division can send their grievances to the sub-divisional officer at 9421550799, those from Kalwan-Surgana to 9421550812, Dindori-Peth to 9421550822; from Trimbakeshwar-Igatpuri 9421550852; from Baglan-Deola to 9421550893; from Yeola-Nandgaon to 9421550907; Malegaon to 9421550927; Sinnar-Niphad to 9421550937; Chandwad to 9421550947, the district collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/citizens-can-approach-sdo-for-grievances-through-whatsapp/articleshow/77769588.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Beggar stabs 20-yr-old pregnant wife to death||Hyderabad: A 20-year-old pregnant woman was stabbed to death by her beggar husband in Chilkalguda. Kumar, 24, used to live on the footpath close to the metro station near Gandhi Hospital with his wife, K Mahalaxmi, 20, and one-year-old son. The deceased, Mahalaxmi was seven months pregnant, said police. “The accused was addicted to alcohol and earlier had psychotic episodes. When he asked for money to buy liquor on Tuesday, she refused,” said Chilkalaguda SI, Sai Krishna. On Wednesday, when she was sleeping on the footpath with her son, Kumar stabbed her on the chest and slit her wrists. She died on the spot. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/beggar-stabs-20-yr-old-pregnant-wife-to-death/articleshow/77772317.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Kolkata||Dedicated shelter opens doors for homeless transpersons in Kolkata||KOLKATA: They were homeless till yesterday. From today, a small section of transphobia victims, will have a shelter. Transgenders, supported by a group of empathetic cisgenders, have set up a safe home in a plush south Kolkata locality, so that those driven out by their families or neighbours have a decent place to stay. “The locality, bang opposite South City mall on Prince Anwar Shah Road, has been chosen deliberately, to send out messages of inclusivity for the trans community,” transwoman Ranjita Sinha, a former member of West Bengal Transgender Board, said. The apartment, tastefully done up, was formally opened on Wednesday by danseuse Alokananda Roy, who stepped out of her house for the first time in five months, “to show solidarity with my trans friends and support their cause.” The danseuse added: “This may be seen as tokenism, but it’s a very significant start. We hope the government and more citizens will join us in our endeavour to establish the much-needed shelter homes.” But it will only be a transit home, Sinha clarified. “Six persons can stay at a time. Once he or she moves out, we shall make room for another transman or transwoman, needing a roof over their head.” The project, which includes finding a stable home and livelihood for abandoned trans persons, has been on the cards for a long time. “But we couldn’t wait any longer because during the pandemic, violence against the third gender had gone up. There are reports of trans persons committing suicide after being forced to leave their homes,” said Lopamudra Sengupta, associate professor, Bangabashi College. Sengupta talked about hostels where trans people are forced to use sleeping quarters and bathrooms that don’t correspond to their gender identity. “Those rejected by families are especially vulnerable to the violence that homelessness brings,” said Aparna Ganguly, whose 18-year-old son has been missing for 10 years. “My son couldn’t take the rejection so he ran away,” said Ganguly, who has volunteered to look after the residents of the safe home. All these cisgender persons have raised funds so that the safe home can be run for at least a year. “We would be seeking the government’s help so that the safe home and more such setups can be run with government and NGOs aid,” said Bappaditya Mukherjee, who runs Prantakatha, an NGO for various minorities groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dedicated-shelter-opens-doors-for-homeless-transpersons-in-kol/articleshow/77772326.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
August 27, 2020||Chennai||Why Covid has been tough on kids with mentally ill parents||CHENNAI: The lockdown has been a turbulent experience for children who have mentally ill parents. With limited help available, these children have not only become primary caregivers but have been attending online classes. “Some days, I don’t get enough sleep,” said Rohit* a Class VIII student whose mother was diagnosed with bipolar disorder two years ago. “We used to have a full-time help before the lockdown. But over the last four months her condition has worsened so I have been doing all the chores,” he said. Children, many of whom are in their teenage, said it was tough balancing studies and added responsibilities at home. Nikhil*, another teenager, said travelling helped his father’s condition. “But the pandemic makes him more nervous and he refuses to step out. There are constant fights at home,” he said. The stigma of having a parent with mental illness has alienated a few children from their circle but has also brought others closer. “It takes some time for the latter to happen. Until then, you have to put up with the taunts and jeers,” said Preethi K, a student of social work whose mother was diagnosed with schizophrenia. A study published in Frontiers of Psychiatry said children of mentally ill parents have around 70% risk of developing mental illness. They are also more vulnerable to depression and compared to other children they are also more likely to develop reduced social skills, behavioral problems, hyperactivity, attention deficit disorders and lower self-confidence in their childhood and youth. To help mitigate this issue, organisations like The Banyan have come up with a forum -- Mental Health Youth Advocate Support Network -- where young individuals who are, or have been, primary caregivers will interact with school and college students. “And students who need assistance will be linked with the professionals on our panel. This way they would feel kinship and deal with the situations better,” said Nisha Vinayak from The Banyan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/why-covid-has-been-tough-on-kids-with-mentally-ill-parents/articleshow/77772309.cms||Aditi R
August 27, 2020||Kanpur||Two dozen attacked with acid in row over filling water in Jhansi||JHANSI: Over two dozen people suffered burns after they were attacked with acid by another group following a dispute over filling water from a hand pump in Basaar village under Uldan police station in Jhansi on Tuesday night. Five people suffered serious injuries and were rushed to Jhansi medical college while police registered an FIR against six people and arrested them. All the injured are from the Scheduled Caste community. As per details, there are only two hand pumps in Basaar village. The incident took place when one Angoori Devi went to fetch water from the hand pump which was opposed by one of the accused Rajesh. This led to an argument which escalated soon as people from both sides gathered. As the argument heated up, a crowd collected around the house of the accused who threw acid on them from the roof. One accused was caught by the victims and thrashed severely while locals informed police about the clash and acid attack. A police team reached the village and took the injured to the community health centre from where five with serious injuries were referred to Jhansi medical college. Additional police force was deployed in the village to ensure law and order. An FIR was lodged against six accused, namely Rajesh, Santosh, Devendra, Umesh, Sonu and Banmali in Uldan police station on Wednesday early morning under Sections 147, 323, 325, 326A, 504 of IPC and Section 3(1) of SC/ST Act. SSP Jhansi Dinesh Kumar P said, “We have arrested all the six accused. Additional police force has been deployed in the village to prevent any unwanted incident while detailed investigation is on.” All the victims with acid burns had been discharged from the CHC and Jhansi medical college. SP city Rahul Srivastava told TOI, “Initial probe has revealed that the two groups had some disputes over the time and a minor incident escalated into a clash.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-dozen-attacked-with-acid-in-row-over-filling-water-in-jhansi/articleshow/77772329.cms||Arindam Ghosh
August 27, 2020||Chandigarh||3 booked for kidnapping, raping minor||Hisar: Two men kidnapped a 16-year-old girl from her house on Tuesday late night in a village in Hisar district and allegedly raped her. The girl also said she was also raped by another accomplice of the duo and the men later threatened to kill her if she told anyone about it. The three accused, who also belong to the same village as the girl, are yet to be arrested. A case has been registered on the complaint of the survivor against them under sections 363 (kidnaping), 366-A (procuration of minor girl), 376-D (gang rape), 506 (criminal intimidation), 342 (wrongful confinement), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) of the IPC and Section 6 (penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Police said the case had been handed over to sub-inspector Nirmala Devi for investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-booked-for-kidnapping-raping-minor/articleshow/77772333.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Rajkot||Three drown in Patan, Mehsana||Palanpur: Three persons drowned in three separate incidents reported from Patan and Mehsana on Wednesday. In Kamalpur (dh) village of Satalpur taluka in Patan district, Alka Rawal (32), drowned in Banas river where she had gone to wash clothes. “Rawal had taken her eight-year-old niece along with her. Her feet slipped into the river and she drowned. Her niece alerted her family members,” said Bhupat Thakor, Kamalpur (dh) village sarpanch. The second incident was reported from Pargam village of Radhanpur taluka in Patan district, where Yuvrajsinh Jadeja (22) drowned in a pond. The last incident occurred at Samitra village of Mehsana taluka, where a 26-year-old unidentified man drowned in a pond. “We are yet to fish out his body,” said A D Gadhvi, taluka development officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-drown-in-patan-mehsana/articleshow/77769629.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Nashik||Rain-damaged roads in rural areas drive motorists away||Nashik: Almost all the major roads connecting the talukas to the district headquarters in Nashik are currently riddled with potholes caused by heavy rainfall. These potholes are not only severely damaging vehicles, but are even causing injuries to motorists using the roads.“I stay near Umrale on the Nashik-Peth Road, which is in very bad shape,” said Nishanth Padvi, who works in an engineering firm in Nashik city.The Nashik-Aurangabad road that connects to Yevla, the hometown of district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal, is also in bad shape. It is a major route to transport agricultural produce from several important market committees to the district headquarters and to Mumbai.“We have vegetables cultivated in and around Niphad and Yeola taluka, but the vehicle owners have been demanding more money to transport the produce as "insurance" against any damage to their vehicles. This is impacting the farmers,” said Sandeep Bhanose, a farmer from Niphad.Vehicle owners do not want to risk driving on these damaged roads. “Covid-19 pandemic has already affected my business. I cannot bear the cost of any damage to the vehicles due to bad roads. Many of us avoid taking such contracts. We ask the farmers to get the produce from the farms to nearest location with better roads on bullock carts,” said Santosh Patil, a truck owner.A senior officer of the public works department (PWD) expressed helplessness in carrying out the maintenance work of the roads in the current situation.“Our hands are tied. Against the backdrop of the pandemic, all our funds have been diverted to Covid-19 management and treatment expenses. We have a shoestring budget for road maintenance and it will be utilised in very important cases only. The rains have just stopped and we will assess the damage and carry out maintenance work to make the roads motorable,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rain-damaged-roads-in-rural-areas-drive-motorists-away/articleshow/77769611.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Seven more shops burgled in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: While the Aurangabad city police were struggling to detect theft cases involving the burglary that took place in 10 shops in the wee hours of Monday, seven more shops were burgled in on Wednesday. Bringing a check on the burglary incidents and detecting the ones that have already been committed has turned out to be a major challenge for policemen currently posted on Covid-19 as well as Ganeshotsav bandobast. On August 23, 15 shops were burgled within city limits. In the latest incident, shutters of four business establishments located in Sangramnagar and three from the Satara area of the city have been targeted by unidentified suspects. Police have obtained CCTV footages from one of the targeted shops. Based on the same, police suspect it to be the handiwork of minors. In the latest incident, three shops close to Royal residency situated in the vicinity of MIT college on Beed bypass road were targeted by the suspects at around 4.30 am. In addition, the unidentified suspects have targeted Shri Sai homeopathy hospital from where they walked away with water pump and another set up. This was followed by targeting of Shivam Stationery and Printers situated in the nearyby area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/7-more-shops-burgled-in-aurangabad/articleshow/77772323.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Bullion traders pushed to the wall as Covid takes shine off business||NEW DELHI: The alleged suicide of two brothers who ran a jewellery business in Chandni Chowk on Wednesday has jolted the jewellers’ community, bringing home the anxieties related to a big dip in business due decreasing demand and wildly fluctuating gold and silver prices. Yogesh Singhal, president of Bullion and Jewellers’ Association at Kucha Mahajani in old Delhi, said the future never looked as uncertain as now. “The demand is a fourth of what it used to be before the Covid lockdown. And then the prices. Before the lockdown, 24 carat gold was priced at Rs 38,000 per 10 grams. Now it is Rs 53,000. Similarly, silver price has gone up from Rs 39,000 per kilo in March to Rs 65,000 in August.” Singhal said gold and silver traders had been left holding bulk stocks. “Many buy stock in March prior to the wedding season. But due to the unforeseen Covid crisis, people had no money to buy household items, forget gold,” said Singhal. “For weddings, people are making do with the minimum ornaments. Because of this, those invested in gold in March after procuring loans are incurring major losses.” Jewellers complained said that the central government had increased the custom duty on import of gold from 10% to 12.5%, with GST at 3% — against a VAT earlier of 1% raw gold — a move that made the yellow metal costly in the domestic market. “To make the market even more volatile, the government is promoting the multi commodity exchange, which will cause more fluctuation in gold prices and a jeweller can lose or earn money in seconds,” rued Ram Gopal Khandelwal, a jeweller in Kucha Mahajani. “Ideally, that system should be done away with to deal with thee instability in the market.” Pradeep Gupta, president, Chemical Merchants’ Association at Maliwara, said the news of the jeweller brothers’ had spread like fire in all markets. “There is no denying the fact that in the jewellery market, especially the bullion market, traders are in total distress,” he said. “People have taken huge amounts as loans and invested the in the business. They have even exhausted their bank limits. If demand doesn’t rise, their backs will be broken. The government needs to do something to support the jewellery sector.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bullion-traders-pushed-to-the-wall-as-covid-takes-shine-off-business/articleshow/77772418.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 27, 2020||Nashik||Conmen steal jewellery from senior citizen||NASHIK: Two criminals disguised as policemen targeted a 65-year-old man and escaped with his gold chain and two rings totally worth Rs 45,000 near in the Indiranagar area over a week ago. The senior citizen was too shocked to reveal the matter to any of his family members and chose to remain quiet until his son realised that something was wrong and enqured from him, said police. The man narrated the story to his son, following which both of them lodged a police complaint on Tuesday, said police. According to the Indiranagar police, the victim was walking around 5.15 pm on August 18, when the two criminals told him that they were police and asked him to remove his jewellery for safety reasons. Police sub-inspector Zakir Shaikh said the criminals pretended to help the victim and took the jewellery before fleeing from the spot. “The elderly man was shocked and did not reveal anything to his family members. When his son, who lives separately, came home on Tuesday and asked him why he was quiet, he narrated the incident,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/conmen-stealjewellery-fromsenior-citizen/articleshow/77772343.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Tarn Taran Cong chief resigns, party says ‘drama’||Chandigarh: As Tarn Taran district Congress president Manjit Singh Ghasitpur on Wednesday resigned accusing involvement of some leaders of his own party in the illegal liquor trade, the party leadership termed it a “drama”, claiming that the district unit has already been dissolved. The Congress leader also claimed that he had been trying to meet the chief minister to make him aware of all this. However, rejecting Ghasitpur’s charges as “pompous”, Sandeep Sandhu, political secretary to the CM, said Ghasitpur’s “resignation” as the district Congress committee (DCC) unit chief is a drama as the Tarn Taran DCC unit was dissolved four months ago for restructuring. “How can one resign from a post that one does not hold?” Sandhu quipped. Terming his acts as politically motivated, the senior Congress leader said his claims of seeking time for meeting the CM are also fallacious and untruthful. “The CM had himself visited Tarn Taran and met all leaders there,” Sandhu said, asserting that Ghasitpur never sought time for any meeting. “He is free to decide his own course but must refrain from making unfounded allegations for furthering his narrow political agenda at the behest of opposition,” he added. Sandhu said the state government is doing everything possible to eradicate illegal liquor trade and strictest action is being ensured against anyone found involved in this heinous crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tarn-taran-cong-chief-resigns-party-says-drama/articleshow/77772371.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Rajkot||Rathod selected for the state award on Teachers’ Day||Rajkot: The state education department has selected Vanita Rathod, the principal of Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC)-run Shri Vinoba Bhave Pay Centre School No 93, for the state award to be given to her on the Teachers’ Day on September 5. Initiatives taken in the areas of health and environment were the two areas on the basis of which Rathod was selected for the awards. “I conducted eye check-up among my 600 school students and 237 students were provided with spectacles in 2014,” says Rathod. “It all started when I saw a class teacher reprimand a Class VI student who was unable to read. I called up the student to my chamber and asked him to read the writing on the black board. The student said he could not see at all. It was then that I decided to conduct the eye check-up of all the students,” she explains. “That apart, I have planted more than 4,000 plants in and around the school. Every year, I make it a point to plant six saplings daily from 15 June to 15 October,” says Rathod. Rathod is the only principal in Saurashtra who has been selected for the award after clearing the head teacher aptitude test (HTAT). Earlier, there was only one common toilet for girls and boys in the school. Rathod made a representation before the government and built separate toilets for the girls and the boys. “In order to meet the sanitary needs of the girl students, I have installed sanitary pads vending machine, which provides sanitary pads to girl students for free. This could be made possible through donations by philanthropists of the city,” says Rathod.Rathod, who has written two books — ‘Amrut thi Ghayal Sudhi’ and ‘Zindagi ni Sheekh’ — giving importance to the development of her school’s library. “I request the students to donate one book on their birthdays and ask the teachers to donate 10 books on their birthdays to the school library, which has more than 10,000 books,” she says. Rathod is also a short film maker. She has made a dozen-odd short films so far. Her film ‘Punya’ was screened at National Council of Educational Research and Training. Rathod has been selected thrice as the state level innovative teacher and seven times as ‘the best principal’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rathod-selected-for-the-state-award-on-teachers-day/articleshow/77769663.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Kolkata||Onam goes digital as Malayalees in Kolkata celebrate with virtual events||KOLKATA: For the Malayalees in the city, it is a celebration of Vasudaiva Kutumbakam (the world is one family) this Onam period, that started last weekend and ends on Monday. Though the final day has been declared a lockdown, the community will still visit each other virtually and celebrate with zest. Virtual meetings and social media have been used to the hilt bringing leading artists and writers from Kerala to entertain and interact with people here. Though Onam is basically a harvest festival and is celebrated for 10 days after paddy has been packed into the granaries, it also has a mythological connect to it from the Vishnu cult, where King Mahabali is banished by Vishnu in his Baman avatar but allowed to come back to meet his subjects once a year during Onam. For the past two and a half months, virtual chat shows, literary meets, blog writing competitions leading to e-book publication, musical programmes and other performances have kept everyone busy. So, as Onam drew close, heads were put together to pull off virtual events that have something for everyone. Online Sangravedi on Sunday saw the start of the festivities that will end with a grand show on Thiru Onam, the final day on Monday. On Sunday, Kanchana Shreeram, one of the most popular show presenters in Kerala, greeted the people from city to announce the start of the festivities and took people through a journey of music, from traditional to film to folk, leaving everyone in raptures. Monday’s event is a three-hour long show, organised by the Kolkata Kairali Samajam, one of the bigger social groups of the community in the city. All India Malayali Association and Kolkata Malayali Samajam are also organizing similar programmes for their members. Star actor-writer-director, Madhupal, would be joining the event from Kerala as the chief guest. “Last two years, Kerala saw devastating floods during Onam and this year we are Covid struck, but there’s no banishing our spirit as we will celebrate with zest, albeit, virtually,” said T K Gopalan, administrator of an English medium school in the city. Celebrated Malayalam writer Sushmesh Chandroth, who has a deep bond with the city, has been behind designing the web events.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/onam-goes-digital-as-malayalees-in-city-celebrate-with-virtual-events/articleshow/77772344.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat Land Grabbing (Prohibition) Act draft approved by state govt||Gandhinagar: The state government on Wednesday approved the draft of the ‘Gujarat Land Grabbing (Prohibition) Bill, 2020, a proposed legislation which aims at enacting a law to sternly deal with land mafia illegally grabbing land owned by government, local self-government, public and religious trusts, farmers and private citizens.In a statement, the CM said the state government has been receiving complaints from a large number of people, farmers, religious trusts about forcible occupation of their land, selling it to third parties and even constructing building on such land. “The proposed law proposes minimum 10 years to maximum 14 years imprisonment and fine corresponding to the market price of the land against such elements, who illegally occupy government or private land. The burden of proof will also be on illegal tenants who use such illegally occupied rented land. Police officers of the rank of deputy superintendent of police will be empowered to interrogate such illegal activity,” the CM said.He added that with this law coming into force, illegal land grabbing will be discouraged and genuine owners of the land would get right price for their land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-land-grabbing-prohibition-act-draft-approved-by-state-govt/articleshow/77772375.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Nashik||1,100 people book time slots online||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) is getting good response for the online booking of time slots for immersing Ganesh idols at 66 spots, including natural and artificial ponds. So far, over 1,100 people have booked online time slots , including 68% of people who have booked time slots for the tenth day of Ganesh festival. NMC officials said they are expecting more bookings in the remaining days of the festival. The NMC officials said, “This year, we have provided an online facility to the residents to book time slots of their choice for the immersion in order to avoid the rush of people amid the outbreak of Covid-19. We have been getting good response from residents for the past two-three days.” NMC has allotted time slots of half an hour for every 30 people at each of the 66 immersion spots in the city to avoid crowds. Meanwhile, NMC has appealed to the people to book time slots online on the NMC’s website for the immersion of Ganesh idols on the seventh and tenth day of the festival. Of the 66 immersion spots, there are 33 natural spots and 33 artificial ponds at the six divisions of the municipal corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/1100-people-book-time-slots-online/articleshow/77769679.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Ban on flights to 6 cities lifted, but with rider||KOLKATA: The embargo on direct flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and three other cities that has been in place since July 6 will be intermittently lifted from September 1. CM Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday announced that flights from these cities will be allowed three days a week from next month. “We cannot allow daily movement of flights from these cities as of now,” the CM said at a media briefing while charting out the September lockdown dates when no flights will be allowed to operate to and from the city. The decision to intermittently lift the embargo will bring much-needed relief to people from Kolkata stranded in these cities as well as abroad. While those with urgent travel requirements have been flying to Kolkata via other cities, it entailed more cost and greater risk of infection. Kolkatans stranded abroad will also be able to now take Vande Bharat flights to Delhi and Mumbai and then fly to Kolkata direct. Anticipating the lifting of embargo following a communique from Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla to state chief secretaries on the need to lift all restrictions in inter- and intra-state travel, all airlines had opened flight bookings from the six cities — Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Pune, Nagpur and Ahmedabad — to Kolkata. “The lifting of the complete ban is a welcome move. For international travellers though, it is still a bother if the days on which flights are allowed to operate don’t coincide with onward connection from Delhi or Mumbai. It also takes a toll on the load of passengers in a flight,” said Travel Agents Federation of India chairman (east) Anil Punjabi. Airline officials also reacted cautiously. “We are not sure who will determine the three days. We had already started selling tickets for all September days. Now we will have to make relevant changes,” said an airline official in Kolkata. “Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka has way more number of infections than Delhi and Gujarat. If flights are allowed to operate from Bangalore and Hyderabad, then why stop flights from Delhi and Ahmedabad?” said Sushil Poddar, a resident of Lake Town. In the last few weeks, Delhi had been witnessing a sharp decline in Covid numbers staying under 1,500, even dipping to a low of 613 on July 27 only to record 1,544 fresh cases on Tuesday. While Maharashtra recorded 10,425 cases on Tuesday, Mumbai contributed only 587 infections, the fewest in 105 days. With 1,270 cases, Chennai still has a high number of cases as do Bangalore and Hyderabad from where there are no flight restrictions to Kolkata. When the embargo had come into place on July 6, all airlines had also suspended outbound flights to these six cities citing operational difficulty. It is only recently that IndiGo has commenced one-way special flights to Mumbai, Delhi and Chennai. “As of now, we will continue with these scheduled flights. Depending on the updated instruction, we will make the necessary changes,” said an IndiGo official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ban-on-flights-to-6-cities-lifted-but-with-rider/articleshow/77770927.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 27, 2020||Kolkata||3 September lockdown after 2 this month, cops take fresh guard in West Bengal||KOLKATA: There will be complete lockdown across the state on September 7, 11 and 12 and the existing pandemic rules, which were in force till August 31, will remain in effect till September 20, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced from Nabanna on Wednesday. She will hold a review meeting by September 20 and decide on extension of lockdown. “There is a total lockdown on Thursday and another one on Monday. There are partial lockdowns on rest of the days. But given the present situation, it will not be right to immediately withdraw the lockdown. The decision has been taken based on the prevailing situation. There are a few places where cases are still increasing. These are not in Bengal but I have been appraised of this situation. Hence, lockdown will continue and status quo will be maintained regarding the existing rules,” said the chief minister. Banerjee indicated that ideally she would have liked a 48-hour lockdown on September 3 and 4 but decided against it as some major national entrance exams have been slated around the same time. Police, meanwhile, have made preparations for examinees appearing in the Banaras Hindu University entrance exams on Thursday. The online exam, slated to be held at Gitabitan in New Town, will see convergence of several candidates. “The candidates can write ‘on exam duty’ on the windshield of the car. Their admit cards will act as their passes,” said a senior police officer. Management aspirants, too, must follow the same procedure to reach exam centres, said a Kolkata Police officer. Kolkata Police has also tweeted that only candidates will be allowed to travel with proper documents on the next total lockdown day. “It will be on a case-to-case basis. The admit cards have to be produced and the candidates must carry supporting necessary documents,” said joint CP (traffic) Santosh Pandey. But with no public transport and not many willing to drive them to exam centres, the candidates want the cops to help them in reaching their exam centres. “Yes, we have received certain appeals from young citizens. If required, the candidates can call up the Lalbazar control room. We will guide them as much as possible,” said an IPS officer, adding that too many people accompanying candidates runs the risk of prosecution. Kolkata Police has readied a few Karma ambulances and Shakti vehicles that will be placed strategically to help those trying to reach hospitals. The move came after reports that several non-Covid patients were missing their regular appointments — including dialysis — on lockdown days. The cops said that people in real need should inform the Lalbazar control room. If the cops are convinced, help would be provided,” stated the officer. To enforce total lockdown, the cops have come up with two separate teams — one for the day and another for the night. It has been decided to deploy close to 30-45 personnel in each police station area during the peak morning hours. They will be supplemented by traffic police, who will run naka checks at 28 different points. Another 20-25 odd personnel will be deployed by each police station in the evening. The total deployment, though, is not being changed and around 8,000 personnel will be deployed yet again. (With inputs from Tamaghna Banerjee)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-sept-shutdowns-after-2-this-month-cops-take-fresh-guard/articleshow/77770923.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 27, 2020||Surat||Bizman donates plasma thrice||Surat: City-based businessman Jenish Shah donated plasma for the third time in the last three months at the New Civil Hospital on Wednesday. He also tried to inspire others too to do so in order to help Covid-19 patients in their recovery.Shah, a resident of Shiva Kartik Enclave in Vesu, is an equity wealth management professional in the city. He not only donated his plasma three times but has also encourage more than 17 other people to donate theirs in the city.“I was infected with Covid-19 in June and was in home isolation. I live with my wife and two children and was very scared when I got infected. I, therefore, can understand the pain of other positive people. During home isolation, I decided to do something for other infected people and after I had recovered fully, I got a message from my friend who was trying to find plasma donors urgently for an infected person. As I had already completed 28 days of recovery, I called my friend and donated my first plasma on August 9,” Shah told TOI.“I feel happy that I am being able to become a part of patients’ new life by donating my plasma. I will continue to donate as long as I can. This is the least that I can do for my country in this Covid-19 times,” he added.New Civil Hospital officials said that Shah is the fourth donor to give plasma for the third time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bizman-donates-plasma-thrice/articleshow/77769706.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Nashik||Nashik district reports 991 fresh cases||NASHIK: The district has reported 991 fresh Covid-19 patients in the past 24 hours, including 683 from Nashik city, taking the total number of cases to 32,049. A total of 813 patients have succumbed to the infection in the district, including 14 deaths on Wednesday. Of the deceased, seven were from Nashik city, taking the death toll in the city to 461. As many as 708 patients were discharged from various covid care centres and hospitals in the district on Wednesday, of which 628 patients were from the city. The district has 5,187 active cases, of which 2,835 are in the city||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-dist-reports-991-fresh-cases/articleshow/77769708.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC rejects Oza’s apology||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday refused to accept an apology tendered by the president of its Bar association, advocate Yatin Oza, and decided to go ahead with the criminal contempt of court proceedings for his remark for comparing the high court with a gambling den. Sources said that the bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria declined the lawyer’s request to pardon him. Further hearing is posted on September 17. Meanwhile on Sunday, the full court also rejected advocate Oza’s apology and request to reconsider its decision to punish him by withdrawing his designation of senior advocate. Upon the Supreme Court’s insistence, the full court in the HC heard advocate Oza’s case once again on whether his apology should be accepted or not. After hearing the matter, it said, “The Full Court is convinced and firmly believes that the apology tendered by Mr. Oza at the earlier in point of time and the apology tendered today is completely lacking in bonafides and is no more than a paper apology.” Jutice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria did not participate in the full court proceeding because they are hearing the criminal contempt of court proceeding. The full court had earlier refused to accept advocate Oza’s apology with the comment, “Mr Oza should not be permitted to adopt the policy of ‘slap – say sorry & forget,.” It cited earlier occasions when the lawyer had a brush with contempt proceedings and his apology was accepted by the courts. The judges also asked, “Why does Mr Oza always expect the high court to show magnanimity and pardon him for his misconducts? Why cannot Mr Oza exercise restrain and behave in a manner befitting a senior counsel?” The HC further said that calculated attacks on court’s prestige cannot be pardoned with an apology and in this case the apology tendered at a belated stage has become insignificant because irreparable damage has been done to institution’s prestige and honour. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court on Wednesday deferred the hearing on Oza’s appeal till September 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-rejects-ozas-apology/articleshow/77772407.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Kolkata||Father Gaston Roberge, the man behind Kolkata’s first film school, passes away||KOLKATA: Father Gaston Roberge, the founder-director of Chitrabani, passed away in Kolkata on Wednesday morning. He was 85. Arrangements for live viewing of the mass and burial, which will be held at a Joka ashram on Friday, are being made as most people won’t be able to attend it due to Covid-19 restrictions. A Jesuit from Canada, Father Gaston came to Kolkata in 1961. In 1970, he set up Chitrabani with the help of Satyajit Ray and Rita Ray. An extension service of St Xavier’s College, it is the oldest media training institute in eastern India. He was the director of Chitrabani till 1996. Father Gaston was also the founder-director of UGC’s Audio Visual Research Centre, which later became Electronic MultiMedia Research Centre under St Xavier’s College, Kolkata. He also supervised the Bengali section of Radio Veritas, Manila. Father Gaston had been staying at St Xavier’s infirmary attached to St Xavier’s College. “Father Gaston Roberge passed away at 8.20 this morning. He received communion in the morning and had breakfast. Peaceful passing away,” read a message from the Jesuit’s Calcutta province headquarters. Father Gaston was born in Montreal, Canada, in 1935. He obtained a BA degree (classics) from the University of Montreal in 1956 and then joined the Society of Jesus (Jesuits), and at his request, was sent to India for the first time in 1961. In 1970, he received an MA degree in Theatre Arts (Film) from the University of California at Los Angeles. During his stay in Los Angeles, he directed a 26-minute documentary on primary education, and prepared radio programmes for Radio Pacifica. He was awarded a research grant by the Canada Council for a study of Soviet filmmaker Sergei Eisenstein’s ‘Ivan the Terrible’ and went to Moscow in 1973. He had learnt Bengali and discussed films made in the language. Father Gaston conducted a course on Satyajit Ray’s cinema at Loyola College (now Concordia University), Montreal, in 1973. He translated into French an anthology of Hindu texts published as ‘Prions avec nos frères hindous’ (Desclee, 1971). In 1986, he started the Educational Media Research Centre of St Xavier’s College, Calcutta. He was the director of both centres till 1996 when he was called to be the secretary for communication at the headquarter of the Jesuits in Rome. Back in Kolkata in 1999, he taught communications at St Xavier’s College and was attached to the Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute and the Roop Kala Kendra in Kolkata. Between 1970 and 1996, he was a member (management board), Jamia Millia Islamia, Mass Communication Research Centre, New Delhi; guest lecturer, Film & Television Institute of India, Pune; member (board of studies), Film Study Centre, Calcutta University; member, (board of studies), post-graduate department of film studies, Jadavpur University; member, Central Board of Film Censors, Calcutta; member, Fulbright Selection Committee, United States Educational Foundation in India, Calcutta, among others. He also authored numerous books on films and communication over the years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/father-gaston-the-man-behind-citys-first-film-school-passes-away/articleshow/77770931.cms||Althea Phillips
August 27, 2020||Meerut||14 criminals nabbed in police crackdown in Baghpat||Meerut: At least 14 criminals were arrested in the last one week in Baghpat district as part of police crackdown, which was started soon after the murder of a senior BJP functionary over personal enmity. Former BJP district unit president Sanjay Khokhar was shot dead near his house when he was out on a morning walk on August 11.Among those arrested was Badal Singh, 35, a sharpshooter of jailed gangster Sunil Rathi. Singh was carrying a reward of Rs 50,000.Before him, Pawan Tyagi, another wanted criminal with more than 30 cases of loot, robbery, murder and extortion was arrested after encounter.He was injured and taken to Baraut primary health centre. Newly-appointed SP Abhishek Singh said, “Apart from keeping pressure on the criminals, we are also identifying those involved in sinister activities like liquor smuggling."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/14-criminals-nabbed-in-police-crackdown-in-baghpat/articleshow/77769695.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 27, 2020||Meerut||Elderly man dies at hospital,family alleges negligence||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A 55-year-old heart patient passed away at a private hospital in Muzaffarnagar on Wednesday, and the patient's family blamed the hospital for "not providing oxygen on time". A complaint has been filed at New Mandi police station and the body has been sent for postmortem. According to sources, Arvind Kumar was suffering from a heart ailment and was admitted to the hospital in New Mandi area. But, he was allegedly ignored by the staff and doctor. The family also started protesting outside the hospital demanding action against the doctor and his staff. Police later pacified them. Pankaj Rathi, the nephew of the deceased, said, "We asked the doctor and his staff to provide oxygen to our uncle who was having breathing difficulties, but they ignored him. Within half an hour he died on the stretcher." On Wednesday, SP (city) Satpal Antil said, "The body has been sent for postmortem. Further investigation is being conducted." However, the hospital's doctor denied the family's allegations. "We asked the family to admit him to the hospital earlier, but they refused. The family turned up with the patient again on Wednesday morning and he was found dead during check up," the doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/elderly-man-dies-at-hospfamily-alleges-negligence/articleshow/77769687.cms||Mohd Dilshad
August 27, 2020||Chandigarh||KU finalises UG, PG courses exam schedule||Kurukshetra: The examinations schedule of under-graduate (UG) and post-graduate (PG) courses was finalised by Kurukshetra University (KU) on Wednesday. The KU spokesperson stated that in view of University Grants Commission (UGC) NET exam in mid-September, both UG/PG examinations would now commence from September 10. He said that the datesheet of UG terminal semester/year classes, including engineering courses had also been prepared and the same for UG classes had been uploaded on the university website at www.kuk.ac.in. Besides, the information regarding issue of date sheet has been made available to all principals of affiliated colleges so that the students could be informed about the schedule of examinations. He said the datesheet of PG classes was being prepared and would be uploaded on KU website shortly. The spokesperson said that KU also declared the result of 10 intermediate classes on the basis of directions given by director general, higher education, Haryana. The results of following classes have been declared: BCom second and fourth semester, BBAsecond and fourth semester, BSc Information Technology second and fourth semester, BA Mass Communication second semester and BSC Home Science second semester.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ku-finalises-ug-pg-courses-exam-schedule/articleshow/77772389.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Nagpur||Lack of physicians, specialists cuts ICU beds availability||Nagpur: On paper, the city has over 400 ICU and 1,500 oxygenated beds at six free of cost Covid hospitals in city. Yet, many critical patients are dying due to non-availability of beds, ventilators and oxygen-supported beds. Though beds and equipment are ready, lack of physicians, anaesthetists, and specialists is preventing hospitals from actually putting them to use. TOI assessed the admission and bed strength data as per the civil surgeon, who is the district nodal officer for Covid, at these six hospitals — GMC, IGGMCH, Military Hospital, AIIMS, Lata Mangeshkar Hospital (LMH) and Shalinitai Meghe Hospital and Research Centre (SMHRC) — to understand why beds are not available.These six are the biggest Dedicated Covid Hospitals and health centres available free to patients. This report excludes private hospitals where getting a bed depends on paying capacity of patient.NMC-run state-of-the-art Indira Gandhi Rughnalaya (IGR) having 130 oxygenated beds, though started, is not shown in the record.As of Wednesday, the district had 914 patients admitted at five hospitals while 10 are at IGR. This is less than half of their combined bed capacity of over 2,000. The biggest challenge these hospitals are facing is acute shortage of ICU beds and availability of senior doctors round-the-clock.IGGMCH and GMCH alone have committed 360 ICU beds while in reality only 245 are functioning and are always occupied. AIIMS has got just five, Military Hospital 15, LMH 10 and SMHR 10 ICU beds which are also mostly full. As only mild, moderate, severe and critical patients are taken in admission, it can be said that the five DCH needs another 629 ICU beds if it has to cater to all 914 patients.Renovated at a cost of Rs1.30crore, IGR has 11 doctors, 23 nurses and around 15 Ayush doctors. Yet, it is refusing admission on the ground that it doesn’t have a specialist. This has also held up utilization of its 10 ICU beds. “Patients with comorbidities and in critical condition are referred to SMHRC that has good physicians and specialist staff. We don’t have a round-the-clock physician. We have admitted just 10 who are mildly symptomatic and asymptomatic,” said IGR in charge Dr Kanchan Kimmatkar.Similarly, NMC’s other four hospitals are lying idle. “Whatever the condition, IGR staff don’t entertain any referral. What is the use of such a facility and surplus staff,” asked a doctor.Datta Meghe Medical College and SMHRC dean Dr Dileep Gode said, “We have never refused admission to anyone. But we are duty-bound to follow ICMR and health ministry guidelines. If patients are asymptomatic, bed can’t be allocated. Once symptomatic show recovery, they are referred to CCC or home isolation,” he said.LMH officials too said they have never refused admission for symptomatic patients. “If we don’t have beds, patient is referred to government hospital,” they said.IGGMCH officials said they need to start another 60 ICU beds. “The infrastructure is ready but we don’t have manpower to run those beds,” they said.AIIMS officials too said no patient has been refused admission if warranted except when the beds are full. “We have committed 50 beds. Staff is less as doctors are working at GMC and IGGMCH,” they said.TableActive cases | 8,927Home Isolation | 5,542All types of admissions | 3,385Admissions in govt, NMC and trust-run hospitals | 924O2 Beds | 1,622ICU beds | 285||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lack-of-physicians-specialists-cuts-icu-beds-availability/articleshow/77771024.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 27, 2020||Meerut||On Covid duty, doctor couple in UP away from 2-year-old son for 5 months||MEERUT: At the maternity ward in a prominent government hospital in Meerut, gynaecologist Dr Shweta Maheshwari cradles newborns in her arms every other day. It’s been five months, however, since she held her own child, a son who’s a little over two years old. Maheshwari and her husband Dr Sanket Tyagi, a paediatrician, have not been home since March when the Covid-19 outbreak erupted in India. In the first week of March, the doctor couple moved out of their family home to a rented accommodation, leaving their child, Kushagra, with his grandparents. Both husband and wife are posted at LLRM Medical College and have frequently been on duty in the Covid ward. “We know we can’t expose our child or parents to the virus but at the same time we have to do our duty so we chose to move elsewhere,” said Maheshwari. “Now every time I hold a newborn, I can’t help but feel sad that my own baby is away from me,” she added. Phone calls have been regular, but meetings contactless and few and far between. “We have only met our son a few times in the past months and during these visits my wife and I sat in one car and he sat in another with his grandparents,” said Tyagi. While at home, the grandparents are finding it hard to explain to the young boy why his parents have to be away, the couple is also struggling with this separation. Doctors posted on Covid duty have had a hard time since the outbreak as many of them have been staying away from families, missing out on important occasions and undergoing long quarantine periods once their shifts are over. For doctor couples, it’s been tougher as sometimes both husband and wife have been on Covid duty in government hospitals, often leading to requests seeking exemption for one of them so they could take care of their families. For Maheshwari, not seeing her child for so many months is taking a mental toll. She has even mulled leaving her job but the thought of quitting in the middle of a pandemic when doctors are required on the frontlines stops her every time. “Kushagra now cries when we call him. It always ends with a promise that we will see him soon, but we don’t know when that will be,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/on-covid-duty-doc-couple-in-up-away-from-2-yr-old-son-for-5-months/articleshow/77769702.cms||Ishita Bhatia
August 27, 2020||Meerut||‘Murdered’ Amroha girl turns out to be minor & pregnant, lover sent to jail for rape||BIJNOR: A completely botched up probe landed her parents into the jail and now a course correction saw her lover joining them behind the bars. The Amroha girl, now pregnant, had allegedly fled with her lover on February 6 last year from Amroha’s Malakpur village. Local police, after a “thorough probe”, had concluded that the girl’s parents and a relative were behind her “honour killing”. They were bundled into the jail in December last year. The twist came when the “slain” girl and the youth turned up in Malakpur village from Delhi and started living together. A shocked police department scrambled for answers and the SHO who led the probe was suspended. Paper work also started to ensure the release of the girl’s family which is in jail for nine months now, without any fault. And, during the “course correction”, local police found that the girl was just 16, and not 21 years old which they were maintaining throughout the course of investigation. According to the law, sexual intercourse by a man with his wife, who is below 18 years of age, is considered rape-- even if there is a consensus. “The girl was handed over to her family-- extended as parents are still in jail-- as she is minor. Police have registered a case against the youth, Rajesh Kumar, for abducting and raping her in his house. Apart from the IPC sections, he was also booked under the POCSO Act,” said Vipin Tada, Amroha’s superintendent of police. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/murdered-amroha-girl-turns-out-to-be-minor-pregnant-lover-sent-to-jail-for-rape/articleshow/77769727.cms||Harveer Dabas
August 27, 2020||Chennai||Resume Jaya death probe, AIADMK man pleads in apex court||CHENNAI: A Madurai-based AIADMK worker has approached the Supreme Court to restart the functioning of the one-man judicial commission constituted by Tamil Nadu government to probe the death of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa. The commission has been put on hibernation for over a year due to a stay issued by the apex court. Filing the petition as an intervener in the special leave petition of Apollo Hospitals, Vedha alias V Dhamodharan said he had approached the court on behalf of “crores of public” who were awaiting the findings of the commission on the circumstances leading to the late chief minister’s hospitalisation on September 22, 2016. He said the commission must be permitted to inquire at least the non-medical aspects of the issue. Dhamodharan pointed out that the term of the commission headed by former judge of Madras high court Justice A Arumughaswamy was extended for the eighth time on June 24, and added: “Such extension of tenure of the commission without the actual functioning is not only a burden on the exchequer but also leads to dilution of the purpose of the commission.” On September 25, 2017 the state government constituted the committee to inquire the circumstances that lead to the death of Jayalalithaa and the treatment provided till her death. In April 2019, Apollo moved the Madras high court challenging the proceedings of the commission into the correctness of the medical treatment provided to Jayalalithaa. The hospital contended that the commission cannot go into such issues without the assistance of a medical expert team. Refusing to allow the petition, a division bench of the high court dismissed Apollo’s plea. Aggrieved, the hospital moved the present appeal before the Apex Court. Admitting the appeal, the Supreme Court on April 26, 2019 passed an interim stay against the functioning of the commission till further order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/resume-jaya-deathprobe-aiadmk-man-pleads-in-apex-court/articleshow/77772428.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Meerut||Mechanic & his daughter found dead in Saharanpur||Muzaffarnagar: A 25-year-old mechanic and his daughter were found dead at his home in Saharanpur district.According to the police, Shoaib, an AC mechanic, was found hanging from a ceiling fan while his minor daughter was lying on the ground. "The two bodies were sent for postmortem. Further investigation is ongoing. We are waiting for the postmortem report, and action will be taken accordingly," Vineet Bhatnagar, SP (city), said on Wednesday.Sources said Shoaib's wife was also found dead, under mysterious circumstances, a few years ago. Notably, the mechanic, who was living with his minor daughter in Mandi area, was accused of killing her.Rashid, a relative of the deceased man, claimed, "He [the mechanic] was found hanging in his room and his hands were tied behind his back. A fair investigation is required."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/mechanic-his-daughter-found-dead-in-saharanpur/articleshow/77769716.cms||Mohd Dilshad
August 27, 2020||Meerut||Cleared by WUP||Mohd Dilshad | TNNMuzaffarnagar: An RSS functionary was found hanging under suspicious circumstances with both his hands tied behind in Muzaffarnagar district on Wednesday morning. According to police, Ashwini Kumar, 30, who was in the paint supply business, lived with his brother Ashu in Nagar Kotwali area of the city.Station house officer (SHO) Anil Kaprwan said, “No complaint was given by family members till late evening. Post-mortem examination report is awaited. We will probe the death from all the angles.” On his WhatsApp status, Ashwini had written “I Quit”, a police officer said.His brother Ashu said, “My son spotted Ashwini’s body hanging from a ceiling fan. I have alerted my family members about the incident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cleared-by-wup/articleshow/77769732.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Delhi||Cracks in the system: Debris yet to be cleared 15 days after Connaught Place roof collapse||NEW DELHI: Fifteen days after a portion of the roof on Regal Building in Connaught Place collapsed, the debris remains uncleared from the terrace of the second floor due to lack of clarity on the matter between the owner and New Delhi Municipal Council. The civic body’s officials visited the site two days after the collapse on August 11 and asked the local police to not allow any activity there. “The spaces below the collapsed roof and adjoining areas may be dangerous and a thorough assessment of safety of building has to be carried by structural engineers engaged by the building occupiers or owners,” NDMC had said. However, when TOI visited the site on Wednesday, the remnants of the collapsed structure was still there and cracks were visible on the second floor walls. The affected roof was covered with plastic sheets. There was no barricading and offices were running on the adjoining portion of the same floor. Mohit Singla, director of Indraesh Builders Pvt Ltd, the name under which the Regal Building complex is registered, said the NDMC chairman was apprised on August 13 that the building was unsafe. “After we realised how pathetic the condition of the building was, business activity was stopped in 2017-18 and a portion of it has been lying vacant since,” said Singla. “After the roof collapse on August 11, we wrote to NDMC, but haven’t got any directions from them. We pointed out the grave threat of a further collapse given its dilapidated condition. We asked NDMC to allow us to take suitable action, but unable to get clarity on the matter, we couldn’t even remove the debris from the site.” An NDMC official countered that Indraesh Builders had only sent a letter without any proposals. “The building was unoccupied for a long time. There is an ongoing legal dispute too,” the official said. “The owner should get the property assessed again by structural engineers and submit a report to us.” Singla wondered why another safety certificate needed to be submitted when the company had already raised an alarm about the building’s derelict condition in 2017. The official said that making changes to buildings in Connaught Place that are close to 100 years old could create new problems, so permission can’t be granted “just like that to undertake renovations or change the structure”. He said any proposal for renovations and repair were scrutinised by the civic body’s heritage conservation committee before sanctioning revamp work. Delhi Police too wants NDMC to consider the area’s safety. “We can’t barricade the structure on the second floor,” an officer said. “The matter is under NDMC’s jurisdiction. Whether it wants to demolish the building or take other steps, we are ready to help them.” Following the Regal Building collapse, the NDMC official said a team had been assigned to carry out a fresh survey on the condition of other buildings in Connaught Place, most of them around 90 years old. With their reinforced brick work construction, their structural safety remains a big concern for owners, lessees and the civic authorities. In 2017, buildings in C block (above Jain Book Depot) and L block collapsed, and Atul Bhargava of New Delhi Traders’ Association said that no progress could be made in the renovation of the C block building in three years due to delays in getting permissions. Bhargava also claimed that the Regal roof collapse was due to a disused and tilting surveillance tower put up there by NDMC and police which the owners had requested to be removed, but about which nothing had been done till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cracks-in-the-system-debris-yet-to-be-cleared-15-days-after-cp-roof-collapse/articleshow/77772451.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 27, 2020||Nagpur||Comorbid +ve man dies in home isolation; 4% occupancy in CCCs||Nagpur: A 45-year-old man, who had comorbidities and was Covid-19 positive, died on the fifth day of home isolation. High-risk coronavirus patients, like those with comorbidities and senior citizens, are still opting for home isolation, and the administration is not encouraging admission in Covid Care Centres (CCCs) though occupancy there is at just 4.07%.The deceased was a resident of Prem Nagar in North Nagpur, and office bearer in one of the leading political parties in the city. He died at home on August 23.Chairman of NMC health consultative committee Virendra Kukreja said, “The man who died in home isolation had diabetes and hyper tension, and also had fever for a day or more. He was taking medicines. His oxygen saturation level fell, and he passed away. Comorbid positive patients need medical supervision and should not be allowed home isolation. The administration should compel even asymptomatic patients with comorbidities to get admitted in CCCs.”Kukreja said some such patients in home isolation developed severe symptoms and were later admitted in Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH). “Couple of such patients have passed away. Such situation will not arise if they are in CCCs and taken care of,” he said.Kukreja also said he was of the belief that all asymptomatic positive patients, excluding very few who really have isolation facilities at home, should be admitted in CCCs. “It will help contain spread of Covid-19 and stop passing infection to senior citizens, children and comorbid,” he said.Consultant physician and intensivist Dr Nikhil Balankhe said, “Home isolation of comorbid, especially patients with morbid obesity, diabetes, heart disease, COPD and cancer, is always risky, irrespective of age. They require regular monitoring by means of oxygen saturation level, temperature and behavioural changes.”He added, “CCC is best option for comorbid. But we need to check why such people opt for home isolation instead. Most patients say facilities at CCCs are not proper, which needs to be resolved.”Dr Balankhe added the administration should equip CCCs with good sanitation and proper medical teams by charging some nominal fees. “It is always better for asymptomatic comorbid positive patients to be under observation in CCCs,” he said.As per data provided by office of Civil Surgeon (CS), there were 8,927 active cases in the district as on Wednesday. Of these 5,542 (62%) positive patients were in home isolation while 1,426 (16%) in hospitals, 689 (7.71%) in CCCs and 1,270 (14.22%) in the process of admission.As per data released by the state government some days ago, the district has 16,900 beds in CCCs. This means just 4.07% CCC beds are occupied.Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe said, “NMC is giving option to all asymptomatic positive patients to get admitted in CCCs. We cannot compel patients as government has allowed home isolation. The number of beds in CCCs are sufficient even if there is peak of Covid-19 in city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/comorbid-ve-man-dies-in-home-isolation-4-occupancy-in-cccs/articleshow/77771054.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 27, 2020||Surat||Craters throw muck on ‘cleanest city’ image||Surat: More than the coronavirus pandemic, the residents of India’s second cleanest city Surat are struggling to commute on the city roads. Heavy rainfall over the past few weeks has exposed the pathetic conditions of city roads which are full of potholes. According to the survey carried out by the road development department of the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), out of the total 1,164 roads maintained by the civic body in the eight municipal zones of the city, 377 roads having the length of 78 km have sustained major to minor damages due to heavy rains. Only 85 of the damaged roads have been repaired by the SMC. With the rains playing truant, the road contractors and the SMC roads and building department have been able to take up less than 15% of the road repair. On the other hand, out of the total 1,051 roads under the defect liability period (DLP)—maintained by the contractors for the period of five years from the date of construction— 130 roads having length of 13 km have sustained minor to major damages. The contractors have been able to repair only 24 roads due to continuous rains. Every year, the SMC spends close to Rs 20 crore on repairing the potholed roads. This time around, the road development department has estimated the cost of road repairs to be around Rs 15 crore. The posh areas in Athwa zone of the SMC has 66 road stretches in the length of four kilometres with major to minor damage are to be repaired with patchwork. These areas include Athwalines, Ghod Dod Road, Parle Point, Piplod, Magdalla etc. Similarly, about 39 road stretches in Rander zone and about 126 stretches in Central zone are to be repaired. Majority of the textile markets falling in the Central zone of the civic body have badly damaged roads, giving nightmares to the textile traders, visitors and transporters. Manoj Agarwal, president of Federation of Surat Textile Traders’ Association (FOSTTA) said, “It is a bumpy ride for all of us when we visit the textile market area on Ring Road and Salabatpura. The roads are in very bad condition. The SMC teams are doing patchwork, but the rains wash it off.” Executive engineer (roads development), Akshay Pandya told TOI, “We had planned to recarpet the roads maintained by SMC after Holi festival, but due to the lockdown the repair work could not be undertaken. We are unable to perform the repair works due to rains continuing in the city. All the major repairs will be undertaken soon after monsoon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/craters-throw-muck-on-cleanest-city-image/articleshow/77769768.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Bengaluru||State’s first and only Covid patient on ECMO on path to recovery||Bengaluru: The only Covid-19 patient in Karnataka to be put on an external heart-lung machine or ECMO is making a recovery. The 64-year-old man is undergoing treatment at Manipal Hospitals, Whitefield. Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (a life-support machine) has been successfully used to alleviate acute respiratory distress and cardiopulmonary failures in Covid patients in Delhi and Mumbai. Legendary singer SP Balasubrahmanyam is also on ECMO in a Chennai hospital. The Bengaluru patient was shifted to Manipal Hospitals on August 20, after a 15-day stay in another hospital. He was first put on a ventilator as his oxygen saturation level was 81% against the normal of 95% and above. When the man didn’t show any improvement on ventilator support, doctors considered putting him on ECMO, which has been successfully used in severe pneumonia cases resulting from acute H1N1 Influenza A infection. “We informed the patient’s family about the requirement of putting him on ECMO. The family understood and we started the treatment. The man, who’s on ventilator as well as ECMO, is gradually recovering. His severely infected lungs are being allowed to heal by resting and the infection has reduced,” explained Dr Rajesh Mohan Shetty, chief of Critical Care Medicine, Manipal Hospitals, Whitefield. ECMO provides time for the lungs to recover from the infection and usually, a patient is put on it for 14 days. On August 25, a tracheostomy tube was inserted into the man’s neck to slowly help him prepare to breath on his own. “With the tracheostomy done, we will gradually take him off the ventilator. He is currently not conscious but is responding to the treatment,” said Dr Shetty. Dr KV Trilok Chandra, head of the critical care support unit for Covid-19 patients in the state, confirmed the 64-year-old is the only Covid-19 patient on ECMO in Karnataka.  Many government hospitals in Karnataka don’t have ECMO machines. Even Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute and Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, which are in the vanguard of the Covid-19 battle, lack the facility. ECMO treatment requires a highly experienced and skilled team of intensivists to engage with the patient, say doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/states-first-and-only-covid-patient-on-ecmo-on-path-to-recovery/articleshow/77770641.cms||Sunitha Rao R
August 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: AAP-BJP row over ‘scam’ in fogging medicines continues||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party on Wednesday accused BJP of doing a scam worth crores in buying anti-dengue medicine, which is used for fogging, in a planned manner. AAP functionary Durgesh Pathak alleged that “BJP functionaries first pressured a civic official to sign the drug procurement file, then suspended him on July 3, 2019 for refusing and gave charge of his position to their favourite officer who signed the drug procurement order.” Pathak had on Tuesday alleged that BJP-led municipal corporations bought the anti-dengue medicine at Rs 3,256.8 per kg whereas the same was bought by Bhopal Municipal Corporation at Rs 2,500 per kg. “The civic bodies under BJP is a deep pit of corruption. Many BJP spokespersons said that they brought the medicine from the government agency,” Pathak said claiming that the medicine was purchased from a different company. AAP MLA Vinay Mishra demanded a probe into the matter. “Results of the investigation must be presented in the Parliament.” Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor rebutted the AAP leaders’ charges. “The medicine was purchased from a Kerala-based government company. The charges of the AAP functionaries show their lack of knowledge of facts,” Kapoor said. “AAP functionaries are in a habit of levelling baseless allegations and like his chief Arvind Kejriwal who has in past levelled baseless allegations and later apologised, Durgesh Pathak will soon have to apologise for levelling concocted charges,” Kapoor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-bjp-row-over-scam-in-fogging-meds-continues/articleshow/77772488.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Chennai||TN: PIL alleges cash-for-job scam in SI selection, HC orders notice||CHENNAI: Claiming irregularities in the recruitment of 969 sub-inspectors of police through Tamil Nadu Uniformed Service Recruitment Board, social activist ‘Traffic’ Ramaswamy has moved the Madras high court seeking CBI inquiry into the affair. Ramaswamy alleged that candidates occupying the several hundred top ranks in the written exams had consecutive roll numbers, as they were allowed mass copying at select exam centres. Admitting the plea, a division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha directed the state government and the TNUSRB to file their counters by September 30. According to Ramaswamy, all the examination centres must be equipped with CCTV cameras or video cameras as per examination rules. However, barring centres in Perambalur and Ariyalur districts, no other centre, including in Chennai, was brought under CCTV during the examination. “Top four candidates have consecutive roll numbers and all four wrote the examination from a centre in MGR University, Chennai. Similarly, 115 candidates who have scored 75% in the written exam are from the exam halls in MGR University with consecutive numbers,” counsel for the petitioner G K Harihara Rajan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pil-alleges-cash-for-job-scam-in-si-selection-hc-orders-notice/articleshow/77772663.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Bareilly||RSS functionary found dead under suspicious condition, probe on||Muzaffarnagar: An RSS functionary was found hanging under suspicious circumstances with both his hands tied behind in Muzaffarnagar district on Wednesday morning. According to police, Ashwini Kumar, 30, who was in the paint supply business, lived with his brother Ashu in Nagar Kotwali area of the city.Station house officer (SHO) Anil Kaprwan said, “No complaint was given by family members till late evening. Post-mortem examination report is awaited. We will probe the death from all the angles.” On his WhatsApp status, Ashwini had written “I Quit”, a police officer said.His brother Ashu said, “My son spotted Ashwini’s body hanging from a ceiling fan. I have alerted my family members about the incident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rss-functionary-found-dead-under-suspicious-condition-probe-on/articleshow/77769761.cms||Mohd Dilshad
August 27, 2020||Allahabad||Cops start attaching seven properties owned by Atiq||PRAYAGRAJ: Following the directives of the district magistrate, police started the process of attaching seven properties owned by former MP and jailed don Atiq Ahmed on Wednesday amid tight security in the city. Around two weeks back, Prayagraj district magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami had ordered for seven immovable properties owned by Ahmed to be attached under Gangster Act. He had also asked for a status report to be submitted by August 28. SP (city) Dinesh Singh said, “Police started attaching properties owned by Ahmad on Wednesday located under the limits of different police stations of the city. Heavy police force was deployed while executing the process.” The properties were located in Chakia, Sabhasad Nagar, Karbala, MIG Kalindipuram, and Mahatma Gandhi Marg and fall under the limits of Khuldabad, Dhoomanganj and Civil Lines police stations. Police have also installed boards outside two of his properties mentioning that the land has been attached on the order of the district administration by the time this report went to press. The decision to attach the properties was taken after SSP (Prayagraj) had recommended for the action in a report to the DM. He had reasoned that the properties were allegedly accumulated through illegal means. After going through the available records, the DM had decided to attach the seven properties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/cops-start-attaching-seven-properties-owned-by-atiq/articleshow/77769781.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi hotels at your service with hidden smile||NEW DELHI: The routine security check at the entrance, the man with the valet ticket at the porch, the ubiquitous mustachioed guard and the warm greetings on entering the lobby are pleasant memories of visits to hotels. In the new normal for the hospitality industry, though, you neither see the smile nor the moustache. They are hidden behind masks. You also don’t get to admire the bright attire of hotel employees, who all don hazmat suits. And rather than a warm namaste, a temperature gun welcomes you. Inside, the nonchalant charm of poring through a menu has been replaced with scanning a QR code. Buffet is ‘on the table’ and payment, virtual. While there’s no human touch involved anymore, the eyes are everywhere, keeping watch on everything happening around. Nitesh Gandhi, GM, JW Marriott, Aerocity, promises a contactless stay and in-room and restaurant dining at K3. What has enthused him are diners returning after the hotel reopened. Gandhi assures every guest of the highest hygiene standard. As does T J Joulak, GM (Special Projects), Shangri-La Hotels and Resorts, who insists his hotel will provide a safe environment to guests planning a stay or popping in for a meal at its buzzing Tamra or Shang Palace or Mister Chai. It has been a whole new experience for the chefs as well. Neeraj Tyagi, director of culinary, Pullman and Novotel, Aerocity, explained that no vendor was allowed into the hotel and most goods were received are unboxed and disinfected in a special area specially created outside the hotel. For dining, one specified attendant serves a table and the experience is contactless. “Many of our staff are staying in the hotel and have daily medical checks,” Tyagi said. “We are following the strictest protocol and so seeing good traction from the moment we reopened.” What has enthused hotels is the enthusiasm of patrons. Benita Sharma, GM, ITC Maurya, is inundated with calls about the Bukhara restaurant. She has been busy assuring every guest of the signature Bukhara experience and utmost hygiene. Julian Ayers, GM, Hyatt Regency, too has been ecstatic about the response to the La Piazza, China Kitchen and TK’s Oriental Grill. “We opened on Saturday and the weekend was very promising. It will slowly get even better surely,” said Ayers. IHCL, which has four of its five city properties functioning now and expects Taj Mahal Hotel to reopen after renovation mid-September, similarly reported a pick-up in dine-in and delivery services. It has already started receiving queries and bookings for wedding and other events from October. Gaurav Pokhriyal, senior VP (Operations), said Taj hotels were curating highly customised offers that meet the guest needs for capacious and sanitised spaces and augmented safety and hygiene. To take care of the health of guests and employees alike, Oberoi Group ensures sanitisation of cars and hands by the chauffeur before and after a trip, frequent hand sanitisation by staff, use of disposable gloves and face masks at all times and the checking of body temperature. For complete transparency, the stringent hygiene standards have been made available in their entirety on the hotel's website. As public spaces and high exposure areas, such as hand rails, are regularly cleaned, Jay Rathore, senior VP and GM, The Oberoi, New Delhi, explained that without diminishing the personal touch and care of hotel staff, technology is being used as a safety measure to minimise contact whether it is for guests checking in and checking out or for those dining in the restaurants or in their rooms. Watch New normal: Delhi hotels at your service with hidden smile||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-your-service-again-with-hidden-smile/articleshow/77772485.cms||Amin Ali
August 27, 2020||Dehradun||Citing piling losses, hoteliers demand relaxation of restrictions on tourists from Unlock 4||Nainital/Mussoorie: Having received little to no tourist footfall since March, hoteliers in the state have urged the state government to reduce the number of mandatory quarantine days and ramp up antigen tests at borders from the fourth phase of Unlock, which starts on September 1. Some hotel owners have also requested financial aid from the government, saying business hasn’t picked up despite hotels being allowed to open in June. Under the current guidelines, the negative report of an RT-PCR test done not more than 72 hours before is mandatory to enter the state. Also, a tourist has to spend seven days in quarantine before they can venture out. Hoteliers have asked the government to reduce the number of mandatory quarantine days and allow tourists without RT-PCR tests. “Not only does an RT-PCR test cost a hefty amount (the test costs up to Rs 4,500 in most cities at a private lab), it is difficult to get one done if you don’t have symptoms. Consider a family of four wanting to visit Uttarakhand. They would have to shell out Rs 18,000 for the tests alone. Why would anyone spend that amount only to stay cooped up in their hotel room for a week,” said Hari Mann, president, Ramnagar Hotel Association. Ved Sah, spokesperson for the Nainital Hotels and Restaurant Association and owner of a hotel on Nainital’s Mall Road, agreed. “The first step of the government should be to reduce the number of mandatory quarantine days. It should also provide financial aid to hoteliers, in order to keep those working in the hotel industry afloat,” he said. “We should do away with asking visitors to get an RT-PCR test. They should be provided rapid antigen tests at entry points to the state,” said Sanjay Aggarwal, secretary of Mussoorie Hotel Association. “The losses have piled up and it is now becoming increasingly difficult to keep our staff on payroll,” said Vimal Kumar, a hotelier from Haridwar. "The compulsory quarantine should be reduced to two days. Guests and tour operators told us tourism will definitely pick up once the restrictions are relaxed,” said Deepak Gupta, a hotelier and the secretary of Hotel and Restaurant Association of Uttarakhand. Talking to TOI, Sandeep Sahni, president of Hotel and Restaurant Association of Uttarakhand, said, “We need the government’s support to revive the tourism industry, which has been the worst hit. Around 30% to 40% population of the state is directly or indirectly dependent on tourism-related activities.” Sahni urged the government to prepare medium and long term policies for the revival of the tourism industry in the state. “The government must provide us working capital and waiver on interest payment for two years. It should exempt water, sewage charges and house tax and ensure all licenses are renewed automatically for hoteliers. It should also incentivise tourists so that they travel to the state,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/citing-piling-losses-hoteliers-demand-relaxation-of-restrictions-on-tourists-from-unlock-4/articleshow/77769782.cms||Prashant Jha
August 27, 2020||Kolkata||Educational institutes to remain shut till September 20 in West Bengal||KOLKATA: Educational institutions in the state will remain closed till September 20. Work will, however, continue as it is being done now. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s announcement after the state cabinet meeting at Nabanna on Wednesday brought relief to several institution heads, as many were apprehensive of classes beginning on September 5 as had been announced earlier. The Heritage School principal Seema Sapru said the school had not yet decided on admissions for the 2021-22 session. “Usually, we hold interactions with parents after the Durga Puja vacation. But this year, we hope that by the time we publish an advertisement, the situation normalizes. We are not in a hurry.” “We organise school visits, which can’t be done right now. However, for the existing students, classes will continue online,” Sapru said. Times ViewSchools and colleges may have to go back to the drawing board as it seems unlikely that they will be able to resume actual classes next month. Managements will also need to plan for the unit and semester exams ahead. This is easier said than done but proper planning can help reduce disruption.South Point School, however, has put in place an initial plan. “We are keen to know how the government allows operation when schools reopen. The restrictions on the number of students, space requirement and age groups are important. Depending on all these factors, we will draw up a final plan,” spokesperson Krishna Damani said. He explained that some likely scenarios are being planned for. The colleges also have set the ball rolling. “The first-semester students won’t begin classes till it is possible to verify their documents for which offline presence is compulsory. Thus, we can’t hold online classes for the UG first-semester students, even after their admissions,” pointed Lady Brabourne College principal Siuli Sarkar. “However, if after September 20, offline classes resume, we shall hold classes for humanities and science on different days. This is our preliminary plan,” she added. She said that the college has already sanitized the hostel and college campus. “The local train service needs to be resumed before students can travel to college hassle-free. Also, the non-teaching staffers need to travel every day,” she said. Fr Dominic Savio, principal of St Xavier’s College (autonomous), however, said they were likely to begin online classes on September 20 for the first-semester UG students based on provisional admissions. the physical documents would be verified later. He added that the physical classes can only resume after reopening the hostel accommodation. “A lot of our students are from outside the state. We will have to consider their number and also the government’s instructions to draw up a final plan,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/educational-institutes-to-remain-shut-till-sept-20/articleshow/77771105.cms||Somdatta Basu
August 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Highest single-day spike as Covid-19 tally crosses 3.8L||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 10,830 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, in the highest number of single-day cases after 10,820 cases on August 9, taking the tally to 3,82,469. The cumulative toll jumped to 3,541 as 81 patients succumbed to the disease. As many as 8,473 patients were declared cured on Wednesday. The state has 92,208 active cases with 2,86,720 cumulative recoveries and 3,541 deaths; a recovery rate of about 75%. East Godavari reported 1,528 new cases, followed by Nellore 1,168, Visakhapatnam 1,156 and West Godavari 1,065. Krishna reported 299 cases, lowest among all districts. Srikakulam crossed the 20,000-case mark. East Godavari has the highest caseload (53,567), followed by Kurnool 40,845 and Anantapur 36,948. Of the 81 deaths on Wednesday, 11 are from East Godavari, nine from Prakasam, eight each from Chittoor and Kadapa, six each from Anantapur and West Godavari, five each from Krishna, Nellore, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Kurnool, and four each from Srikakulam and Guntur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/highest-single-day-spike-as-covid-19-tally-crosses-3-8l/articleshow/77771129.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi on orange alert, expect heavy rain for two days||NEW DELHI: Moderate to heavy rain is likely to occur on Thursday and Friday in the national capital. An orange alert has been issued by the meteorological department. India Meteorological Department (IMD) had initially placed the orange alert for Wednesday as well. However, officials later said only light rain would occur, primarily during the night and announced a green alert for the day. The orange alert is already in place for most parts of northern India, with the monsoon trough, which had earlier shifted southward, changing its direction again. “There has been a shift in the monsoon trough but it could not reach close to NCR like it was earlier forecast. This shift will, however, occur by the early hours of Thursday and two to three spells of moderate rain may occur. Heavy rain is also likely to occur at places on both Thursday and Friday,” said a Met official. Long-term forecast shows rain will continue till the end of the month, but the intensity is likely to reduce from Saturday onwards. After a promising period in the middle of the month, when Delhi recorded two “heavy” rain days and a “very heavy” rain day too, Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station, has received very little rain over the last few days and sits at a slight deficit of 4% for the month. The Lodhi road observatory also has a deficit of 3%, while Palam is in excess by 16% this month. Ayanagar, which had recorded the first “very heavy” rainfall day of this season so far, has received maximum rain in this month. Delhi recorded no rain till Wednesday evening, with the maximum temperature recorded at 34.2 degrees Celsius – one degree above normal for this time of the season. The relative humidity, meanwhile, oscillated between 63 and 85%. Thursday’s forecast shows one to two spells of moderate rain are likely to occur, with heavy rain at isolated places. The air quality index in the capital on Wednesday was recorded at 57 (satisfactory range). A spell of rain over the next two days is likely to clean the capital’s air further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/capital-on-orange-alert-expect-heavy-rain-for-two-days/articleshow/77772521.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Cash-strapped govt puts recruitment of staff in universities on hold||MYSURU: Following a warning from the University Grants Commission (UGC) that it would withhold grant-in-aid if vacant posts are not filled in universities affiliated to it, varsities across the state had planned to roll out a recruitment process. To ensure transparency, the government had asked Karnataka Examination Authority (KEA) to prepare a merit list and send it to universities concerned so that they could pick the best. KEA had even planned to write up dedicated software for the process. However, in a big jolt to universities just ahead of a new academic year, the finance department has asked them to put the recruitment process on hold till further orders. Sources in the state higher education department say the diktat is for all universities. Universities in the state are plagued by a crippling shortage of teaching — by as much as 60% in several varsities. Data shows that in 19 state universities, 838 assistant professors, 536 associate professor and 354 professor posts are vacant. “All universities have been asked not to go ahead with the hiring process due to the prevailing Covid- 19 crisis,” a source said. Additional chief secretary (higher education) EV Ramana Reddy said there is a general ban on recruitment across the state. An official in the higher education department said, “The Covid-19 crisis requires huge resources. Universities have been directed to continue with the old system of guest faculty to teach and conduct practical classes. The government is likely to move towards a centralised recruitment process for all universities, once the situation returns to normal.” G Hemantha Kumar, vice-chancellor, University of Mysore, said: “We are sure that once the Covid-19 crisis blows over, we will get permission to continue with the recruitment process. All formalities including necessary approvals for recruitment have been obtained.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cash-strapped-govt-puts-recruitment-of-staff-in-universities-on-hold/articleshow/77770695.cms||Shrinivasa M
August 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata remembers its saint with prayers and piety||KOLKATA: Owing to the pandemic, the city observed a quiet birth anniversary of Mother Teresa on Wednesday, with just 20 people congregating at St Thomas’ Church on Middleton Row, away from Mother House — the global headquarters of Missionaries of Charity on AJC Bose Road — following social distancing norms. This was the first time that the function took place outside the headquarters, which has Mother Teresa’s tomb. The Catholic Association of Bengal (CAB), of which Mother was a patron saint, celebrated her 110th birth anniversary at a thanksgiving mass at the church. Till last year, the chapel at Mother House used to be packed on August 26. But on Wednesday, entry of visitors was restricted. Only nuns of the order were present at the prayer. Vicar general of the archdiocese of Kolkata Fr Dominic Gomes was a special invitee at the special mass held at 5.30am. “One woman, one mission: that’s all it took to change this world! Mother Teresa captivated the whole world,” he said at the morning mass attended by mother general Sister Prema. At Shantidan, the home for abandoned children in Tangra, celebrations were just as muted. “We have been celebrating Mother Teresa’s birthday for many years. On this day, a cultural programme is organized where dance and musical performances take place for the residents of Shantidan. Unfortunately, due to the pandemic this year; no cultural programme is possible but food packets were distributed among the residents,” said Rotarian Tamal Mukherjee on behalf of the Rotary Club of South Calcutta. At 7.30am, an online mass was read by cardinal Oswald Gracias, head of the Catholic world and president of the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of India. The cardinal celebrated the occasion in his reading of the mass and called her a true disciple of Jesus as she saw Him in the poor. Hundreds of Christians in the city tuned in to the online streaming to attend the mass. Later, the Archdiocese and the Missionaries of Charity organized a ‘Final Profession’ oath-taking ceremony of MC brothers, who committed themselves to lifelong bachelorhood and service to the poor. At St Thomas’ Church, priests of the Archdiocese of Calcutta, Fr Devraj Fernandes, Fr Rodney Borneo, Fr Michael Biswas, Fr Orsan Wells and Fr Bimal Mandi said the prayers at 4pm. The first reading was done by Angelina Mantosh Jansnani, president, Catholic Association of Bengal (CAB). Jasnani read from the letter of St John that talked about how fellow humans should love one another. “ It was an honour to be part of the programme because I grew up under Mother Teresa,” Jasnani said. The vote of thanks was delivered by Colin Fitzgeral, treasurer, CAB. Trinamool councillor Juhi Biswas was also present. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted, “Let us always meet each other with a smile, for the smile is the beginning of love. Fondly remembering Mother Teresa (Saint Teresa of Calcutta) on her birth anniversary.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-remembers-its-saint-with-prayers-and-piety/articleshow/77771136.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
August 27, 2020||Dehradun||Landslides block Char Dham highways; Met issues heavy rainfall warning||DEHRADUN: The national highways connecting the Char Dham shrine towns, particularly Badrinath, Kedarnath and Yamunotri, in the Garhwal hills of Uttarakhand have been blocked due to recurring landslides at different places following heavy showers since Tuesday night. The Gangotri highway, which was closed since Wednesday morning due to landslides at Gangnani and Dabrani area, was restored by the evening. While the Rishikesh-Badrinath national highway remains blocked at Tota Ghati and Kshetrapal, the Kedarnath NH is obstructed near Sitapur. In Uttarkashi, the Yamunotri NH is closed at Dabarkot. Besides, the Rishikesh-Chamba NH was closed near Narendranagar in Tehri district. Meanwhile, the regional meteorological centre on Wednesday issued an orange alert of heavy to very heavy rainfall with intense spells at isolated places in Dehradun, Pauri, Haridwar, Tehri, Chamoli, Pithoragarh, Nainital and Bageshwar districts. “The Met office has recorded widespread rains in Uttarakhand in the past 24 hours. We have issued a forecast of further rains with heavy to very heavy spells at isolated places during the next 24 hours starting from Wednesday night,” said Bikram Singh, director of Regional Meteorological Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/landslides-block-char-dham-highways-met-issues-heavy-rainfall-warning/articleshow/77769805.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Record surge of 3,000 Covid cases in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Wednesday registered the highest single-day surge of 3,018 new Covid-19 cases since the outbreak and 10 deaths, but authorities attributed the numbers to more vigorous testing across the state. Testing jumped to 61,040, reaching the highest count with authorities ramping up sample collection. The number of samples tested per million population now stands at 29,146 in the state. With the additional positive count, the total caseload crossed 1.11 lakh and the death toll rose to 780. At present, 85,223 patients have recovered from coronavirus in the state, while 25,685 patients remain under medical treatment. GHMC limits recorded 475 new cases on Wednesday, followed by Rangareddy which recorded 247 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/record-surge-of-3k-covid-cases-in-t/articleshow/77772545.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Goa||Goan-origin doctor lead author in pioneering breast cancer therapy||Panaji: A Goan-origin professor of surgery and oncology at the University College London, Dr Jayant Vaidya, is the lead author in a pioneering breast cancer therapy which requires just one shot of radiotherapy to be given to patients rather than conventional weeks-long radiotherapy. The findings of the international randomised trial, published in the British Medical Journal last week, have confirmed the long-term effectiveness of Targeted Intraoperative Radiotherapy (TARGIT-IORT) - a single dose radiotherapy. “The advantage of the TARGIT-IORT technique is that women with early breast cancer receive all their radiation in one dose itself, given during the cancer operation, just after the tumour is removed and under the same anaesthetic. The radiation is only given to tissues around the tumour. In four out of five patients, this is all the radiation they will need,” Vaidya said. Not having to return to the hospital for radiation for three to six weeks makes a huge difference to women, allowing them to go back to their lives quickly after the cancer operation. Many opt for mastectomy because they cannot access radiotherapy, he says. The findings of the clinical trial to establish TARGIT-IORT’s long-term effectiveness showed that eight out of every 10 patients had no need for any further post-operative radiotherapy treatments. It also showed that there was no detriment to survival and no increase in the likelihood of the cancer returning. The trial also found that with this technique, significantly fewer women died from causes other than breast cancer. “Radiation related side effects are fewer with TARGIT-IORT. There is also less pain than usual, better cosmetic outcome and better quality of life than usual. Patients, especially in India, don’t have to remain or make daily trips to the hospital in big cities for the long course of radiotherapy. It is also cheaper than conventional radiotherapy,” Vaidya, an alumni of Goa Medical College, told TOI. “This was a randomised clinical trial. I am very happy that the outcomes have been good. It has taken the efforts of hundreds of dedicated individuals around the world and all the patients. We are planning to publish a more nuanced paper and another one explaining how many patients have been treated around the world,” he added. TARGIT-IORT is delivered immediately after lumpectomy (tumour removal). It is delivered via a small ball-shaped intrabeam device placed inside the breast, directly where the cancer had been. It is less expensive than usual radiotherapy machines which deliver conventional external beam radiotherapy from outside the body to the whole breast. The method is being used in 38 countries (about 260 breast centres at least) where over 45,000 women have had the treatment, Vaidya adds. He himself was involved in two cases in Hyderabad back in 2009 and believes 52 cases have been treated in Raheja Hospital, Mumbai. Vaidya has a long, familial association with cancer care. His parents, Dr Sharad Vaidya and Dr Nirmala Vaidya practiced in Vaidya Hospital and established the Goa Cancer Society. “My father was responsible for bringing full-fledged cancer treatment to Goa and built the Gosalia Memorial Hospital in Dona Paula where patients were treated for free - with surgery, radiotherapy (the only place radiotherapy was available for many years), and chemotherapy. He was instrumental in establishing NOTE (National Organisation for Tobacco Eradication) as well as the anti-tobacco law in Goa - the first state to do so back in 1999,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goan-origin-doctor-lead-author-in-pioneering-breast-cancer-therapy/articleshow/77772464.cms||Lisa Monteiro
August 27, 2020||Allahabad||Anti-CAA protests: Bail plea of accused rejected||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has rejected the bail application of one Osama, allegedly involved in anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in Azamgarh on February 5, 2020. Rejecting the bail application of Osama, a resident of Azamgarh, Justice JJ Munir observed, “Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, the gravity of the offence, the nature of the allegations, the severity of punishment, and, in particular, the fact that it is a case where inflammatory speeches were made by the congregation, of which the applicant was a member, seditious statements made, besides statements directed to promote enmity between different religions followed by assault on police personnel and damage to public property, including police vehicles, this court is most respectfully not inclined to accept the plea of parity put forward by the applicant on the basis of various bail orders relating to the other co-accused, passed by a coordinate bench of this court; but, without expressing any opinion on merits of the case that is to be judged at the trial, this court does not find it to be a fit case for bail at this stage.” However, while rejecting the bail application of Osama, the court directed the trial court to complete the trial within six months. The petitioner counsel’s submission was that allegations in the FIR were general in nature and the injury report of policemen showed that all injuries were simple in nature. It was also argued that all witnesses were police personnel who had given self-serving statements. On the other hand, the state government counsel opposed the bail plea and submitted that the case was regarding promotion of enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, etc. He also submitted that the applicant along with the other co-accused made seditious speeches to excite disaffection towards the government. In the FIR, it was alleged that all the nominated accused congregated in numbers running into thousands including men, women and children brandishing sticks, rod, brickbats besides other dangerous weapons. They indulged in inflammatory speeches against the government and the country, saying that they would snatch freedom at all cost. To recall, on February 5, 2020, an FIR was registered against 135 people protesting against the Citizenship Amendment Act for sedition at Bilariyaganj police station of Azamgarh. This order was passed on August 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/anti-caa-protests-bail-plea-of-accused-rejected/articleshow/77769803.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
August 27, 2020||Goa||Goa mining front petitions PM, guv||Panaji: Projecting a revenue loss of Rs 3,500 crore if the state’s iron ore mining sector remained shut for the third consecutive year, Goa Mining People’s Front (GMPF) has appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to intervene and help restore the livelihood of those who depend on the industry. “Resumption is of utmost importance as the unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic has deepened the wounds of Goans depending on the tourism industry ever since travel came to a halt across the world,” GMPF president Puti Gaonkar, said. If no steps are taken to restart mining, the coming season will mark the third year that mines remain silent since the Supreme Court cancelled 88 leases and brought mining to a halt on March 15, 2018. Gaonkar reminded Modi that during the last election campaign, he had acknowledged the severe impacts due to stoppage of mining and had assured that the required steps for its immediate resumption would be taken. “If the highest judiciary does not take an urgent decision on the resumption of mining in the upcoming hearing on August 26, another year will go to waste. We are highly troubled by the continuous deferment of allotted hearing dates by the apex court without any conclusive decisions being reached,” Gaonkar said. GMPF has requested the Centre to consider the appeals made by former governor Satya Pal Malik and CM Pramod Sawant to resume mining.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-mining-front-petitions-pm-guv/articleshow/77772486.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Goa||Goans can answer NATA exam in state: Kamat||Panaji: The president of the Council of Architecture Habeeb Khan has assured students that those who were allotted examination centres outside Goa for the National Aptitude Test in Architecture (NATA), which is scheduled on Saturday, will be accommodated in centres within Goa, said opposition leader Digambar Kamat. Kamat urged chief minister Pramod Sawant to ensure that necessary assistance is given to the Council of Architecture (COA) so that students can answers the NATA exams in Goa. “I am thankful to the president of COA and urge the chief minister to ensure that necessary assistance is given to the COA in the interest of the students of Goa, said Kamat. The NATA exams were postponed due to the outbreak of Covid, and the COA finally decided to hold online exams this Saturday. Students were asked to opt for the centres of their choice, and almost all the students opted for Goa (Panaji) as their first choice, said Kamat. “I was contacted by various students and parents who informed me that out of 500 students who are likely to appear for the NATA exam, almost 100 to 150 students were allotted the centres outside Goa like Bengaluru, Belagavi, Kolhapur, Hubbali, Pune and Mumbai. The students found out on Tuesday when they received the hall tickets,” said Kamat. With just about two days left for the exams, students and parents began to panic since they would have to undergo Covid test and other formalities, which would add to their mental strain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goans-can-answer-nata-exam-in-state-kamat/articleshow/77772520.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka’s Covid positivity rate improves to 12%||BENGALURU: One consequence, albeit a happy one, of the government ramping up testing for Covid-19 in the state, is that the test positivity rate (TPR) in Karnataka, which had fallen to 15% on August 15, has now dropped further to 12%. Positivity rate is defined as the number of people found infected per 100 tests and is a vital parameter in assessing the spread of an outbreak. While cases have gone up in Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural over the past 15 days, TPR has fallen in the two districts too. The positivity rate in Bengaluru Rural and Urban districts had peaked at 23% and 24% respectively in the first week of August – far above the state average of 16 – but now it has dropped to 15% (Urban) and 17 (Rural). Officials say the trend suggests the outbreak has reached its peak in the state and the curve will now begin to flatten over the coming weeks. “It is natural that after achieving a high percentage of positivity the curve goes down, indicating the pandemic is coming under control,” said Shalini Rajneesh, state nodal officer for Covid-19 testing and additional chief secretary. “Most cities like Mumbai, Chennai and Delhi have also seen a huge spike in number of positive cases due to massive increase in testing. This helps in quickly finding infected people, before they spread the infection to others.” However, officials say there is still a long way to go considering that the World Health Organisation (WHO) recommends reducing the positivity rate to 5% or less for at least two weeks to effectively bring the pandemic under control. Experts attribute the rise in positivity rate to widespread testing. “With the introduction of large-scale antigen testing in the state and expansion of testing labs over the last week of July, the daily average for the number of Covid-19 tests conducted in the state has risen to nearly 50,000 per day which in turn has helped bring the state’s positivity rate down since August second week,” said health department officials. As of August 26, the state has conducted a total of 7 lakh antigen tests, taking the overall total to 26 lakhs. However, some districts continue to record high positivity rate. While Mysuru (23%), Ballari, Shivamogga and Belagavi (22%), Hassan, Haveri, Gadag and Dharwad (18%) recorded high TPR, Chikkaballapura (7%), Kodagu and Mandya (9%) recorded lowest. Dr Giridhara R Babu, member of the state’s Covid-19 technical advisory committee, said a decreasing TPR indicates that the overall prevalence is on a downward trajectory. “It also means the state’s testing is in pace with the spread. However, the state can only heave a sigh of relief only when the overall TPR drops below 5%,” Babu said. Authorities are, however, cautiously analysing the data to ensure the sustained dip is not due to false negatives from the rapid antigen tests (RAT) which are less accurate than RT-PCR tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/in-encouraging-sign-karnatakas-positivity-rate-improves-to-12/articleshow/77776570.cms||Manu Aiyappa
August 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka’s Covid positivity rate improves to 12%||BENGALURU: One consequence, albeit a happy one, of the government ramping up testing for Covid-19 in the state, is that the test positivity rate (TPR) in Karnataka, which had fallen to 15% on August 15, has now dropped further to 12%. Positivity rate is defined as the number of people found infected per 100 tests and is a vital parameter in assessing the spread of an outbreak. While cases have gone up in Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural over the past 15 days, TPR has fallen in the two districts too. The positivity rate in Bengaluru Rural and Urban districts had peaked at 23% and 24% respectively in the first week of August – far above the state average of 16 – but now it has dropped to 15% (Urban) and 17 (Rural). Officials say the trend suggests the outbreak has reached its peak in the state and the curve will now begin to flatten over the coming weeks. “It is natural that after achieving a high percentage of positivity the curve goes down, indicating the pandemic is coming under control,” said Shalini Rajneesh, state nodal officer for Covid-19 testing and additional chief secretary. “Most cities like Mumbai, Chennai and Delhi have also seen a huge spike in number of positive cases due to massive increase in testing. This helps in quickly finding infected people, before they spread the infection to others.” However, officials say there is still a long way to go considering that the World Health Organisation (WHO) recommends reducing the positivity rate to 5% or less for at least two weeks to effectively bring the pandemic under control. Experts attribute the rise in positivity rate to widespread testing. “With the introduction of large-scale antigen testing in the state and expansion of testing labs over the last week of July, the daily average for the number of Covid-19 tests conducted in the state has risen to nearly 50,000 per day which in turn has helped bring the state’s positivity rate down since August second week,” said health department officials. As of August 26, the state has conducted a total of 7 lakh antigen tests, taking the overall total to 26 lakhs. However, some districts continue to record high positivity rate. While Mysuru (23%), Ballari, Shivamogga and Belagavi (22%), Hassan, Haveri, Gadag and Dharwad (18%) recorded high TPR, Chikkaballapura (7%), Kodagu and Mandya (9%) recorded lowest. Dr Giridhara R Babu, member of the state’s Covid-19 technical advisory committee, said a decreasing TPR indicates that the overall prevalence is on a downward trajectory. “It also means the state’s testing is in pace with the spread. However, the state can only heave a sigh of relief only when the overall TPR drops below 5%,” Babu said. Authorities are, however, cautiously analysing the data to ensure the sustained dip is not due to false negatives from the rapid antigen tests (RAT) which are less accurate than RT-PCR tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/in-encouraging-sign-karnatakas-positivity-rate-improves-to-12/articleshow/77770730.cms||Manu Aiyappa
August 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka’s Covid positivity rate improves to 12%||BENGALURU: One consequence, albeit a happy one, of the government ramping up testing for Covid-19 in the state, is that the test positivity rate (TPR) in Karnataka, which had fallen to 15% on August 15, has now dropped further to 12%. Positivity rate is defined as the number of people found infected per 100 tests and is a vital parameter in assessing the spread of an outbreak. While cases have gone up in Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural over the past 15 days, TPR has fallen in the two districts too. The positivity rate in Bengaluru Rural and Urban districts had peaked at 23% and 24% respectively in the first week of August – far above the state average of 16 – but now it has dropped to 15% (Urban) and 17 (Rural). Officials say the trend suggests the outbreak has reached its peak in the state and the curve will now begin to flatten over the coming weeks. “It is natural that after achieving a high percentage of positivity the curve goes down, indicating the pandemic is coming under control,” said Shalini Rajneesh, state nodal officer for Covid-19 testing and additional chief secretary. “Most cities like Mumbai, Chennai and Delhi have also seen a huge spike in number of positive cases due to massive increase in testing. This helps in quickly finding infected people, before they spread the infection to others.” However, officials say there is still a long way to go considering that the World Health Organisation (WHO) recommends reducing the positivity rate to 5% or less for at least two weeks to effectively bring the pandemic under control. Experts attribute the rise in positivity rate to widespread testing. “With the introduction of large-scale antigen testing in the state and expansion of testing labs over the last week of July, the daily average for the number of Covid-19 tests conducted in the state has risen to nearly 50,000 per day which in turn has helped bring the state’s positivity rate down since August second week,” said health department officials. As of August 26, the state has conducted a total of 7 lakh antigen tests, taking the overall total to 26 lakhs. However, some districts continue to record high positivity rate. While Mysuru (23%), Ballari, Shivamogga and Belagavi (22%), Hassan, Haveri, Gadag and Dharwad (18%) recorded high TPR, Chikkaballapura (7%), Kodagu and Mandya (9%) recorded lowest. Dr Giridhara R Babu, member of the state’s Covid-19 technical advisory committee, said a decreasing TPR indicates that the overall prevalence is on a downward trajectory. “It also means the state’s testing is in pace with the spread. However, the state can only heave a sigh of relief only when the overall TPR drops below 5%,” Babu said. Authorities are, however, cautiously analysing the data to ensure the sustained dip is not due to false negatives from the rapid antigen tests (RAT) which are less accurate than RT-PCR tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/in-encouraging-sign-karnatakas-positivity-rate-improves-to-12/articleshow/77776575.cms||Manu Aiyappa
August 27, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka’s Covid positivity rate improves to 12%||BENGALURU: One consequence, albeit a happy one, of the government ramping up testing for Covid-19 in the state, is that the test positivity rate (TPR) in Karnataka, which had fallen to 15% on August 15, has now dropped further to 12%. Positivity rate is defined as the number of people found infected per 100 tests and is a vital parameter in assessing the spread of an outbreak. While cases have gone up in Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural over the past 15 days, TPR has fallen in the two districts too. The positivity rate in Bengaluru Rural and Urban districts had peaked at 23% and 24% respectively in the first week of August – far above the state average of 16 – but now it has dropped to 15% (Urban) and 17 (Rural). Officials say the trend suggests the outbreak has reached its peak in the state and the curve will now begin to flatten over the coming weeks. “It is natural that after achieving a high percentage of positivity the curve goes down, indicating the pandemic is coming under control,” said Shalini Rajneesh, state nodal officer for Covid-19 testing and additional chief secretary. “Most cities like Mumbai, Chennai and Delhi have also seen a huge spike in number of positive cases due to massive increase in testing. This helps in quickly finding infected people, before they spread the infection to others.” However, officials say there is still a long way to go considering that the World Health Organisation (WHO) recommends reducing the positivity rate to 5% or less for at least two weeks to effectively bring the pandemic under control. Experts attribute the rise in positivity rate to widespread testing. “With the introduction of large-scale antigen testing in the state and expansion of testing labs over the last week of July, the daily average for the number of Covid-19 tests conducted in the state has risen to nearly 50,000 per day which in turn has helped bring the state’s positivity rate down since August second week,” said health department officials. As of August 26, the state has conducted a total of 7 lakh antigen tests, taking the overall total to 26 lakhs. However, some districts continue to record high positivity rate. While Mysuru (23%), Ballari, Shivamogga and Belagavi (22%), Hassan, Haveri, Gadag and Dharwad (18%) recorded high TPR, Chikkaballapura (7%), Kodagu and Mandya (9%) recorded lowest. Dr Giridhara R Babu, member of the state’s Covid-19 technical advisory committee, said a decreasing TPR indicates that the overall prevalence is on a downward trajectory. “It also means the state’s testing is in pace with the spread. However, the state can only heave a sigh of relief only when the overall TPR drops below 5%,” Babu said. Authorities are, however, cautiously analysing the data to ensure the sustained dip is not due to false negatives from the rapid antigen tests (RAT) which are less accurate than RT-PCR tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/in-encouraging-sign-karnatakas-positivity-rate-improves-to-12/articleshow/77776574.cms||Manu Aiyappa
August 27, 2020||Allahabad||16 foreign Tablighi members get bail||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has granted bail to 16 Tablighi Jamaat members, who are foreign nationals and were allegedly hiding in Prayagraj during lockdown. Allowing the bail pleas, Justice SS Shamshery passed the order in two separate bail applications. One was filed by Muhammad Madalee, Hasan Pacho, Sitthipogn Limoolsuk, Surasak Lamoolsuk, Arsen Thomya, Abdul Basir Yeedoromae, Abdunlah Maming, Oapdun Wahab Wimutikan and Romlee Kolae of Thailand. Another bail application was filed by Idrus Umar, Ade Kustina, Samsul Hadi, Imam Safii Sarno, Satijo Joedijono Bedjo, Hendra Simbolon and Dedik Iskandar of Indonesia. It is alleged that these 16 foreign nationals had attended Tablighi Jamaat meet at Nizamuddin in New Delhi along with many Indian Jamaatis in March 2020. The plea advanced by the petitioner’s counsel was that all the Jamaatis have valid passports and were in Prayagraj when lockdown was declared. They did not violate any provision of law including the Foreigners Act. There was no fault in the visa and passports of the applicants. Further, they had been languishing in jail since April 21, 2020, petitioner’s counsel added. According to allegations made in the FIR, during Covid-19 pandemic, the applicants were hiding in a guest house at Prayagraj without any information to the administration and the pandemic protocol was not followed by them. The court while allowing the bail application of the petitioners directed them not to tamper with the prosecution witnesses and appear on the dates fixed by trial court unless personal appearance is exempted by the trial court. This order was passed by the court on August 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/16-foreign-tablighi-members-get-bail/articleshow/77769824.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
August 27, 2020||Ranchi||Headless body of woman found in Ranchi forest||Ranchi: A headless body of an unidentified woman around 25 years of age was found in Sitanala forest under Sonahatu police station area in Ranchi district, along Tamar block’s border with West Bengal, on Wednesday. Locals spotted the decapitated body, partially eaten by animals, and informed the local police and a team team led by sub-divisional police officer Bundu Ajay Kumar visited the spot to carry out preliminary investigations. Kumar said, “We found broken bangles and a necklace on the nearby road, indicating that the victim struggled to save herself. Prima facie, it appears that someone known to the woman brought her to this lonely place and attacked her.” Police said the body and the head has been sent for autopsy to ascertain of the woman was raped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/headless-body-of-woman-found-in-ranchi-forest/articleshow/77772105.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Ranchi||At meet with Sonia, Jharkhand CM seeks GST compensation for states||Ranchi: Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday said the parties that are in opposition toi the ruling BJP at the Centre looked weak and lacked a resounding voice even though the saffron outfit was undermining the federal structure of India by using central agencies against their rivals. Speaking at the CM’s summit called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Soren said the Centre is diverting the people’s attention from serious matters while the economy lies in tatters. “The country and its economy is not in good shape right now. At this time, I have a feeling that the opposition has weakened. I urge that the opposition to come together as one and raise its voice in a resounding manner,” Soren said. He hailed Sonia Gandhi for calling the meeting and stressed that more such meetings should be called to strengthen the opposition unity. Soren is heading a coalition government of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), Congress and the RJD in his home state. “The central government is trying to create differences between the opposition parties so that they remain busy fighting each other and do not point fingers on their wrongdoings,” he said, and called to “foil the conspiracy.” Soren’s observation was supported by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who said: “It is up to the opposition to decide. Darna hai, ya ladna hai?” Wednesday’s meeting, held virtually and beamed by Congress on its Twitter handle, was attended by Gandhi and the CM’s of seven states. The other attendees were Punjab CM Amarinder Singh, West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel and Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot. The meeting was called by Gandhi to discuss GST collection, the impact of lockdown on state’s economies and the JEE-NEET exams. Speaking after Banerjee, Soren raised the issue of GST and made a strong case for compensating the states to help them fight problems arising due to Covid-19 pandemic. He said: “The GST regime has weakened the economy of the states. On one hand, the Centre is not giving the states their due share and, on the other, it is trying to compensate by raising VAT and other charges on petrol and diesel, which is leading to inflation.” Soren also criticized the Centre in its handling of the return of migrants to their respective states during the lockdown. “There is a lot of anger among the youth as they lost their jobs. The Centre must give a free hand to the states to include jobs in the MGNREGS which will generate more employment,” he said. Accusing the BJP of working to give favours to their industrialist friends, Soren claimed that the Centre was looking to privatize profit-making public sector units such as Railways, GAIL, BHEL on the pretext of Atmanirbhar Bharat. Soren also said that while he is in favor of holding the JEE-NEET exams, he felt that the Centre is in a hurry and overlooking the chances of infection among the aspirants and their parents. “In my state, hundreds of children from neighbouring states come to appear for the exams. The children do not travel alone. If the exams are held, we will have to open hotels and switch on the transport mechanisms, which are so far closed. If anything happens to the children and their parents, the Centre will blame it on us and the other state governments,” Soren said at the meeting. The CM said conducting the examinations will be particularly difficult for a state like Jharkhand, which has limited resources (such as ventilators, isolation beds and other paraphernalia) in fighting the pandemic. Soren criticised the draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) legislation, which he said will have “dangerous” impact on states like Jharkhand. “The centre is keeping an eagle eye on mineral- resource rich states like Jharkhand. They are trying to sale our iron and coal mines which we managed to halt by approaching the Supreme Court,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/at-meet-with-sonia-jharkhand-cm-seeks-gst-compensation-for-states/articleshow/77771287.cms||Dhritiman Ray
August 27, 2020||Ranchi||Steel City gets its 1st state-of-art public square in Bistupur||Jamshedpur: The Bistupur Public Square, a maiden square built with state-of-the-art features aimed at providing a pulsating urban space to hangout, was inaugurated virtually on Wednesday. Conceptualised and built jointly by the Tata Steel and the Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Ltd (formerly known as Jusco), the public square has two fountains, a food hub, a children’s corner, a green buffer zone, a selfie corner and other features. “The 175-meter-long and 16-meter-wide public square, which has all the features to rejuvenate Steel City’s Bistupur market, will be a source of attraction for the citizens once the pandemic is over,” said VP (CS) Tata Steel Chankaya Choudhary. East Singhbhum DC Suraj Kumar, while inaugurating the square, said, “This public square is a gift to the citizens and they must help maintain it.” He also suggested to have a graffiti corner near Bistupur police station and the Talwar building in the near future. Though the public square was to be attended by the masses on the inaugural day, the pandemic has prevented the organisers from hosting a grand opening. However, some people had a chance to see from close quarters when the public square was being built and they said that important features like disabled-friendly space and the benches for people to relax while shopping make the public square attractive for the professionals and for people of all age groups. “The CCTV cameras, restriction of movement through bollards and on-road bold signage are important features from the safety point of view,” said 38-year-old Mohamed Imtiaz, a Bistupur-based trader who had the chance to see the construction of the public square in its initial days. The intermediate seating clusters, parking-free zone and wide pedestrian movement space makes the public square attractive for the visitors. “Bus stops at the two extreme ends of the square will facilitate the visitors,” said Vijay Kumar, a shopkeeper at Amar market, located adjacent to the square.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/steel-city-gets-its-1st-state-of-art-public-square-in-bistupur/articleshow/77771069.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Ranchi||Plans to reopen public transport for movement of students in state||Ranchi: The state government on Wednesday said it is deliberating to allow limited operations of interstate and inter-district public transport in order to facilitate the movement of students who will appear for national competitive examinations such as JEE and NEET, whose dates have been slotted in September. “Deliberations are underway to workout the modalities and feasibility of allowing limited operations in the view of examinations. However, nothing has been finalised yet,” transport secretary K Ravikumar told TOI. “In Jharkhand, hundreds of children from neighbouring states come to appear for the exams. The children do not travel alone. If the exams are held, we will have to open hotels and switch on the transport mechanisms, which are so far shut. If anything happens to the children and their parents, the Centre will blame it on us and the other state governments,” Soren said at a meeting with Sonia Gandhi and several CMs earlier in the day. At present, interstate and inter-district movement of public transports is banned in an effort to limit the transmission of Covid-19. However, public transport is allowed within municipal limits with operators having to adhere to the maximum intake capacity regulations which have been put in place. While Hemant on Wednesday flagged the probable health risks if exams are conducted as scheduled, the National Testing Agency has not hinted at rescheduling the dates. JEE (advanced) exams are slotted on September 27 while NEET is scheduled for September 13. The state bus owners’ association, which has been pressing for the resumption of bus services citing huge losses, on Wednesday also stressed that the government must contemplate on exempting pending road taxes since April as the bus owners did not have any income due to lockdown. Sources in the transport department said a proposal for road tax waiver is indeed being deliberated upon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/plans-to-reopen-public-transport-for-movement-of-students-in-state/articleshow/77772216.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Ranchi||Babadham temple to allow devotees from today, e-passes must for darshan||Dumka: The state disaster management department on Wednesday directed the Deoghar and Dumka district administrations to allow limited number of devotees inside the Baidyanath Dham and Basukinath temples. Undersigned by joint secretary Manish Tiwari, the letter has made procurement of e-passes mandatory. The move follows the order given by Supreme Court on July 31 in a special leave petition filed by Godda BJP MP Nishikant Dubey, urging the apex court to allow devotees at the famous shrines. The state government directive states that the Baidyanath temple will be opened for the devotees for four hours every day and will allow only 50 devotees per hour. All the devotees have to maintain the social distancing norms and wear masks. Regular sanitization has to be carried out by the temple management committees, the letter stated. Deoghar deputy commissioner Kamleshwar Prasad Singh said the Baidyanath Dham temple complex will open in accordance with the directives from Thursday. “The modalities for issuing e-passes is being finalised by the National Informatics Centre. Offerings by the devotees will be allowed between 6am and 10am,” he added. In Basukinath Dham temple, however, permission for only 40 devotees per hour to offer puja has been granted by the state government and that too for four hours through a separate letter to the Dumka district administration. “As such, only 160 devotees will be able to visit the Basukinath temple per day” Maheshwar Mahto, SDO (civil) and ex-officio secretary of the Basukinath temple management committee, said. Mahto, however, said that offerings at Basukinath Dham temple by the devotees would start in the next couple of days when the modalities for the issuance of e-passes are sorted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/babadham-temple-to-allow-devotees-from-today-e-passes-must-for-darshan/articleshow/77771137.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Ranchi||Covid Cure Cost Cap At Pvt Hosps in Jharkhand||Ranchi: In an effort to stop overcharging in the treatment of Covid-19 patients in private hospitals, the state health department on Wednesday issued an order which put a cap on the cost of treatment and it will now range from Rs 4,000 to Rs 18,000 per day depending on the severity and symptoms developed by the patient and the category of the hospital. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “In order to ensure that the Covid-19 patients get proper care at reasonable rates, the government has fixed charges in all the private hospitals. All healthcare providers have been directed to comply with the order with immediate effect.” Kulkarni added that they had received several complaints in the recent past that the private hospitals are charging the Covid-19 patients exorbitant fees, prompting them to cap the treatment charges at all the private healthcare facilities. The charges were fixed after dividing all the 24 districts in three categories, namely A, B and C and each category has a fixed price slab. All the private hospitals situated in these districts have been divided into two categories based on their certification of National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers [NABH] and a price slab has been fixed accordingly. As per the order, East Singhbum, Dhanbad and Bokaro have been placed in category A while Hazaribag, Palamu, Deoghar, Seraikela, Ramgarh and Giridih have been placed in category B. The rest of the districts, such as Chatra, Dumka, Garhwa, Godda, Gumla, Jamtara, Khunti, Koderma, Latehar, Lohardaga, Pakur, Sahebganj, Simdega and West Singhbhum, are all placed in category C. The order specifies that an asymptomatic patient in a category A district will have to shell out Rs 5,500 (if admitted to a non-NABH hospital) or Rs 6,000 (if admitted to a NABH hospital). For patients with mild symptoms in category A districts, the bed charges will be Rs 8,000 or Rs 12,000 depending upon the hospital’s certification. Patients with severe illness without ventilator support will have to pay Rs 13,000 and Rs15,000 while the critical patients requiring ventilators will have to pay Rs 15,000 or Rs 18,000 depending on the hospital’s certification. In hospitals in the category B districts, charges at the non-NABH facilities will be Rs 5,000 and Rs 5,500 at the NABH facilities for the asymptomatic patients. Patients with mild symptoms will have to pay Rs 6,400 (non-NABH) and Rs 8,000 (NABH), Rs 10, 400 (non-NABH) and Rs 12,000 (NABH) for patients with severe illness without ventilator support and Rs 12, 000 (non-NABH) and Rs14,400 (NABH) for the critical patients who require ventilator support. Under category C, the same set of patients will have to pay between Rs 4,000 to Rs 10,800 and the charges include the cost of protective equipment requirement for Covid-19 management per patient. Dr Sayeed Ahmed Ansari, who is the senior vice president of Association of Healthcare Providers of India and the senior adviser at Medanta Hospital, the only NABH-accredited facility in Ranchi that treats Covid-19 patients, said, “We haven’t increased our ICU charge after the Covid-19 outbreak and it remains the same at Rs 5,500. But owing to the high price of protective equipment, which include the PPEs, and the cost of sanitising and deploying manpower at the isolation wards, the treatment fees had to be increased.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/covid-cure-cost-cap-at-pvt-hosps-in-jharkhand/articleshow/77771190.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 27, 2020||Goa||Stranded Indians return, Russians fly to Moscow||Panaji: Stranded Indians continued to return home with the eleventh Vande Bharat Mission flight landing at Goa International Airport on Wednesday morning, this time from Kuwait. The flight, operated by Air India, brought back 153 stranded Indians, including two children. Later, a Rossiya Airlines flight departed for Moscow with 247 passengers and four children. “There was a relief flight to Russia this morning and a total of 47 flights have gone from here till date. This flight departed for Russia with 247 adults and four infants with touchless and social distance process ensured throughout with all health protocols in place,” said Goa airport director Gagan Malik. Malik said the decision to start scheduled international flights was a call that the Centre would have to take and that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) was not the decision making authority. “For commercial flights between nation to nation, the decision has to be taken by the government. It depends on the understanding with other nations. International services will start only when the government of India permits,” said Malik. He said that Qatar had taken slots for operations to Goa as part of the air bubble proposal, but the flights did not pan out most likely because of the poor passenger load factor. “It all depends on the economics. Five slots for Goa London Goa have been given for next month under the Vande Bharat Mission. Whatever operations are going on are under Vande Bharat because the Union ministry is clearing the flights,” said Malik. He was speaking after throwing open a hand-carved cannon made of wood. The cannon symbolises Goa’s role in coastal wars. AAI has improves the aesthetics of the airport and has installed several static cultural displays at the terminal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stranded-indians-return-russians-fly-to-moscow/articleshow/77772314.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Ranchi||Quiet celebrations to mark this year’s Karma festival||Ranchi: This year, the tribal festival of Karma may not witness the usual beats of mandar and synchronized foot tapping dance in an akhra in the wake of restrictions on social gathering owing to the pandemic, but the festival is likely to save marital negotiations that have otherwise been hampered during the pandemic. “During Karma, it is mandatory for the bridegroom’s family to gift clothes and dress material to the bride-to-be and in case they fail to do so, marital negotiations are considered to have been called off,” said Soma Munda, a scholar of tribal customs and former director of Jharkhand Tribal Welfare Research Institute (JTWRI). “Karma is the occasion to renew such ties and if the bride’s family accepts the gifts, then it is an indication that both the families are interested in forging a relationship,” he added. Karma is also considered a festival to pay tribute to nature, and a branch of Karma tree is placed either in the courtyard or in an akhra. “In the Santhal Pargana, Karam branch is erected in the courtyard and the event is mainly a family affair but in the ‘Chotanagpur’ region, the branch is placed in an akhra jointly by many people,” Munda said. President of Kendriya Sarna Samity Foolchand Tirkey said that they are going to carry out the rituals by following proper safety measures. “Unmarried young girls sow seeds on a pot of sand and the tender plants called java are worshipped on Karam Ekadashi. They have already raised the sprouts and five people would go to the nearby forest to cut and bring a branch of Karam tree on Saturday,” he said. The tribal leaders, however, agreed that this year there would be no dance and drum beats near the akhras, which is otherwise an essential feature of Karma. Amit Besra, a student of Ranchi College, said that every year they participated in Karma festivities organized by the Adivasi boys hostel and this year also they had elaborate plans. “Everything has become uncertain and festivals are being organized just for the sake of custom. We have to abide by the rules because Covid cases are on the rise,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/quiet-celebrations-to-mark-this-years-karma-festival/articleshow/77770844.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
August 27, 2020||Ranchi||15 deaths take Covid toll to 362 in J’khand||Ranchi: The state’s Covid toll crossed the 350-mark with 15 casualties in 24 hours taking the body count to 362. Jharkhand also reported 1,137 fresh infections and 736 recoveries on Wednesday, taking the cumulative case load to 33,311; of which 10,463 are active and 22,486 have recovered including 736 on Wednesday. Among the 15 casualties, five – four in Ranchi and one in Ramgarh – were recorded on Tuesday nighty. On Wednesday, East Singhbum recorded six deaths, followed by Bokaro with two and Deoghar and Ranchi one each. The state’s urban centres continued to report new cases in three digits with East Singhbhum getting 132 new cases, Ranchi reporting 173, Hazaribag 167 and Dhanbad 133. Giridih and Garhwa reported 81 and 72 fresh cases respectively. The state positivity ratio on Wednesday fell to 2.78% with reports of 1,137 of the 40,786 samples tested returning. The spike in number of tests is a result of the statewide testing drive conducted in districts where testing rates have been lower than expectation. “The rise in the number of cases in Hazaribag, Dhanbad, Garhwa and Giridih is a result of this,” said a health department official. Meanwhile, state state parliamentary affairs minister and Congress’s Pakur MLA Alamgir Alam tested negative for Covid-19 late on Tuesday night. He got tested as a precautionary measure as his cabinet colleagues from Congress party Banna Gupta and Badal Patralekh had tested positive in last 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/15-deaths-take-covid-toll-to-362-in-jkhand/articleshow/77772164.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 27, 2020||Business||Gujarat tops NITI Aayog’s export preparedness index||NEW DELHI: Gujarat has emerged on top of the index of export preparedness, followed by Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, while the newly created union territory Jammu and Kashmir is at the bottom of the list. Among the landlocked states, Rajasthan has emerged as a top performer. Except for export growth and orientation, the state has performed tremendously well across all pillars and sub-pillars of the index, the report showed. Bihar and Jammu and Kashmir are some of the weaker states in this category. Uttarakhand and Delhi are the top-performing states within the category of Himalayan states and city states. Government think-tank NITI Aayog, in collaboration with the IFC’s Institute of Competitiveness, released the Export Preparedness Index (EPI) 2020. The first report to examine export preparedness and performance of Indian states, EPI intends to identify challenges and opportunities; enhance the effectiveness of government policies; and encourage a supportive regulatory framework. The structure of the EPI includes four pillars – policy, business ecosystem, export ecosystem and export performance – and 11 sub-pillars – export promotion policy, institutional framework, business environment, infrastructure, transport connectivity, access to finance, export infrastructure, trade support, R&D infrastructure, export diversification, and growth orientation. NITI Aayog has been spearheading a number of indices in several sectors to rank states, districts to enhance effectiveness of policies and data-driven intervention. The latest index comes at a time when the country’s exports have been sharply hit by the coronavirus pandemic and the national lockdown aimed at warding off the spread of the infection. “The Indian economy holds immense potential to become a strong exporter on the world stage. To realise this potential, it is crucial that India turns to its states and union territories and makes them active participants in the country’s export efforts,” said NITI Aayog vice chairman Rajiv Kumar. “In an attempt to realise this vision, the Export Preparedness Index 2020 evaluates states’ potentials and capacities. It is hoped that the detailed insights from this Index will guide all stakeholders towards strengthening the export ecosystem at both the national and sub-national levels,” said Kumar. The report said Maharashtra’s success can be used as a best practice measure for other states. It has 18 sectoral export promotion councils that focus on key exporting industries such as pharmaceuticals, gems and jewellery and processed food products. The state government also has a grievance redressal office for any information or resolution of problems. Maharashtra is one of the few states to have an export newsletter which updates exporters about the latest policy changes within the state and the current export scenario, the report said. Watch Gujarat tops NITI Aayog’s export preparedness index||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gujarat-tops-niti-aayogs-export-preparedness-index/articleshow/77774366.cms||Surojit Gupta
August 27, 2020||Goa||Shipping steady despite trade disruption: Study||Panaji: Movement of container vessels and oil tankers in the Indian Ocean continued as usual during pandemic even though trade between nations was disrupted, finds a study by the Indian Navy’s Information Fusion Centre Indian Ocean Region (IFC-IOR). The centre has undertaken an independent analysis of shipping traffic in the Indian Ocean Region and has observed that the impact of the pandemic was seen on shore as cargo piled up in ports and turnaround times were affected. The report on the ‘Effect of Covid on shipping in IOR’ has been hosted on the IFC-IOR website and is written by Commander Vrat Baghel, who is serving as the analysis officer at the IFC-IOR. The report observes that the shipping activity in the Indian Ocean remained comparable with levels seen in previous months. The report analysed the vessel movement in the Indian Ocean region between January and May to identify the effect of the global lockdown on trade activity. The report also observes that fishing at sea has continued unabated and with this illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing may have also continued. While all indicators point to a global industrial slowdown with overseas trade severely hit, the study of maritime traffic in the IOR indicated minimal change. For the study, the sea route below Sri Lanka has been taken as a sample area and no discernible change has been found in traffic density. A study of fortnight-wise traffic through Malacca from January to May also revealed no large variation. The pandemic effect on traffic does suggest that several vessels may have undertaken blank sailings, wherein container vessels may have sailed without any cargo being loaded at some ports. “We have seen that the flow of oil has been uninterrupted, with only minor variations” states the report. Another interesting observation found that during the lockdown period vessels would be “hanging around” at sea before entering a port. The move could have been a strategy to spend 14 days at sea before entering a port in order to avoid quarantine. The report does point out that all major ports in the country reported congestion, piling up containers and longer turnaround times. However, a proper assessment of the Covid-19 impact could be ascertained only once the quarterly financial reports are released.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shipping-steady-despite-trade-disruption-study/articleshow/77772316.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Ghaziabad||UP scraps passes for Delhi-NCR rides, but cops to check Setu app||NOIDA: Commuters between Delhi and Noida-Ghaziabad no longer need to show passes to cross the border, a rule that had been in place for the past three months and led to severe inconvenience among those who needed to travel between the cities regularly. A green status on the Aarogya Setu will be enough to allow entry into the UP cities from Delhi. The move follows a UP government directive doing away with every restriction on movement of people and goods across state borders. The state order is in line with a central government directive a few days earlier. Officials, however, clarified that the restrictions on movement would resume on the two days of weekend lockdown in UP. Noida district magistrate Suhas LY confirmed that anybody wanting to enter the UP city must have a green status on the Setu app. “The state government had issued a notification after the central government’s directive. We are following just that. Movement (along the border) will be restricted during the weekend. On weekdays, normal checks on social distancing norms, Aarogya Setu app, etc. will be carried out,” the DM said. The DM said the requirement of a travel permit or a pass to enter Noida had been done away with a few days ago. “The administration has not been issuing permits for quite some time,” he added. The easing of restrictions was visible on the ground. The number of cops at the border checkposts has dropped to just two-four from as many as 10-12 even a few weeks ago. Barricades are there, but no one is being asked for passes. Commuters agreed they are hardly being subjected to any stringent checks at the border now. Brajesh Sharma, a senior executive working with a public enterprise, said, “There is little checking happening now while entering Noida from Delhi. However, the police have opened just three lanes. It would have been better had they opened more lanes.” Restrictions on movement across the borders with Delhi were a contentious issue and had even knocked the Supreme Court’s doors. The apex court had on June 4 directed officials in Delhi, Haryana and UP to convene a meeting and try to come up with “one policy, one path and one portal” for smoother movement of people and goods. Noida and Ghaziabad had cited rising cases in Delhi for imposing the restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/up-scraps-passes-for-delhi-ncr-rides-but-cops-to-check-setu-app/articleshow/77774455.cms||Shikha Salaria
August 27, 2020||Noida||UP scraps passes for Delhi-NCR rides, but cops to check Setu app||NOIDA: Commuters between Delhi and Noida-Ghaziabad no longer need to show passes to cross the border, a rule that had been in place for the past three months and led to severe inconvenience among those who needed to travel between the cities regularly. A green status on the Aarogya Setu will be enough to allow entry into the UP cities from Delhi. The move follows a UP government directive doing away with every restriction on movement of people and goods across state borders. The state order is in line with a central government directive a few days earlier. Officials, however, clarified that the restrictions on movement would resume on the two days of weekend lockdown in UP. Noida district magistrate Suhas LY confirmed that anybody wanting to enter the UP city must have a green status on the Setu app. “The state government had issued a notification after the central government’s directive. We are following just that. Movement (along the border) will be restricted during the weekend. On weekdays, normal checks on social distancing norms, Aarogya Setu app, etc. will be carried out,” the DM said. The DM said the requirement of a travel permit or a pass to enter Noida had been done away with a few days ago. “The administration has not been issuing permits for quite some time,” he added. The easing of restrictions was visible on the ground. The number of cops at the border checkposts has dropped to just two-four from as many as 10-12 even a few weeks ago. Barricades are there, but no one is being asked for passes. Commuters agreed they are hardly being subjected to any stringent checks at the border now. Brajesh Sharma, a senior executive working with a public enterprise, said, “There is little checking happening now while entering Noida from Delhi. However, the police have opened just three lanes. It would have been better had they opened more lanes.” Restrictions on movement across the borders with Delhi were a contentious issue and had even knocked the Supreme Court’s doors. The apex court had on June 4 directed officials in Delhi, Haryana and UP to convene a meeting and try to come up with “one policy, one path and one portal” for smoother movement of people and goods. Noida and Ghaziabad had cited rising cases in Delhi for imposing the restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/up-scraps-passes-for-delhi-ncr-rides-but-cops-to-check-setu-app/articleshow/77772760.cms||Shikha Salaria
August 27, 2020||Goa||Scheme in offing to enable KTC to hire private buses||Panaji: With most of them out of operation since the start of the lockdown, private bus operators may soon get some respite as their buses are to be taken over by the Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd (KTC). A scheme titled ‘hiring of buses run by private operators by the KTC’ is in the pipeline and the proposal is expected to be sent to the state government soon. The transport department is working out the features of the scheme. Private bus operators have been hard hit by the lockdown and the pandemic-related restrictions. “Many private bus operators are not able to successfully run their buses due to the pandemic. The request to take over the buses has come from their side,” a transport official said. TOI had earlier reported that transport minister Mauvin Godinho had planned to take private buses on hire to be operated under KTC. “We don’t know how long the Covid-19 situation will last. Initially we will hire out these buses for five years,” he had said. While they have now been allowed to operate, lack of passengers due to many preferring to use their personal vehicles has put a massive dent in their prospects of making even little smoney. Further, most professionals at private companies are working from home and school students studying from home. A sizeable number of migrant workers have left the state and government employees tend to avail of KTC transport over private buses. Increasing fuel rates have made matters worse for them, forcing some to surrender their vehicles. According to the scheme, the bus driver will be arranged by the private operator while the conductor will be from KTC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/scheme-in-offing-to-enable-ktc-to-hire-private-buses/articleshow/77772328.cms||Nida Sayed
August 27, 2020||Goa||Covid +ve MLAs examined by AIIMS docs, stable: Sawant||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Wednesday that former deputy CM Ramkrishna Dhavalikar and former CM Churchill Alemao, both of whom have tested positive for Covid-19, are stable. “A team of doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has examined both,” he said. Alemao and Dhavalikar were hospitalised after contracting the virus last week, but discharged within two days. While Dhavalikar got readmitted on Monday after a low-grade fever, Churchill was readmitted on Tuesday after complaints of breathlessness and fever. His wife Fatima is also readmitted to the same hospital. Sawant said that former CM Ravi Naik and Tivim MLA Nilkant Halarnkar, who also tested positive last week, are in home isolation and are doing fine. “I have spoken to Naik, and he is good,” Sawant said. The CM also said that the AIIMS team has discussed complicated Covid-19 cases, and given inputs. Besides, it has given suggestions and inputs which are “very useful for the management of Covid patients”. The team arrived in Goa on Tuesday to examine Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik who tested positive for Covid-19 and comprised professor and head, critical care medicine, Dr Rajeshwari, professor and head of pulmonary medicine, Dr Anant Mohan, transplant anaesthesiologist, Lt Col Munish Kumar, and critical care specialist, Army hospital (R&R), New Delhi, Lt Col M Shyam||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-ve-mlas-examined-by-aiims-docs-stable-sawant/articleshow/77772331.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Goa||Get district hosp morgue ready in 24hrs: Sardesai||Panaji: The family of a Fatorda resident was asked to take the body of their relative, who had died of Covid-19, and bury it on their own, claimed GFP president Vijai Sardesai on Wednesday. Sardesai slammed the government for the insensitive act and demanded that action against those involved. “According to the government’s own SOP and guidelines, the body must be handled by a trained health professional wearing full personal protective equipment (PPE). How then does Hospicio ask the relative to take the body of the Covid-19 patient home, that too at 3.30am in their own hearse van,” Sardesai said. Sardesai also demanded that the morgue at the new district hospital be made operational within 24 hours so that a similar situation did not occur again. The former deputy chief minister said that the newly inaugurated district hospital has a morgue with a capacity for 72 bodies, which was handed over to the directorate of health services two months earlier. “Operationalise the 72 slot morgue and keep one third of the facility for Covid-19 cases. In these days most of the deaths will be for Covid cases. Second, the insensitive staff, those who said all these things, action should be taken against them,” said Sardesai. Sardesai said that Salcete has repeatedly suffered due to the lack of a functioning morgue which has prompted many MLAs to purchase portable morgues or refrigerated caskets for bodies. “This is the failure of the state government. In this case both the chief minister and the health minister are aware of this and steps should be taken to ramp up infrastructure immediately,” he said. Sardesai took to social media to slam the government and also asked if the state government had other plans for the South Goa district hospital morgue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/get-district-hosp-morgue-ready-in-24hrs-sardesai/articleshow/77772335.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Goa||Another first as Konkani poetry fest takes virtual route||Panaji: Not just academics but live events have also started to take the online route in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. Kala Niketan’s online Konkani poetry festival in collaboration with the Dalgado Konknni Akademi is one such event that will debut online. Scheduled to be held next month, the festival has invited video applications of Konkani poems from all over the world to be streamed online in what is being touted as the first online Konkani poetry festival. The festival will comprise Konkani poetry recitation and Konkani poetry competition. Participants can present their own poems or one written by any other poet. The organisers said that permission of the original poet will also have to be submitted for poems that are not self-composed. Each participant can send only one poem, a video of recited poetry has to be emailed to kalaniketangoa@gmail.com or submitted via WhatsApp on 9850466037 or 9545055746 by September 5. The recorded video will be uploaded on YouTube on September 9 and views will be counted till midnight on September 29. The content will be judged and given 15 marks each for poetry, originality and innovation, visual presentation, voice modulation and expression. A further 25 points will be given for the highest number of online views. Results will be announced on October 1 to celebrate national poetry day. Rs5,000 will be awarded for the first place, Rs3,000 for the second and Rs2,000 for the third place winner. Winners will also receive a memento, and a certificate of participation along with all participants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/another-first-as-konkani-poetry-fest-takes-virtual-route/articleshow/77772338.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Goa||NH works to be completed by 2021||Panaji: PWD minister Deepak Pauskar said on Wednesday that all work of expansion of national highways in Goa will be completed by May 2021. Massive highway expansion work, covering 135km in Goa is presently on. “By May 2021, we will complete all national highway works from Patradevi to Polem. That is our target,” said Pauskar. Under the multi-crore highway expansion project, the national highway is slated to be widened from its current two lanes to four lanes. This will allow vehicles to cruise at a speed of 80kmph to 100kmph. The work also includes vehicular underpasses all along the highway meant to improve accident prone junctions. China-based company, Quingdao, along with a Hyderabad firm are the contractors for a 17.4km stretch, while another company, also based in Hyderabad, Navyuga constructions, has bagged the expansion work for a 25km stretch. While the Karaswada to Bambolim highway expansion contract is worth Rs 850 crore, the Patradevi to Karaswada project has been awarded for Rs 630 crore. The project highway will link the states of Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka starting at Patradevi on the Maharashtra-Goa border to Polem on the Goa-Karnataka border, which will be of a total length of 135.9km.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nh-works-to-be-completed-by-2021/articleshow/77772339.cms||---
August 27, 2020||World||Thai leader says tensions over protests endanger nation||BANGKOK: Thailand's Prime Minister on Wednesday described the country's future as dire if escalating political tensions over demands by pro-democracy demonstrators for his government to resign aren't resolved. Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha said political polarisation due to the growing protests could destroy the nation. "If each side insists on defeating the other politically, our country will collapse," he told reporters. "If that happens, just wait and see, everyone will live on a fiery land, consumed by flames. If that happens I am at a loss for what to do." The student-led protests in many schools across Thailand have been non-violent. Leading activists have been arrested on the serious charge of sedition, but courts so far have allowed their release on bail and authorities have made little serious effort to ban demonstrations. Prayuth faces threats by the demonstrators to escalate their campaign, as well as pressure from conservative groups that oppose the protesters, especially when some extend their criticism to the monarchy, a sacrosanct institution protected by law. He also is under pressure in Parliament, where a major coalition partner opposes military plans to include funding for two submarines in the new national budget. Prayuth has framed the problem as one of contending political viewpoints rather than singling out the student protesters for blame. However, he professed a similar position as army commander in 2014 of seeking to restore calm during more serious political confrontations, but then led a coup that favored the interests of royalist conservatives over pro-democracy forces. Prayuth served as Prime Minister in the post-coup military regime and returned as Prime Minister after a general election last year. Laws guiding the election were widely seen as so heavily rigged in Prayuth's favor that victory was all but guaranteed, which is why protesters seek new polls. They also want the army-installed constitution to be amended and harassment of government critics to cease. Police on Wednesday continued their crackdown on the protest movement, arresting two more activists on charges of sedition and several other offenses. Those arrested — Tattep Ruangprapaikitseree and James Panumas Singprom — are members of the Free Youth movement, a key part of the growing pro-democracy protest coalition. A total of 13 activists have now been charged in connection with the recent protests. All including the two arrested on Wednesday have been released on bail. The arrests have done little to deter the activists. They have declared they will hold a major protest in September if their demands are not met.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/thai-leader-says-tensions-over-protests-endanger-nation/articleshow/77774372.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai eatery charges Rs 10 extra for ice-cream, fined Rs 2 lakh||MUMBAI: Six years after Shagun Veg Restaurant in Mumbai Central levied an excessive charge of Rs 10 for an ice-cream packet, the district forum slapped a fine of Rs 2 lakh for unfair trade practice, besides asking it to compensate the customer. The forum said with the restaurant being around for 24 years and earning around Rs 40,000-50,000 everyday, it had definitely made a profit by charging more than the MRP. Ordering the additional deposit of Rs 2 lakh, the forum said, "In order to curb such unscrupulous trade practices by restaurants and shops and for the benefit of customers, the principle of fear of deterrence must be addressed." The restaurant had charged police sub-inspector Bhaskar Jadhav Rs 175 instead of the printed MRP of Rs 165 for a family pack of ice-cream. In the complaint submitted before the South Mumbai District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum in 2015, Jadhav said he was on his way home from DB Marg police station on the night of June 8, 2014, when he stopped at the restaurant to pick up the ice-cream for guests at home. He said he got two family packs for the price of one but was shocked to see the additional charge. Jadhav told the district consumer forum that he had taken up the issue with the restaurant, but his objection was dismissed. He said he had purchased the ice-cream from the counter and had not even entered the restaurant. Jadhav also produced the bill which specified he was served at the counter. The restaurant, in its response, said it had incurred costs to store the ice-cream. It also iterated there was a difference between a shop and a restaurant. The district forum refuted this, observing Jadhav had not availed any of the restaurant's services such as asking the waiter for water, using their furniture, cooling himself below their fan or air conditioner, using their cutlery to have the ice-cream or even consuming the mouth freshener usually served with the bill. Hence, the forum held that the the surcharge was not justified. Watch Mumbai restaurant charges Rs 10 extra for ice-cream, fined Rs 2 lakh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/restaurant-faces-heat-for-overpricing-in-mumbai/articleshow/77774390.cms||Rebecca Samervel
August 27, 2020||India||Masks for Covid may end up eliminating TB by 2025 target||MUMBAI: The simple face mask--mandatory in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic—may just help India’s fight against one of the oldest pestilence: Tuberculosis. “If masks become routine in India, just like they are in Japan, then we could well meet our target of eliminating TB by 2025,” said pulmonologist Dr Sanjeev Mehta. The World Health Organisation has set a deadline of 2030 to eliminate TB, but the Indian government announced an earlier deadline of 2025. As India is home to 25% of all tuberculosis patients in the world, public health experts felt the 2025 deadline was ambitious. “But if we continue using mask and remember to follow cough etiquette, the deadline no longer seems ambitious,” added Dr Mehta. TB has been one of the most discussed topics during the Covid pandemic because of the “protection” provided by the TB vaccine (BCG) against the novel coronavirus. TB patients, though, have suffered due to lack of medicines and the difficulty in travelling to treatment centres during the lockdown. TB detection rates dropped in the early phase of Covid in March, but health officials said hte services are now inching back to normalcy. A private sector doctor said there are fewer new cases because of the lower risk of transmission. “People are staying home or moving out with masks, resulting in a lower risk of transmission. Moreover, families are now likely to pay attention to a cough that last more than two weeks and seek test and scans that will detect TB early,” he said. A senior BMC official associated with the TB programme refused to comment on Covid’s impact on TB detection and treatment. The official said as both the disease spread via droplet, the use of mask should benefit the TB programme as well. “But we haven’t had time to study Covid’s impact on TB so far,” the official added. Compared to the Covid-spreading novel coronavirus, the TB mycobacterium is big. “The TB bacillus spreads through droplet released when a person coughs or sneezes. The microbe travels at the speed of Ferrari across the room, but even a handkerchief (as against face masks that have tinier pores and have two- to three-ply material) can stop it instantly,” said Dr Lalit Anande, medical supervisor of the BMC-run TB hospital in Sewri. Dr Stobdan Kalon of international NGO Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF), India, said, ``Using a face mask could impact the TB epidemic in India in two ways.’’ Firstly, Covid has exposed the weak investments in public health over the years. ``Increased investment in public health machinery will directly benefit TB control program in India,’’ he said. Secondly, a mask is an infection control measure which is a neglected field in India. “Many relatives and healthcare workers get TB because the patients don't use masks. But Covid has ensured that the common man in India now knows about N95 masks and PPEs. Covid has heightened awareness and sensitized people about the need for infection control which will definitely benefit the TB control program,’’ added Dr Kalon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/masks-for-covid-may-end-up-eliminating-tb-by-2025-target/articleshow/77774414.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Delhi||St Stephen’s graduate ‘fastest human calculator’||NEW DELHI: When asked why he prefers his mental ability to arrive at answers to complex mathematical problems when there is a calculator for such things, Neelakantha Bhanu Prakash nonchalantly replies, “Why does Usain Bolt run when he has a car?” And then he elaborates, “It’s simple. Exhibiting a global dominance in terms of physical achievement inspires a generation that wants to adopt Bolt’s way of life. That is what I want to do with mental maths from India.” Prakash, a mathematics graduate of Delhi’s St Stephen’s College and a Hyderabad resident, may have just achieved what he has wanted to do since he was eight years old. At the age of 20, he is the “world’s fastest human calculator”. On August 15, he became the first Indian in the last 23 years to win a gold medal at the “Mental Calculation World Championship” in the Mind Sports Olympiad 2020 in London. This year, the event was held online. Dubbed fastest human calculator, he wants to challenge maths phobiaComing from a family that has no mathematician — his parents run a ketchup factory and are botany and genetics graduates and his younger sister is into fashion — Prakash is justifiably proud to have taken the crown with 167 points, with a Lebanese youth lagging in second place with 102. The competition had 30 participants, the oldest being a 57-year-old. At one point, Prakash was so accurate with division calculation that the organisers had to conduct a recheck of the decimal point he had given in his answer — and found to be correct. “Mental calculation is not very popular, but we have geniuses such as Srinivas Ramanujan and Shakuntala Devi,” the feisty young man exulted on the phone from Hyderabad. “But in the post-modern world, there is none who has done what I have.” Talking about his climb to the summit of the mathematical mountain, the Telangana youth said, “It all started when I was five years old. I had an accident and suffered a head injury. I was advised bed rest for a year, and had to stay away from school. That is when I became involved with mental maths and puzzles.” His thirst for figures honed, he won his first trophy at the age of eight, when he ended fourth in a local competition. That was the stepping stone. He rose from state to zonal to national and international levels. He also has to his credits some record earlier held by Scott Flansburg and Shakuntala Devi. “Shakuntala Devi still holds the record for multiplication,” says Prakash. “However, I was able to break some others, like power multiplication, superfast addition and superfast substraction.” But he is more than just a kid with a head for numbers. Even before graduation, Prakash had a start-up called Exploring Infinities, which aims at developing cognitive abilities in children through arithmetic learning. After 2016, he stopped participating in competitions and focused on his start-up, hopeful of ushering in social change. Prakash knew his future lay in numbers. “My grandfather was an engineering dropout who later fot a commerce degree. Like him, I first joined IIIT to study computer science, but realised within a year that what I loved was mathematics,” Prakash says. “Since no one in the family was sure about this field, I had to take the traditional route and decided on St Stephen’s to guide my mathematical abilities.” Having now graduated, he details his plans, “Success means a lot of things in the education sector. There are ripples to be created around how mathematics is an individual subject and sports can be promoted to get the mathematics phobia challenged,” says Prakash. “In the years to come I want to engage with corporate audiences, talk to adults and inculcate in them through a model some mathematical learning where people can do brain workouts. My other aim is policy change and the only way to push forward is through mathematical reform. Literacy and numeracy are two pillars of cognitive development.” Watch St Stephen’s graduate gets title of ‘fastest human calculator’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/st-stephens-college-graduate-fastest-human-calculator/articleshow/77774426.cms||Shradha Chettri
August 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Election panel and govt differ over setting BBMP poll dates||BENGALURU: The state election commission and the government are at odds over setting the dates for polls to Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). The commission wants to conduct them in December, whereas the government, currently focused on tackling the pandemic and reviving the economy, wants to defer them to 2021. Election officials will finally decide the schedule, but the state government is the main facilitator of the process, which involves delimitation and reservation of wards and revision of voter rolls. So far, only the delimitation stage has been completed. BBMP polls were planned earlier, but the Covid-19 crisis complicated the matter. The tenure of the current elected council of BBMP will end on September 10. Before that, the government is expected to appoint an administrative officer. With Karnataka making some progress in the virus battle, the election commission wants the government to hurry up and fulfil the poll-related obligations before November 30. “We have made it clear to the government that the polls should be conducted by December and it should facilitate things by completing the procedure on time,” said state election commissioner Basavaraj B. On Tuesday, he directed BBMP officials to wrap up rationalisation of electoral rolls on or before November 30. Basavaraj said he would release the poll calendar after reservation of wards and finalisation of the voter list. BBMP officials started the door-to-door voter survey on Wednesday. “The election commission has given us time till November 30, but we want to finish the process much earlier. There will be no hassles in conducting the polls as ground preparations have begun,” said BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad. The civic body is under pressure to get the work done as the commission has moved the Karnataka high court over the delay. The government wants to take things slowly as it tries to check the spread of coronavirus. Another reason cited by it is the proposal for a new Bengaluru municipal law, which could change the shape of the city administration. “The government is committed to conducting BBMP polls, but we want them to take place under the new Act. So, it may take time. That said, we will abide by the court’s verdict, and BBMP has begun the necessary procedures,” said deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan. The draft of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Bill, 2020, was tabled in the assembly in March and it has been referred to the joint house committee headed by BJP legislator S Raghu. The bill proposes reforms such as two mayors with terms of two and a half years each and increasing the number of civic zones from eight to 15. Raghu said the house committee might take three months to come up with a report after deliberations. “We have just started the work; the first meeting was held on Monday. The report is likely to be ready by December-end,” he said. Narayan said the government planned to table the report during the budget assembly session, likely to be held in March next year, and BBMP polls could be conducted after the enactment of the new law. “It’s better to wait when such an important law is in the making. Elections can be conducted soon after the BBMP Act is passed in the assembly, ” said law and parliamentary affairs minister JC Madhuswamy. But the election commission sees no reason to postpone the polls. “We don’t want to delay for any reason. We have prepared an SOP in the context of Covid-19 and are determined to hold the polls latest by December,” said Basavaraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-ec-govt-differ-over-setting-bbmp-poll-dates/articleshow/77774296.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
August 27, 2020||Delhi||Covid cases rising, Delhi government to conduct 40,000 tests daily: CM||NEW DELHI: With Covid-19 cases once again on the rise, the Delhi government has decided to carry out double the number of tests - 40,000 - daily as a precautionary measure. Both antigen tests and the gold standard RT-PCR tests will be ramped up in a week. This aggressive testing is likely to lead to detection of more cases and allow the government to make an early intervention for containment and isolation to check the pandemic's spread. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal called an emergency meeting on Wednesday, a day after the capital reported the highest number of daily cases in 40 days, 1,544, indicating that the pandemic was far from over. Wednesday too didn't bring any cheer with 1,693 new cases being reported. Underlining the importance of early testing, the CM urged people to rush for a test if they have any symptoms. Since all other parameters - like deaths and admissions in hospitals - are under control, it cannot be said that the intensity of the coronavirus is increasing, added Kejriwal. Recovery rate over 90%, death rate declining: CMThe CM pointed out that the recovery rate in Delhi was more than 90% and that the death rate was decreasing consistently. He said that the death rate in Delhi this month was 1.4%, the lowest in the country. "We have14,130 beds in hospitals, out of which 10,448 beds remain vacant. There are sufficient ambulances available with the government. I have directed officials to increase the number of tests. The reason we were able to control the Covid situation was that we increased the number of tests, and now we will double it. Covid patients will be aggressively marked and isolated after they test positive,” he said at a press briefing. Kejriwal said some people with symptoms think they will eventually recover. "They do not realise that if they do not get tested in time, they end up infecting many people around them. People can get tested for free in any government hospital or dispensary. We are getting cases where 7-8 people from one family are getting infected, and this is because a single infected person did not get tested for many days even after having symptoms and infected other people," Kejriwal said. No patient who was under home isolation in the city has died after July 14. Kejriwal said 2,900 beds in the city were occupied by the residents of Delhi and around 800 beds by non-residents. A fortnight ago, health minister Satyendar Jain had attributed the marginal surge in Covid cases to outsiders getting tested in Delhi. Kejriwal warned Delhiites against any complacency. Saying that the government has issued instructions for stricter enforcement of Covid guidelines, he asked people to wear masks and take all precautions to remain safe and help others stay safe. Kejriwal said the situation is under control for the past one and a half months. "But for the past few days, an increase in the number of Covid cases has been witnessed. After August 17, the number of daily Covid cases has been around 1,200-1,500. This figure had gone down to 1,000 and even less a few days ago," he said. "There was a time when the death count was more than 100 but now on any given day it is less than 20, and even less than 10 on some days. We are making efforts to take it to zero," Kejriwal said. The chief minister reiterated his government’s decision to provide oximeters and oxygen concentrators to patients. "The government has decided that all patients who have recovered will be supplied oximeters for a few more days. If their oxygen levels continue to remain low, oxygen concentrators will also be installed at their homes for free so that they do not need to visit any hospital," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-cases-rising-delhi-government-to-conduct-40000-tests-daily-cm/articleshow/77774434.cms||Alok K N Mishra
August 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Nabard gives Rs 1,137 crore loan to AP for education, health initiatives||VIJAYAWADA: The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) has sanctioned an amount of Rs 1137 crore under Rural Infrastructure Development Fund (RIDF) as loan assistance for augmenting the Infrastructure in Rural Education and Public Health Institutions across all the districts of Andhra Pradesh. Nabard AP regional chief general manager Sudhir Kumar Jannawar on Wednesday said that the bank had cleared the project proposed by the Department of School Education. He further said that an amount of Rs.781.13 crore was sanctioned to the Department of School Education for installation of drinking water supply system and construction of toilets in the schools. The project will assist more than 11,800 schools including primary, upper primary, secondary and senior secondary schools spread over 664 mandals across the state. The project is expected to benefit more than 17 lakh students studying in these schools, the chief general manager said. The project also includes drinking water supply unit with UV purification for safe drinking water supply to all the students in the government schools. The projects are proposed under Naadu-Needu programme of the government, he added and asserted that the projects were planned to be completed by March 2023. In addition to the assistance to the school education department, an amount of Rs.356.23 crore has been sanctioned to the Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare, he said. He further said that the amount would be used for augmentation of health infrastructure, allied infrastructure and critical medical facilities in 94 existing rural health centres across the state to provide quality health care services to the needy. The projects aim at improving the delivery of health care services by providing the required infrastructure as per Indian Public Health Standards (IPHS) norms, the chief general manager said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/nabard-gives-rs-1137-cr-loan-to-ap-for-edu-health-initiatives/articleshow/77770437.cms||Gopi Dara
August 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Notorious smuggler arrested by Krishna district cops||VIJAYAWADA: One of the most notorious gutka smugglers in the state who is nicknamed as ‘Chikkadu Dorakadu’ (can’t be trapped and won’t be caught) was arrested by Krishna district police at Kodavatikallu village under Chandarlapadu mandal on Wednesday. The accused identified as Kapu Koteswararao. Addressing the media, Nandigama DSP JV Ramana Murthy pointed that a special team was formulated to nab Koteswararao and his team who has been a habitual offender in smuggling ganja, gutka and liquor in the state. Explaining his modus operandi, the cops said that Koteswararao used to run the business disguising himself as a farmer and supply banned gutka produce across various parts in the district. On Wednesday, cops received intelligence that Koteswararao was distributing his supplies to second stage dealers who waited for him on their two-wheelers near Nagarjuna Public School area. They soon raided and seized Rs 11.03 lakh worth of gutka, 24 liquor bottles and four kilograms of ganja along with his car and two motorcycles. Cops also arrested three other gutka suppliers at the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/notorious-smuggler-arrested/articleshow/77770441.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Illegal mining PIL: HC questions maintainability||Vijayawada: AP High Court on Wednesday heard a public interest litigation filed by YSRC activists from Guntur district alleging illegal mining activity by YSRC leader Ambati Rambabu and eight others. The petitioners requested the court to order a CBI inquiry into the alleged illegal mining activity. The court questioned the petitioners on the maintainability of the PIL. YSRC leaders Srinivasa Reddy and Ramaiah from Rajupalem mandal of Guntur district filed the PIL alleging illegal mining at Kota Nemaliupuram and Kubadupuram villages of Rajupalem mandal of Guntur district by YSRC legislator Ambati Rambabu and eight other leaders of YSRCP. The division bench of AP high court with Justices Chagara Praveen Kumar and Uma Devi heard the petition on Wednesday. The court questioned the maintainability of PIL as petitioners and defendants hail from same political party. The petitioners said that they care for the public properties and filed the PIL to save the environment from illegal mining. The court said that it is not satisfied with the arguments made by the petitioners and asked the government pleaders of the home and the mining departments to check the maintainability of the PIL. The court also directed the mining department to give a report on illegal mining in this particular area. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/illegal-mining-pil-hc-questions-maintainability/articleshow/77770449.cms||---
August 27, 2020||India||Ladakh face-off: India to order 2 more Israeli ‘eyes in sky’ for $1 billion||NEW DELHI: India is now finally going to seal the long-pending around $1 billion deal to acquire two more “Phalcon” airborne warning and control system (AWACS) aircraft from Israel, which has been derailed at least a couple of times in the past due to the high costs involved. Sources on Wednesday said the acquisition of the two AWACS, with the Israeli Phalcon early-warning radar system mounted on Russian Ilyushin-76 heavy-lift aircraft, is all set to get the final nod from the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) after extensive inter-ministerial consultations. The two new Phalcon AWACS, which will add to the three such aircraft inducted by the IAF in 2009-2011 under a $1.1 billion contract, will be delivered in three to four years. “They will be more advanced than the first three Phalcon AWACS with the latest upgrades,” said a source. Read AlsoIndia tests its new light combat helicopters in Ladakh amidst border row with ChinaNEW DELHI: India has deployed two of its new indigenous light combat helicopters, apart from the heavy-duty Apache attack and Chinook heavy-lift choppers acquired from the US, in Ladakh amidst the ongoing military confrontation with China there. The deployment of the twin-engine LCHs, which are notThe need for additional AWACS, which are powerful “eyes in the sky”, was acutely felt during the pre-dawn strikes at Balakot and the subsequent aerial skirmish with Pakistani fighters in February last year. The ongoing military confrontation with China in eastern Ladakh has further reinforced the operational requirement. AWACS or AEW&C (airborne early-warning and control) aircraft are critical in modern warfare because they can detect and track incoming fighters, cruise missiles and drones much before ground-based radars, direct friendly fighters during air combat with enemy jets, and keep tabs on enemy troop build-ups and movement of warships. Read AlsoIndian troops with shoulder-fired air defence missiles deployed on heights near China borderAgainst the backdrop of the activities of the Chinese helicopters close to the LAC in Eastern Ladakh, Indian forces have deployed troops equipped with shoulder-fired air defence missiles on the crucial heights there. The Russian-origin air defence systems are supposed to be used when the enemyBut Pakistan is ahead of India in this crucial arena, which struck home much to IAF’s disquiet during the aerial skirmish last year. Pakistan has 8-10 Chinese Karakoram Eagle ZDK-03 AWACS and Swedish Saab-2000 AEW&C. China, in turn, has well over 30, including Kong Jing-2000 “Mainring”, KJ-200 “Moth” and KJ-500 aircraft. India currently has just three Phalcon AWACS, with a 400-km range and 360-degree coverage,and two indigenous “Netra” AEW&C aircraft, with indigenous 240-degree coverage radars with a 250-km range fitted on smaller Brazilian Embraer-145 jets. Read AlsoIndian armed forces need to invest in disruptive technologies: Gen NaravaneThe Indian armed forces need to invest heavily in “disruptive technologies” that are becoming critical in modern day war-fighting, said Army chief General M M Naravane on Tuesday, calling for an overarching national mission in the arena.A much more ambitious indigenous AWACS-India project worth Rs 5,113 crore was approved by the defence ministry in March 2015 for 360-degree coverage with indigenous AESA (active electronically scanned array) radars to be mounted on two Airbus A-330 wide-body jets. But this project will only now head to the CCS for clearance. The impending contract for the two new AWACS comes after the defence ministry decided earlier this month to also fast-track the Rs 3,500 crore “Project Cheetah” to upgrade its Israeli Heron drones with laser-guided bombs, air-to-ground anti-tank missiles and other precision-guided munitions as well as advanced reconnaissance capabilities, as was reported by TOI. Israel is one of the top arms suppliers to the Indian armed forces. Indian acquisitions over the years range from Barak surface-to-air missile systems, Spyder quick-reaction anti-aircraft missiles and a wide array of drones and radars to Python and Derby air-to-air missiles, Crystal Maze and Spice-2000 precision-guided munitions. Watch India to order 2 more Israeli ‘eyes in sky’ for $1 billion||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-to-order-2-more-israeli-eyes-in-sky/articleshow/77774435.cms||Rajat Pandit
August 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh govt sanctions Rs 5,000 crore for lift irrigation scheme||TIRUPATI: The state government on Wednesday accorded administrative approval for Rs.5036 crore to investigate and construct lift irrigation (LI) schemes to lift waters from Galeru Nagari Sujala Sravanthi project to Handri Neeva Sujala Sravanthi project to address irrigation water needs of farmers in Kadapa and Chittoor districts. Government chief whip Gadikota Srikanth Reddy hailed chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy for approving the lift irrigation schemes which will eventually turn out to be a lifeline for farmers of this drought-hit region. G Srikanth Reddy said 2000 cusecs of waters can be diverted from the Gadikota canal to Kaleti Vagu and Veligallu project through the lift irrigation schemes. ‘’From Kaleti Vagu waters can be diverted to water bodies in Chakrayapeta, Ramapuram, Lakkireddipalli and Veeraballi mandals in the district. Nearly 1,650 cusecs of Krishna waters can be stored in Veligallu project once these schemes get implemented,” said Srikanth Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-sanctions-rs-5000-cr-for-lift-irrigation-scheme/articleshow/77770497.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
August 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Parl panel seeks boost for agri exports||Visakhapatnam: The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Commerce headed by Rajya Sabha member V Vijayasai Reddy has urged the Centre to encourage agricultural exports. The committee submitted its 154th report on exports of agriculture, marine, plantation, coir and turmeric products to Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday in New Delhi. The committee urged for efficiency in supply chain, infrastructure development and higher value-addition for promoting agricultural exports. Growers should be given incentives for scientific production and markets such as Egypt, Mexico, Malaysia, Indonesia and Philippines should be explored for rice. It mooted regulation on use of antibiotics and extension of package of practices for marine farmers and incentives for tuna fish export. Vijaya Sai Reddy said although India produces 800 million kg tobacco every year, paucity of funds for research is an obstacle in competing in world markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/parl-panel-seeks-boost-for-agri-exports/articleshow/77770528.cms||Siva G
August 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Power restored in flood-hit parts of EG||Rajahmundry: Power has been restored in all flood-affected mandals in East Godavari barring 23 villages in Devipatnam mandal. Several power stations, electric poles and lines have been damaged due to the floods. Over four thousand agricultural services and 42,679 non-agriculture services have been disturbed in the floods that affected 140 villages in 22 mandals of East Godavari. Meanwhile, the water level at Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage at Dowleswaram is receding rapidly and currently only 4.5 lakh cusecs water is being discharged. Water has receded from nearly all habitations in Chinturu, VR Puram, Yetapaka and Koonavaram mandals. Road connectivity has also been restored. However, four villages in Devipatnam mandal continue to remain submerged. But connectivity to other villages has been restored as the water has receded sufficiently. Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) officials are going to undertake a sanitation drive from Thursday with the help of sanitation workers and the fire department. Water has receded significantly and the floodwater level has come down to two feet in Konaseema. Amalapuram sub-collector Himanshu Kaushik said that the focus of the administration is now on sanitation and enumeration of damages. He added that flood relief kits and financial assistance of Rs2,000 are being distributed in flood-hit areas. Tribal villages in Velerupadu and Kukunoor mandals of West Godavari district are also inching towards normalcy. People are returning home from the hillocks where they had taken shelter. However, 19 villages in Polavaram mandal are still submerged and restoring power has become difficult as power lines adjacent to River Godavari are still submerged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/power-restored-in-flood-hit-parts-of-eg/articleshow/77770592.cms||Samson Raj
August 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Monsoon effect: NH-16 stretch between Vijayawada and Vizag laden with potholes||Vijayawada: If you are planning to take a trip from Vijayawada to Vizag by road, then be prepared for a bumpy ride. The 350-km stretch between the two cities is laden with thousands of potholes that creeped up during this monsoon season. Commuters shell out around Rs 400 for a one-way trip on the highway where potholes welcome them right at the entry points of the toll plazas. The NH 16 that passes through the city carries a large volume of city traffic in addition to thousands of heavy vehicles travelling between Chennai and Kolkata. It also connects the city to the airport in Gannavaram. The NH 16 that passes through the city carries a large volume of city traffic in addition to the thousands of heavy vehicles travelling between Chennai and Kolkata. It also connects the city to the airport in Gannavaram. The major potholes begin from the entrance of Kalaparru Toll Plaza which charges commuters Rs 35 for a one-way trip. The road dotted with several potholes continues there on beyond Unguturu and Ethakota Toll Plazas which charges commuters Rs 90 and Rs 100 for a single way trip. Residents of Ravulapalem and Eluru point out that they had made numerous complaints with the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and yet the problem persists. Officials from NHAI blame the issue on ‘bad weather’ and explain that they would be able to rectify them only after the monsoon rains subside. Residents on the other hand blame the NHAI for building poor quality of roads. “Action has to be taken against the contractors and officials for building such horrible roads. I am sure that every car with low ground clearance transiting this portion of the highway must be struggling from wheel alignment issues as many of these potholes are pretty deep to damage any vehicle,” Kanaka Rao, a resident of Hanuman Junction said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/monsoon-effect-nh-16-stretch-between-vijayawada-and-vizag-laden-with-potholes/articleshow/77770561.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
August 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Sensitisation drive launched to check police high-handedness||Vijayawada: In view of recent incidents of high-handedness on behalf of the police, DGP D Gautam Sawang launched a sensitisation drive across all police stations in the state on Wednesday. Addressing the entire police force, including station house officers (SHOs) and police unit chiefs, through video-conference, the DGP said that there is a need to change the mindset at certain levels. “Action has been taken in certain rogue cases and will continue to be taken. This shows that nobody will be spared. The government has given us the mandate to eradicate such cases,” said Sawang. Speaking on the occasion, additional director general of police A Ravishankar presented a comparative study of cases of police high-handedness since the bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh to show that the problem still persists. Additional director general of police (CID), Sunil Kumar recollected the events of Garagaparru in West Godavari district where the Dalit community at SC Colony was ostracized by village heads in April 2017.  “It is important to note that back then it took two months to get the offenders arrested, but in the recent incident we took less than two days to get the official suspended and booked,” Kumar stated. Sunil Kumar further said, “Only three such cases from three police stations out of 1,000 have come to light. But nobody will talk about the other 997 police stations. We should realise this. Even one such incident should not be reported.” The move to sensitise police personnel comes after chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy condemned the alleged incidents on caste-based discrimination in Sithanagaram and Chirala police station limits. The chief minister said on Tuesday, “Lately, a few cases of police personnel misbehaving or going beyond the ambit of law when it comes to dealing with weaker sections of society have come to light. The main difference we need to recognise is that this government is not willing to stay quiet. We will act against our own if necessary and have already done so.” Officials said that DSP-rank officials and heads of police units will conduct the drive across the state for the next three months and ensure that a behavioural change is evident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sensitisation-drive-launched-to-check-police-high-handedness/articleshow/77770604.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
August 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Congress accuses BSY’s son of corruption, cites letter||Mysuru: Congress alleged on Wednesday that chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s son and state BJP vice-president, BY Vijayendra, was involved in corruption amounting to Rs 5,000 crore, and demanded an inquiry. Vijayendra rejected the claims, saying they were politically motivated. KPCC spokesperson M Lakshman shared a letter that he said was written by some BJP legislators to their party high command. The letter reportedly contained the corruption allegations. Congress said it had inquired into Vijayendra’s dealings and collected more evidence. “We will release that evidence in the second week of September in Delhi,” Lakshman said. The letter, whose authenticity has not been verified, speaks about Vijayendra’s alleged interference in day-to-day government affairs. “Since the allegations made in the letter are serious in nature, there must be an inquiry. Else, we will take legal recourse,” Lakshman said. Vijayendra termed the charges as false. “Congressmen are experts in spreading lies and concocting stories... Misinformation campaigns will not deter my moral standing,” he tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/congress-accuses-bsys-son-of-corruption-cites-letter/articleshow/77774305.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Year after floods, Karnataka farmers still waiting for govt aid||BENGALURU: Thousands of people in North Karnataka lost their homes and crops in the deluge last year, but most of them have still not received full government compensation. “In Belagavi district alone, over 10,000 families have not received full compensation as announced by the state government,” claimed activist Ashok Chandaragi. According to the government’s records, over 2.4 lakh houses and standing crops on 8 lakh hectares were damaged across Karnataka during the floods in August last year. Districts in North Karnataka suffered the most devastation. While fixing compensation, the government had categorised houses as A, B and C based on the extent of damage. Occupants of a property classified as A were entitled to Rs 5 lakh compensation. The amounts for B and C categories were Rs 3 lakh and Rs 1 lakh, respectively. The government had said it would release the funds in instalments of Rs 1 lakh in every case depending on the construction progress. Accordingly, it disbursed the first and second instalments to most eligible residents. The remaining tranche has not been released a year on. But some residents claim they have not received any money. “My house, which collapsed, was classified under B group. So far, I have not got a single rupee as compensation. I have made several requests to the tahsildar, but to little avail,” said Basavaraj Holennavar, who lives in Hire Hampiholi village in Belagavi’s Ramdurg taluk. The government had also announced Rs 10,000 per hectare, over and above the compensation under the National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF), for farmers who lost their crops. Many farmers claim they have not received this grant. Tired of waiting, several villagers held a dharna in Ramdurg for over two days starting Monday. The protest was called off on Wednesday after district minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said compensation would be released at the earliest. Funds to be distributed soonRecently, the government released over Rs 300 crore for the Rajiv Gandhi Rural Housing Corporation, which is the nodal agency for building homes in flood-hit areas. This amount will be disbursed to beneficiaries soon. Anjum Parvez | Principal secretary, revenue department (disaster management)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/year-after-floods-karnataka-farmers-still-waiting-for-govt-aid/articleshow/77774290.cms||Anil Gejji
August 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Junior civil judge alleges harassment||TIRUPATI: S Ramakrishna, a junior civil judge under suspension, has alleged that he has been facing harassment. S Ramakrishna, who stays at Current Colony at B Kothakota, is involved in a property dispute with his neighbour Devara Venkat Reddy. B Kothakota tahsildar D Hari Kumar on Monday had prohibited Ramakrishna and Venkat Reddy from entering a disputed pathway connecting both their residences. The tahsildar’s order said police had reported both Ramakrishna and Reddy were resorting to violent activities to take possession of the site. Ramakrishna alleged in a video that he and his family were unable to come outside. ‘‘Now, we have no way to enter and exit our home. My family is starving. I request the authorities to revoke the orders,” he said. Ramakrishna has lodged a complaint against the tahsildar with Madanapalle revenue divisional officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/junior-civil-judge-alleges-harassment/articleshow/77770614.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
August 27, 2020||India||Zafar Islam, who helped bring Scindia to BJP, given RS ticket||NEW DELHI: BJP on Wednesday nominated party spokesperson Syed Zafar Islam as its candidate for the Rajya Sabha bypoll in Uttar Pradesh necessitated after the death of Amar Singh. Polling is scheduled on September 11. Islam had played a crucial role in Congress’s Jyotiraditya Scindia joining BJP. He was a classmate of Scindia and was the interface between the party leadership and Scindia. Originally from Jharkhand, Islam has been a party spokesperson for some time now but came into the limelight when Scindia joined BJP. He shared the dais with party president J P Nadda and other functionaries when Scindia formally joined. Islam’s nomination makes him another Muslim face at the national level as the saffron party has been saying it was not against any community and legislations like banning triple talaq were in the larger interest of the community. An investment banker, Islam is a director in Air India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/zafar-islam-who-helped-bring-scindia-to-bjp-given-rs-ticket/articleshow/77774457.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Inmates of Rajahmundry jail grow their own veggies||RAJAHMUNDRY: Inmates of Rajahmundry Central Prison, the largest prison in terms of area in the state, have taken up the initiative to grow vegetables consumed by them. Prison authorities came upon the idea during the lockdown when supply of vegetables from outside had become scarce. Now, 12 acres of land is being used to cultivate vegetables which has made the prison self-sufficient. With around 700kg vegetables being cultivated at a time, prison authorities are now able to provide the vegetables to the nearly 1,400 inmates of the central jail as well as the state prison for women three to five times a week. Speaking to TOI, DIG (prisons) of coastal AP, Dr I Srinivasa Rao said that vegetables such as ridge gourd, bottle gourd, ladies finger are being grown in the prison. So far, vegetables worth Rs 4 lakh have been given to inmates or sold through prison outlets, Rao said. He further said that DG (prisons) Ahsan Reza has guided the initiative. The inmates are growing the vegetables through organic farming methods with the aid of a vermicomposting unit set up in the prison premises. Moreover, there is also a cattle shed in the prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/inmates-of-rmundry-jail-grow-their-own-veggies/articleshow/77770666.cms||Samson Raj
August 27, 2020||India||Naidu warns members against sharing info on parliamentary committee proceedings||NEW DELHI: Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu has written to heads of parliamentary committees asking them to warn their members against sharing information about proceedings of the panel meetings before the final report is tabled in Parliament. Sources told TOI that apart from tightening the noose on the ‘breach’ of information related to proceedings of committees, the move will also have a direct bearing on media reporting of proceedings, imposing a near complete restriction on such reportage. Naidu said parliamentary committees have done “commendable work” of scrutinising legislations, but expressed concern over proceedings of committee meetings appearing in the media. “For some time now, it has been observed that the media has been quoting, in their reportage, the proceedings of the committees related to the subject matters or the legislative bills under their consideration and examination... . Proceedings of the committee meetings are confidential and it is not permissible for a member of the committee or anyone who has access to its proceedings to communicate, directly or indirectly, to the media any information regarding its proceedings...before the report is presented to the House, as such action will tantamount to breach of privilege of the House,” he said in his letter. Parliamentary committees discharge crucial oversight work relating not only to legislative business but also other matters of importance as they decide to take up. Unlike Parliament, which has limited sittings during the year, parliamentary committees meet through the year. Since the start of the coronavirus pandemic, parliamentary committees of both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have taken up matters related to the management of the pandemic, plight of migrant workers, as well as efficacy of various government schemes in providing succour to their intended beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/naidu-warns-members-against-sharing-info-on-parliamentary-committee-proceedings/articleshow/77774463.cms||Swati Mathur
August 27, 2020||Mumbai||IAS rejig: Sitaram Kunte to head home department, Tukaram Mundhe shunted out||MUMBAI: In a major reshuffle of 18 high-ranking bureaucrats, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday appointed veteran bureaucrat Sitaram Kunte as additional chief secretary (home) and shunted out Nagpur municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe over complaints on utilisation of funds for the smart city project. Mundhe will be replaced by Radhakrishan B, who was with Mumbai Housing Board. In his 15-year career in the bureaucracy, Mundhe has been transferred on 15 occasions. The post of additional chief secretary (home) was vacant for more than two years. Sanjay Kumar, before his appointment as chief secretary, was holding additional charge. It has been entrusted to Kunte, who was additional chief secretary (services). Skill development additional chief secretary Sujata Saunik will take charge as additional chief secretary (services). Former Cidco MD Lokesh Chandra was appointed principal secretary (water resources); Sanjay Mukherjee has already been appointed in place of Chandra. Former Jalgaon collector Avinash Dhakne will be new transport commissioner, while transport commissioner Shekhar Channe was appointed as managing director of MSRTC. Shrikant Deshpande, who has come back from foreign assignment, will lead the reforms department in place of Anshu Sinha, who will head skill development department. Former Navi Mumbai civic chief Annasaheb Misal was appointed as Konkan divisional commissioner, MIDC joint CEO K V Jadhav as Nashik municipal commissioner, and Ahmednagar zilla parishad chief officer S S Patil as joint MD of Cidco.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ias-rejig-sitaram-kunte-to-head-home-department-tukaram-mundhe-shunted-out/articleshow/77774458.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
August 27, 2020||Mumbai||Let 11-judge bench review 50% quota cap, Maharashtra tells SC||NEW DELHI: The 50% ceiling on reservation fixed nearly 30 years ago by a nine-judge Supreme Court bench requires reconsideration by an 11-judge bench as 70-80% of India's population belongs to backward classes and it will be unfair to deny them proportionate quota, Maharashtra told the SC on Wednesday. When the bench was hearing petitions challenging the validity of 12% Maratha quota in state government jobs, the state, through senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, said the Supreme Court had recently referred to the constitution bench petitions against the validity of 10% quota for economically weaker sections on the same grounds- that it exceeded the 50% ceiling fixed by it in 1992 in the Indra Sawhney case. SC order on quota will affect 28 states: SibalRohatgi said that most states had enacted legislation to provide quotas beyond the 50% ceiling. “The basis of the Indra Sawhney judgment has gone. Should the 50% ceiling be reconsidered is the moot question. Let this be examined by a bench of 11 judges,” he added. Appearing for a pro-Maratha reservation petitioner, senior advocate Kapil Sibal said in the Indra Sawhney case, the Supreme Court had specifically rejected 10% reservation for economically weaker sections. He said the matter should go before an 11-judge bench with all issues kept open—whether there should be a ceiling and whether the reservation could be on the basis of caste or economic criteria? Sibal said in Maharashtra, 85% of the population belonged to backward classes. “As many as 28 states have enacted legislations and granted reservations far in excess of 50% ceiling. Any decision taken by the Supreme Court on the validity of Maratha quota or EWS quota on the basis of 50% ceiling will affect all 28 states and their legislations providing reservations. This warrants hearing of all pending reservation issues by an 11-judge bench,” he said. Senior advocate P S Narasimha told the court that the socio-economic condition of a huge majority of the population required the SC to take a relook at the 50% ceiling on reservation in government jobs and admissions to educational institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/let-11-judge-bench-review-50-quota-cap-maharashtra-tells-sc/articleshow/77774491.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 27, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra U-turn on social quota in minority junior colleges||MUMBAI: A day after asking minority junior colleges to enforce social reservations in their open category seats for the ongoing first-year junior college admissions, the education department reversed its decision late on Wednesday. Representatives from city minority institutions had met school education minister Varsha Gaikwad demanding the directive be withdrawn saying it was an infringement on their rights. On Tuesday, nearly two weeks into the FYJC admission process, the school education department had issued a circular asking minority institutions to apply social reservations (for SC, ST, OBC, SEBC, EWS and others) of 74% to its open category seats. The colleges currently have only 35-45% open seats left after minority (50%), management (5%) and in some cases in-house quota (10%) are applied. Had the rule been enforced, it would have left barely 10-12% seats for students from the open category at some of the most sought-after colleges in the city. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, 392 out of the 843 junior colleges are minority institutions. The education department, late on Wednesday night, issued a correction citing a 2017 Bombay high court order, which set aside a Mumbai University circular that asked minority colleges to implement the social reservation policy to their seats. Replacing the point about social reservation, the circular now reads, "The seats apart from the minority quota would be filled up through the centralised admission. The seats reserved under the minority will be filled up by the college and the surrendered seats would be added to the centralised admission process." The circular, drawn from a government resolution issued by the minorities department in 2014, had also asked colleges to admit students from other religious and linguistic minorities before surrendering their vacant minority seats after the centralised third merit list. The department has retained this part of the directive. A principal said it is unclear. "How will colleges get students from other minorities at this point? For instance, a student who is a Gujarati minority is now eligible for admission in a Sindhi college too under the minority quota. The government will have to allow the editing option on their portal as a common list of all students has been prepared." Secondary education director Dinkar Patil said, "Minority admissions can continue till the third round of the centralised process. So, there is enough time to implement the change." The first centralised merit list will be released on August 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-u-turn-on-social-quota-in-minority-junior-colleges/articleshow/77774506.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
August 27, 2020||Bengaluru||BJP intensifies attacks on DKS, more leaders take aim||Bengaluru: BJP has sharpened attacks on DK Shivakumar, putting even second-line party faces on the job in a new strategy aimed at checking the traction he has been gaining since becoming the new state Congress president. BJP stepped up criticism of Shivakumar soon after the violence in east Bengaluru, where rioters targeted Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasamurthy’s house and two police stations. Some comments against Shivakumar included name-calling. Newly nominated member of legislative council CP Yogeshwar called him a “big thief”, whereas tourism minister CT Ravi said Shivakumar was a “rowdy” and had an alleged association with slain underworld don Kotwal Ramachandra. Industries minister Jagadish Shettar warned Shivakumar that his “Kanakapura goondaism” would never work. Recently, Union minister Pralhad Joshi said the Congressman should not forget that he faced money laundering charges and was out on bail. The political attacks peaked during BJP national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh’s two-day visit to Bengaluru last week. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa and leader of opposition in the assembly Siddaramaiah have not reacted to this round of barbs. Shivakumar’s claims that his phone was perhaps being tapped was another trigger for BJP, but Congress says there’s more to it. “BJP acknowledges the resurgence of Congress under Shivakumar and has asked its young members to counter him,” said Saleem Ahmed, working president of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC). Shivakumar was formally appointed as the KPCC chief at a mega virtual event in July. Right off the bat, he took on BJP over several issues, including alleged irregularities in procurement of medical supplies necessary for the Covid-19 fight to the overall handling of the pandemic. He has also questioned the government’s response to the August 11 riots. Some BJP functionaries said during his Bengaluru visit, Santhosh gave a free hand to party firebrands to go all out against Shivakumar. “With Shivakumar at the helm of Karnataka Congress, BJP has intensified efforts to make inroads into the Vokkaliga belt in the old Mysuru region, which has 79 assembly seats. The only way to gain ground is by taking Shivakumar head-on. This is our new strategy to send out a message loud and clear,” Yogeshwar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bjp-intensifies-attacks-on-dks-more-leaders-take-aim/articleshow/77774317.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
August 27, 2020||India||SC hearing arguments on referring challenge to quota to larger bench||NEW DELHI: The Maharashtra government told the Supreme Court on Wednesday that the 50% ceiling on reservation fixed nearly 30 years ago by a nine-judge SC bench required reconsideration by an 11-judge bench as 70-80% of the population belonged to backward classes and it would be unfair to deny them proportionate reservation. When a bench comprising Justices L N Rao, Hemant Gupta and S R Bhat was hearing petitions challenging the validity of 12% Maratha quota in state government jobs, the Maharashtra government through senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi said the SC had recently referred to a constitution bench petitions challenging the validity of 10% quota for economically weaker sections, also on the same ground that it exceeded the 50% ceiling fixed by the SC in 1992 in Indra Sawhney case (26% OBC quota recommended by Mandal Commission). Rohatgi said most states had enacted legislation to provide quotas beyond the 50% ceiling. "The basis of Indra Sawhney judgment has gone. Should the 50% ceiling be reconsidered is the moot question. Let this be examined by a bench of 11 judges," he said. Appearing for a pro-Maratha reservation petitioner, senior advocate Kapil Sibal said in the Indra Sawhney case, the SC had specifically rejected 10% reservation for economically weaker sections. The issue should go before an 11-judge bench with all issues kept open — whether there should be a ceiling? Whether the reservation could be on the basis of caste or economic criteria? Sibal said in Maharashtra, 85% of the population belonged to backward classes, whose all-India percentage was between 70-80%. "As many as 28 states have enacted legislations and granted reservations far in excess of 50% ceiling. Any decision taken by the Supreme Court on the validity of Maratha quota or EWS quota on the basis of 50% ceiling would affect all 28 states and their legislations providing reservations. This warrants hearing of all pending reservation issues by an 11-judge bench," he said. Senior advocate P S Narasimha told the court that socio-economic condition of a huge majority of the population required the SC to take a relook at the 50% ceiling on reservation in government jobs and admissions to educational institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-hearing-arguments-on-referring-challenge-to-quota-to-larger-bench/articleshow/77774509.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 27, 2020||Bengaluru||No teachers, open space hit Vidyagama in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Continuous learning initiatives have kicked off in government schools in Bengaluru under Vidyagama, but teachers are facing challenges unique to the city: lack of suitable, open public places, shortage of hands with colleagues on Covid duty and fear of the virus. “In a place like Whitefield, a major hurdle is lack of adequate open space. In the slums, it’s impossible for a teacher to get a few students at one of their homes. Neighbourhood temples don’t have much space, either. There are hardly any community spaces or public parks available. All we have are apartment complexes which do not allow outsiders,” said Sumedha Rao, one of the lead volunteers of Whitefield Ready that works with six government schools in the area. Many teachers still busy with Covid dutiesAccording to Rao, government school playgrounds are the only large spaces available and that could be an ideal place to call children in small groups if they get permission to use them. Agreed a teacher from an Urdu school in DJ Halli: “We conduct classes in a neighbourhood mosque, but even there a bigger batch of 10 with enough social distancing becomes difficult. All my colleagues have been complaining about the same issue.” Yet another problem is that a large number of teachers continue to be on Covid duties leaving only a few of their colleagues with the task of teaching children. “There are 14 teachers in our school, but only two are available for the Vidyagama programme. It is difficult for us to reach all kids and are, therefore, focusing on the higher grades. Further, the place to conduct the programme is too a concern. Now, we are doing it near a temple, but there’s a lot of noise from the busy roads,” said a teacher from a government school in east Bengaluru. “We have a lot of constraints, with 50-60% teachers on Covid duty. We have to overcome these challenges to ensure our children continue learning. It’s not completing the syllabus that’s happening here, but to be in constant touch with the students. If they do not have any gadgets — with or without internet — then teachers reach out to them physically. We have to ensure children migrating back to rural areas need to be in schools at their hometowns and not drop out,” said an education department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-teachers-open-space-hit-vidyagama-in-bengaluru/articleshow/77774497.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
August 27, 2020||Business||Tier-II cities help diamonds get its sparkle back in India||Kolkata: Recovery in diamond sales is primarily coming from tier-II cities in India, rather that tier-I or the mega cities, says Forevermark (India) president Sachin Jain. The leading diamond brand from De Beers Group has been experiencing a surge in demand in the tier-II cities, with sales clocking 50% to 70% of what it used to be in the pre-COVID days. The big cities, however, have registered just 40-50% recovery. Speaking to TOI following 9th annual Forevermark Forum, organised virtually for the first time (August 18-20), Jain said: “As large-scale, big bang weddings, travel-honeymoon and other ceremonies are not possible at this hour, people have started spending money on jewellery. Consumers are coming to the stores. From May 20 to June 10, we have registered a significant revival in sales, mostly from tier-II cities. Footfall-to-sales conversion rates have gone up considerably.” Although the retail-dependent diamond business witnessed zero sales from the second week of March to early May, the market did not take much time to get back on its feet. “Globally,” said Nancy Liu, CEO, Forevermark, “since the easing of lockdown, footfalls in the US and China have grown from 30% to 60%.” In India, the sales of bridal jewellery have gone up considerably, added Jain. “The Covid-19 scare is not going to go soon. So, we, despite being a retail-dependent industry, have increased our online presence. Customers are consuming more data on diamond and its latest ranges on mobile handsets and other devices.” But, according to the Forevermark (India) president, actual online sales and virtual trading of diamonds is still abysmally low at 1-2% as the customers always prefer to get the ‘touch-feel-look’ experience before taking a final call. “Thus, the whole diamond retailers’ community is trying to devise a new mode to build confidence among its buyers, either via contactless buy, sanitisation drive, video-conferencing or virtual 3D galleries during this ‘new normal’ period,” he added. On the manufacturing end, Jain said that the government has allowed the opening of diamond units and laboratories, which are working with 30% capacity. Despite zero business in April and May, an optimistic Jain said the big season for celebrations is yet to arrive and it wouldn’t be a bad year for the company and the overall diamond market. “Delayed Diwali and wedding season will give us more time to step manufacturing,” he reasoned. Encouraged by the rising demand, Forevermark is launching two new design ideas. For the brand, India has been one of the fastest-growing markets and last year, the country became the number one market for the company in terms of volume, leaving behind the US and China. India contributes about 35 per cent in terms of overall volume and out of the total 2,400 Forevermark stores across the world, 25 to 30% happen to be in India. Last year, Forevermark sold between 250,000 to 260,000 diamonds in India and maintained its 30 percent year-on-year growth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tier-ii-cities-help-diamonds-get-its-sparkle-back-in-india/articleshow/77773228.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Degree, professional colleges in Karnataka set to reopen on October 1||BENGALURU: After over five months, degree and professional colleges in Karnataka are set to reopen on October 1, though the government will wait for the Centre’s guidelines before taking a decision. “The 2020-21 academic year for degree colleges will commence on September 1 with online classes. On October 1, we plan to reopen the doors of colleges for classes,’’ deputy CM CN Ashwath Narayan said on Wednesday. About reopening of schools, primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar said the government will wait for the Union government’s guidelines and plan accordingly. Ashwath Narayan, who holds the higher education portfolio, said the state has made comprehensive preparations for starting classes as per the guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission, but will wait for the Centre’s roadmap in this regard. “The state government will follow additional directions from the central government to ensure safety of students,’’ he added. The government will soon schedule examinations for final-year undergraduate, diploma and engineering students. “Once the academic year begins, final-year exams, along with backlog exams, will be conducted,” Narayan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/degree-professional-colleges-in-karnataka-set-to-reopen-on-october-1/articleshow/77776231.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Live-in: Bring woman back from UP, HC says||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday ordered Gujarat Police to co-ordinate with the Uttar Pradesh Police to bring a woman to Gujarat after she was separated from her live-in partner.  The high court ordered to bring her in Gujarat and presented her before the court through video conference from a court, which is near Gujarat borders. The court ordered so after the woman told the HC that she wants to return to Gujarat marry her live-in partner. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/live-in-bring-woman-back-from-up-hc-says/articleshow/77772445.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Mumbai||Couple found dead in Mumbai's Kandivli highrise after late-night chat with teenage son||MUMBAI: An online stock trader and his wife were found dead by their 17-year-old son at their flat in Kandivli (west) on Wednesday morning. The police said that their preliminary probe has revealed that the trader, Jignesh Doshi (45), committed suicide as his body was found in a bathroom locked from the inside. His wife Kashmira (43) was found on the bed. The cause of her death is unclear. The police have filed accidental deaths. The Doshis lived on the ninth floor of a highrise in Dahanukar Wadi locality. Their son, who had cleared his HSC exam, has moved in with a relative for now. On Tuesday night, the family spent time chatting casually before going to bed. When the son woke up around 10.30 am, he found his mother lying in the bedroom. As she wouldn't wake up, he started looking for his father. He then found out that the bathroom door was locked. "The boy banged on the door but got no response. He then broke the latch and kicked the door open only to find his father hanging by a belt from the shower rod," said a police officer. The boy called his neighbours. He managed to bring the body down with their help. The police control room was alerted, and the police reached the apartment by 11am. "The son was asleep and is not aware of what could have transpired between his parents," said the officer. The police are probing whether financial worries or a domestic dispute could be the motive. A suicide note in English, purportedly written by Jignesh, was found in the house. It says that the couple was "committing suicide and no one be held responsible". "There were ligature marks around Kashmira's neck," the officer said, adding that the autopsy report will give the probe some direction. It could take two days for the autopsy as a Covid test will be done on the corpses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/couple-found-dead-in-mumbais-kandivli-highrise-after-late-night-chat-with-teenage-son/articleshow/77774535.cms||---
August 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||People ditch multiple SIMs in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: With mobile and data tariffs increasing and incomes falling, people are avoiding the use of multiple SIM cards, causing a decline in total mobile subscribers in Gujarat in May. According to the Telecom Subscription Report released by Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) on Wednesday, the total wireless subscriber base in Gujarat stood at 6.61 crore (precisely 6,61,77,911) in May. The number of wireless subscribers declined by a whopping 6.38 lakh (6,38,552) in the state against April, when subscribers stood at 6.68 crore (6,68,16,463). Telecom industry players attribute the decline to a tendency of people to migrate to a certain service provider and stopping use of multiple numbers. “Several telecom users saw incomes reduce in May. Against this, telecom companies had already increased their tariffs earlier this year. To reduce costs, multiple SIM card users have shifted to using a single SIM and overall subscribers declined,” revealed industry sources. The trend is particularly visible among urban users said sources. Gujarat also witnessed a decline in the total number of mobile subscribers in April, when there were 11.16 lakh fewer subscribers than in March. The closing of retail outlets in May due to the lockdown was also one of the reasons as upgrades and renewals were stuck. “Offline retail was closed for most of May. As a result, renewals and upgrades in addition to obtaining of new connections was stuck. Moreover, a number of migrant workers who returned to their home states also deactivated their Gujarat numbers to save on costs. These factors also caused a dip in subscribers,” said another industry source. Key players including Bharti Airtel and Vodafone-Idea lost large number of subscribers in the state. While Bharti Airtel’s subscriber base declined from 1.03 crore subscribers in April to 99.5 lakh in May, Vodafone-Idea lost some 4.06 lakh subscribers during the same period declining from 2.65 crore to 2.61 crore. According to a report by Jefferies on Indian telecom services, Vodafone-Idea saw a sharp decline in its market share in metros and urban areas. “Given that these markets have higher dual-sim users, it seems subscribers are consolidating their usage/spends away from Vodafone-Idea in these markets,” the report states. On the other hand, Reliance Jio added 1.27 lakh new subscribers in the state rising from 2.38 crore in April to 2.39 crore in May. While net additions in the number of mobile subscribers have declined in Gujarat in May, the number of requests for mobile number porting went up marginally by 1.7 lakh in the same period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/people-ditch-multiple-sims/articleshow/77772452.cms||Niyati Parikh
August 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 50 Anekal hospitals not to treat govt patients||BENGALURU: Citing financial distress caused by delay in reimbursement for treatment provided to Covid-19 patients referred by the state government, close to 50 private hospitals in Anekal taluk on the south-eastern fringes of the city have decided not to take in such patients anymore. The hospitals, which come under the aegis of Anekal Hospitals’ Association, say have given 50% of their beds for Covid-19 patients referred by the government but their bills for this are yet to be cleared. The hospitals’ bed strength ranges from 15 to 300. The association will meet on Thursday to finalise the plan of action and submit a memorandum to the government. No clarity on bill payment for patients sent by govt: Pvt hospsDr Jagadish Hiremath, CEO, Ace Suhas Hospital, and member of the association, said they have treated over 50 Covid-19 patients referred by the government but haven’t received Rs 20 lakh in reimbursement. Athreya Hospital in Chandapura is waiting for Rs 18 lakh towards 22 Covid-19 patients it has treated so far. The hospital too has decided not to take cases sent by the government. Dr Narayana Swamy, who heads the hospital, said there’s no clarity who will pay the bills for patients sent by primary health centres and tahsildars. “We treated six patients. Neither patients nor the government have paid us. The health department says no payment will be done for these patients as they were not sent by BBMP. This, despite patients having Bangaluru Urban district patient IDs at the time of admission. The district health officer said he does not handle finances. The tahsildar says his office cannot pay,” said Dr Swamy. Large hospitals in Anekal taluk like Narayana Health City and Oxford Medical College said they’ll continue to treat patients referred to by the authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-50-anekal-hospitals-not-to-treat-govt-patients/articleshow/77774538.cms||Sunitha Rao R
August 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Orders to housing society on officer's kin isolation set aside||MUMBAI: Bombay high court quashed and set aside ex parte orders passed by two state officials threatening the managing committee of a Kandivli (West) housing society that had told a city survey officer's family to self-isolate themselves, with penal proceedings. A bench of Justices K K Tated and Milind Jadhav heard a petition by RNA Royal Park CHS Ltd challenging orders of the deputy registrar, cooperative societies, R/north ward and tehsildar and executive magistrate, Borivli, passed under Disaster Management Act, 2005, on a complaint by Sachin Hamjade. The latter is a licensee in the society which has 406 flats and nearly 2,000 occupants. He is a designated officer on Covid-19 duty. The petition said Hamjade arrived at 9.20pm on July 10 from his native place with wife and two children. He refused to provide travel and medical details but after giving a self-declaration to abide by rules, his family was moving around freely on the premises. An intimation slip was fixed near his door that the family had to stay in self-isolation till July 23. On July 13, the deputy registrar directed the society not to obstruct Hamjade as he was an officer on Covid duty. He also threatened legal action against office-bearers and directed them to remove the slip. On July 14, the tehsildar issued two orders to remove the slip and threatened to register an FIR against committee members if it was not removed. The slip was then removed. The society's advocate, Atul Singh, said Hamjade misused his position as a government officer and influenced the two officials when there was no obstruction to him carrying out his duty. He said without a hearing or intimation of Hamjade's complaint, the orders were passed, jeopardizing effective work by the committee to contain Covid-19 spread. He said if such orders were passed, no prudent member of the society would be willing to become office-bearers. The judges asked why the orders were passed without a show-cause notice. "Who permitted them to pass such orders? Do you realise what has been done?" asked Justice Tated. The state's advocate initially said the orders were correct. "When questioned if they were maintainable in the absence of a hearing or show-cause notice, he had no answer," the judges noted in their August 21 order. Hamjade's advocate Kunal Bhanage said he has a mentally challenged child, so the family may have moved around the society. He said Hamjade was willing to withdraw complaints and for withdrawal of three orders subject to the society's consent. Singh then gave the consent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-orders-to-housing-society-on-officers-kin-isolation-set-aside/articleshow/77774540.cms||Rosy Sequeira
