August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: MLA discusses action plan to prevent spread of Covid in Chennur||HYDERABAD: Chennur legislator Balka Suman of the ruling TRS discussed the additional measures that need to be taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19 during a video conference he held with the municipal commissioners of Mandamarri, Chennur and Kyathanpally on Thursday. To bring in more reforms and for further development of the Chennur constituency in Mancherial district, involvement of senior citizens, NGOs and retired employees were also put forward in the agenda. As part of the grievance redressal mechanism for the public, making use of social media platforms, including Whatsapp, Twitter and Facebook was suggested. The focus of the developmental programmes include street lighting /LED lighting, an action plan to tackle heavy rain situation, development of parks, and conducting water audit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-mla-discusses-action-plan-to-prevent-spread-of-covid-in-chennur/articleshow/77792023.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 28, 2020||Goa||AFC Cup set to be cancelled due to Covid complications||PANAJI: Chennai City FC’s involvement in the AFC Cup will end after just a single game as the Asian Football Confederation (AFC) is expected to cancel the tournament altogether. The coronavirus pandemic has thrown sporting life out of gear, and while many competitions have resumed, the AFC is convinced that they cannot proceed with the AFC Cup, Asian football’s second-tier club competition after the Champions League. According to sources, AFC has sent its recommendation to the competitions committee and sought feedback. A formal announcement is expected next month. “It’s becoming increasingly difficult to host the AFC Cup. The AFC tried holding the tournament at centralised venues, but different countries have different Covid protocols,” a source told TOI on Thursday. The AFC had classified the tournament into centralised locations for its group stages with East zone groups to play end of September, while West and South scheduled to resume in October. “The AFC tried to make the tournament work, but it was not possible. For some groups, there was no host association, while in other countries, there were unexpected problems. “For example, Vietnam was confirmed as host for two groups (ASEAN zone groups F and G), but a surge in Covid-19 cases has put an end to sporting activities,” said the official. Chennai City were drawn to travel to Maldives for their group E matches, scheduled to take place from October 23 to November 4. Grouped alongside Bashundhara Kings (Bangladesh), Maziya Sports & Recreation and TC Sports Club (both Maldives), Chennai had opened their campaign with a 2-2 draw against Maziya on March 11. Chennai, who qualified after winning the I-League 2018-19, have been informed of the developments. “It’s unfortunate that Chennai won’t be able to play in the AFC Cup, but these are extraordinary times. Nobody can control such situations,” said the official. India’s second representative, Bengaluru FC, crashed out of the qualifiers in playoff round after a penalty shootout defeat against Maziya at the Sree Kanteerava stadium. Last week, the AFC postponed the draw ceremony for the AFC Cup knockout stage. Meanwhile, the AFC U-16 Championship 2020 will be postponed while the AFC Champions League final, originally scheduled for December 5, will now be delayed by a fortnight. “The Champions League will be completed by December. In countries where the centralised matches have been scheduled, football has already restarted, so it becomes a lot easier. That was not the case with AFC Cup group hosts,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/afc-cup-set-to-be-cancelled-due-to-covid-complications/articleshow/77791490.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
August 28, 2020||Chandigarh||PU's Sanskrit department holds plantation drive||The department of Sanskrit, Panjab University, organized a tree plantation drive recently in front of the Shaheed Udham Singh hall building. Various staff members, including the chairperson of the department Prof Virendra Kumar Alankar took part in the initiative. Alankar said that due to Covid situation the drive was done with bare minimum participants who adhered to the social distancing and sanitization norms. He talked about how the current situation gave animals, birds a reason to come out. "Due to the restricted movement of humans, various species of animals and birds were spotted on roads, which generally doesn't happen." PU authorities have been stressing on holding tree plantation drives and are organizing various such activities at several points/locations inside the campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pus-sanskrit-department-holds-plantation-drive/articleshow/77792061.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Chennai||#IdhuMadrasMachi: Youngsters reflect on Madras through poems, paintings and typography||The pandemic might have stalled the Madras Week events in the real world, but this bunch of youngsters took the celebration to the virtual world. Thus was born ‘31 Days of Madras Inspired’, an online initiative by community organisation Nam Veedu Nam Oor Nam Kadhai. Youngsters, mostly college students, have been showcasing their artistic impression of the city through poetry, paintings and typography, among others, the whole of August. For instance, final-year student Varsha Sriram’s typography on Madras is based on the alphabet. “A to Z gives a feeling of completeness and also emphasises that everything about the city is important. So far, I’ve completed my work till Q,” she says, adding, “This generation misses out on noticing a lot of things even if it’s right in front of our eyes. Today, the world is definitely going the digital way. So, I feel this is the best way to grab their attention. Like, I used J to depict the jalli pattern; it’s unique to the windows of old architectural structures in Madras.” Another student, Akshaya Ramakrishnan’s paintings are about elements that connect Chennai and water. “The ocean, the 2015 flood, the water crisis — there are so many things that connect Chennai and water. A couple of my paintings show characters, like the one in which an old lady is bathing a child, and the one in which women are standing in a long queue with colourful buckets. All these are everyday scenes in the city. There are a few funny ones, too, like the one on TASMAC. Its caption reads, ‘thanni thotti thedi vantha’,” she says with a laugh. Capturing the essence of Madras through poems are collegians Smruthi Badri and M Arivukkarasi. While Smruthi writes in English, Arivukkarasi pens in Tamil. “People, their moods, buildings — everything about an area is covered in eight to 10 lines of a poem,” says Smruthi. Arivukkarasi adds, “Most of my poems are based on photos of Chennai, taken by my friend GS Mohan. I’ve addressed a few social issues, too, like the pollution at Ennore Port.” Final-year B.Arch student Srishti P captures Madras through different hues each day. “I go live from my social media page every day, gather ideas from people and paint instantly using one colour. Initially, I chose colours that we could directly connect with the city. For instance, yellow — associated with autos, CSK, etc. Later, I started using colours that didn’t have a direct connection with the city. I wanted to show that the beauty of a city is not just in tangible things, but also in intangible things, like people’s emotions,” she says. Conservation professional Prathyaksha Prasad has been focusing on elements of Madras that are part of our shared heritage. “One of the paintings is that of Madras checks. It’s a pattern that originated in Madras and went on to become famous globally. I feel it’s our shared responsibility to conserve heritage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/idhumadrasmachi-youngsters-reflect-on-madras-through-poems-paintings-and-typography/articleshow/77792127.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh reports 180 new Covid cases, one death||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh on Thursday reported 180 new Covid-19 cases and on, taking the total count taking the state's coronavirus tally to 5,501 and toll to 31 with one more fatality. The state also witnessed recovery of 189 positive patients. Now, the state has 1,418 are active patients while 4,008 have recovered and 42 have migrated out of state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-pradesh-reports-180-new-covid-cases-one-death/articleshow/77792108.cms||Anand Bodh
August 28, 2020||World||Case by case: How nations are going back to school - or not||PARIS: The UN says it's urgent to get kids back to schools after months-long coronavirus lockdowns, but with the virus still raging in parts of the United States and resurging in countries from South Korea to France, Spain and Britain, medical authorities are urging caution. Governments are taking different strategies toward the new school year, depending on how many infections they're seeing, the state of their health care systems and political considerations. Here's a look at how some countries are handling reopening schools amid the pandemic: United States In the United States, where K-12 education is largely the responsibility of states and local school districts, President Donald Trump and his education secretary have urged schools to reopen in person. But there has been heated public debate over the wisdom of bringing students back to the classroom, especially in communities with high daily new infections, so school reopening plans in the US vary widely. Most of the largest urban districts are starting the year remotely after a summer surge in virus cases. But other districts plan to offer face-to-face instruction at least part of the time. Some have already had to quarantine classrooms or shut down entire schools because of spreading COVID-19 infections. AfricaOnly six African countries have fully opened schools. In South Africa, students started returning to class this week class by class. It's the second time schools are reopening, after an initial reopening resulted in new infections and prompted new closures. As daily COVID-19 cases are decreasing, the government has said all grades should be back in schools by Monday. The South African government has also allowed parents who don't want their children to return to school to apply for home schooling. Elsewhere in Africa, Kenya has closed its schools for the rest of 2020. In Uganda, the government is procuring radios for rural villages to help poor families with remote learning. JapanSome schools in Japan reopened Monday after a shorter-than-usual summer vacation to make up for missed classes earlier due to the pandemic. At an elementary school in Tokyo, mask-wearing children held a opening ceremony in classrooms instead of the school gym for better social distancing. ChinaAs of last month, 208 million Chinese students, or roughly 75% of the country's total had returned to class, many on some type of staggered class schedule. The rest are expected to return by Sept. 1. South and Southeast AsiaSchools remain shut in India, Nepal and Bangladesh. In Sri Lanka, where the government says the virus has been contained to two clusters, schools were allowed to partially open this month for several grades facing government examinations shortly. Schools throughout Cambodia remain closed, while those in Thailand and Malaysia all reopened in July and August. Indonesian schools reopened in July with half-capacity classes and limited hours. FranceFrance is sending its 12.9 million students back to classrooms on Tuesday despite a sharp increase in infections in recent weeks. President Emmanuel Macron's government wants to bridge inequalities for children that were worsened by the coronavirus lockdown and get more parents back to work. Germany Most German students are already back in school — and at least 41 of Berlin's 825 schools have reported virus cases. Thousands of students have been quarantined around the country after outbreaks that some doctors attribute to family gatherings and travel during summer vacations. Britain Most of the UK's 11 million students haven't seen a classroom since March, but children are to start returning to schools across England on Sept. 4. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson called reopening schools a “moral duty,” and his government even threatened to fine parents who keep their kids at home. Among measures in place are hand-washing stations and staggered starts and lunch times, but masks aren't generally required. Nordic countriesMost schools resumed class last week in the Nordics, as they did at the end of the spring term, amid a general consensus that there is more harm for kids staying home than the risk of sending them to school. Sweden has few virus measures other than banning parents from entering schools when they drop children off. High school students even protested after Denmark's second-largest city shut their schools because of new infections, saying they don't learn as much remotely and questioning why they can go to shopping malls, gyms or the movies with lots of others but not school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/case-by-case-how-nations-are-going-back-to-school-or-not/articleshow/77792051.cms||---
August 28, 2020||India||UK PMO helps police prevent suicide attempt||NEW DELHI: It was a race against time on Wednesday night for policemen who were alerted by the office of the British prime minister about a possible suicide attempt by a woman in Delhi. In an email sent to the United Kingdom PM, the 43-year-old woman, a former municipal corporation school teacher, had said she would kill herself if no help arrived within two hours. This message was urgently conveyed to the Indian high commission in London, which forwarded it to the external affairs ministry and Foreigners’ Regional Registration Office. The police control room and all the police districts in the city were put on alert. At 11pm, the cops traced the IP address of the device on which the email was sent to Rohini. Technical surveillance zeroed in on the address at Sector 21, but the exact location couldn’t be pinpointed. After a search of nearly two hours, the cops resorted to knocking on the doors in each of the colonies to enquire about the woman. The security guards were also roped in for the search. Around 1am, the woman was finally located on the first floor of an apartment. The cops called on the mobile number provided by a security guard, but the phone went unanswered. Knocking on her door elicited no response either. “Fearing the worst, we called the fire department and disaster management teams to cut open the grille and the front door,” said P K Mishra, DCP (Rohini). “The noise brought the woman to the door. Frail and clearly anxious and frightened, she requested the police team to leave saying she was okay. Only a few policemen remained to counsel her.” Police officers found the woman’s house filled with animal excreta and reeking horribly. The woman too was in a malodorous state. During counselling, the woman revealed she was a divorcee and had left her job as a school teacher for personal reasons. She admitted to taking big loans a few years ago that she was now unable to repay. “We tried to find out more, but she avoided our questions,” said a police officer. Doctors later told the cops that the woman was suffering from depression arising from unresolved emotional issues and the stress caused by her financial burden. After consulting a magistrate, police got her admitted to Institute of Human Behaviour & Allied Sciences (IHBAS) for treatment. Efforts are being made to locate her relatives who can take custody of her once she recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uk-pmo-helps-police-prevent-suicide-attempt/articleshow/77792810.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Business||GST panel mulls borrowings to compensate states||NEW DELHI: The Centre and states on Thursday converged on the need to borrow more funds to meet the latter’s compensation requirement due to an estimated Rs 3-lakh-crore shortfall in goods and services tax collections this year but failed to agree on the details. What is, however, clear is that consumers will have to bear the burden of the additional borrowings as the compensation cess — levied on cars, soft drinks, pan masala, tobacco and coal — will be applicable beyond June 2022, the current deadline. How much longer will depend on the amount of borrowing and the interest liability. Read AlsoGST Council meet: Some states voice disappointment, seek Centre's helpDisappointed by the decision of the Goods and Service Tax (GST) Council on Thursday, ministers of certain states said that the decisions were thrust upon them and urged the government to compensate for the GST revenue loss.Although finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that the GST council meeting, which lasted five hours, did not discuss the issue of rate increase, a higher compensation cess on some of the items or expansion of its scope to include more products is not ruled out. "Not considering any rate increases to make up for the shortfall in cess is a welcome measure. However, moving to a market borrowing mechanism, which would extend the tenure of the cess beyond five years, would worry businesses that are subject to the cess. Any decision to extend the cess beyond five years in order to fund the present compensation deficit could become a precedent, hence the period of extension of the cess should be minimal and predefined so that the cess does not become a permanent tax," said M S Mani, partner, Deloitte India. For the first four months of the current financial year, the Centre had unpaid liabilities of Rs 1.5 lakh crore, finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey told reporters. Describing Covid-19 as an "act of God", Sitharaman said states had been given two options, and sought to differentiate between implementation-related losses and those on account of the pandemic. The first option entails borrowings of around Rs 97,000 crore, which was the estimate of loss due to implementation issues. This calculation assumed a growth of 10% instead of the 14% promised ahead of GST's launch. The other option is to let states borrow Rs 2.35 lakh crore from the markets. In both scenarios the Centre has assumed that compensation cess will generate around Rs 65,000 crore during the current financial year. In either case, the Centre will negotiate the terms of the borrowings and ensure good rates from the Reserve Bank of India, the FM said, adding that the borrowing limit will also be eased by 0.5% of the gross state domestic product. She added that a written proposal will be shared in a day or two and the states will respond within seven working days. The opposition-governed states, however, said they were not satisfied with the formula and insisted that the Centre should borrow. "The meeting was inconclusive. The question is who should borrow. The Centre has more capacity to borrow, it can get a better rate and has more debt servicing capacity," West Bengal FM Amit Mitra said. Punjab FM Manpreet Badal expressed similar views at a press conference. "The solution was thrust upon us saying that the Centre will stand guarantee and the amount will be repaid from the compensation cess which will continue for 2-3 more years. This is not acceptable to Punjab." Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said that under the existing administrative setup, the Delhi government cannot take a loan from the RBI and the Centre should do so to meet the Rs 21,000-crore deficit. As part of the arrangement with states to implement GST, the Centre had promised to compensate state for "revenue loss" during implementation and meet the gap between the actual collections and the promised annual growth of 14%. While the first two years went off without a glitch, the economic slowdown last year followed by Covid-19 have meant that there is not sufficient collection of compensation cess to meet the liability. Armed with legal opinion from attorney general K K Venugopal, the Centre told the states that it did not have to bear the burden and it was for the GST council to arrange the funds. Watch Rs 3-lakh-crore shortfall in GST: Panel mulls borrowings to compensate states||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gst-panel-mulls-borrowings-to-compensate-states/articleshow/77793675.cms||---
August 28, 2020||India||Coronavirus: Highest 76.4k cases on Thursday, 1,081 deaths||NEW DELHI: India’s Covid-19 pandemic continued to escalate, with a record 76,489 fresh cases being reported on Thursday and the daily count staying above the 76,000 mark for the second straight day. Deaths from the virus climbed to 1,081, the second-highest daily toll recorded so far. With this, 16,86,162 infections have been reported so far in August, nearly equalling the number of cases recorded in all previous months put together (16,94,918), as per TOI’s data collated from state governments. The Covid-19 death toll in the month crossed 25,000 on Thursday. The previous highest toll in a month was 19,122 reported in July. Follow TOI's live blog for latest updates on CoronavirusThe surge in fresh cases over the past two days has led to a spike of nearly 35,000 active cases since Tuesday, the highest in recent days. There are over 7.4 lakh active cases in the country now even as recoveries have climbed to nearly 25.8 lakh. Thursday’s count of fresh cases was the third highest single-day Covid-19 tally reported by any country, with only the US having recorded more — 78,427 on July 25 and 76,730 on July 17, as per figures from ourworldindata.org. Read Also‘Covid antibodies may last just 50 days’Covid-19 antibodies may not last more than a couple of months, according to a study carried out on affected healthcare staff of JJ Group of Hospitals. “Our study of 801 healthcare staff from JJ, GT and St George’s Hospitals included 28 who had tested positive for Covid (on RT-PCR) seven weeks priorIndia’s total caseload stood at over 33.8 lakh late on Thursday while the death toll was 61,621. Maharashtra continued to register the highest number of new cases and fatalities on Thursday. The state added 14,718 cases, marginally lower than Wednesday’s record high of 14,888. The death toll in the state was 355. While Andhra Pradesh continued to report more than 10,000 daily cases (10,621 on Thursday), the sharpest spike in numbers came from Karnataka, where 9,386 fresh infections were recorded. This is the first time the state has added more than 9,000 cases in a day. The state also recorded 141 fatalities on Thursday. Besides Karnataka, three other states reported their highest spike in infections — Odisha (3,384 new cases), Punjab (1,746) and Uttarakhand (728). Most other big states reported high numbers even as the daily count climbed to 1,840 in Delhi, its highest in 48 days. Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu reached a grim milestone 173 days after its first Covid-19 case – the case tally reached four lakh and the death toll inched towards 7,000. “It’s a sad milestone and we should be prepared for many more,” said National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Prabhdeep Kaur, who is on the state task force to combat the pandemic. For the second day in a row, Maharashtra added over 14,000 new Covid19 cases in a day, taking the total cases in the state to 7,33,568. The month of August has seen a high addition of new cases, a total of 3.1 lakh new cases in just 27 days. By contrast, 2.5 lakh cases were added in the full month of July. The state was back to reporting over 300 deaths in a day and reported 355 Covid-19 deaths on Thursday. The total death toll of the state was 23,444 on Thursday and the case fatality rate was 3.2%. Mumbai reported 1,350 new cases and 30 deaths, taking the total cases to 1,40,888 and deaths to 7535. Karnataka on Thursday reported its highest single-day spurt of over 9,300 new cases and 141 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 3.09 lakh, the health department said. The cumulative death toll stood at 5,232, while there have been 2.19 lakh discharges. Watch Covid-19: Highest 76.4k cases on Thursday, 1,081 deaths||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-highest-76-4k-cases-on-thursday-1081-deaths/articleshow/77793815.cms||---
August 28, 2020||India||Pulwama case: India to cite money trail to Pak banks at FATF||NEW DELHI: The irrefutable trail of Rs 10.43-lakh cash deposits by Pakistan-based Jaish masterminds into Pulwama case accused Mohammad Umar Farooq’s two bank accounts in Peshawar and Khyber Agency, to finance the February 14 fidayeen attack, is likely to make India’s case stronger for getting Pakistan “blacklisted” by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF). Pakistan’s delivery on FATF’s 27-point action plan to curb terror financing and money laundering will come up for review by the multilateral body on September 14, followed by the final decision at FATF plenary in October. Read AlsoNIA charges JeM chief, 18 others for Pulwama attackThe National Investigation Agency, in its 13,500-page chargesheet in the Pulwama terror attack case, has named 19 accused including Jaish-e-Muhammed chief Masood Azhar. While seven have been arrested, six are absconding and six others have died. As per NIA, JeM had planned a second attack on a keySources said India may raise the funding trail of Pulwama attack to banks in Pakistan, to highlight Islamabad’s “limited” understanding of the terror financing risk emanating from its jurisdiction. “The fact that a Jaish terrorist was receiving funds in his bank accounts back in Pakistan, with which he bought the car and explosives used for the deadly strike in India that killed 40 CRPF personnel, shows that Pakistan has failed to deliver on its promises of due diligence in its banking system,” an officer pointed out. Cheque book of Mohammad Umar Farooq's Pakistan bank account NIA probe into the Pulwama attack of February 14, 2019, has found that cash deposits totalling Rs 10.43 lakh were made in five instalments into Umar's separate bank accounts in Meezan Bank, Peshawar and Allied Bank in Khyber Agecy. The trail of all the five deposit slips has been retrieved from Umar’s phone that was broken into with the help of CERT-In. These funds were deposited after Umar made a request to his uncles Abdul Rauf Asghar and Ammar Alvi. The voice clips where Umar asks them for money for Pulwama attack, after which the cash deposits were made, are submitted as evidence in the chargesheet filed by NIA on Tuesday. Read AlsoFBI gave us key inputs in Pulwama probe: NIAAmerica’s intel and security service FBI had helped India’s National Investigation Agency in its probe into the Pulwama terrorist attack with two key inputs — it identified the point person the handlers were in touch with and also the nature of explosives used in the blast.Of the over 10 lakh Pakistan rupees deposited in Umar’s Pakistan bank accounts, Rs 5.7 lakh was used for purchase and modification of the car and procuring the explosives, including ammonium power from Amazon. Amazon had helped NIA track the accused who bought the ammonium powder from its site, by sifting through its buyer account database. “The entire money transfer trail was established by NIA, which makes our case water-tight and nails the direct role of Pakistan-based Jaish top leadership. Umar, soon after the Pulwama strike, was tasked with executing another big attack. However, the second attack plan was aborted after the Balakot strikes brought Jaish and its Pakistani state sponsors under international scrutiny. A message from ‘Mufti’ – seen as a reference to Jaish chief Masood Azhar – asking for the attack to be put on hold, was conveyed to Umar. The clip with reference to ‘Mufti’s’ message has been retrieved by NIA. Umar’s high-end phone was cracked open by CERTIn, though the help of FBI was taken for further verification of leads. The expensive Samsung phone was a gift from accused Bilal Ahmad Kuchey, a well-off sawmill owner who had bought two such phones at the time, one of which he kept for himself. Umar, nephew of main masterminds Masood Azhar and Rauf Asghar, hails from Bahawalpur and is married. He had trained in Afghanistan for two years before infiltrating into Jammu on April 14, 2018. Watch Pulwama attack: India to cite money trail to Pak banks at FATF||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pulwama-case-india-to-cite-money-trail-to-pak-banks-at-fatf/articleshow/77793949.cms||Bharti Jain
August 28, 2020||India||Retrospective legal backing for delimitation in NE states||NEW DELHI: The government plans to amend the Representation of the People’s Act, 1950, with retrospective effect to plug a loophole that may put the legal viability of Delimitation Commission’s ongoing exercise for delimitation of seats in four north-eastern states, in question. Sources indicated to TOI that Section 8A of the R. P. Act, 1950 will be amended to add Delimitation Commission as the agency that can conduct the delimitation exercise after the order deferring the exercise in the four states -- Assam, Manipur, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh -- issued under Section 10A of the Delimitation Act, 2002, is rescinded. As per the existing Section 8A, only the Election Commission is mandated to conduct the fresh delimitation exercise in the four north-eastern states. TOI has learnt that the law ministry recently wrote to EC seeking its nod for the proposal to amend Section 8A of R P Act with retrospective effect. EC has given its no-objection to the proposal. Delimitation Commission -- set up in March with retired Supreme Court judge Ranjana Prakash Desai as chairperson, to carry out delimitation in Union Territory of J&K and four north-eastern states -- has already completed four formal meetings so far. The Commission is likely to make a broad proposal soon regarding delimitation of seats based on the relevant census data furnished by Registrar General of India and other parameters outlined in J&K Reorganisation Act. This proposal will be put up for discussion at further meetings with associate members, already named by Speakers of the Lok Sabha/state assemblies concerned. The move to make suitable amendments to the R. P. Act follows after a former legal advisor to EC S K Mendiratta pointed to the conflict between the law ministry notification setting up the Delimitation Commission for delimitation in J&K and four north--eastern states, and Section 8 of the Act that only empowers EC to take up this task. Mendiratta, in a letter to EC, said any delimitation by the Delimitation Commission in the said states would not withstand judicial scrutiny and is set to be declared as “null and void” by the courts. The letter was immediately forwarded to the law ministry for action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/retrospective-legal-backing-for-delimitation-in-ne-states/articleshow/77793997.cms||Bharti Jain
August 28, 2020||India||‘Covid antibodies may last just 50 days’||MUMBAI: Covid-19 antibodies may not last more than a couple of months, according to a study carried out on affected healthcare staff of JJ Group of Hospitals. “Our study of 801 healthcare staff from JJ, GT and St George’s Hospitals included 28 who had tested positive for Covid (on RT-PCR) seven weeks prior (in late April-early May),” said the study’s main author Dr Nishant Kumar. None of the 28 showed any antibodies in a sero survey done in June, according to the pre-print of the study that will appear in the September issue of the ‘International Journal of Community Medicine and Public Health’. Follow TOI's live blog for latest updates on CoronavirusThe JJ Hospital sero survey had 34 others who tested PCR positive for Covid three weeks and five weeks prior respectively. “While 90% of those in the three-week group had antibodies, less than half (38.5%) in the five-week group had antibodies,’’ said Dr Kumar. Covid antibodies are being widely discussed at the moment because of the newly flagged off vaccine trials in India and the first documented case of Covid re-infection in Hong Kong. Antibodies can guard patients against repeat infections and those vaccinated against first infections. Read AlsoCoronavirus: Highest 76.4k cases on Thursday, 1,081 deathsIndia’s Covid-19 pandemic continued to escalate, with a record 76,489 fresh cases being reported on Thursday and the daily count staying above the 76,000 mark for the second straight day. Deaths from the virus climbed to 1,081, the second-highest daily toll recorded so far.In June, Dr Kumar’s not-for-profit Eyebetes Foundation along with state-run JJ Hospital in Byculla carried out an antibody survey among the latter’s staff. The survey showed that one in 10 staffers was sero-positive or had had previous exposure to the virus. A further analysis of the same survey’s results showed that antibodies decayed quickly. A few previous studies done globally had shown a ‘peak antibody formation’ after three weeks as well as an early antibody decay. “These results underline the need to rework vaccine strategies,” said Dr Kumar. The research team said instead of a single dose, people could need multiple vaccine doses. However, some public health experts were skeptical with the early decay hypothesis. “We don’t know if the 28 patients in the JJ study had suffered asymptomatic form of Covid or if they had symptoms,” said epidemiologist Giridhar R Babu from the Public Health Foundation of India. Studies in the West have shown aysmptomatic patients don’t have the same level of antibodies as patients who have had a prolonged or severe Covid infection. “Patients who had longer symptomatic disease have antibodies for at least three to four months,” added Dr Babu. A senior doctor from Mumbai said a lot of research is still being done on the mechanism of immunity in Covid infections. “There is emerging evidence that it is not IgG (Immunoglobulin G is the most common type of antibody) but T cells or neutralising antibodies that may help build immunity against Covid,” he said. The decay in IgG levels, he added, isn’t too worrisome then. A BMC hospital doctor said the study’s methodology isn’t adequate. “We have to conduct serial sero surveys – that is look at the levels of antibodies in possibly the same patient over a period of time – to be sure about the decay,” said the doctor. Watch Covid antibodies may last just 50 days: Study||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-antibodies-may-last-just-50-days/articleshow/77794063.cms||Malathy Iyer
August 28, 2020||India||NSA against man for rape-murder||BAREILLY: A day after a TOI report on the rape and murder of an 18-year-old Dalit girl in a UP town, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has taken suo motu cognizance of the case. Hours before that, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced Rs 5 lakh compensation for the family and ordered stringent NSA provisions against the accused. “The Commission has issued notices to the chief secretary and DGP, UP, calling for a detailed report in the matter within 4 weeks. The report must mention the status of the statutory relief and any other assistance provided by the state government to the family of the victim,” the NHRC statement issued on Thursday said. Police had on Wednesday arrested a man, Dilshad Ali, who, according to the cops, had confessed to raping and killing the girl because she had refused to marry him. Yogi on Thursday said the man will be tried under the National Security Act (NSA), which allows the government to detain a suspect for 12 months without any charges, and the trial will be conducted in a fast track court. Police had charged him with murder, rape and sections of the stringent SC/ST Act. “After receiving instructions from the CM, we will take steps to slap NSA against the accused and ensure a fast trial. A compensation of Rs 5 lakh will be granted to her family in addition to the Rs 8.25 lakh under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act,” Kheri district magistrate Shailendra Singh told TOI. The girl, from Kheri’s Behjam town, had been the only one in her family to study up to Class X. In fact, she was out to fill the form for an SC scholarship for the next academic session, which entitled her to a small stipend of Rs 2,200 a year, on Monday. She never made it back. The next day, her body was found near a pond in Kheri’s Neemgaon area, strangled, eaten up in parts by wild animals. Her handbag and mobile were found, as was a blood-stained knife. That evening, the accused was detained for questioning. He belongs to a minority community — the police said they were afraid of “communal tension” and have stationed cops outside his house. The girl’s family, however, is not convinced. Her father said, “We still can’t believe just one person could have committed the crime. We strongly believe someone else was involved. We will take this up with higher authorities to ensure justice for my daughter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nsa-against-man-for-rape-murder/articleshow/77794187.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 28, 2020||Goa||ISL to have its own Covid-19 lab in Goa||PANAJI: The organisers of Indian Super League (ISL) will set up their own Covid-19 testing laboratory in Goa for players, officials, broadcast team and all else who are associated with the five-month football tournament. The biggest sporting spectacle to take place in the country during the pandemic will see 10 teams and nearly 1,000 people, including players and officials, be a part of the tournament. “The lab will be situated at a hotel and will be set up after consultations with the state administration. This will ensure that there is no strain on Goa’s health facilities when everyone arrives here,” said a source, who has been tracking the development. “The organisers will have their own doctors and nurses, who will take swabs and then do the testing. Players and officials will not be allowed to move out of the bio-bubble. Instead, swabs will be taken at the hotel itself,” said the source. A total of 500 players, officials and support staff of teams are expected in Goa for the ISL that will be played from November 21 to March 21. Another 150-200 staff will be from the broadcasters, while league staff, accredited agencies and security will take the personnel involved in the tournament to nearly 1,000 people. Players and officials, who will start arriving here in October, have been told to obtain Covid-19 negative certificates from their home cities, 48 hours before arriving in Goa. As a precautionary measure, more tests will be done upon arrival and they will have to spend some time in isolation, even if they test negative for Covid-19. Another official said ISL has put together a central medical team and hired a league hygiene officer who will oversee health protocols. “It’s mandatory for all participating clubs to have a hygiene officer of their own. This officer will be tasked with ensuring that all medical protocols are followed,” said the official. Everyone associated with the league will be classified into three groups—high protection, medium protection and general protection. The all-important high protection group includes players, team officials and families. Television presenters have also been included in this group since they would be interacting with players and officials on a regular basis. Members of this group will be tested twice to three times every week for Covid-19. The medium protection group which includes league, hotel staff and management officials will be tested twice a week, while the general protection group—accredited staffers—will have to mandatorily undergo one test every week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/isl-to-have-its-own-covid-19-lab-in-goa/articleshow/77792178.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
August 28, 2020||India||Any further delay in holding NEET, JEE will create untenable situation: Pokhriyal||Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, in an interview to TOI, said any further delay in holding the JEE and NEET-UG will lead to a zero academic year resulting in a loss for students. “Though we are facing a pandemic situation, academics and career of students cannot be jeopardised. Life must go on and we have to stand strong,” he said. While citing examples of China’s Gaokao and Germany’s Abitur exams conducted during Covid-19, the minister said political considerations should be shelved in the interests of the students. On preparations for the exams, he said, “NTA has taken all necessary measures for the safety of students and defined SOPs based on recommendations of a medical experts.” On starting the 2020-21 academic session, he said, “We are awaiting directions from the ministry of home affairs. The SOPs for reopening schools and higher education institutions after Covid-19 have been finalised after due consideration of various suggestions and comments received from states and UTs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/any-further-delay-in-holding-neet-jee-will-create-untenable-situation-pokhriyal/articleshow/77794684.cms||---
August 28, 2020||India||Centre asks states accounting for maximum Covid deaths in recent days to bring down fatalities below 1%||NEW DELHI: Amid rising concerns about increasing Covid-19 deaths in some states, the Centre has asked nine states and one Union Territory – that together contributed 89% of total Covid-19 casualties in the last two weeks - to take proactive steps to limit transmission of the infection and reduce fatalities to less than 1% across all districts. The 10 states/UT are Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana, Gujarat, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. In a review meeting chaired by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba on Thursday, the Centre asked these states to continue with rigorous vigil to ensure at least in 80 % of new positive cases, all close contacts are traced and tested within 72 hours. The meeting held over video conference was attended by chief secretaries and health secretaries of these states. While asking the states to focus on effective containment, contact tracing and surveillance, the Centre also stressed on the need to ensure a minimum of140 tests per million per day in all districts while targeting a positivity or confirmation rate of below 5%, as per the WHO norm. States were also given strict instructions to retest all symptomatic negatives of antigen tests with RT-PCR, while leveraging these tests in containment zones and healthcare settings. The review and suggestions to states were primarily based on health ministry’s assessment of the data so far. TOI had reported on Thursday that the sharp rise in deaths has emerged as a concern prompting the Centre to advised states to do death audits in each Covid hospital and follow standard treatment protocol to ensure the death rate comes down to below 1%. On Thursday, the health ministry said a total of 60,472 have died due to Covid-19 so far after 1,023 fresh deaths were registered on Wednesday. While the overall case fatality rate has remained stable at around 1.8% for some time now, that is also because the total number of infections are on the upswing. The Centre has also asked states to regularly monitor patients in home isolation and ensure timely admission to healthcare facilities if SpO2 (blood oxygen level) falls below the designated level. Besides, states have been asked to put in public domain the availability of beds and ambulances across Covid facilities while significantly reducing ambulance response time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-asks-states-accounting-for-maximum-covid-deaths-in-recent-days-to-bring-down-fatalities-below-1/articleshow/77794713.cms||Sushmi Dey
August 28, 2020||Business||Airlines can now provide meals: Govt||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Thursday relaxed onboard meal and inflight service norms for domestic flights, as well as international ones operated by Air India, private airlines and charter companies. Airlines operating domestic flights can now provide pre-packed snacks, meals and hot beverages. This means, low cost airlines can start selling these items again and full service can resume meal service. Passengers on international flights can now be served hot meals and limited beverages — including alcoholic — instead of the packed food and cold non-alcoholic beverage and water bottles that were kept on seats to minimise crew-flyer interaction till now during the pandemic. Back-of-seat inflight entertainment (IFE) screens have also been allowed to come to life with the condition that before boarding of passengers, each screen should be disinfected and cleaned thoroughly. Disposable or disinfected headphones can now be given to passengers. The aviation ministry on Thursday issued an amended standard operating procedures (SOP) that allow these changes. “In all classes, tea/coffee/alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverage service will be in disposable cans/containers/bottles/glasses. There will be no pouring service and beverages will be served in single use disposable units,” the order by aviation ministry joint secretary Usha Padhee says for international flights. The only difference for domestic flights in this amended order is that alcoholic beverages are not allowed. The amended SOP requires cabin crew to “wear a fresh set of gloves for every meal/beverage service”. While allowing meals, beverages and IFE, the stress is on hygiene and strict disinfection of each cutlery item and screen. Instead of the earlier “no or minimum catering (pre-packed cold meals, snacks, depending on length of flight) and no tea/coffee,” airlines, private and charter aircraft operating international flights to and from India can now “serve hot meals and limited beverages”. The earlier rules for international flights during the pandemic required leaving cold, picked meals and some water bottles — quantity dependent on flying time — on passenger seats and water bottles were to be kept in galley for flyers to pick up if needed. This was to minimise cue-passenger interaction. The earlier SOP required IFE to be switched off to minimise touch on aircraft surfaces. Now, IFE has been allowed subject to thoroughly cleaned and disinfected before boarding of passengers. “Each seat will have its own dedicated IFE to be used only by the passenger occupying the seat…. All passenger touchpoint will be carefully cleaned and disinfected after the flight,” it says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/airlines-can-now-provide-meals-govt/articleshow/77794763.cms||Saurabh Sinha
August 28, 2020||India||Modi govt won’t let Congress spoil students’ future, says BJP||NEW DELHI: A day after a group of academics wrote to PM Narendra Modi supporting the holding of the rescheduled JEE and NEET in September, BJP on Thursday said the government must go ahead with the entrance tests in the larger interest of the students. Party general secretary Bhupender Yadav said over 85% students had downloaded admit cards, showing their willingness to take the tests. “Congress believes students must lose a year so it doesn’t lose an opportunity for politics. The Modi govt won’t let Congress spoil students’ future,” Yadav said. BJP social media head Amit Malviya said, “Only 332 of the students have sought a change in their centre. These numbers and the silence on several state entrance exams in the past few months underline the politics of AISA-NSUI-SFI behind it all.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/modi-govt-wont-let-congress-spoil-students-future-says-bjp/articleshow/77794794.cms||---
August 28, 2020||India||Why Isro plans to bring ‘Moon craters’ to Karnataka||BENGALURU: Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro), which is looking to launch Chandrayaan-3 next year, will be creating artificial Moon craters in Ullarthi Kavalu, Challakere, some 215km from Bengaluru, later this year. “We’ve already called for tenders and the process of identifying a firm for the civil works will be complete by the month-end or early September. The craters will be created on our Challakere campus,” said a source, adding that it would cost at least Rs 24.2 lakh. The craters, another source said, would have a diameter of 10 metres and 3-metre depth. They are meant to simulate the lunar surface on which the Chandrayaan-3 lander would land. “The lander’s sensors will undergo a crucial test — Lander Sensor Performance Test (LSPT) — which will involve us flying the sensors on an aircraft over the artificial lunar site and see how efficient they are in guiding the lander,” a scientist said. Just like Chandrayaan-2, India’s next lunar mission will also be highly autonomous (pre-programmed), using multiple sensors, including those designed to help the lander assess its height from the landing spot, decide velocity and keep the craft away from boulders and uneven surface.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/why-isro-plans-to-bring-moon-craters-to-karnataka/articleshow/77794818.cms||Chethan Kumar
August 28, 2020||Business||Ditching masks could put flyers on no-fly list||NEW DELHI: Flyers who refuse to wear face masks or similar covering on flights can be put on the no-fly list, DGCA director general Arun Kumar said on Thursday. The period for which such flyers would be barred from flying would depend on the cabin crew’s assessment of the gravity of unruly behaviour. “So far we have not heard abo- ut any case of (such) defia- nce,” Arun Kumar told TOI. “A distinction has to be made between someone who defiantly refuses to wear a mask and someone who takes the mask or face covering off for drinking water or taking a bite. The provision of no-fly list action should be invoked against someone wilfully and knowingly defying wearing a mask and endangering others,” a DGCA official said. The warning comes at a time when air travel is picking up. The number of domestic flyers on a single day crossed the 1-lakh mark for the first time on Wednesday. “Sky full of milestones! More than 1,000 (domestic) flights. More than 2 lakh passenger footfalls (counting departures from origin and arriving at destination). Now we cross the milestone of more than 1 lakh domestic passengers in a day!” HS Puri, aviation minister, tweeted on Thursday. Domestic flights and passengers are likely to increase in the coming days as Kolkata partially lifts restrictions on flights from six cities including Delhi, Mumbai, and Chennai. In addition, Mumbai and Chennai are likely to allow more daily schedule domestic flights in the next week or so. While schedule international flights remain suspended, India is creating air bubbles with more countries that will lead to more foreign travel to and from India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ditching-masks-could-put-flyers-on-no-fly-list/articleshow/77794825.cms||Saurabh Sinha
August 28, 2020||Rajkot||After celebrating birthday, man hangs self at resort||RAJKOT: A 28-year-old man hanged himself to death from the branches of a tree at a resort near Khirsara village of Lodhika taluka in Rajkot district on Wednesday evening. Police said the deceased, Jaideep Miyatra, had ended his life at Lake View Resort where his brother-in-law Malde Ahir owns a bungalow. “Miyatra had celebrated his birthday party at the resort on Tuesday. Then he took the drastic step on Wednesday evening. We are yet to probe the reason behind the suicide,” said an official from Lodhika police station. Miyatra, who was into the business of finance, was from Mota Dahisara village of Maliya-Miyana taluka in Morbi district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/after-celebrating-birthday-man-hangs-self-at-resort/articleshow/77791199.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Rajkot||Best teacher award for Rajkot tutor||RAJKOT: An assistant teacher at St Mary's High School in Rajkot has been selected for Gujarat state best teacher award this year. As part of this award, Umesh Vala will get Rs 50,000 cash from the state government on September 5, which he plans to use for education of poor children. Vala has been selected in the reviewer’s committee for Gujarat State Textbooks Framing Board in social science subject for grades 9 and 10. Vala had presented a research paper on ‘The contribution of Akho in social transformation during medieval age’ at a national seminar organized by department of history of Saurashtra University. Vala teaches social science to the Class 10 Gujarati medium students and Gujarati as a second language to the students of English medium. The result of his school has been around 97-99% in board examinations and the result of his subject has been 100% for the last three years. “During my stint, I have tried to boost the morale of the students to keep them away from negative approach towards education,” says Vala. Vala has not availed a single leave from his school in the past five years. For this, he has been felicitated as the most regular teacher in school. Vala has also carried out social work for the children of salt pan workers. Under the initiative of ‘Agaria Welfare Centre’ associated with the salt industry, Vala stayed in Jogad village of Kutch district for 15 days during summer vacation and taught the children of salt pan workers. On February 6, 2019 too, Vala had got the best teacher award and Rs 21,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/best-teacher-award-for-rajkot-tutor/articleshow/77791090.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Business||Mobile data speeds back to pre-lockdown levels||CHENNAI: The frequent lag in streaming movies on your phone soon after the pandemic struck is probably a thing of the past. Mobile data download speeds, which fell almost by 21% (national average) compared to pre-Covid levels in the first week of April (soon after the lockdown commenced), got back to the earlier levels in mid-July, and are also up marginally in August. However, the overall download experience during the lockdown has differed across locations. The dip in speeds was more pronounced in tier-2 and -3 cities, where telecom operators do not have sufficient network infrastructure, as many people returned home from larger cities. Urban users saw average download speeds dip by 16% during March 30-April 12, while users in tier-2 and -3 cities saw greater declines of 25% and 23% respectively, a study of data speeds between March 23 and August 2 by research firm OpenSignal showed. The download speed slowed by just 9% in Delhi and 3% in Hyderabad and Bengaluru between April 6 and 12, but in Nashik, Solapur, Surat and Faridabad, speeds fell by 30%, 34%, 27% and 22% respectively. “With shifts in user behaviour during the lockdown, the average speeds started falling during non-peak hours, bringing down overall speeds,” the study noted Operators may have also taken pre-emptive measures to reduce risk of outages by reducing maximum speeds, it added. As telcos augmented capacities, the national average speed rose 1% above pre-Covid times during July 27-August 2. The largest increases were seen in Delhi (35%), Mumbai (33%), and Chennai (31%). “Relatively fewer numbers of users were connecting to mobile data services in the larger cities, generating less demand, and thus underutilising the network infrastructure,” the study noted. Though network speeds also improved in tier-2 and -3 cities, places like Dhanbad, Kanpur and Solapur still continue to face 21%, 13% and 14% dip in download speeds. “The consumption of mobile internet in the initial days (of the lockdown) was chaotic, and did not follow any routine. As time progresses, people are getting into a digital discipline thus reducing and streamlining traffic on networks,” consulting firm techArc’s founder Faisal Kawoosa said. Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) director general S P Kochhar said telcos ensured realignment of networks from commercial areas to enhance capacities for residential and rural areas to support data-driven services like WFH and online education. “An upsurge in demand for more bandwidth is being monitored and met at present by a robust backup and redundancy feature inbuilt in the operators’ network systems as part of the SOP,” he said. Operators also engaged with authorities to allow permission for laying fibre networks, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mobile-data-speeds-back-to-pre-lockdown-levels/articleshow/77791721.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
August 28, 2020||Business||India Inc chants inclusive mantra, hires trans||CHENNAI: Is India Inc slowly getting the hang of inclusive hiring, particularly when it comes to trans people? Although the numbers are still very small, a clutch of corporates — including Amazon, Lalit Group, M&M, IBM, Accenture and KPMG — have kicked off pilot projects to either induct trans employees into the workplace or get policies ready to allow the organisation to absorb them. Amazon has launched three pilots, employing 25 trans people, and is looking to scale up once the 12-week projects run out successfully. Others like Lalit Group and Accenture offer insurance support for gender-affirmation surgery. Bengaluru-based HR firm Pride Circle placed 50 people from across the LGBTQIA+ spectrum in its job fair held last year in the city. Co-founder Ram Sinha said, “We have had placements in global companies like Accenture, JLL India and Societe Generale as well as Indian companies Lalit Group, Invesco Hyderabad and Nestaway Bengaluru. Typically, sectors like hospitality, IT/ITeS, banking and advertising are seeing the trend.” Amazon India operations director (HR) Swati Rustagi said, “As a pilot we are running a delivery station in Becharaj (80km from Ahmedabad) completely handled by our trans employees, a fulfilment centre that includes trans-people in Kamaspur (Sonipat), and a similarly inclusive centre in Delhi. We now have a working model and, after the pilots, we will scale it up.” Amazon is also working with NGOs that have domain knowledge, including PeriFerry, Solidarity Foundation and Pahel. Hospitality chain Lalit Group currently has eight trans employees working in marketing, reservations, F&B services and front office. “We have also trained over 100 people through our skill development initiative and offer insurance and health cover policy for same-sex partners/single parents having children born through surrogacy or adoption,” said a company spokesperson. The insurance also covers gender-afﬁrmation surgery up to Rs 3.5 lakh. Ditto for Accenture, which was one of the first companies to introduce medical cover for gender-reassignment surgery in 2016, according to Lakshmi C, MD and lead (human resources) at Accenture in India. The company has both small and big interventions towards inclusiveness. “We have a six-month internship programme for diverse, skilled talent, including transgender candidates, that helps identify talent we can then hire,” she said. “And we have also introduced small changes like enabling our systems so people can use their preferred name without the need for any documentation.” The point, said companies, is to offer a voice. Take IBM which, said Prachi Rastogi, Diversity and Inclusion leader, IBM India, has enough trans employees “to have a strong voice — most of them with roles in business technology”. But the focus is “on hiring on merit” and the company keeps track of the “hiring, promotion and attrition of transgender employees”, she added. Companies like M&M see the inclusion as a must because “a mix of backgrounds, opinions, and talents enriches an organisation and helps achieve success”, said M&M executive VP (group human capital & leadership development) Prince Augustin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-inc-chants-inclusive-mantra-hires-trans/articleshow/77791655.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
August 28, 2020||Patna||Bid to encourage plasma donation in Bhagalpur||BHAGALPUR: The Bhagalpur chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) has decided to provide free healthcare services for one year to such people who donate their plasma after recovering from Covid-19. The move, according to IMA, is aimed at promoting plasma donation in the district. “A certificate of appreciation will also be given to the plasma donors by the IMA. On showing this certificate to the doctors associated with Bhagalpur chapter of IMA, the plasma donors will get free treatment for a year,” said Dr Birendra Kumar Badal, secretary of IMA’s Bhagalpur unit. At least 25 people, who have recovered from coronavirus, have approached the IMA for donating plasma, Dr Badal said. “We are making an inventory of the probable donors. Eleven doctors, who have recovered from Covid, have also come forward to donate their plasma on humanitarian grounds for saving the lives of others,” Dr Badal added. According to the health department, of the 4,987 corona patients in the district, 4,264 have recovered so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bid-to-encourage-plasma-donation-in-bhagalpur/articleshow/77790636.cms||Kumar Rajesh
August 28, 2020||Varanasi||DPR for rapid transit system in Varanasi to be reviewed in Sept||Varanasi: The detailed project report on Comprehensive Mobility Plan (CMP) phase-I, submitted by Rail India Technical and Economic Service (RITES) in December 2019, for a rapid transit system in Varanasi will be reviewed in the first week of September. In its report, RITES has proposed a light Metro corridor between BHEL (Tarna) and BHU (Lanka) after the proposal for Metro sanctioned in 2015 was not found feasible for the old city area and was discarded in June 2019. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal told TOI on Thursday, “In last two months, RITES had made presentations on its DPR before chief minister Yogi Adityanath through video conferencing also attended by principal secretary (housing) Deepak Kumar, myself, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma, Varanasi Development Authority vice chairman Rahul Pandey and municipal commissioner Gauran Rathi.” Since Metro rail was not found feasible and discarded, RITES was asked to suggest alternatives keeping the topography of the city in mind and has proposed light Metro on one stretch, he added. “As mass rapid transit system projects entail heavy investment, the government wants to ensure it is feasible, effective and serves the needs of people while keeping in mind the ground realities of this congested city so that it doesn’t become a liability,” said Agarwal. The next review is scheduled in the first week of September and will be attended by principal secretary (housing) Deepak Kumar, Lucknow Metro Rail Corporation managing director Kumar Keshav, officials of RITES and local authorities, he added. Water and Power Consultancy Service Limited , a Mini Ratna PSU, has also been involved as consultant. After review and clearance the DPR, will be submitted to the Union government, said Agrawal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/dpr-for-rapid-transit-system-in-varanasi-to-be-reviewed-in-sept/articleshow/77790505.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
August 28, 2020||Patna||Cops oppose govt’s compulsory retirement move||PATNA: Strong resentment prevails among 90,000-odd police personnel over the recent decision of the state government to give compulsory retirement to non-performing government employees above 50 years of age. On August 25, commandant of the Bihar Military Police’s 15th battalion (India Reserve battalion 3) stationed at Valmikinagar in West Champaran issued a letter stating that a committee has been set up to assess the performance of the police personnel above the age of 50 years. The copy of the commandant’s letter is with this newspaper. According to the commandant’s letter, the first meeting of the committee was held on Thursday to prepare the list of such police personnel. The list contained the names of 172 police personnel, who were above the age of 50 years in the elite force, the headquarters of which is located on the premises of BMP-6 at Muzaffarpur. The letter, copies of which were also sent to all company commanders and other officials concerned, however, clarified that the process had been initiated and the committee formed in the light of the order of the state government’s general administration department (GAD) issued on July 23. When contacted, additional director general of police (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said, “No such order has been issued from the police headquarters.” He, however, added that he was not aware of any letter issued by other departments. Taking a strong exception to the move, the functionaries of Bihar Police Association (BPA) and the Bihar Police Men’s Association (BPMA) have threatened to launch an agitation. In a letter to state DGP Gupteshwar Pandey, BPA state president Mritunjay Kumar Singh wrote, “We request you to withdraw the order with regard to compulsory retirement to non-performing police personnel above the age of 50 years in the larger interest of the men in uniform. Our men are dedicated to their duty even at the risk of their lives.” BPMA state president N K Dheeraj has described the government’s order as ‘Tughlaqi farman’ and said the association would have no option than to launch an agitation if the order was not withdrawn. “The order will have far-reaching consequences in the days to come,” he said and requested CM Nitish Kumar to reconsider the decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cops-oppose-govts-compulsory-retirement-move/articleshow/77790831.cms||Ramashankar
August 28, 2020||Surat||FM’s clarification on EL a big relief for diamond industry||Surat: In a major relief to the diamantaires of Surat, the union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has clarified that the e-trade of rough diamonds does not attract 2% Equalisation Levy (EL) under the e-commerce supply or services by the diamond mining companies in the foreign countries. A delegation of the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) had met Sitharaman in New Delhi over the issue on Wednesday. According to GJEPC office-bearers, the EL was introduced and amended in the Finance Act 2020 and a 2% duty was made effective on the consideration received by an e-commerce operator from the transactions including online sale of goods, provision of services etc. During the meeting, GJEPC urged the FM to issue appropriate amendment to ensure that the diamond sector is not burdened with the EL, even when rough diamonds are procured through auctions over a digital platform. According to GJEPC, the FM clarified that the EL was meant to tax the digital economy utilising the e-commerce platform to reach end consumers and would not apply to B2B transactions like procurement of rough diamonds through digital platforms for business purpose. Earlier the industry experts had interpreted that procurement of rough diamonds from global miners and traders, through the e-auction process will attract additional 2%. However, with the clarification of the FM, came as a big relief for the diamantarires of Surat, world’s biggest diamond cutting and polishing hub.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/fms-clarification-on-el-a-big-relief-for-diamond-industry/articleshow/77790794.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Surat||Majura BJP MLA tests Covid positive||Surat: BJP MLA from Surat’s Majura seat, Harsh Sanghavi tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. The 35-year-old legislator announced his status on Twitter and asked those who may have come in contact with him to self-isolate and get tested for the virus infection. “Today I underwent Covid-19 test and it has turned out positive. I have opted for hospitalization. Those who have come in contact with me in last few days are advised to get tested for themselves and take required precautions,” Sanghavi tweeted. Sources said that Sanghavi is a close aide of BJP chief C R Paatil and has toured with him in Saurashtra few days ago. Sanghavi was spotted playing garba during the tour, videos of which have also gone viral. "Sanghavi and other BJP leaders did garba at Keshod in Junagadh district on public road. He was seen prominently in doing garba,'' said a source. When Paatil landed in Surat first time after being appointed as BJP chief, BJP had planned a grand welcome for him and Sanghavi had played a major key role in gathering people, a BJP leader said. However, the rally was cancelled at the last moment by Paatil after backlash on social media where people raised concerns over Covid-19 spread. Meanwhile, 169 people tested positive in Surat city and three succumbed on Thursday. As many as 130 patients got discharged too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/majura-bjp-mla-tests-covid-positive/articleshow/77790768.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Patna||Now, BEd not compulsory for administrative officers||PATNA: BEd degree is no longer required for the recruitment of administrative officers in Bihar Education Services as the state government has made amendments in the existing Bihar Education Service Cadre Rules, 2014. A notification in this regard was issued by state education department additional secretary Girivar Dayal Singh on Wednesday. According to the notification, administrative officers will not require to complete BEd during the training period under the amended Bihar Education Service Cadre Rules, 2020. Earlier, the administrative officers had to undergo BEd course (which was necessary qualification after the appointment) along with various others trainings during the two-year probation period. Spokesperson of education department Amit Kumar said before 2015, the BEd course duration was of nine months, but later it was made a two-year course. “In this situation, it was not feasible to qualify BEd. However, the research and training sub cadres and other two wings will have to obtain BEd degree,” he said. Meanwhile, the education department has extended the tenure of 58 presiding officers of the District Appellate Authority till December 31 as fresh requirement has not been made yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/now-bed-not-compulsory-for-administrative-officers/articleshow/77790795.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Surat||Two sisters crushed to death in wall collapse||Surat: Two teenage sisters were killed when a 20 feet tall compound wall of their neighbour’s house collapsed on the portion of their house in Nondhan village of Bharuch’s Jambusar taluka on Thursday.The incident occurred at about 6am due to incessant rainfall. Three girls aged between 8-13 years were sleeping in the room, while their parents were in the another room of the roofed house. People from the villages rushed to the rescue of the family and removed the girls from the debris. The injured girls were rushed to the government hospital in Jambusar where they were declared dead on admission. The deceased have been identified as Hina Parmar, 13 and her sister Vaishali, 12. VR Prajapati, sub-inspector of Vedach police station told TOI, “The wall was constructed close to the roofed house of the family. The wall had become weak due to continuous rain. It fell on the room where the girls were sleeping. Prajapati added, “We have registered a case of accidental death and investigations are on”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-sisters-crushed-to-death-in-wall-collapse/articleshow/77791178.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Surat||13 Surat cops donate plasma||Surat: Nearly 13 cops from the city police have come forward to donate their plasma for recovery for critically ill Covid-19 patients.According to sources, the 13 policemen donated plasma at Surat Municipal Corporation’s SMIMER Hospital on Thursday .“I got infected with Covid-19 on July 17 while on duty. I donated plasma as it helps Covid-19 patients in their recovery. I will donate again,’‘ said Prithvirajsinh Vaghela, assistant sub-inspector with cyber crime cell.“Out of the 13 cyber crime cell cops, seven had tested positive and now they are turning plasma donors,” said a senior police official.Surat has been leading all cities of Gujarat in plasma donation with over 7000 people having donated this key blood component since July1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/13-surat-cops-donate-plasma/articleshow/77790720.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Business||MIT’s investment fund picks up 7% stake in Matrimony.com||Chennai: Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)’s investment fund MIT Investment Management Company (MITIMCO) has acquired 16.58 lakh shares or 7.28% stake in Chennai-based online matchmaker Matrimony.com, through open market purchases. As per stock exchange filings by Matrimony.com, investor Mayfield Advisors sold around 23 lakh shares of the company on Tuesday and a portion of the same was lapped up by MITIMCO. The acquisition was structured as 14 lakh shares (6.15%) for MIT and 2.58 lakh (1.13%) shares acquired by 238 Plan Associates, an employee welfare fund of MIT. Post the transaction, MIT now holds 9.71% stake in Matrimony.com after taking into account its existing 2.43% share, filings show. Matrimony.com’s profits for April-June at Rs 9 crore grew almost 38% from the previous quarter. The company attributed it to cost optimization measures it undertook in the quarter. The online matchmaker said it added 1,67,803 paid subscriptions during the quarter. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mits-investment-fund-picks-up-7-stake-in-matrimony-com/articleshow/77791624.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
August 28, 2020||Patna||Patna's Covid tally crosses 20,000-mark||PATNA: With 296 new Covid-19 cases registered in Patna, the district tally crossed the 20,000-mark on Thursday, while the statewide caseload went up to 1,28,850 with 1,860 recorded within 24 hours. Patna also accounted for five of the nine deaths reported by the health department. Begusarai, Madhepura, Muzaffarpur and Saharsa reported one death each. As per data shared by the state health department, Patna district had crossed the 10,000-mark on August 3, and it took 24 days to double the number of cases. The tally had touched 5,000 on July 24 and had reached 10,117 on August 3. DM Kumar Ravi said, “Patna is witnessing a drop in cases recently and the recovery rate has jumped to 85%. As of Thursday, 17,492 people have recovered and there are 2,377 active cases in the district.” When it comes to the state, the number of recoveries stands at 1,09,696 and with 662 deaths so far and 18,490 active cases. Also, in 24 hours, 2,931 people have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 85%. Ravi further said most of the active cases are in Patna are in home isolation not requiring hospital aid. However, he advised people to put on masks and maintain social distance. “We have just started public transport and shops have also opened. I request people to follow norms to have better results,” Ravi said. Other districts which registered a large number of cases on Thursday are Bhagalpur (128), Begusarai (123), Muzaffarpur (103), Gaya (97), Madhubani (95), Araria (84) and Purnia (75). AIIMS-Patna nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 35 people were discharged from the hospital, including a newborn child, while one patient was transferred to another hospital for kidney treatment. As of Thursday, 185 patients were admitted at the hospital. It reported five deaths, including four residents of Patna. The deceased include a 45-year-old man from Jagdeopath, a 62-year-old woman from Purnendu Nagar, a 69-year-old woman from Pataliputra Colony and a 55-year-old man from Alhanpur in Bihta. NMCH administration reported two deaths and both the deceased were from Patna. One was a 67-year-old woman from Gurhatta in Patna City and another was an 81-year-old man from Bera in Masaurhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-covid-tally-crosses-20k-mark/articleshow/77790615.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 28, 2020||Kolkata||Rape threats by e-fraudsters leave Kolkata women rattled||KOLKATA: Online fraudsters making calls to potential victims have now started using foul language and even rape threats whenever they are being found out. Kolkata Police has received three such complaints from women in the past 48 hours. The women took to social media to complain to the police and at least one of them has been asked to lodge a written complaint with the office of joint CP (crime). “The guy asked for my e-wallet details and when I refused, he abused me, gave rape threats and even threatened using an iron rod to do it,” one of the victi-ms tweeted. “Please do not be deceived by such fake messages/calls and refrain from sharing any of your personal information. Report all such instances to the Anti-Bank Fraud 24x7 helpline number 8585063104. Alternatively, you can also email us at jtcpcrime@kolkatapolice.gov.in,” the police replied. In another case, the woman claimed that when she challenged the caller, he threatened to “ruin her personal life”. On both these occasions, the victims tagged the National Commission of Women in their tweets. Police said there were two reasons why cyber frauds took this route — to intimidate the victim so she does not go to the cops or when the accused themselves are under pressure and worried about not reaching their targets. “We are consulting our legal team and will add IPC and IT sections that are used in cases of crimes against women,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dwaipayan-cyber-fraudsters-give-rape-threats-27-08-2020/articleshow/77792709.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 28, 2020||Varanasi||Verdict in petition against Dr Kafeel’s detention reserved||Prayagraj: Allahabad high court on Friday reserved its judgment on a writ petition challenging detention of Dr Kafeel Khan under National Security Act (NSA). Hearing a habeas corpus writ petition filed by Kafeel’s mother Nuzhat Perween seeking her son’s release, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Saumitra Dayal Singh reserved judgment after hearing both the sides. Earlier on August 25, 2020, the court had directed the state counsel to furnish the record of the proceedings under the NSA that resulted in Kafeel’s detention and further extension of the same. He was booked under NSA by the Aligarh district magistrate on February 13, 2020 for allegedly making an inflammatory speech at Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) campus during an anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protest. Subsequently, Dr Kafeel’s detention under NSA was extended on May 13 by DM Aligarh for a period of three months, i.e., till August 12. The detention under NSA was extended as according to the district administration, there was apprehension his release may lead to law and order problems. On August 4, NSA was again extended till November 13. NSA allows preventive detention for up to a year. Earlier, at one stage, the court had directed the Centre and the state government to file a reply in the present case seeking release of Dr Kafeel. According to the habeas corpus petition, Kafeel was earlier granted bail by a competent court and was supposed to be released. However, he was not released for four days and later the NSA was imposed on him. Hence, his detention was illegal as it was passed to nullify the effect of the bail granted by court. The plea also challenged the detention of Kafeel for four days before imposing NSA, even after he had secured bail in all the cases registered against him. Kafeel has been behind bars since January 29, 2020, after a speech which he had allegedly delivered at AMU on December 10, 2019, during anti-CAA protests. The speech was deemed ‘provocative’ by the UP government, which booked him under NSA. Kafeel came to limelight after the 2017 oxygen tragedy at BRD Medical College in which several kids died for lack of oxygen cylinders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/verdict-in-petition-against-dr-kafeels-detention-reserved/articleshow/77810201.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
August 28, 2020||Patna||AAP may join Bihar poll fray||PATNA: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) seems to have also decided to jump into the poll fray in Bihar. The party has authorised its state additional incharge Ashutosh Singh Sengar to assess the situation and decide the strategy for the upcoming elections. Party posters depicting ‘vastraharan’ scene from Mahabharata and showcasing Kejriwal as Lord Krishna and situation in Bihar as Draupadi who is surrounded by crime, unemployment, migration, flood, hunger and poor health and education system, have come up in Patna. Sengar, however, said the poster had been put up by the party workers and not the party. “I have been here for the last three days, meeting our party’s district presidents and other workers. After analysing the situation, I will prepare a report and submit the same to the party’s central leadership. The number of seats on which the party will contest in Bihar will be decided later,” he added. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election, AAP had fielded its candidates on three seats in Bihar – Bhagalpur, Sitamarhi and Kishanganj. However, the party had suffered defeat on all the seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aap-may-join-bihar-poll-fray/articleshow/77790758.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 28, 2020||Kolkata||Night-long rain floods pockets; KMC pumps out water from Behala, Bypass||KOLKATA: Several areas across the city were waterlogged on Thursday, following incessant rain since Wednesday evening. Sources in the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) sewerage and drainage department said the maximum rainfall in various parts of the city was recorded between 4am and 6am on Thursday. According to KMC sources, areas like Ultadanga, Belgachhia, Amherst Street, Thanthania, Park Circus, Topsia, Kidderpore, Ballygunge, Jodhpur Park, Kalighat, Garia, Bansdroni, Behala and some areas off EM Bypass were waterlogged. However, except in a few neighbourhoods, the water receded by Thursday night, a civic source said. According to a civic official, the presence of a high tide in the Hooghly on Thursday morning led to flooding of several city pockets along Tolly’s Nullah, including Kalighat and its neighbouring areas. However, the civic body’s borough offices were asked to flush out storm water from low-lying areas of Behala, Garia and EM Bypass where there is no underground drainage system. “We needed to press into service several portable pumps to flush out the stagnant water from low-lying areas which don’t have an underground drainage system,” said an official. A KMC official pointed out that waterlogging in large areas in Behala will persist during the rest of the monsoon as a drainage upgrade work undertaken under Kolkata Environment & Infrastructure Improvement Project (KEIIP) for several neighbourhoods is yet to be completed.  “Thousands of residents of Silpara, Parnasree Sarsuna or Shakuntala Park will have to experience waterlogging for the rest of the season as the ongoing drainage upgrade project is not over,” said another civic official. Residents staying in large areas off Bypass will also need to bear with waterlogging for the rest of this monsoon for a similar reason, said a civic official. “We have asked the executive engineers manning the city’s drainage pumping stations to keep all heavy duty pumps ready till the end of monsoon,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/night-long-rain-floods-pockets-kmc-pumps-out-water-from-behala-bypass/articleshow/77792694.cms||Saikat Ray
August 28, 2020||Kolkata||Police focus on bitcoin investment scam||KOLKATA: The special cell of the detective department is now convinced that an organized gang is cheating people by promising them hefty returns from bitcoin investments in the lockdown period. In two cases, the victims have lost close to Rs 1.4 crore. Cops believe the racket has operatives across India with possible links in Kolkata and Hyderabad. “They have been spreading false ideas to expand their business in this pandemic period,” said an officer. The last case was recorded on the basis of a complaint by Nadeem Ansari, 27, from Keshab Chandra Sen Street who lost Rs 12.5 lakh. “The accused, Santosh Mysari, 29, from Hyderabad befriended Ansari on a trading site and told him the crypto currency is the best bet in increasing one’s money,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-focus-on-bitcoin-investment-scam/articleshow/77792744.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||HC to govt: Why did you allot prime land to director for a song||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Thursday sought to know from the state government the rationale behind allotting five acres of prime land in Rangareddy district at Rs 5 lakh an acre to film director N Shankar. Upon being told by advocate general B S Prasad that the state cabinet had taken the decision to assist the film director to build a world-class film studio and also to consolidate film industry in Hyderabad, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy asked the state counsel why cannot the government do it on its own. “You (government) already have a renowned film studio, Ramoji Film City, in Hyderabad,” the bench said and refused to sail with another reply furnished by the AG that the government was firm in helping the director because he was the only director from the film industry who supported the separate statehood movement. The bench told the state counsel that at least 10,000 persons must have fought for the separate state and sought to know from him whether the government had made it a policy to allot five acres of land to all such fighters at a nominal price. The bench was hearing a PIL filed by J Shankar, an unemployed youth from Karimnagar who questioned the land allotment made to the director at Shankarpalli where an acre costs more than Rs 2.5 crore. The bench said that it can understand if the land price is reduced to Rs 2 crore per acre, but not at a dead cheap price of Rs 5 lakh per acre. It sought to know the policy of the state in this regard and directed the state counsel to file a counter by September 15 and posted the case to September 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-to-govt-why-did-you-allot-prime-land-to-director-for-a-song/articleshow/77791969.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
August 28, 2020||Patna||Tough for menstruating staff to wear PPE kits for long hours||PATNA: Wearing PPE kits for hours together has always been a tedious task for the health workers, especially womenfolk when they are in periods. However, these frontline workers, including doctors and nurses, have devised ways to face the challenge and get used to this top-to-bottom cover. It has been more than five months since doctors and health workers involved in Covid-19 treatment started wearing PPE kits, such as gowns, shoe cover, face shield and eye cover, amid hot and humid weather conditions. When it comes to womenfolk, wearing PPE becomes even more difficult during their menstruation. Keeping in mind these challenges, AIIMS-Patna is providing two PPE kits to its women staff for one shift. Dr Mukta Agarwal, a gynaecologist at AIIMS-Patna, said after PPE kits, health workers can’t eat or go to washroom. “We cannot be inhuman. Hence, we decided to provide two kits to our women staff. While selecting PPE kits, we check whether it is user-friendly or not and opt for the best,” she added. Dr Agarwal said after eight-day duty, women staff are allowed to take eight-day off at the hospital. A woman doctor at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, too said wearing PPE kits for long hours was difficult for them. “We are provided with just one PPE kit for one shift and cannot change in between. In case of periods during duty, we exchange the kits with other doctors,” the doctor said. “Leave periods, even on normal days it is difficult to wear PPE kits for long duration. Sweat enters inside the mouth and we can do nothing but gulp them down,” she added. Covid-19 nodal officer at Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College and Hospital in Bhagalpur, Dr H S Sharma, said the duty hours for women staff in Covid-19 ward has been slightly shortened. “Instead of eight hours, we put them on duty for four to six hours. After one-day duty, they get two-day off. As far as lactating mothers are concerned, we do not engage them in duty to avoid their direct contact with Covid-19 positive patients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tough-for-menstruating-staff-to-wear-ppe-kits-for-long-hours/articleshow/77790699.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 28, 2020||Patna||Some okay with NEET & JEE next month, others sceptical||PATNA: Amid the controversy surrounding the conduct of National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Exam (JEE), city students appearing for these exams have given their mixed reactions. While some students have expressed their serious concerns over conduct of examinations amid Covid pandemic, others have welcomed the move and started preparations to ace the exams. Pulkit Bhaskar, a JEE aspirant from DAV-BSEB School, said, “We have been eagerly waiting for the exam to happen since December when our course was completed. While I understand the pandemic situation, postponing the exam further will put our career in peril as the entire academic year will be wasted. Life has to go on and we cannot wait forever.” As per the schedule released by National Testing Agency (NTA), the JEE Main 2020 will be held between September 1 and 6 and NEET 2020 on September 13. NEET aspirant Khushi Maskara from St Karen’s High School said postponing the exam to the next academic session would increase the competition. “If the exam is not conducted in September 2020, it will most probably be postponed to the next academic session. In that case, the batches of 2020 and 2021 will have to write the exam together. But the number of seats in medical colleges will remain the same. Hence, the competition will become tough. I want to sit for the exam in September itself,” she added. Students who had already taken break for a year to prepare for JEE or NEET, said any further delay would jeopardise their career. Jaya Singh, who had taken a break last year to exclusively prepare for JEE, said, “This is my second attempt. I do not want to wait further. The exam should be conducted in September according to schedule.” Meanwhile, some parents and students have expressed their concerns over conduct of the examinations. “The academic session in most engineering colleges in India starts in January. I don’t see a point in conducting the exams in September. The authorities can wait till November at least. Hopefully, a Covid-19 vaccine will be available by then,” said Megha Singh, a JEE aspirant from St Karen’s High School. Parvez, father of Arza Jasmine, one of the top scorers of Class XII at Notre Dame Academy, said, “My daughter has put in a lot of effort for NEET. I am okay with exams being held in September. However, all precautionary measures should be taken by the authorities concerned at the examination centres.” With the NTA releasing the admit card for NEET on August 26, students who have been allotted examination centres close to their homes have heaved a sigh of relief. Tanisha, a Carmel High School student who scored 94.5% in Class XII board exams this year, said, “Even though there are safety concerns, the exam should be conducted as per the schedule. The only relief is that my exam centre is at Patliputra Colony which is quite close to my house.” According to an official at CBSE regional office here, 61,932 candidates will appear for NEET in the city. Bihar BJP chief slams opposition parties: State BJP chief Sanjay Jaiswal on Thursday slammed the opposition parties for their demand to postpone the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test and Joint Entrance Exam. He said, “The government is concerned about the career of lakhs of students, but the opposition is doing petty politics for political gains. The government will ensure that social distancing norms are followed at all the examination centres and precautionary measures taken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/some-okay-with-neet-jee-next-month-others-sceptical/articleshow/77790771.cms||Arunima Lal
August 28, 2020||Surat||Senior faculty falls prey to online fraud in name of SVNIT director||Surat: Believing the mail to have been sent by the director of Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT), a senior faculty of the institute fell victim to online fraud and lost Rs 15,000 recently. At least 17 other faculty members of SVNIT too had received the mail on on August 25 in their official IDs asking for the monetary assistance. However, majority of them escaped being duped as they did not respond to the mail and approached the director in person. In the recent past, similar emails were sent to teachers of Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) too in the name of Shivendra Gupta, former vice-chancellor, asking the recipients to send vouchers of online shopping websites. In case of SVNIT, the mails sent in the name of Prof S R Gandhi, director was from the email id: directorexecutive458@gmail.com. While the first e-mail asked recipients to simply respond, the second one sent to those who replied were asked to send vouchers of online shopping websites. The sender also claimed that the entire spending will be reimbursed. One senior faculty sent vouchers of Rs 15,000, but when he received another mail asking for more vouchers the faculty approached the director to inquire about the reason. “The email ID was not an official one but since it was in the director’s name, I took it to be genuine. I was asked to send three Amazon vouchers of Rs 5,000 each, which I did,” said the faculty member on condition of anonymity.“As soon as I sent the vouchers, I received a reply that he actually needed Rs 40,000, and hence, asked me to send vouchers worth Rs 25,000 more. Following the fresh demand, I contacted the director to verify,” the faculty added. On realising that it was a fraud the faculty contacted police and reported it in cyber crime police control room in Gandhinagar and city police as well. After knowing about the fraud email, the director too inquired from his colleagues if any other official received such mails. “Email IDs of majority of officials are available on our website. Someone created a fake ID using my name and sent the emails. I am trying to inform all known people not to respond to any such mails,” Gandhi told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/senior-faculty-falls-prey-to-online-fraud-in-name-of-svnit-director/articleshow/77790825.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
August 28, 2020||Patna||MU academics worried as PhD dissertations fail plagiarism test||GAYA: Nearly half of the 600-odd PhD dissertations submitted by different scholars in Magadh University (MU) from September 1, 2018 to June 30, 2020 failed the mandatory plagiarism test. Besides, most of the cleared theses had to be revised to get the final nod. According to academics, the high failure rate, especially in subjects like physics, chemistry, mathematics and English, is a matter of concern. “Copied or borrowed materials in these subjects can easily be detected with the help of the data bank used to check fraud,” a university teacher told this newspaper. A couple of years back, MU had introduced e-verification of research materials to prevent recycling of PhD dissertations. Those, with more than 20% of the borrowed content, failed the plagiarism test. Later, a notification of the University Grants Commission, dated May 5, 2016, mandated submission of the electronic version of dissertations to stop plagiarism and recycling of theses. A data bank, christened ‘Shodh Ganga’, was also created for instant verification of research papers. In the past, MU has earned a bad name for the award of questionable degrees. The economic offences wing of the state police had filed chargesheet against few former vice-chancellors (VC), principals and controller of exams for their involvement in degree scams. The Higher Education Commission of the government of Thailand had also derecognized 40 PhD degrees awarded by MU to its nationals almost two years ago. Social development specialist and former psychology professor, Suman Kumar Singh, said, “The problem is far more serious than the statistics suggest. Deterioration in the quality of research is a state-wide phenomenon and reflects the academic profile of both the researcher and the supervisor. No ready-made solutions are available and hence, systematic changes are required for the purpose.” Ex-VC Qamar Ahsan, who introduced the plagiarism test, pointed out that measures like introduction of a national level pre-PhD exam on the pattern of National Eligibility Test, involvement of academics from central universities and presence of independent experts in open viva voce could partially stop the rot. Highlighting the “problem areas”, MU anti-plagiarism cell incharge, Pintu Kumar, said, “The dissertations submitted in Hindi in the Kruti font were not readable.” However, MU VC Rajendra Prasad claimed that all efforts were being made to improve the quality of research works in the university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mu-academics-worried-as-phd-dissertations-fail-plagiarism-test/articleshow/77790855.cms||Abdul Qadir
August 28, 2020||Patna||Experts lay stress on learning new languages for better jobs||PATNA: Fluency in a foreign language like French, German or Japanese could give students an opportunity to become global employees, said experts on Thursday. Speaking at a webinar on ‘Empowering Students through Foreign Language Learning’ as part of a weeklong programme launched by Magadh Mahila College (MMC), the academics observed that being fluent in two or more languages gave one an edge over monolingual candidates in job interviews. “International companies tend to widen their reach across the globe by hiring candidates who can blend in seamlessly with other cultures and fill the communication gap between them and their clients,” the experts said and added that there would be a 42% rise in demand for interpreters and translators over the next decade. Director of the German course at MMC, Archana Rani, dwelt upon the importance of the language in the current scenario. Japanese Language Centre head, Piyush Pushkar, and English teacher, Santoshi B Mishra, also highlighted the role of learning foreign languages in enhancing job potentiality. Earlier, a live session on ‘Enhancing Professional Skills in New Normal’ was organized for the students. The resource persons — Vijay Prakash, chairman of the Atal Incubation Centre at Bihar Vidyapeeth, and M K Sinha, MD of Indian Institute of Enterprise and Leadership Development — gave the students tips on harnessing their soft skills during the Covid-19 pandemic. MMC principal, Shashi Sharma, welcomed the participants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/experts-lay-stress-on-learning-new-languages-for-better-jobs/articleshow/77790943.cms||B K Mishra
August 28, 2020||Vadodara||Despite rise in nCov cases, ventilators not in dire need||Vadodara: While the number of Covid-19 cases may be on the rise, patients requiring ventilators or Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure (BIPAP) machines, has not increased. This is despite the number of hospitalised cases going up significantly. According to the data shared by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) for the city and district, as many as 68 patients were on ventilators or BIPAP machines on August 11. This number decreased significantly to 50 on August 17 and after some increase settled at 61 even as there was a 25% rise in the number of patients under treatment. The VMC officials said that no clear trend had been established regarding the number of serious patients against those detected with Covid-19. “Several patients from outside the city need hospitalisation. The number of serious cases in the city is not high and people are even preferring home isolation,” said medical officer (health) Dr Devesh Patel. Alarm bells had been pressed earlier and ventilators were arranged by the government hospitals in a hurry. Various organisations were also encouraged to donate these to hospitals. Officials now say that there is no acute shortage of ventilators. Sources said that the number of new cases detected every day had also not increased alarmingly despite aggressive testing. They believe that the city was nearing its peak and the number of cases trickling in every day may not see a major change and may gradually start going down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/despite-rise-in-ncov-cases-ventilators-not-in-dire-need/articleshow/77790862.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Patna||Children of 240 railway staff get Rs 18,000 each for education||PATNA: Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar gave away Rs 18,000 each as monetary incentive to the children of 240 employees on Thursday to help them pursue technical and professional courses. The money for the purpose was taken from the Railway Employees’ Welfare Fund. Speaking at a function organized at his office, Kumar said, “We are committed to providing all kinds of facilities to the children of railway employees. While 126 of them will opt for medical courses, 53 will pursue LLB and MBA. The remaining 61 will use the monetary incentive for pursuing other career-oriented courses.” Danapur ADRM (operation) Arvind Rajak, his counterpart (infrastructure) Ravish Kumar and other senior railway officials were present on the occasion. Senior divisional personnel officer Surjit Singh conducted the programme. The railways ensured that social distancing norms and Covid-19 protocols were followed during the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/children-of-240-railway-staff-get-rs-18000-each-for-education/articleshow/77790878.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Kolkata||Woman dies under debris as part of 150-year-old building collapses in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A septuagenarian was killed when a portion of a dilapidated building in the Beliaghata area collapsed in the early hours of Thursday. The KMC demolished all insecure portions of the structure in the morning. According to Kolkata Municipal Corporation and Kolkata Police sources, part of the 150-year-old building collapsed after a heavy shower lashed the neighbourhood between 3am and 4am. The deceased, Pratima Sahu, her son Rajesh, 47, and grandson Rishav were trapped in the rubble and cops and disaster management department personnel faced a tough time rescuing them. “The woman was rescued in a critical condition. She was taken to NRS Hospital after a 40-minute rescue operation, but was declared brought dead,” an officer said. Rajesh, who was initially undergoing treatment at NRS Hospital, was later shifted to ILS Hospital Salt Lake by his family. Rishav managed to escape with little injury, an officer added. “Around 5am, we reached the spot with a team of 22 men, of which 17 were trained rescuers. We were informed by locals that the entire family was trapped under the debris and that they could only save the youngest member, Rishav. We went to work with shovels, spades and axes. The locals said the occupants must have been sleeping during the incident and guided us to the possible spots where they might have been trapped. We had to be extremely cautious but also be fast. The more time we took it meant less chances of rescuing them alive,” said one of the rescuers. “After 10 minutes of digging, we spotted the man’s hand,” said another rescuer. They pulled him out, but he was extremely traumatized and feeble. However, he could still speak and told the rescuers where his mother was trapped. According to a KMC buildings department official, the civic body had slapped several notices asking the residents to vacate the unsafe building. “We knew something was going to happen to the rickety building amid such continuous rain. We had served several notices to the owner asking him to repair the structure or vacate it. But all our appeals fell on deaf ears,” a civic official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/woman-dies-under-debris-as-part-of-150-year-old-building-collapses/articleshow/77792689.cms||Saikat Ray
August 28, 2020||Business||Tata Sons FY20 profit doubles with TCS help||MUMBAI: Tata Sons saw its profit more than doubling in fiscal 2020, driven by higher dividend contribution from its software services subsidiary TCS. Profit soared 130% to Rs 2,680 crore from Rs 1,145 crore in fiscal 2019. The profit could have been higher, but it made a provision of Rs 16,439 crore towards the liabilities of Tata Teleservices, an analysis of the Tata Sons FY20 report revealed. The holding company of the Tata Group has so far written off Rs 60,000 crore of its investments in the loss-making telecom business. While the consumer mobile unit was sold to Bharti Airtel, the enterprise business remains housed under Tata Teleservices. Revenue from operations, which mainly comprise dividend income and brand royalty fees, rocketed 158% to Rs 24,770 crore. TCS’s contribution to revenue increased to more than 90% from 77% in FY19. In the past, controlling shareholder Tata Trusts had expressed its displeasure over the low contribution of non-TCS entities to earnings. Non-TCS companies contributed Rs 1,683 crore to revenue, lower by 23%. Dividend income of the investment company, which holds stake in 344 firms including 28 listed entities, was Rs 23,994 crore, compared with Rs 8,202 crore in FY19. Other income for FY20 was lower at Rs 126 crore as compared to Rs 10,630 crore in FY19. This is because in FY19 other income predominantly comprised profit from buyback of shares by TCS and Tata Investment Corporation. Tata Sons’ debt, however, remained flat at Rs 31,319 crore, according to the FY20 report. Its cash and equivalents were up 84% to Rs 513 crore. Total expenses increased 27% to Rs 5,074 crore. On a consolidated basis, the company’s profit declined 62% to Rs 10,916 crore due to increase in exceptional items. Tata Sons’ auditors have flagged ‘going concern’ doubts on certain operating entities__Tata Steel Europe and Air Asia India amid their losses and slump in businesses due to Covid. Tata Steel Europe made an operational loss of Rs 626 crore in Q1FY21 while Air Asia India’s net worth has been fully eroded. The auditors also pointed out that Air Asia India’s current liabilities exceeded its current assets by Rs 1,209 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-sons-fy20-profit-doubles-with-tcs-help/articleshow/77793948.cms||Reeba Zachariah
August 28, 2020||Business||Tata Sons chairman N Chandra’s pay dips 11% to Rs 58 crore||MUMBAI: Tata Sons chairman N Chandrasekaran took a cut in his remuneration for fiscal 2020. The pay package of Chandrasekaran shrank 11% to Rs 58 crore, according to the Tata Sons FY20 report. In FY19, the chairman’s remuneration was Rs 66 crore. CFO Saurabh Agrawal’s remuneration marginally declined to Rs 15.8 crore from Rs 16.5 crore. Even though the company reported higher profit, the management took a cut in compensation package following the economic conditions impacted by the Covid pandemic, a Tata observer said. Company secretary Suprakash Mukhopadhyay’s compensation remained unchanged at Rs 6 crore. Shareholders of Tata Sons cleared the commission on profit to its directors at the company’s annual general meeting on Thursday. Chandrasekaran’s commission for FY20 stood at Rs 46 crore. Employee costs, however, marginally declined to Rs 363 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-sons-chairmans-pay-dips-11-to-rs-58-crore/articleshow/77793962.cms||Reeba Zachariah
August 28, 2020||Patna||Liquor worth Rs 30 lakh seized in Bihar's Supaul, 2 held||PATNA: Officials of the state excise and prohibition department were taken aback when they spotted a vehicle with sticker ‘On Army Duty’ carrying around 12,000 bottles of Indian made foreign liquor in Supaul district on Wednesday. The container bearing registration number of Haryana was transporting the liquor worth Rs 30 lakh in violation of the prohibition law. Supaul excise superintendent Devendra Prasad said a team of officials led by inspector P K Karn intercepted a container on Supaul-Bhaptiyahi road and arrested its driver, Shakeel Khan, and his assistant, Sahin Khan, both residents of Parwal district in Haryana. Altogether 300 cartons of IMFL were seized from the container.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/liquor-worth-rs-30-lakh-seized-in-supaul-2-held/articleshow/77790965.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Business||Premnarayen to get AAAI lifetime achievement award||MUMBAI: The Advertising Agencies Association of India on Thursday said this year’s edition of the AAAI Lifetime Achievement Award will be conferred upon Krishan Premnarayen, senior partner at Prem Associates Advertising and Marketing. This is the highest honour to be given to an individual in India for his/her outstanding contribution to the advertising industry. AAAI president Ashish Bhasin said, “Premnarayen, besides being the youngest ever president, made very significant contributions to the industry. He must be given due credit for vastly strengthening AAAI’s relationships with the media industry — including while he was at the helm of ABC and NRSC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/premnarayen-to-get-aaai-lifetime-achievement-award/articleshow/77794004.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Patna||'Light showers in parts of Bihar today'||PATNA: Patna and several other parts of the state witnessed light to moderate rainfall on Thursday even as weathermen have predicted that light showers, cloudy weather and windy conditions would prevail in the state on Friday as well. Patna received 5.7mm of rain from 8.30am to 5.30pm on Thursday, while chief amount of rainfall was received at Daudnagar, Dehri, Bhabua, Kudra, Indrapuri, Koilwar and Bihpur. Gaya witnessed 6mm of rain and Bhagalpur 20mm. According to the daily bulletin released by Patna Meteorological Centre, light to moderate rainfall occurred at one or two places over north-central and northeast parts of the state, many places over northwest, southwest and southeast parts and most places over south central parts of Bihar during the past 24 hours. The highest maximum temperature 35 degrees Celsius and the lowest minimum temperature 25 degrees Celsius were recorded at Muzaffarpur and Dehri, respectively. The weathermen said well-marked low pressure system over north interior Odisha now lies over southwest Jharkhand and neighbourhood with the associated cyclonic circulation extending up to 7.6km above mean level tilting south-westwards with height. “The low pressure system would bring scattered rain and thunderstorms in several parts of Bihar in the next 24 hours,” the weathermen said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/met-light-showers-in-parts-of-state-today/articleshow/77790779.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 28, 2020||Pune||All leading Ganesh mandals decide to immerse idols in makeshift tanks||PUNE: Members if all leading Ganesh mandals, including the five ‘Manache Ganapati’, in the city have decided not to hold the procession and immerse idols in makeshift tanks placed near temples or pandals, where the idols have been installed. “The decision was taken in a meeting of all leading Ganesh mandals. If a procession is not held, the number of people venturing out of their homes will reduce. The aim is to prevent the spread of coronavirus,” said Shrikant Shete of the Kasba Ganapati Mandal Trust, while addressing a news conference here on Thursday. According to office bearers of the mandals, around 8 to 10 lakh citizens, including mandal members, band and dhol tasha pathaks and devotees throng the main roads to watch and participate in the immersion procession. This can be prevented if the procession is not organized. Members have also urged devotees to immerse household idols at home. As per tradition, the city mayor will visit all ‘Manache Ganapati’ at their respective locations from 10.30am and participate in the immersion of the idols. Prior to that, he will garland the statue of Lokmanya Tilak at Phule mandai, as is the practice. “This festival is of the people and society at large. But, currently, the situation is worrisome, so we have decided to tone down the procession in the larger public interest,” said Rajabhau Tikar of Tambadi Jogeshwari Mandal. Every year, the immersion procession tends to last over 24 hours and more than 1,000 mandals participate in it. Overall, around 4,500 mandals have registered with the civic body this year. The administration has placed restrictions on immersion and setting up of pandals. Makeshift tanks have been provided for immersion. Collection centres have also been set up the PMC limits to accept idols for immersion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/all-leading-ganesh-mandals-decide-to-immerse-idols-in-makeshift-tanks/articleshow/77793557.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot-Surendranagar doubling work to be completed by December 2022||RAJKOT: The doubling of railway track between Surendranagar and Rajkot is now expected to be completed by December 2022 instead of the earlier deadline of March next year. Divisional railway manager Parmeshwar Funkwal said on Thursday that the project deadline has been revised due to several factors, but the land acquisition work has been almost completed The railways has completed 14 km track doubling from Digsar to Surendranagar out of total 116 km. The total project of around Rs 1,000 crore was sanctioned in 2017-18. The track doubling project is crucial for Rajkot as it will boost the connectivity to Saurashtra’s commercial hub. Due to the small runway, the number of flights is also restricted and the proposed new airport at Hirasar near the city will take over five years to come up. The trade and industry bodies have been demanding more railway connectivity for several years now. In an interaction with reporters, Funkwal said, “The track doubling has now been put in the category of critical projects, so the work will be expedited and the project will not face any fund crisis. The land acquisition in Morbi and Surendrangar districts has been completed and in Rajkot it is on verge of completion.” Also, 10 out of 16 major bridges between Rajkot and Surendrangar are about to be completed. The electrification work between Surendrangar and Viramgam has also been completed and Rajkot railway division is targeting the work between Okha to Surendrangar by March 2021. NEW INITIATIVE IN FREIGHT The Rajkot railway division has put up a proposal to increase freight business by trying to attract Morbi’s ceramic units to use container traffic to Mundra port, Chennai and Bengaluru. Currently, the movement of ceramic products is done by roads. The railway also trying to attract the movement of bauxite from Bhatiya in Devbhoomi Dwarka district to various cement industries. The railway also offered a discount to Tata Chemicals for transporting edible salt in jumbo bags. WORK ON RAJKOT’S UNDERPASSES ON TIME Nearly 55% of the work on construction of underpass at Amrapali crossing has been completed, Funkwal said. Amrapali witnesses severe traffic snarls in abscene of a railway underpass as the road connects western part of Rajkot to the central area via Raiya Road. Officials claimed that the underpass will be ready before May next year. The Laxminagar underpass which is infamous for heavy water logging during monsoon will be completed by July 2021. The widening of airport railway crossing is 90% complete. MASK VENDING MACHINE The western railway plans to install automatic dispensing machines for sanitizers and masks at Rajkot and Jamnagar stations when the passenger trains resume full-fledged operations. These vending machines will also dispense, pouches,container and vomit bags. These will be available to passengers at a very nominal rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-surendranagar-doubling-work-to-be-completed-by-dec-2022/articleshow/77791144.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||NEP: Mother tongue clause needs relook||By: V Vijayasai Reddy On July 29, the Narendra Modi government announced the National Education Policy, 2020. It is aimed at aligning India’s education policy with its values and carrying out reforms keeping in mind national goals. One of the biggest talking points of the NEP is having the mother tongue as the medium of instruction up to a certain grade. The policy tells us that the medium of instruction until at least grade 5 shall be in the home language/mother tongue. This is qualified by a ‘wherever possible’, and thereafter, this medium of instruction shall be ‘preferable’ till class 8 and beyond. The logic is that children grasp faster in the language they speak at home and, therefore, will be more comfortable in school. On paper it holds good, but as they say, the devil lies in its implementation. This part of the NEP is out of touch with ground reality. The first hurdle: to ascertain a single mother tongue in a cosmopolitan city such as Delhi, Mumbai or even a smaller but diverse Visakhapatnam. An analysis of a school in any city will tell you that many students come from diverse cultural backgrounds. The 2011 census puts the number of internal migrants in India at 450 million. So, it would be unfair to impose Marathi or Kannada as the medium of instruction on wards of Bihari migrants. The NEP also does not account for the 5 million central government employees with transferable jobs. For a child to study in Malayalam medium till class 3 and then shift to Bengali, on account of the parents’ transfer, would be devastating. Secondly, the sudden transition from grade 5 to grade 6 – from regional medium to any other -- would be anything but smooth. It may lead to a lot of dropouts in grade 6 and prove to be a challenge especially for students who till now have had minimal exposure to English. Lastly, people of this country know the importance of English. A report has shown that those who speak English fluently earn up to 34% more than those who do not. This confirms the link between education in English and the scope of opportunities and employment. The exodus of students from regional medium schools to English medium is proof of what people prefer. In a recently concluded exercise by the Andhra Pradesh government, it was found that 96.17% of parents – out of 17,85,669 -- wanted their children to study in an English medium school while only 3.05% chose Telugu. Just 0.78% chose other languages. These figures are saying something the NEP isn’t acknowledging. While I am all admiration for the Modi government’s move to bring out a new educational policy after a hiatus of 34 years, it is this aspect regarding imposition of native language that I’m skeptical about. While it is important to preserve local languages, one must look at things from a practical point of view. We live in a world where MNC’s rule economies. Keeping in view that India is still a developing nation that needs to be integrated into the global fabric, we must understand that language and technical education are two tools one needs to concentrate on. It'll make Indians capable of competing on an equal footing, anywhere in the world. No doubt, one should be fluent in their mother tongue and it should be taught in schools; but the distinction has to be made between teaching a language and teaching ‘in a’ language. The regional languages should be taught in state-run schools as they are, possibly with better course material and teachers, but the medium of instruction for subjects such as Mathematics, Physics and Social Sciences should be English. This would balance the need for being well-versed with their mother-tongue as well as the aspirations of the people to have their wards study in an English medium. The NEP is a visionary document, but as far as the medium of instruction is concerned it needs a relook to keep up with the times. (The writer is member of Parliament; parliamentary party leader & national general secretary of YSRCP)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nep-mother-tongue-clause-needs-relook/articleshow/77793619.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Allahabad||Former MP gets bail in kidnapping case||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court on Thursday granted bail to mafia don-turned politician and former MP Dhananjay Singh in an alleged case of kidnapping and threat. Allowing the bail application, Justice Niraj Tiwari observed, “Considering the facts and circumstances of the case and also perusing the material on record, without expressing any opinion on the merit of the case, let the applicant Dhananjay Singh involved in case crime No. 0142 of 2020, under Sections 364 (kidnapping), 506 (criminal intimidation), 120-B (conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code ( IPC) and other sections at police station Line Bazar, district- Jaunpur be released on bail on his furnishing a personal bond and two local sureties.” It was submitted by the counsel for the applicant that the applicant has falsely been implicated and even the informant in his statement under Section 164 (statement before magistrate) of CrPc has denied the version of the FIR. It was further stated, “The statement of the informant was recorded under Section 164 of CrPC, in which he has denied the version of the FIR and stated that he was never kidnapped or pressurized by the applicant. He was pressurized by the SHO to lodge the FIR who also dictated the complaint to lodge the FIR. It is next contended that there are no chances of the applicant of fleeing away from the judicial process or tampering with the prosecution evidence.” It was next contended by the learned counsel for the applicant that the applicant is in jail since May 11, 2020, and in case he is enlarged on bail, he will not misuse the liberty of bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/former-mp-gets-bail-in-kidnapping-case/articleshow/77790410.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
August 28, 2020||Surat||Red Helen flits in Gujarat’s Ahwa after 63 yrs||Surat: On August 5, Rajdeepsinh Jhala, assistant conservator of forests at Kevadia Division, was overjoyed when he spotted Red Helen butterfly near his official residence on the forest colony campus in Rajpipla town of Narmada district. There was a reason for his joy. This was the first record of Red Helen in the state after 1957. He soon took a video of the species. Red Helen Butterfly (Papilio helenus daksha) was spotted in Ahwa in Dang district, which is considered the northernmost part of the Western Ghats, by scientist E M Shull in 1957. This was the first (and the last record) sighting of this butterfly species. Now, after almost 63 years, Red Helen was spotted again in the state,” Prof Sujit Prajapati, assistant professor, Government College of Science, Limkheda, told TOI. “Red Helen is a large swallowtail butterfly and is found in forests of southern India. Mostly it is found in the Western Ghats. As more people have started watching butterflies and exploring forests and non-forest areas, we will come across such new species records and rare sightings in the state,” Prof Prajapati added. Red Helen was also spotted near the Statue of Unity in Kevadia as well during the same period. “There is a need to create awareness about butterfly watching and butterfly gardening among people especially among children in the state. Central and South Gujarat have a good biodiversity, and concerted efforts can help us find more species sightings and new species records in the state. Red Helen butterfly prefers dense forests,” said Rajdeepsinh Jhala, assistant conservator of forest at Kevadia Division, who was instrumental in developing butterfly garden near Statue of Unity at Kevadia. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had opened butterfly Garden at Kevadia last year and released butterflies. Forest officials said that Red Helen is commonly found from Kerala to Maharashtra and north eastern states of the country. According to ‘A Guide to the Butterflies of Western Ghats (India)’ book: “It restlessly hovers from flower to flower. Males visit damp patches in large numbers. This butterfly rests on the upper surface of a leaf with its wings open and the fore wing drawn down over the hind wing hiding the white patches.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/red-helen-flits-in-gujarats-ahwa-after-63-yrs/articleshow/77790852.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
August 28, 2020||Patna||Tekari MLA may challenge RJD strongman||GAYA: Tekari MLA and state chief of the youth wing of JD (U) Abhay Kushwaha may challenge RJD strongman and former minister Surindra Prasad Yadav. Yadav, the seven-time winner of the Belaganj seat, has got an invincible image and is regarded as his bastion. However, of late, Yadav has been maintaining poor health and on more than one occasion he had to be admitted to Medanta Hospital (Gurugram) for undisclosed ailments. If Kushwaha were to finally take on Yadav, it will be some kind of a “guru-chela” fight as, in politics Kushwaha is believed to have been groomed by muscle-flexing Belaganj MLA. Asked about stories doing the rounds about his reported interest in Belaganj constituency, Kushwaha said that being a loyal worker of the party, he was ready to contest from anywhere including Belaganj and it is for CM Nitish Kumar to take a call in the matter and he would abide by the leader’s command. According to Balram Sharma, a Kisan leader of Tekari area, the old constituency was no longer suitable for Kushwaha. In 2015, Kushwaha won the Tekari seat as the joint candidate of Lalu and Nitish. “The social profile of Tekari was no longer suitable for Kushwaha and as such he would not be surprised if Kushwaha really went for a constituency change,” said Sharma. The almost certain entry of ex-CM Jitan Ram Manjhi into JD(U) is also likely to have an impact on Tekari assembly segment of the district. Sources close to Manjhi say that the ex-CM eyes Tekari for political rehabilitation of his long time associate and former MLA Anil Kumar, brother of Jahanabad ex-MP Arun Kumar. The other constituency being watched with interest is the Gaya town. Like Surindra Yadav, agricultural minister Prem Kumar has won the Gaya town seat seven times in a row and kept on increasing his victory margin. The vacancy for Gaya seat simply does not exist for NDA aspirants. According to Congress leader Md Moosa, his party was almost sure to get Gaya town seat under any seat sharing formula in the UPA. “Being an urban seat, only Congress can give NDA a run for its money in Gaya town,” said Moosa. Within the Congress, more than half-a-dozen names are doing the rounds. The names include 2015 runner up Priye Ranjan aka Dimple, deputy mayor Mohan Srivastava, retired municipal commissioner Vijay Kumar, Prof Arun Kumar Prasad and Chaitanya Palit. Palit is the son of firebrand ex-MLA the late Jai Kumar Palit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tekari-mla-may-challenge-rjd-strongman/articleshow/77790893.cms||Abdul Qadir
August 28, 2020||Rajkot||IMA seeks compensation parity for private docs who die of Covid-19||Surat: The Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Surat chapter has demanded that the doctors and healthcare workers in the private hospitals and clinics succumbing to Covid-19 should also be compensated under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package, at par with their government counterparts.Health workers on Covid-19 duty are eligible for Rs 50 lakh compensation under the insurance scheme of the central government, in case they succumb to the virus or in accident while on Covid-19 duty. According to IMA office-bearers, only the doctors and healthcare staff in the government hospitals and Covid-19 designated hospitals are eligible for compensation in the form of insurance pay-out by the government. President of IMA-Surat, Dr Parul Vadgama told TOI, “Over 2,500 members of the doctors’ fraternity affiliated with IMA have been working continuously since March (since the beginning of the pandemic). Over 150 private practitioners have been infected with Covid-19 in the city and that two have succumbed to the deadly infection.” Dr Vadgama added, “All the private practitioners are in frontline of the Covid-19 duty from day one. Still, the government guidelines states that only those with the government hospitals and Covid-19 designated hospitals are liable for the compensation if they succumb to Covid-19.” According to Dr Vadgama, the IMA’s Surat chapter has made representation to the Gujarat government to provide compensation to the private practitioners too. Dr Hiral Shah, vice-president of Surat Anaesthetists Association (SAA) told TOI, “All the doctors and healthcare workers should be treated at par by government and they should get the benefit of the insurance pay out scheme.” Dr Chandresh Jardosh, president of IMA-Gujarat told TOI, “Over 25 doctors have succumbed to Covid-19 in the state and more than 350 healthcare workers and doctors have been infected since March. We have demanded that all the doctors and healthcare staff, who have succumbed to Covid-19, should be paid compensation under the Pradhanmantri Garib Kalyan scheme.” Box: Compensation for SMC staffers sought Surat: Surat Municipal Employees Staff Union has submitted six forms of the employees who have succumbed to Covid-19 to the state government for getting compensation under the insurance pay out scheme. Iqbal Shaikh, president of Surat Municipal Employees Staff union told TOI, “About 16 SMC employees have succumbed to Covid-19 since May. We have submitted files of six employees to the state government for getting compensation of Rs 50 lakh each for the family members. Other files are under process.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ima-seeks-compensation-parity-for-private-docs-who-die-of-covid-19/articleshow/77790685.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Surat||Extortion accused Shailesh Bhatt arrested in Delhi, brought to city||Surat: Delhi police on Wednesday nabbed Shailesh Bhatt, one of the key accused in a case of threatening a builder and attempting to encroach property in Surat, from the national capital’s Tilak Nagar area based on information sent by Sarthana police station in the city. Bhatt, one of the main accused in the multi-crore cryptocurrency extortion case, was on the run ever since a complaint was lodged against him on Monday. Following specific information, Bhatt was nabbed by a team of Delhi police after a team of Surat’s detection of crime branch (DCB), keeping watch on Bhatt’s movement, alerted them with exact location details. “Bhatt got caught while he was going to some other place from Tilak Nagar. At present we cannot reveal more details till we interrogate him and extract more information,” said a crime branch official. After being nabbed, Delhi police sent Bhatt to Tihar Jail in judicial custody. City police team reached Delhi on Thursday and have approached a local court to get his custody. “We got Bhatt’s custody and he will be brought to the city on transit remand,” said the officer. Total six teams of crime branch are working on the case in which Raju Desai, a city-based builder, has alleged that Bhatt, with the help of Aniruddhsinh Jadeja of Ribda in Rajkot, tried to encroach his residential scheme to recover money. In his complaint Desai alleged that he had already paid Bhatt Rs 6 crore against Rs 4 crore he had borrowed but the latter continued his threats to recover more money. DCB sleuths are also hunting for Jadeja who absconded following detection of his involvement in a gambling racket around 10 days ago. Altogether 11 people were booked in the case of which four were arrested by Sarthana police on Sunday from Desai’s residential project. Other accused are yet to get arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/extortion-accused-shailesh-bhatt-arrested-in-delhi-brought-to-city/articleshow/77790752.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Rajkot||Saurashtra’s biggest con call centre racket busted||Rajkot: The crime branch busted the biggest con call centre racket in Saurashtra late on Wednesday night. Six persons were arrested and three minors were detained after the cops raided the fake call centre on the posh 150-feet Ring Road in Rajkot. The accused used to dupe the US citizens and siphon money from their bank accounts.According to the police, the gang led by Devendra alias Neno was operating from a plush complex since August 1. “The accused used to call up on random phone numbers of the US citizens and strike a conversation with the victim. They used to then threaten the victim of cancelling his or her social security number by giving various reasons,” said V K Gadhvi, police inspector, crime branch. The gang used to accuse the victims of either running a drug racket or some other crime.The calling agents then used to convince the victims to buy gift vouchers worth $100 to $200 from Walmart if they wanted to retain their social security number. “The accused used to then ask for the 16-digit number on the voucher and encash it immediately,” the police said and added that the gang must have siphoned lakhs of rupees in the last 26 days. Investigators raided the call centre after they got a tip-off but they couldn’t arrest mastermind Devendra as he was away in Maharashtra to celebrate Ganesh festival.Those arrested have been identified as Dhiren Katua, Sumer Solanki, Vikram Gupte, Atul Eastvala, Irshad Ali and Dipti Bishta. Interestingly, none of the accused are from Rajkot. Dhiren, Sumer, Vikram, Dipti and Devendra are from Mumbai, Atul is from Haryana and Irshad is from Delhi. The three minors are from Nagaland.The police said that Dhiren used to pay calling agents monthly salaries ranging from Rs 15,000 to Rs 60,000. Investigations are on to ascertain how the accused got thousands of US phone numbers. “We have seized 10 computers, two laptops and 10 cell phones from the spot,” said Gadhvi.MINORS WERE CALLING AGENTS Three of the accused are minors who stay in Nagaland. They were in Mumbai to look for a job and came in contact with key accused Devendra. The police said that all the three minors spoke fluent English so Devendra hired them and made them calling agents in his fake call centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/saurashtras-biggest-con-call-centre-racket-busted/articleshow/77790977.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Business||IIT-M incubated Grinntech gets $2 million funding||Chennai: Grinntech, a start-up incubated at IIT Madras, working with lithium-ion batteries for electric vehicles (EVs) announced that it has raised nearly $ two million from investors including V Sumantran, former VC of Ashok Leyland, Lakshmi Narayan, former CEO of Cognizant, KS Manian of NAPC and a member of the UCAL family. The start up said it will set up a Li-Ion battery making unit in Chennai and work with EV makers to expand business opportunities.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/iit-m-incubated-grinntech-gets-2-million-funding/articleshow/77791558.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
August 28, 2020||Surat||Ink-making firm in Sarigam GIDC gutted||Surat: A major fire broke out in a liquid ink-manufacturing unit situated in the Sarigam GIDC near Vapi in Valsad district early on Thursday morning. No casualty was, however, reported.Sources in the Sarigam GIDC fire department stated that the fire broke out at the manufacturing unit of Seven11 industries at about 6am. The blaze erupted due to short circuit in the unit due to unknown reasons. About eight fire tenders from Sarigam, Umbergaon and Vapi were rushed to the spot to douse the fire. It took about five hours for the fire tenders to gain control over the blaze. Valsad district collector RR Raval said, “Fire fighters were rushed to the spot and they were able to douse the flames within couple of hours. Fire spread in the unit due to the presence of highly inflammable chemicals used in the manufacturing of ink.” Fire officials in Sarigam GIDC said that the cooling operation was completed at about 5pm. The manufacturing units located in the vicinity were asked to shut operations and workers were shifted to safer locations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ink-making-firm-in-sarigam-gidc-gutted/articleshow/77791011.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Constable dies on way to NIMS||Hyderabad: A 27-year-old police constable, attached to the Bowenpally police station, died of heart attack while performing duty at Gandhi Hospital on Tuesday evening. He was to turn 28 on September 3. Ampolu Kranthi Kumar, a resident of Borabanda, was performing duty at Gandhi Hospital. He reported at 8 pm on Tuesday. While on duty, he complained of chest pain and called Bowenpally inspector Anjaiah. The inspector directed him to get checked and take rest for the day. As the emergency wing at Gandhi Hospital, a Covid nodal centre, is not working, Kranthi was taken to NIMS for treatment and died on the way. NIMS doctors said he died of heart attack. “He was facing some family dispute for past few months,” inspector Anjaiah said, adding he was on regular duty. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/constable-dies-on-way-to-nims/articleshow/77791971.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar’s air quality enters safe zone: BSPCB study||PATNA: The Covid-19 lockdown may have inconvenienced many, but it has had a positive impact on the overall pollution levels in the state, especially in capital Patna, with air quality entering the ‘satisfactory’ zone from ‘severely polluted’ before the lockdown. Track the pollution level in your cityIn a study carried out by the Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB), the impact of the lockdown on the ambient air quality of major cities in the state, including Patna, Muzaffarpur, Gaya, and Hajipur, has been assessed. The study, which is still under progress, collected real-time pollution data in three phases — pre-lockdown Phase 1 (March 12- 21), Phase 2 (March 23-April 19) and Phase 3 (April 20-April 27). It examined the trends of major air pollutants, including particulate matter (PM2.5 and PM2.10) and traced atmospheric gases (NO2, SO2, NH3, Ozone, and CO) before and during the Covid-19 lockdown. BSPCB chairman Ashok Kumar Ghosh said the findings of the study conclude an overall improvement in the air quality of the state since the implementation of the lockdown on March 22. “The overall air quality of the state has been improving gradually since the lockdown. On March 21, the AQI of Patna was 300, while the concentration of prominent pollutant PM2.5 stood at 300. A month into lockdown, the AQI of Patna dropped down to 76 on April 27 and PM2.5 concentration was 20. It's a very positive development,” Ghosh said. According to the national ambient air quality standards, all 11 air monitoring stations across the state have shown air quality index (AQI) of major cities including Patna, Gaya and Muzaffarpur to be either good (0 – 50) or satisfactory (51 – 100) since early April. Attributing the improvement in the air quality to the combined impact of several factors, including low vehicular and industrial emissions, during the lockdown Ghosh said, “The NO2 and SO2 concentration in the Patna is usually high, but with the implementation of restrictions on travel and factories, the levels of these gases were well below the permissible limit.” Simultaneous lockdown in the adjoining states and early arrival of monsoons in the state this year also contributed to the improvement in overall air quality and decrease in air pollutants, he added. “We don’t have much industrial activity in Bihar. A major portion of air pollution in our state was neighborhood pollutants from adjoining states of UP and West Bengal, which were carried by the winds to Bihar. Post lockdown, we noticed a decrease in neighborhood pollution along with the bordering districts of Bihar,” he said. “Additionally, with the early arrival of southwest monsoon in the state, there was a decrease in air pollutants as most of it settled on the ground due to the rains,” he added. According to the AQI bulletin released by the Central Pollution Control Board on Thursday, the AQI of Patna was 41 while that of Gaya and Muzaffarpur was 23 and 62 respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihars-air-quality-enters-safe-zone-bspcb-study/articleshow/77790576.cms||Arunima Lal
August 28, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Covid-19 trauma wipes out happily married family||RAJKOT: Six years ago, their infant daughter died due to scorpion bite. But the Chudasama couple - Ashok and Nita - somehow came to terms with the loss and lived a normal life after the birth of a son. But tragedies don’t seem to be ending for this family from Junagadh district. Barely three days after Ashok committed suicide by jumping from the eighth floor of a hospital in Junagadh, Nita too took the drastic step, taking along her five-year-son Het. Sources said Nita was pregnant. Ashok (45) had sunk into depression after testing positive for Covid-19 and had plunged from the eight floor of Kalp Hospital on August 23 night. Preliminary investigation suggested that Nita (35) could not bear the tragic loss of her husband and decided to commit suicide. However, all other family members had tested negative for Covid-19. On Thursday after, she took Het along and jumped into a deep well on the outskirts of their native Moti Ghansari village, eight km from Keshod town. Their bodies were fished out in the evening. Ashok and Nita got married about 8-9 years ago. Around six years ago, their first child - a daughter - died due scorpion sting, sources said. Nita was working in anganwadi in the village. Nita also belongs to the same village. With the deaths of the husband-wife couple and their son, only his parents remain in the family as Ashok was the only child. His father Naran Chudasama is 65 years old while his mother Nathi is 63. Locals told TOI that the family owned around 12 bigha land in the village and they did not have any financial issues. Ashok had even completed his BEd and was working as a teacher in a private school in Keshod, besides farming. Nita has two brothers, one of whom is a truck driver and another farm labourer. Her father drives an auto rickshaw, a resident of Moti Ghansari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-19-trauma-wipes-out-happily-married-family/articleshow/77790658.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Patna||Patna hospitals take care of Covid patients’ mental wellness||PATNA: Psychiatric problems like insomnia and anxiety are common among coronavirus patients in the city. Prolonged treatment, isolation and social stigma attached to the disease are giving sleepless nights to the patients. Keeping this in mind, Covid-dedicated hospitals in the city have taken the initiative to counsel patients and distressed people, who may experience psychological issues like delirium and post-traumatic stress disorder while receiving treatment. Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna, said of the 224 admitted patients at the institute, 30% are under mental distress. “Health experts from Médecins Sans Frontières, Patliputra, recently imparted training to AIIMS-Patna medical staff to identify patients with mental strain. These staff are now following the protocol to address the mental health issues of the patients. So far, 64 such patients have been identified. Counselling, yoga, entertainment, acupressure and naturopathy are some of the ways in which these patients are being de-stressed as part of integrated treatment protocol,” Dr Sanjeev added. He said even cured people passing through mental and emotional breakdowns are being counselled by the telemedicine cell of the hospital. The psychiatric department of NMCH-Patna has also roped in two counsellors to provide mental health care to the recovered patients. NMCH deputy superintendent Dr Santosh Kumar said several recovered patients have complained of insomnia, anxiety, depression and stigma as they are still being ignored by their relatives and neighbours. “Many have developed sleep deprivation. We offer counselling to these patients through phone calls. Counsellors have been roped in to provide talk therapy to cured patients. Medical therapy is also being provided to patients who are feeling low. Patients remain more anxious at the initial stage,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hospitals-take-care-of-covid-patients-mental-wellness/articleshow/77790834.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Man held for rape, murder of 16-year-old||PATNA: Police arrested a 22-year-old youth on Thursday on charges of raping a 16-year-old girl and killing her in her house under Bounsi police station in Banka district on Wednesday. The police said the girl was found dead in her house after the girl’s family returned from a panchayat proceeding where the accused and his father were summoned after the man was caught in a “compromising position” in the early hours of Wednesday at the girl’s house. The boy and the girl were reportedly in love with each other. According to the police, the accused fled after the girl’s parents caught him in the house. The girl’s father later reported the matter to the local panchayat, which summoned Sufiyan and his father Shamim Ansari later in the day on Wednesday. The father and son deposed before the panchayat around 4 pm where the boy denied the charges levelled against him and left during the meeting. About half an hour later, the girl was found dead in her house. “She was alone in the house when we had gone to attend the meeting of the panchayat. When we returned home, we found our daughter lying dead in her room,” the girl’s father told the police. Agitated over the incident, the victim’s parents dumped the girl’s body near the house of the accused and informed the police. A police team led by sub-inspector Sudhir Kumar rushed to the village and sent the victim’s body to the Banka Sadar hospital for autopsy. “A police inquest found injury marks around her neck,” the SHO of Bounsi police station Rajesh Kumar Yadav said. He said the victim’s father, a daily wager, lodged a police complaint against the accused. The panchayat members told the police that the girl’s family members were present at the meeting when she was strangled to death allegedly by the accused in her house. On Thursday, the police arrested the accused and produced him in court, which remanded him in 14-day judicial custody. “The autopsy report is awaited. The report will reveal whether she was raped before being killed,” the SHO said, adding, some neighbours told the police that the youth and the minor girl were in love with each other. The girl’s father, however, said his slain daughter’s marriage was due in November. “But destiny had something else in store for her,” he lamented. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-held-for-rape-murder-of-a-16-year-old/articleshow/77790745.cms||Ramashankar
August 28, 2020||Patna||Over 30,000 fined Rs 80 lakh for not wearing masks in Patna||PATNA: At a time when wearing face mask has become mandatory for people to prevent the spread of coronavirus, many are still defying the safety norms in the city. Nearly 30,000 people have so far been caught for not wearing masks at public places, containment zones and while driving the vehicles in Patna district. As per the data provided by the district administration, the officials of municipal corporation, traffic police and district authorities have collected fines to the tune of Rs 80 lakh under the Bihar Epidemic Diseases (Covid-19) Regulations, 2020, from the safety rule violators. The drive to penalise people for not adhering to safety norms was launched on July 4. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said the traffic police have so far seized 1,833 vehicles as their owners were found flouting safety norms. The vehicles were released after realisation of fine. “As it is mandatory for the motorists and passengers travelling in public transport to wear mask, at least 5,746 people were penalised by the traffic police for not flouting the norms. A sum of Rs 65,88,100 was collected from them as fine,” he said. The DM added at least 23,996 people were fined for not wearing mask at public places and containment zones in Patna and Rs 12,12,600 was realised as fine from them. The DM has asked all the sub-divisional officers and block development officers to to form teams at their own level and carry out intensive drive against the violators. On Thursday, Rs 2,50,850 was collected as fine from people who were found roaming without wearing mask in the district. Altogether 41 teams have been deployed in the district to penalise erring people and create awareness among the people. Fourteen teams, on the other hand, are involved in distributing face masks among people. So far, 26,79,425 masks have been distributed in the district, including 3.2 lakh at Bihta and 2.5 lakh at Paliganj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-30k-fined-rs-80-lakh-for-not-wearing-masks-in-patna/articleshow/77790651.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 28, 2020||Business||Shed extreme risk fear: Shaktikanta Das to banks||MUMBAI: Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das has called upon banks to shed their extreme risk aversion in lending and to focus on risk management and quality of decision making. Lenders, however, contested this, stating that there is an absence of demand from existing borrowers and they are careful in lending with those who are worst affected as a prudent measure. Pointing out that banks will not be able to earn income if they do not lend, Das said that extreme risk aversion is not desirable. “What is desirable is a focus on governance, focus on risk management, and focus on the quality of decision making and building up resilience,” said Das. The governor was speaking at a banking event organised by Business Standard. In his interaction, the governor said pointing out that banks will come under stress because of Covid-19 is stating the obvious and he reiterated the need for banks to front-load their capital raising before they need to make provisions. “Proactive building of buffers and raising capital will be crucial not only to ensure credit flow but also to build resilience in the financial system — the resilience of individual banks and financial entities as well as the resilience of the financial sector as a whole,” said Das. The RBI has already asked large banks and finance companies to assess the impact of Covid-19 on their balance sheets and work out mitigation measures, including capital planning, capital raising, and contingency liquidity planning. “Upfront capital infusion would also improve the sentiment of investors and other stakeholders alike for the sector to continue remaining attractive for investors, both domestic and foreign, over the medium to long term,” said Das. Responding to the governor’s statement on risk aversion, bankers said that there was no unwillingness on their part to lend. “We are not lending to people who are very vulnerable. We also need to ask them why do they need the money at this point of time. We have raised Rs 22,000 crore and are answerable to our investors and we have to take a calibrated approach to risk management,” said Axis Bank MD & CEO Amitabh Chaudhry. According to Union Bank of India MD & CEO Rajkiran Rai, lenders have to be more careful during a difficult time as three years down the line they would be answerable. He said that the other reason for lending numbers not picking up was that businesses were not availing of the sanctioned limits when it came to working capital. Punjab National Bank MD & CEO S S Mallikarjuna Rao said that over Rs 4 lakh crore of outstanding bad loans have been resolved under the bankruptcy process, which has brought down the outstanding loans in the banking sector. “There are 11 banks that have been placed under prompt corrective action who are not able to lend. This has created a flux in the system,” said Rao. In his speech, Das said that consolidation of public sector banks is a step in the right direction but efficiency is more important than size. “Larger and more efficient banks, both in public and private sector, can compete shoulder to shoulder with the global banks to get a decent space in the global value chains. Size is essential but efficiency is even more important,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/shed-extreme-risk-fear-das-to-banks/articleshow/77793903.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Business||Edelweiss sells 51% in wealth mgmt arm||MUMBAI: PAG, one of the world’s largest Asia-focused investment groups, is investing about Rs 2,200 crore ($300 million) to pick up a 51% stake in Edelweiss Wealth Management, one of the leading non-bank wealth management businesses in India. The businesses, which are going under PAG’s majority control, are wealth management and investment banking. Edelweiss’s global investment advisory service, which also houses Edelweiss Asset Management, the country’s largest alternatives and asset reconstruction platform, is not part of the investment, a joint release from the two groups said. PAG, which currently manages about $40 billion globally, intends to invest about $1 billion in India in 2-3 years. As of June 2020, Edelweiss Wealth Management managed assets worth about Rs 1.27 lakh crore from about 6.1 lakh clients, the release said. In Thursday’s flat market, the stock price of Edelweiss Financial Services on the BSE closed 2% higher at Rs 84.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/edelweiss-sells-51-in-wealth-mgmt-arm/articleshow/77793984.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Business||Bankers raise alarm over negative returns||MUMBAI: Banks have raised an alarm over real returns on deposit accounts turning negative with the rise in inflation numbers. The concern is that with deposit rates continued to be subdued, investors may not find bank deposits attractive enough. “It is a tricky situation, interest rates cannot be the only factor driving the economy. If the savings rate goes below 3%, it is an alarming situation. As an emerging economy, we need higher contribution from savers,” said Punjab National Bank MD S S Mallikarjuna Rao, speaking at a banking event organised by Business Standard. Pointing out that inflation drives away the value of investments, he said banks have had to lower savings rates to adjust a mismatch in assets and liabilities but low rates are not sustainable. According to data released by the government, consumer inflation — that is year-on-year growth in consumer price index — was close to 7% in July, with food inflation being higher at 9.6% due to supply disruptions during the pandemic. Speaking at the same event, Union Bank of India MD & CEO Rajkiran Rai said, “We are a high-inflation country, so the real interest rates should count. Now the inflation rates are high and this should correct. Unless our inflation is around 2%, these kinds of rates will not attract depositors. Right now, there is a correction going on because I have to cut my rates as we are all sitting on surplus and lakhs of crores are lying with the RBI at 3.35% interest rates and it does not make sense to accept deposits and park them with the RBI,” he said “Deposit and lending rates are inter-related and a part of a market mechanism. It now depends on how inflation moves,” said IDBI Bank chairman Rakesh Sharma. Since February 2019, the RBI’s monetary policy committee has cut rates by 250 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point). The sharpest reductions have come in the wake of the Covid-19 lockdown and were coupled with the release of over Rs 9 lakh crore of liquidity into the banking system. This triggered a reduction in both savings as well as fixed deposit rates. In recent months, supply-side shocks have resulted in inflation remaining above the 6% mark. Given that interest on most deposits is now in the range of 6% and below, investors are getting negative returns on their savings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bankers-raise-alarm-over-negative-returns/articleshow/77793937.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Pune||Housing societies plan to bid adieu within premises||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: Most housing societies in the city have not organized the usual get-togethers for Ganeshotsav, while some have also opted for an early immersion without the usual procession that would involve venturing out of the premises. “We have an eco-friendly Ganapati idol, which we will be keeping for all 10 days of the festival. We will be doing the immersion in the garden in our society,” said Radhika Poduval, resident of a hosing society in Wanowrie. Rohan Gaikwad, prabhag president of NIBM-Mohammedwadi, said, “We have made packets of ammonium bicarbonate that can be used to dissolve Plaster of Paris idols that weigh about 4-5 kg at home. We have let residents know that they can get in touch with us for free home delivery of these packets.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/housing-societies-plan-to-bid-adieu-within-premises/articleshow/77793577.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Nagpur||NSSCDCL identifies 17kms for bicycle lanes||Nagpur: As a part of the ‘India Cycles For Change Challenge’, Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSCDCL) has identified separate bicycle lanes of approximately 17kms inside the city. The lanes surround the western part of Nagpur, completing a loop starting and ending from Law College Square. The move is part of the initiative taken by Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) under Smart City Mission to make the cities bicycle-friendly. “NSSCDCL is strongly supporting the initiative and will leave no stone unturned to bring Nagpur among top bicycle friendly cities of India,” stated its CEO Mahesh Moroney in a press statement. The 17-km loop routes through Law College Square-Bhole Petrol Pump-VIP Road-Alankar Square-Swargiya Annabhau Sathe Chowk-Neeri Chowk-Back to Bhole Petrol Pump-Maharaj Bag Square-Akashwani Square-VCA Square-Mason Square-Japanese Garden Square-Seminary Hills (via WCL Ghat Road)-Vayusena Nagar-Hanuman Tekdi Road-Walker's street- Ladies Club Square, and ends at Law College Square. In recent days, NSSCDCL and Deepanti Pal — bicycle mayor of Nagpur and strategic planner to NSSCDCL for this project — conducted a ‘handlebar’ survey, during which they met bicycle vendors, cyclists and other stakeholders of the city. Their suggestions were documented for the betterment of the city in terms of bicycling. Mayor Sandip Joshi gave his best wishes for the project to the core team of NSSCDCL for this project. Outgoing municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe said: “Let us cycle for the benefit of citizens as well as the city. It is the need of the hour to move towards carbon-free modes of transport to make the city sustainable.” DCP (traffic) Vikram Sali supported the initiative and was happy that he would now have a specific place to ride his bicycle on a regular basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nsscdcl-identifies-17kms-for-bicycle-lanes/articleshow/77793646.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Bizwoman held for cheating bank||Hyderabad: A businesswoman was nabbed for cheating a bank by taking a loan of Rs 3 crore by submitting fake documents. Central Crime Station sleuths nabbed Ravula Srilatha, 44, a resident of Prashanthi Nilayam, Kantha Reddy Nagar, Rajendra Nagar, on Thursday. According to police, Srilatha along with her husband had submitted fake documents of properties to obtain a loan of Rs 3.02 crore through equitable mortgage for their business. When they failed to pay the loan in time, the bank started the recovery process and found that the collateral furnished by the firm was fictitious. Between 2004 and 2012, the duo had cheated the bank to the tune of Rs 3 crore by furnishing fake documents of five acre agriculture land in Maheshwaram, six plots at Saraswathi Nagar Colony, Uppal. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bizwoman-held-for-cheating-bank/articleshow/77791983.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Two persons nabbed for online betting in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Two betting organisers were nabbed after Task Force police busted an online betting racket at Begumpet on Thursday. Police discovered they were managing close to 30 punters betting online. The duo — Ankith Kumar Goyal (35) from Prakash Nagar, Begumpet, and Pavan Kumar Lohiya (33) from Sultan Bazar — were friends. Initially, according to police, they learned about online poker betting game. After learning the game and the betting process, the duo later started organising online betting. The duo installed poker gambling application and created separate login ID and passwords for individual punters, offering to bet online. “The individual punters join as members in the online gambling app and the offenders would monitor the betting profits and losses on their mobile app,” Task Force inspector Nageshwar Rao said. They were accepting bets through online payment and wallets apart from collecting money and would share profits. “Several punters lost their hard-earned money. We found close to 30 punters in and around Hyderabad indulgin in betting regularly,” DCP, Task Force, Radhakrishna Rao said, adding the duo was working from Ankith’s house at Begumpet. Police seized Rs 1.2 lakh cash and an iPad used by the duo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-persons-nabbed-for-online-betting/articleshow/77791975.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: BJP stalwarts who made the lotus bloom to stand tall at upcoming Prerna Sthal||LUCKNOW: The construction of the mega ‘lotus-shape’ Rashtriya Prerna Sthal in Vrindavan Yojana will begin next month. It is being developed by the Lucknow Development Authority at 65 acre land. The grand park will have statutes of three BJP ideologues: Syama Prasad Mukherjee, Deen Dayal Upadhyaya and Atal Bihari Vajpayee. It will also have a lotus-shape museum exhibiting the lives and works of the three stalwarts. Another feature will be a lotusshape water body with fountains and a garden around. A major portion of the park will be used to develop different kinds of gardens, including butterfly, herbal and bamboo. The Prerna Sthal will also have a multi-activity centre, cycle track, food court, craft bazaar, yoga zone, cafe, kids play zone, lake, orchards, open air theatre with 8,000 seating capacity. Each statute will be 101-foot high, and thus will be the tallest in the city. At present, the tallest statue (37-foot) is of Atal Bihari Vajpayee installed at Lok Bhawan. The next two tallest statues are those of socialists leader Janeshwar Mishra (35-foot) at Janeshwar Mishra Park in Gomtinagar and Ram Manohar Lohia (20-foot) at the Lohia Park in Gomtinagar. LDA garden incharge SP Sisodiya said Prerna Sthal will have a parking lot for 500 vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/prerna-sthal-construction-to-begin-next-month/articleshow/77794322.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
August 28, 2020||Kolkata||No transport, candidates from dists fail to turn up for BHU entrance test||KOLKATA: Examinees from outside the city who had registered for the Banaras Hindu University’s mass communication online entrance test could not appear for it on Thursday due to the absence of transport on a day the state observed a complete lockdown even though cops in Kolkata allowed 80-odd students from the city to reach the examination centres after checking their credentials. Pratibha Singh from Parnasree in Behala said she had left home around 5.30 am in a cab that her father had booked a day before. A student of a Bhowanipore college, she reached the exam centre by 6.30 am. “We were stopped once at Chingrighata. But they saw the admit card and let us go. All other officers on the way merely asked for the admit card to be produced,” recalled Singh. There were 40 mass communication seats at BHU and she could not afford to miss the exam. “In a way, with so few candidates turning up, social distancing was never an issue,” said her father. Shatadru Banerjee of Shibpur had left as early as 5.20 am. “The cops were giving last minute instructions to trucks before the 6 am deadline and we got caught in that jam for close to 40 minutes. But I was at the centre by 7.10 am. My friend from Asansol was keen to take the exam. But he could not make it. This was even after BHU sent us messages a day in advance and assured us that everything had been sorted with the local administration,” said Banerjee. But not all were as lucky. Sources said several students from Bandel, Asansol and other towns in the state who were also slated to appear missed the examination because they could not travel. Kolkata and Bidhannagar police said the online exam — held at Gitabitan in New Town — saw candidates turn up only from Kolkata and its immediate suburbs. “Most candidates wrote ‘on exam duty’ in vehicles. Admit cards acted as their pass,” said an officer. On Thursday — the month’s second last total lockdown day — cops prosecuted more than 260 people within the first six hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/but-kol-aspirants-have-it-easy-thanks-to-cops/articleshow/77793624.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 28, 2020||Agra||Firozabad police team attacked, opens fire||AGRA: Firozabad police opened fire to disperse a mob pelting stones at it near Parmeshwar gate under Dakshin police station on Thursday. A video of the action has gone viral. The police team had tried to intervene in a clash between two groups over a land dispute, when it was attacked, allegedly by members of group. Five people were arrested in connection with the attack. Eight people, including six policemen, were injured and sent to the district hospital. According to police, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh's gau seva wing, Braj region, chief Ramakant Upadhyaya has a dispute with Naresh Baghel over a plot of land in Kanhaiya Nagar. A face-off between them and their supporters ended in a shuffle on Thursday afternoon. On Ramakant's complaint, sub inspector Pradeep Yadav reched the spot with his team. Baghel and his supporters allegedly pelted stones at the policemen, who opened fire to disperse the attackers Mukesh Chandra Mishra, superintendent of police (city), said, “The police team had gone there to control the situation. A group of people attacked the police. Five people have been arrested for disrupting government work and attacking government servants. The matter is being probed." Shyam Singh, station officer, Firozabad south, claimed,“Naresh Baghel and four of his family members were involved in attacking police and have been arrested. A case has been registered against them under the Criminal Law Amendment Act, IPC sections 147 (punishment for rioting), 323 (voluntarily causes hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 307 (attempt to murder).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/firozabad-police-team-attacked-opens-fire/articleshow/77791977.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 28, 2020||Pune||GSB community concludes its celebration||Pune: The Konkani-speaking Goud Saraswat Brahmin (GSB) community in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad recently concluded the five-day Ganesh festival celebrations. This year, community members decided to scale down the festivities and avoid some usual programmes, like setting up a community kitchen, due to the pandemic. Instead, devotees viewed all the rituals from their home thanks to live streaming of events. The GSB community has been organizing Ganesh festival since 2016 under the banner of The GSB Samaj Pune. This time, all rituals were conducted at a tastefully decorated platform at the GSB Samaj’s office in the city. A few volunteers, led by Manjunath Bhat, group president Prakash Kini and secretary Ramdas Pai as well as the managing committee members, supervised the rituals. This year, devotees had to take prior appointment for a brief ‘darshan’, while no more than five devotees were allowed at a time. Wearing masks during the ‘darshan’ was also made mandatory. Offerings of fruits, flowers, coconuts, etc, were also prohibited with a view to strictly adhere to government directive. Arrangements were also made to telecast the programme live on to the Samaj’s website as well as via social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gsb-community-concludes-its-celebration/articleshow/77793609.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Kolkata||Flyers camp outside Kolkata airport||KOLKATA: With tickets in their hand and enough food to last for one-and-a-half-day, 25-odd flyers camped outside the Kolkata airport terminal on Thursday waiting for flight operations to resume from Friday. Unlike other days, when clueless first-time flyers arrived at the airport on lockdown days unaware of flight suspension, all the passengers, who had come on Thursday, were aware of the flight ban. They didn’t want to take a chance fearing lack of enough transport on Friday morning. One such passenger, Rahul Khan, who is a resident of Silchar, was found sitting outside the departure terminal with a colleague. Both were to take a 9.40am IndiGo flight to Bangalore on Friday. He had come back from Bangalore on March 15 and got stuck in Assam. “We had taken a flight from Silchar to Kolkata on Monday and gone straight to my friend’s place in Burdwan. On Wednesday evening, we came to the Kolkata airport. We didn’t want to take a chance of taking an early morning bus from Burdwan to reach the airport in fear of getting late for boarding. We preferred to spend the nights at the airport itself,” said Khan. A 26-year-old Balurghat resident, Gokul Das, was also seen lying on the floor outside arrival gate 3A/B watching a movie on his cellphone. “We have come prepared to spend the night at the airport. We have a flight to Goa at 5am on Friday and it would have been impossible for us to catch such an early flight had we waited for the lockdown to get over,” said Das, a labour contractor. CISF officials and cops checked their air tickets and identity cards time and again to ensure they were genuine flyers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/flyers-camp-outside-kol-airport/articleshow/77793685.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Mechanisation in agri crucial: CM||Hyderabad: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Thursday said there is a need for a major shift in the way agriculture is perceived as non-profitable. He said India should be self-reliant in foodgrains’ production. The CM said the agriculture sector is facing non-availability of labour. To get over these problems, mechanisation should take place in a big manner in agri operations, he said. He wanted the government and institutions like Nabard to implement schemes that would encourage agriculture. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mechanisation-in-agri-crucial-cm/articleshow/77793661.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Plot to kill Gordhan Zadafia hatched in Pakistan, claims ATS||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat ATS on Thursday confirmed that they have detained five persons — three from Mumbai, one from Akola in Aurangabad in Maharashtra and one from Mangalore in Karnataka — in connection with the alleged plot to kill state BJP vice-president and former MoS (home) Gordhan Zadafia. The ATS also confirmed that Mohammed Salim alias Munna Zingada, 58, originally an Indian but now based in Pakistan; Haji Shabbir of Pakistan; and Chhota Shakeel, the right hand man of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim, had plotted to kill Zadafia and some other political leaders. ATS sources said Shakeel had asked Zingada to eliminate Zadafia and other leaders. Zingada is also known as Saeed Muzakkir Muddasar Hasan in Pakistan. “He was a member of the Chhota Shakeel team which attempted to eliminate rival gangster Chhota Rajan at his apartment in Sukhumvit in Bangkok on September 15, 2000. However, Rajan escaped the attack and was later arrested in Bali. He is now in custody in India. ATS officials said that Zingada then contacted one Haji Shabbir who worked as the handler of the two sharpshooters who were finally chosen to eliminate Zadafia. “The weapons were supplied to the shooters by one of the five persons who have been picked up and one more man of Mumbai. The man from Mumbai is also in the custody of Gujarat ATS. He had booked tickets in a luxury bus from Mumbai to Ahmedabad,” added the official. Gujarat ATS did not reveal the identity of the five persons who have been picked up. “Three of them were in touch with Haji Shabbir and to keep their chats secret, they used OTP-coded virtual numbers. They used to transfer their messages to another sim card, making it difficult for security agencies to crack the conversation and location of the sim card. We suspect that the three provided logistic support and finance,” added an ATS investigator. DSP K K Patel of ATS said that they got input from central agencies on August 15, 2020 on the two sharpshooters who had landed in the city to eliminate a political leader. “Working on the input, a team of Gujarat ATS consisting DIG ATS Himanshu Shukla, SSP in-charge Deepan Bhadran, DSP K K Patel and DSP B P Roziya raided Hotel Vinus on the Relief Road of Ahmedabad.  They found only one shooter Irfan Shaikh alias Kalia of Chembur who fired on the ATS team but luckily nobody was injured. The other one, Salman, is on the run. Shaikh later was found to be Covid-19 positive and has been shifted to a city hospital,” added Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/plot-to-kill-gordhan-zadafia-hatched-in-pakistan-claims-ats/articleshow/77791994.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Goa||BITS Goa students see 13% rise in average pay packages||PANAJI: The economy may not exactly be at its best amidst the pandemic, but BITS Pilani K K Birla Goa Campus, Zuarinagar, appears to have beaten the slump when it comes to summer internship and pre-placement offers for its students. Not only has the institute seen a higher number of students getting pre-placement offers this year as compared to the previous season, there has also been a 13% increase in the average pay package offered. “The summer internship is a two-month programme wherein the topnotch companies select students, who work under the assigned projects with a pre-defined stipend. In case the students perform as per the expectations of the company, they are given pre-placement offers (ie offers before the commencement of the placement season). For this year, 81 students secured pre-placement offers compared to 72 offers last year,” said chief placement officer for campuses in India and Dubai for BITS Pilani, G Balasubramanian. The average package offered to students this year was Rs 24.8 lakh per annum as against last year’s Rs 22 lakh per annum. This was an increase of 13%. The highest package offered to a student stood at Rs 43.3 lakh per annum, which matched last year’s offer, the placement team at BITS Pilani Goa Campus said. Balasubramanian said that the offers for Goa students have come from some of the biggest names globally, which include Microsoft Corporation, Adobe, Arcesium, Amazon, Flipkart, Oracle, Uber, Texas Instruments, Futures First, Nvidia, Cisco, Intuit IDC, Goldman Sachs, Mathworks. He said that the placement trends seen at the Goa campus are in line with those being witnessed at the other two BITS Pilani India campuses. “Given the prevailing pessimism and cynicism about the job market for fresh graduates from e-schools in India and the decelerating economic growth, it’s gratifying to see the BITS Group’s performance growing and finding favour of the leading recruiters for 2021,” Balasubramanian said. Balasubramanian said that the placement season is still in progress and many more offers are expected yet. “Students from BE Computer Science engineering, ME Computer Science engineering, BE Electrical and Electronics engineering, BE Electronics and Instrumentation engineering, and Electronics and Communication engineering have been placed so far. Most of the students have received offers from the information technology, electronics and finance sector,” he said. BITS Pilani Goa campus student Soundarya Krishnan, who has found a pre-placement offer at Uber, said, “There was a lot of apprehension, especially because of the work from home arrangement, as I did not know if my work would be appraised accurately. I am really happy to have received the pre-placement offer. Both Uber and the institute were very supportive during this period.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/despite-pandemic-bits-goa-students-see-13-rise-in-average-pay-packages/articleshow/77794261.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
August 28, 2020||Kolkata||Schools line up Covid safety measures in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Calling only Class IX-XII students to school, changed seating arrangements, break time rules, sanitization of hands, eating lunch in front of teachers’ eyes, circles as waiting slots in front of washrooms: these are some of the measures that will be implemented at schools in the city whenever the Centre and state governments give the go-ahead to re-open the gates. The principals of several institutions on Thursday chose to go through these moves with their administrative heads over phone calls and virtual meets to ensure they had their plans ready in case the government asked them to join a discussion to check their preparedness. However, most schools felt that even with the best re-opening plans in place, it might not be safe to resume classroom teaching immediately as a large number of children would travel to and from their institutes by shared transport, picking up the virus en route and spreading it among others. The Heritage School has a draft protocol ready that suggests that not more than 25 children will be allowed on a school bus, only three students will be allowed to have their meals at a table in sanitized halls, shorter class hours, masks-face shields-gloves will be part of uniform and social distancing rules to be in place in the staff room. “No matter when the school re-opens, we have to be ready with everything,” said principal Seema Sapru. South Point School has, however, put an initial plan in place. “When schools reopen, we are keen to know how the government allows operations, which will be an important factor in resuming classes on the campus. The restriction on the number of students, space requirement and age groups are important. Depending on all these factors, we will draw up a final roadmap,” said spokesperson Krishna Damani. While St James’ School will hold a meeting of heads on Friday to discuss their safety mesaures, La Martiniere Schools have theirs in place and a “Covid head” has been brought into the accounts books already. “We have our SOP in place. To start with, we have decided to call students between classes IX and XII. Movement within the campus will be restricted and there will be strict break time rules. Even playing on the field will not be allowed. However, the biggest problem that we would like to flag is that kids would used pooled cars and public transport to come to school and they might get infected and spread it on the campus. How will the schools prevent that?” said Supriyo Dhar, secretary of La Martiniere Schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-line-up-cov-safety-measures/articleshow/77793656.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 28, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad: Rs 60-crore property owned by Atiq Ahmad attached, others under lens||PRAYAGRAJ: Police are compiling fresh information about the properties owned by mafia don-turned politician Atiq Ahmad after attaching his seven properties worth Rs 60 crore in Dhoomanganj, Khuldabad and Civil Lines under the Gangster Act. On Wednesday, police had attached five properties of Atiq worth Rs 25 crore that included two houses in Chakia area worth Rs 2.5 crore, two houses in Omprakash Sabhashad Nagar and Kalindipuram localities worth Rs 2.5 crore and a house on Mahatma Gandhi Marg worth Rs 20 crore. However, on Thursday, police attached two more properties worth Rs 35 crore of Atiq including two houses located at Chakia and Karbala localities under the Khuldabad police station. Around two weeks back, Prayagraj district magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami had ordered for seven immovable properties owned by Atiq to be attached under Gangster Act. He had also asked for a status report to be submitted by August 28. SSP (Prayagraj) Abhishek Dixit told reporters that police had attached seven properties of the jailed don Atiq worth around Rs 60 crore on Wednesday and Thursday and started process to attach more properties in the coming days. He also claimed that all the seven properties were attached under the Gangster Act on the directives of the district magistrate. The SSP claimed that police have also identified more properties of the jailed don and would soon complete the process to attach these properties. The decision to attach the properties was taken after SSP (Prayagraj) had recommended action in a report to the DM. He had reasoned that the properties were allegedly accumulated through illegal means. After going through the available records, the DM had decided to attach all the seven properties. The SSP also made it clear that similar action would be initiated against all mafias who have accumulated properties through illegal means and their properties would also be attached.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/rs-60-crore-property-owned-by-atiq-attached-others-under-lens/articleshow/77790425.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Kishan seeks report on jobs||Hyderabad: Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy has asked the officials to submit a report on the job opportunities for locals in Ramagundam Fertilisers and Chemicals Ltd (RFCL). Kishan Reddy also said fertilisers produced at the facility should be supplied to Telangana farmers on a priority basis as the plant is located in the state. The minister held a review meeting on Thursday in a video conference with senior officials on the commissioning of the plant and other details. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kishan-seeks-report-on-jobs/articleshow/77793686.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Dip in broadband users in April, May||AHMEDABAD: While the 57-day lockdown forced many to work from home and pushed demand for home broadband connections up, the lockdown also meant that telecom operators failed to capitalize on this increased demand. According to the latest telecom subscriptions report released by the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI), the total number of broadband connections in May declined marginally against April, by 1,218. A similar trend of decline was observed in April, when the number of connections declined by a whopping 50,909 from March. Several players in Gujarat lost a significant chunk of their broadband subscribers. For instance, Bharti Airtel lost 2,164 broadband subscribers which declined from 1.01 lakh in April 2020 to 99,301 in May. Similarly, state-owned telecom company, BSNL lost 4,519 subscribers and Reliance Communications lost 279 subscribers in the same period. Industry players saw demand certainly went up due to online education as well as work from home requirements. At the same time, Vodafone-Idea added some 820 broadband subscribers, increasing from 31,082 in April to 31,902 in May; Reliance Jio added 5,040 new broadband subscribers, from 1.32 lakh in April to 1.37 lakh in May. The overall number of subscribers in Gujarat declined marginally from 9.49 lakh to 9.48 lakh. “While demand was buoyant due to the lockdown, servicing new connection requests and renewal requests was a challenge for telecom companies due to which the subscriber numbers declined. Even as the demand rose multi-fold, it could not be catered to because of restrictions imposed by housing societies,” said an industry source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dip-in-broadband-users-in-april-may/articleshow/77792037.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Varanasi||Light Metro keeps hopes of modern transport alive for people of Kashi||Varanasi: There is still hope for people of Varanasi who had been dreaming to travel in Metro rail as Rail India Technical and Economic Service (RITES) has proposed a lighter version — Light Metro corridor from BHEL (Tarna) and BHU (Lanka). The proposal of Metro rail was discarded as it was not found feasible for old city areas, but in its Comprehensive Mobility Plan (CMP) phase-I detailed project report RITES has proposed a Light Metro corridor in the city. RITES submitted its DPR of Rs 7,000 crore on developing a comprehensive mobility plan for the city. The proposed Light Metro rail service between BHEL (Tarna) and BHU via Cantt railway station and Bhelupur entails investment of Rs 4,700 crore. There will be 15 stoppages between BHEL and BHU on the corridor, said officials. Metro rail project for Varanasi was announced in 2015 and RITES was assigned the task to prepare a feasibility report and DPR. RITES had proposed two Metro corridors in Varanasi at a cost of Rs 17,702 crore. It included an underground line of 15.50 km in the old city and elevated 3.84 km in trans-Varuna. Tulsi Manas Mandir, Durga temple, Ratnakar Park, Kashi Vishwanath temple, Beniabagh, Rathyatra, Kashi Vidyapeeth, Cantt railway station, Nadesar, Collectorate, Bhojubir, Gilat Bazar, Sangam Colony, Shivpur, Tarna and BHEL were proposed stations in this corridor. The other corridor was proposed between Beniabagh and Sarnath.  However, the Union ministry of urban development raised questions on the commercial viability, especially introduction of Metro service in heavily congested old city areas. In June 2019, the Metro rail project was rejected as not feasible and RITES was asked to explore other options for the densely populated areas of Varanasi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/light-metro-keeps-hopes-of-modern-transport-alive-for-people-of-kashi/articleshow/77790525.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Chennai||Rs 2 crore ransom: Bangladesh woman, three more held||CHENNAI|TRICHY|COIMBATORE: A regular case of kidnap and extortion may lead investigation into an elaborate fundamentalist network, TN police and National Investigation Agency sleuths believe. After three men including suspected Muslim radical Thoufique were detained for the kidnap of a Chennai press owner, police in Trichy and Coimbatore nabbed four others including Thoufique’s partner, a Bangladesh national, and her two-year-old son. While Chennai residents Albert and Uma Maheswaran have been sent to jail, Salma and her son were booked for illegal stay in India.  Coimbatore residents Abdul Kadar and Sikkandar, suspected to be Thoufique’s associates, have been brought to Chennai for questioning. Given the involvement of Thoufique, an NIA team is monitoring the developments and the case would soon be transferred to the central agency, said a police officer, refusing to reveal anything further about the detained people including Thoufiq. Late on Wednesday, after finding that Thoufique, a resident of Athiramapattinam in Thanjavur district, had visited Salma in Trichy’s Manikadam area, a police team apprehended the woman and her son. Police said she did not possess any legal documents for her entry and stay in India. Police said Thoufique had met Salma while he was in Bangladesh for allegedly illegal activities and brought her to Trichy five months ago. The two were taken to Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) for a Covid-19 test and produced before a court on Thursday morning. On Thursday, following information about some of Thoufique’s associates, a team of the Coimbatore police nabbed Abdul Kadar and Sikkandar. While Abdul Kadar owned two textile shops, Sikkandar was his business associate. The two were brought to Chennai. A police officer said initial inquiries suggested Sikkandar did not have anything to with the kidnapping and that he would be let off after a detailed inquiry. On Wednesday, police had picked up Thoufique, Albert and Uma Maheswaran for the August 7 kidnap for ransom of printing press owner Diwan Akbar of Muthialpet in Mannadi, near his house. Akbar was detained at houses in Vadapalani and on ECR for a couple of days and was released after his family paid a ransom of ₹2 crore. Akbar did not lodge a complaint but the Muthialpet police got a tip about the extortion and swung into action. They later registered a case, nabbed thee men including Thoufique and launched a hunt for seven others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rs-2cr-ransom-bdesh-woman-three-more-held/articleshow/77790763.cms||A Selvaraj
August 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cotton yarn makers’ revenues fall to 6-year low, study shows||AHMEDABAD: With demand tepid in both domestic and export markets, revenues of cotton spinners are set to decline by 30% to 35% in the current fiscal, hitting a six-year low in India, according to a report by CRISIL. The situation of spinners in Gujarat, which is home to at least 150 spinning units and contributes 15% of the production of cotton yarn in India, is no different. Hit by dwindling demand, spinning units are operating under capacity. Gujarat has an installed capacity of 35 lakh spindles. “Currently, we are operating at 80% of installed capacity and even lower at some units. There is no demand in the market as a result of which order books of cotton yarn manufacturers are hurt and their revenues are low. This is likely to adversely hit the entire industry’s revenues by the end of the fiscal,” said Dr Bharat Boghara, chairman, All Gujarat Spinners’ Association (AGSA). “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, inventory losses and lower profitability is expected to result in moderation in credit quality of cotton spinners this fiscal,” according to the study by CRISIL. Domestic demand for cotton yarn, which accounts for over 70% of overall demand, has been impacted because of slack in end-user segments such as readymade garments (RMG) and home textiles, according to the report. Cotton yarn exports have also been materially affected because of fewer orders from China and Bangladesh, which account for over half of India’s exports, the study says. In fact, 60% of Gujarat’s total production of cotton yarn is exported and the majority of that is sent to China. “Revenue from exports had already wound back by a third last fiscal, with China increasing procurement from other countries, predominantly Vietnam, according to CRISIL,” the study said. The study also mentions that the decline in yarn offtake since Covid-19 troubles began in February 2020 has meant the current fiscal began with higher inventories of 4-4.5 months compared to 3-3.5 months on average in the past two fiscals. With demand likely to revive only from the second half of this fiscal, inventories will remain high in the first half.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cotton-yarn-makers-revenues-fall-to-6-year-low-study-shows/articleshow/77792042.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||More AMC teams to impound stray cattle||AHMEDABAD: AMC will deploy more teams for impounding stray cattle on the road, especially during the evening.Standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt said that as cattle nuisance increases between 5pm and 8pm, the civic body has decided to intensify surveillance. “Our teams will be accompanied by SRP personnel for protection. The step has been taken as the teams were attacked in the past,” said Bhatt. He said municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar has instructed to stop cattle menace and put an end to the practice of dumping untreated chemical wastes in Kharicut canal. “The corporation will hold talks with the Pollution Control Board and the GIDC to ensure that the chemical waste is not dumped in the canal. “We will request the two authorities to have proper coordination so that the illegal dumping does not take place,” he said. The corporation also has a task force which ensures that the untreated waste is not dumped in the canal. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/more-amc-teams-to-impound-stray-cattle/articleshow/77792049.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Rs 2 crore ransom: Bangladesh woman, three more held||CHENNAI|TRICHY|COIMBATORE: A regular case of kidnap and extortion may lead investigation into an elaborate fundamentalist network, TN police and National Investigation Agency sleuths believe. After three men including suspected Muslim radical Thoufique were detained for the kidnap of a Chennai press owner, police in Trichy and Coimbatore nabbed four others including Thoufique’s partner, a Bangladesh national, and her two-year-old son. While Chennai residents Albert and Uma Maheswaran have been sent to jail, Salma and her son were booked for illegal stay in India.  Coimbatore residents Abdul Kadar and Sikkandar, suspected to be Thoufique’s associates, have been brought to Chennai for questioning. Given the involvement of Thoufique, an NIA team is monitoring the developments and the case would soon be transferred to the central agency, said a police officer, refusing to reveal anything further about the detained people including Thoufiq. Late on Wednesday, after finding that Thoufique, a resident of Athiramapattinam in Thanjavur district, had visited Salma in Trichy’s Manikadam area, a police team apprehended the woman and her son. Police said she did not possess any legal documents for her entry and stay in India. Police said Thoufique had met Salma while he was in Bangladesh for allegedly illegal activities and brought her to Trichy five months ago. The two were taken to Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) for a Covid-19 test and produced before a court on Thursday morning. On Thursday, following information about some of Thoufique’s associates, a team of the Coimbatore police nabbed Abdul Kadar and Sikkandar. While Abdul Kadar owned two textile shops, Sikkandar was his business associate. The two were brought to Chennai. A police officer said initial inquiries suggested Sikkandar did not have anything to with the kidnapping and that he would be let off after a detailed inquiry. On Wednesday, police had picked up Thoufique, Albert and Uma Maheswaran for the August 7 kidnap for ransom of printing press owner Diwan Akbar of Muthialpet in Mannadi, near his house. Akbar was detained at houses in Vadapalani and on ECR for a couple of days and was released after his family paid a ransom of ₹2 crore. Akbar did not lodge a complaint but the Muthialpet police got a tip about the extortion and swung into action. They later registered a case, nabbed thee men including Thoufique and launched a hunt for seven others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rs-2cr-ransom-bdesh-woman-three-more-held/articleshow/77795094.cms||A Selvaraj
August 28, 2020||Trichy||Rs 2 crore ransom: Bangladesh woman, three more held||CHENNAI|TRICHY|COIMBATORE: A regular case of kidnap and extortion may lead investigation into an elaborate fundamentalist network, TN police and National Investigation Agency sleuths believe. After three men including suspected Muslim radical Thoufique were detained for the kidnap of a Chennai press owner, police in Trichy and Coimbatore nabbed four others including Thoufique’s partner, a Bangladesh national, and her two-year-old son. While Chennai residents Albert and Uma Maheswaran have been sent to jail, Salma and her son were booked for illegal stay in India.  Coimbatore residents Abdul Kadar and Sikkandar, suspected to be Thoufique’s associates, have been brought to Chennai for questioning. Given the involvement of Thoufique, an NIA team is monitoring the developments and the case would soon be transferred to the central agency, said a police officer, refusing to reveal anything further about the detained people including Thoufiq. Late on Wednesday, after finding that Thoufique, a resident of Athiramapattinam in Thanjavur district, had visited Salma in Trichy’s Manikadam area, a police team apprehended the woman and her son. Police said she did not possess any legal documents for her entry and stay in India. Police said Thoufique had met Salma while he was in Bangladesh for allegedly illegal activities and brought her to Trichy five months ago. The two were taken to Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) for a Covid-19 test and produced before a court on Thursday morning. On Thursday, following information about some of Thoufique’s associates, a team of the Coimbatore police nabbed Abdul Kadar and Sikkandar. While Abdul Kadar owned two textile shops, Sikkandar was his business associate. The two were brought to Chennai. A police officer said initial inquiries suggested Sikkandar did not have anything to with the kidnapping and that he would be let off after a detailed inquiry. On Wednesday, police had picked up Thoufique, Albert and Uma Maheswaran for the August 7 kidnap for ransom of printing press owner Diwan Akbar of Muthialpet in Mannadi, near his house. Akbar was detained at houses in Vadapalani and on ECR for a couple of days and was released after his family paid a ransom of ₹2 crore. Akbar did not lodge a complaint but the Muthialpet police got a tip about the extortion and swung into action. They later registered a case, nabbed thee men including Thoufique and launched a hunt for seven others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rs-2cr-ransom-bdesh-woman-three-more-held/articleshow/77795095.cms||A Selvaraj
August 28, 2020||Kolkata||Principals welcome CISCE relaxations||KOLKATA: Schools in the city heaved a sigh of relief after the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) announced on Wednesday that it would not send annual school exam question papers for classes IX and XI this year and would be considerate while accepting ICSE and ISC project work files for 2021 exams. Principals felt in a year, when students were struggling to adjust to the new normal, the twin decisions would help them. Ram Mohan Mission High School principal Sujoy Biswas said, “CISCE has curtailed the syllabus for the 2020-2021 academic session. It is always to the benefit of students if teachers themselves prepare question papers and test them. The evaluation will be more accurately done, as there will be limited face-to-face interactions before the annual examinations begin.” Echoing him, St James’ School principal T H Ireland said after the syllabus was reduced, it was not possible for CISCE to know which portions had been taught by schools and when. “Teachers who have taught the students will know the best what will be apt for them to be evaluated on,” Ireland said. Nabarun De, principal of Central Modern School in Baranagar, pointed out the decision to hold annual exams would vary from school to school, depending on their geographical locations and the local Covid-19 status. “All schools may not hold annual exams at the same time,” De said. Many principals pointed out it was not possible for the council to send out multiple sets of question papers. Another change introduced by the council is the decision to be flexible while accepting project files of candidates of ICSE and ISC 2021. In the circular issued to school heads on Wednesday, CISCE chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon said the council was aware that many institutes had already given their ICSE and ISC candidates their project topics to be completed at home. “The Covid-19 pandemic, coupled with selective lockdown in some states and schools still being closed, submission of these project work has become difficult,” stated the CISCE circular. The council suggested that the project work could be submitted in any convenient format, including handwritten, typed, PDF or PowerPoint. “The projects can also be on deleted chapters,” said a school principal. But the notice pointed out that since typing was allowed, care must be taken to check against plagiarism. “Teachers may use anti-plagiarism apps to detect malpractices,” Arathoon said. Welcoming the move, The Heritage School principal Seema Sapru said the decisions were progressive and in-tune with the current need.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/principals-welcome-cisce-relaxations/articleshow/77793707.cms||Somdatta Basu
August 28, 2020||Allahabad||ABAP demands common civil code, 2-child law||Prayagraj: The Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, the apex body of all the 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders (akharas) in the country, has demanded implementation of Common Civil Code in the country. Expressing concern over the increasing population of one community, ABAP president Mahant Narendra Giri also demanded the enactment of a two-child law to check it. In a communiqué issued on Thursday, Giri said a certain community enjoys minority status but is persecuting the majority community. He cited the recent arrest of a girl of another community in Prayagraj for using profanity and abusive remarks for Hindu deities in a video which went viral on social media. The mahant said, “Even before the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya, some elements were talking about demolishing it, and challenging Sanatan culture.” The growing population of this community in the country could become a huge threat in the coming days, he said. “Common civil code and population control law can only be brought by the BJP government. If this government does so, then BJP will rule for the next 50 years,” he said. If these measures are not taken, then the followers of Sanatan Dharma in the country will also have to consider increasing their numbers. Giri urged intellectuals and leaders of the minority community to convince their people to adopt population control measures and dissuade them from issuing statements that hurt the religious sentiments of the followers of Sanatan Dharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/abap-demands-common-civil-code-2-child-law/articleshow/77790475.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Bhopal||MP sees highest single-day toll of 24 from Covid-19||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh on Thursday recorded its highest single-day death toll from the Covid-19 pandemic, reporting 24 fatalities, according to state health bulletin. On Thursday, the total Covid-19 caseload was reported at 1,317. It was the eighth consecutive day when more than 1,000 people tested positive for Covid-19 in MP. Since the pandemic began, total 58,329 Covid-19 cases have been reported in MP. 1,306 deaths have been attributed to Covid in Madhya Pradesh. On Thursday, there were 12,422 active cases in MP. 44,453 patients have been cured and discharged in MP. Meanwhile, 18 of 52 districts in MP reported fatalities due to Covid-19 on Thursday. Of the 24 deaths, four patients died in Indore, three in Gwalior and two each in Sagar and Jabalpur. One death each occurred in Bhopal, Ujjain, Khargone, Barwani, Ratlam, Vidisha, Rewa, Sehore, Alirajpur, Shahdol, Shajapur, Chhindwara, Seoni, according to state health bulletin. In a new record, 36 districts reported new cases in double digit on Thursday with one dozen districts reporting more than 30 cases in a single day. Similarly, 15 districts in MP reported more than 20 Covid-19 cases in a single day on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-records-highest-single-day-toll-of-24-from-covid/articleshow/77792041.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Nagpur||Full lockdown with curfew every weekend likely from Sept: Nitin Raut||NAGPUR: Announcing a new concept — Chase The Virus, guardian minister Nitin Raut said full lockdown with curfew is likely to be implemented in city every Saturday and Sunday from the first weekend of September. He also said number of Covid-19 testing centres will soon be doubled in the district. Raut told TOI, “The weekend lockdown will not be implemented in rural parts of the district. City is witnessing community spread of Covid-19. Full lockdown with curfew on weekends is needed to control high growth of novel coronavirus. It is the best possible solution for all sectors, instead of 15-day or more full lockdown with curfew. Though it will not make a huge difference in a day, it will slow down growth rate of cases and break existing chains.” Raut said, “Excluding emergency services, nothing will be allowed in the weekend full lockdown with curfew. It will not affect the common man as everyone can ensure sufficient stock of all essential items in five days of a week. Traders and other sectors will also not be impacted as they can run their trade for five days. Overall, entire city will work for five days in every week and rest for two days.” Raut added an official announcement will be made after a meeting on Monday. On July 18, Raut along with home minister Anil Deshmukh had given consent for 15-day full lockdown with curfew, and constituted a committee under divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar to chalk out detailed plan. Later, it was dropped and home isolation of positive patients and home quarantine of high-risk contacts were implemented. Mayor Sandip Joshi had implemented weekend Janata Curfew on July 25 and 26. Later, it was not continued. Joshi could not be contacted for a comment on Raut’s new plan. BJP city president Pravin Datke said people themselves should implement and follow weekend Janata Curfew, and it is very necessary in present situation. “Guardian minister should take everyone into confidence so that it can be implemented properly and followed by all for city’s betterment,” he said. Dipen Agrawal, president of Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industry and Trade (CAMIT), said, “Traders will think of supporting Raut’s new plan if Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) does away with odd-even system. Traders are in huge losses as they are running business for three days in a week. Weekend full lockdown with curfew will mean two-day week for shopkeepers. Traders are struggling to manage statutory liabilities, staff payment, rents etc. Any decision should be taken taking all sectors into confidence. We too are wishing and working to end the pandemic.” Asked what ‘Chase The Virus’ is about, Raut said, “Apart from breaking existing chains, utmost need is to control Covid-19 positive deaths. Therefore, we will reach to the virus by identifying reasons behind spread and ending it. Some people are not revealing after they test positive. We will reach out to them and make them aware about the importance of isolation and treatment. Testing centres will be doubled to facilitate testing for all. The administration is already working to ensure sufficient number of beds for treatment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/full-lockdown-with-curfew-every-weekend-likely-from-sept-raut/articleshow/77793709.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 28, 2020||Nagpur||Three lab staffers test positive, cripple RT-PCR testing||NAGPUR: The more reliable real time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assay testing for Covid-19 in city took a blow with a backlog of over 2,000 samples after around 11 staffers from three different testing labs tested positive between Wednesday and Thursday. Reaching a high of 3,130 samples on Wednesday in last seven days, the figure dropped to 2,152 on Thursday. Besides, four staffers of GMCH lab too had earlier tested positive but are said to be recovering. The labs affected are of IGGMCH, AIIMS, and Mafsu. This brought the free of cost RT-PCR testing at NMC’s 34 centres to a grinding halt. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi told TOI rapid antigen test (RAT) was done for all. “We were asked not to conduct RT-PCR for a couple of days as staffers of three labs tested positive,” he said. The RAT testing increased from 3,530 to 4,414 on Thursday. As RAT’s false negative rate is quite high, RT-PCR is preferred for those showing certain symptoms and yet testing negative in antigen test. NMC centres suggested they go for private labs while others were asked to come back later. There were also reports of suspects passing away with their RT-PCR pending. Each RT-PCR costs around Rs2,800. The city has a capacity of 3,000 RT-PCR tests a day. This includes testing 1,000 samples from Gadchiroli, Bhandara, Buldhana and Chandrapur. With high risk staffers being tested in all three affected labs, the RT-PCR testing backlog may swell in case more among them are found positive. Full-fledged testing may remain crippled with 10-day isolation period for well-trained staffers. One of the labs already reduced its testing to under 100 from over 300 daily. The partial impact was seen in Thursday evening’s statistics, which show a drop of almost 200 samples at the five government labs while the full impact will be evident in Friday’s data. IGGMCH VRDL lab was worst hit with two technicians and three data entry operators testing positive. It was shut for a few hours on Thursday while swab samples of 25 other staffers were collected for testing. The lab was sanitized and restarted in the evening, as per officials. They said, in case more staffers test positive, the lab will have to be shut for a couple of days. Two technicians, one attendant and one multiple purpose worker tested positive at AIIMS as did two staff from Mafsu lab. Everyday, IGGMCH lab processes over 600 samples while it distributes rest among GMCH, AIIMS, NEERI, and MAFSU. GMCH has a capacity of 500 a day. AIIMS has a capacity of 380 while the other two labs do around 200 samples daily each. As per the civil surgeon’s Thursday evening data, the five labs could test only 1,453 samples for Nagpur. A day before, the figure stood at 1,651. The Thursday’s data is from overnight and morning sampling batches. Between Aug 21 and 27, the five labs did an average 2,495 RT-PCR tests for Nagpur. The highest 3,130 was done on Wednesday. The samples are collected from SARI and ILI patients admitted in hospitals beside those routed through the civic body from its daily camps. The lab authorities believe the infection among their staff is not from handling of Covid samples, which is done using PPE kits and all safety measures. “The infection is now a community spread. It is unlikely the staffers got infected here as not all are positive,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/three-lab-staffers-test-positive-cripple-rt-pcr-testing/articleshow/77793722.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 28, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: 10 of Gehlot's staff test +ve, CM cancels all scheduled meetings||JAIPUR: The Covid-19 virus infected chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s office and residence on Thursday, with 10 persons from both premises testing positive. Following the development, the CM cancelled all his meetings with visitors at his office and residence. A statement issued by the CMO stated that all meetings have been cancelled keeping in view the health of visitors. Since visitors coming to CMO and CMR have to first intract with security guards and other employees before meeting the CM, they are at a higher risk of being infected with the virus. Gehlot has also informed visitors, who come from different parts of the state, that he would not be able to meet them as a precautionary measure. He appealed to them not to travel to meet him. A senior health department official said that their teams were camping in the affected places, collecting samples and conducting contact tracing. Following complaints of private hospitals charging lakhs of rupees for Covid treatment, Gehlot directed the health department officials to ensure that private hospitals do not deny treatment. “Taking complaints of private hospitals charging lakhs of rupees for Covid treatment seriously, directions have been issued to conduct monitoring and also to ensure that no private hospital should deny treatment to Covid treatment,” he tweeted. Since the number of active cases is hovering over 3,000, more patients now require hospitalisation. Before being taken to hospital, the patients have to confirm about the availability of beds, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/10-of-gehlot-staff-test-ve-cmcancels-all-scheduled-meetings/articleshow/77793716.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt mulls another LRS, hopes for Rs 1,000 cr windfall||Hyderabad: A day after banning property registrations in unapproved layouts and unauthorised buildings, Telangana government is mulling a new layout regularisation scheme (LRS) to give plot owners a chance to regularise their plots in illegal layouts. On the other hand, it anticipates a windfall of about Rs 1,000 crore revenue. Sources in the municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD) department said the government might issue an order in a week to regularise plots in unapproved layouts. “As of now, the LRS scheme is in vogue in nearly 70 newly-created municipalities and villages, which were merged with surrounding municipalities. The proposed new scheme will be implemented across the state, including Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) limits,” a senior MA&UD department official said. The government’s present scheme had not evoked good response from plot owners even as illegal layouts were mushrooming in the state. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has recently directed officials to stop registrations to ensure all unauthorised layouts were regularised. “The reason for lukewarm response to LRS in rural areas (new municipalities) is many illegal layouts have come up in HMDA limits that covers surrounding districts like Rangareddy, Medchal-Malkajgiri, Sangareddy, Yadadri-Bhuvangiri, Vikarabad and Siddipet,” a planning officer of HMDA said. The urban authority had last year conducted a survey on unapproved layouts with its officers, but it did not yield any results as the authority was confined to just giving notices. Meanwhile, there is a dilemma over registration of illegal buildings. The registration and stamps (R&S) department said property owners either have to provide a permission copy or regularisation proceeding under previous building regularisation scheme (BRS) for registering a property. “But over 1.20 lakh BRS applications are pending with GHMC and another one lakh in the rest of the state. Such property owners neither have sanctioned plan nor regularisation copy. The government has not clarified in such cases,” S Ramakrishna, an architect and a resident of Seetaphalmandi, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-mulls-another-lrs-hopes-for-rs-1000-cr-windfall/articleshow/77792080.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 28, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal's Durgapur man returns from Odisha after vaccine trial||KOLKATA: For a month he was in complete isolation, cut off from his friends and family. What drove the Covaxin volunteer forward was his innate zeal to work for the society hit by the deadly Covid-19. “I can’t say that I did not get afraid. I got scared when they pushed the needle to inject a liquid for the first time. I still do not know whether it was a dose of attenuated virus or a placebo. But what if it was a virus? What if my body cannot fight enough to produce antibodies?” recounted Chiranjit Dhibar (30), the teacher from Durgapur, who volunteered for the first phase of clinical trial of the vaccine being jointly developed by Bharat Biotech and Indian Council of Medical Research. “But I was also sure about what I had volunteered for. If there is a vaccine, it will help billions of people. It is my chance to do something for the people of my country,” Dhibar told TOI over phone. The 30-year-old left his Durgapur house last month and reached the Indian Institute of Medical Sciences and SUM Hospital at Kalinganagar, Odisha. Dhibar was selected by the ICMR after the apex body for biomedical research thoroughly screened his profile. “I did not feel any change in my body during the first week. I was as normal as I was before. But I started noticing the changes after the second set of injection,” recounted Dhibar. “I started feeling feverish and had a headache. At times, the headache was a bit too much. Some of the other volunteers developed similar symptoms as well. I had to endure that.” The fever and headache reportedly continued for two days before he started feeling better. Doctors and scientists, who monitored volunteers round the clock, noted down every single change in the body. The toughest part, Dhibar felt, was to fight against the fear of the unknown. “But I was curious, too. I wanted to know how it felt when the virus got inside. I did yoga every day and followed a diet chart so that my body could fight it well,” he said. Dhibar was released from the hospital on Wednesday morning and a friend drove him back home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/durgapur-man-returns-from-odisha-after-vaccine-trial/articleshow/77793714.cms||Rohit Khanna
August 28, 2020||Bhopal||Kamal Nath displays pen-drive as proof of farm loan waiver||BHOPAL: Ahead of bypolls in 27 assembly seats, former chief minister Kamal Nath on Thursday displayed a pen drive as a response to the ruling BJP’s allegation that the 15-month Congress regime did not implement its 2018 assembly election manifesto promise to waive off farm loans in Madhya Pradesh. Speaking to the media here, the PCC chief said, “They (Jyotiraditya Scindia camp MLAs and BJP) allege there was no loan waiver. Now, I have a pen drive, which shows we have waived loans of 26.5 lakh farmers across the state with details of their names, bank account numbers and amount of loan waived.” Earlier this week, ruling BJP led by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Rajya Sabha MP Scindia and state BJP chief V D Sharma, said that farm loan waiver was not implemented in MP. “In Gwalior, they made many claims. Those who organised and held functions of loan waiver scheme are saying there was no farm loan waiver and that is why they left the Congress party,” Nath said. The former Union minister said that in the past four months, he tried to strengthen the Congress’ organisation. “I know that our fight is against BJP’s organisation and not against their achievements. Because BJP has no achievements,” Nath said. “The upcoming election is not a bypoll, I don’t consider it even as a general election. The election is specifically related to the future of the state. It is extremely important,” Nath said. Nath said that bypolls are a contest between the 15 years of BJP rule versus the 15-month Congress regime. He defended that his government did not even get the full 15 months to work because more than two months was spent in the Lok Sabha elections. “People should judge us by our policies and intention. Don’t support Kamal Nath or the Congress party, but support the truth. Understand the truth and support it,” Nath said. The former CM alleged that the bypolls in 27 seats is being held after disgracing of the state. “Just think how much the state has been disgraced with this politics of allurement and deals. A government has been formed through auctioning. They (the rebel MLAs who left) say work was not done in their constituencies and I did not listen to them. What else can they say? Can they say that they entered a deal and hence they resigned?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-displays-pen-drive-as-proof-of-farm-loan-waiver/articleshow/77792059.cms||Suchandana Gupta
August 28, 2020||Vadodara||Truck ferrying opium worth Rs 21L caught||Vadodara/Anand: Anand police on Wednesday seized illegal opium worth Rs 21 lakh on national highway-18 in Anand district. According to the police, they found over 719kg of the contraband during a random check of a truck coming from Vadodara. Police said the drug was hidden under sacks of vegetables. Truck driver Gopal Sondla told the cops that he was asked to deliver the stock at Chotila. Sondla also said that he handed over the truck to two persons identified as Bhikha Charan and Kada Charan in Ratlam on Tuesday and the duo handed him the loaded truck on Wednesday morning. The duo was even piloting the truck in a car but managed to escape during police checking. Sondla was taken into custody and Bhikha and Kada have been declared as wanted. A case under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/truck-ferrying-opium-worth-rs-21l-caught/articleshow/77790884.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rs 2.5 crore given to turn witness: Ahmedabad cops||AHMEDABAD: The domestic violence case filed against Popular Builders promoter Raman Patel and his family members by his daughter-in-law took a new twist with cops finding Rs 2.5 crore cash had allegedly been given to turn witnesses. Acting on a tip-off a crime branch team raided on Wednesday the house of complainant Fizu Patel’s maternal aunt, Nima Shah, 52, in Saumya Flats, Navrangpura and seized Rs 2.5 crore cash, city police said on Thursday evening. Cops said it has been learned that allegedly Nima had been given the money to make statements in favour of the accused in the case filed by her niece. Nima is Fizu’s mother Janki’s sibling. “At her house, we found two suitcases filled with currency notes of the denomination of Rs 500 and Rs 2,000 adding up to Rs 2.5 crore. During primary questioning, Nima said the cash had been given to Fizu’s mother, and she had kept it at her home for safety,” said a crime branch official. The police official said the cash had been received to change statements about the domestic violence so that the investigation could be derailed and the accused exempted from the case filed by Fizu on August 16 with Vastrapur police. Police said that the cash had been given by one of the four accused — Raman Patel, his wife Mayurika Patel, their son Monang Patel or Fizu’s father Mukesh Patel, who was accused of provoking her in-laws to beat her. But the cops are still unsure which of the accused had given the money. Police have also informed the income tax department, suspecting the cash is black money collected by the builders family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-2-5cr-given-to-turn-witness-cops/articleshow/77792084.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Varanasi||UP: Local potters all set to challenge Chinese goods||GORAKHPUR: The potters of Gorakhpur are all set to challenge the Chinese products with their earthen pots, lamps and idols of deities for Diwali and Ayodhaya Deepotsav this year. The potters are being provided electronic wheels and other machines by the government to help them creating more number of clay products in a less time. The potters are also hopeful that the upcoming festivals will not only promote their art but will also bring financial gains for them. Gramodyog officer of Gorakhpur zone, NP Maurya, said that pugmill clay mixing machine and electric pottery wheels have already been distributed among the potters to hep them create beautiful products. “We have already distributed pug mill machines and electric potter wheels and soon will distribute colour spray machines. I’m sure these tools will help them in producing finished goods in a less time. Government is planning a showroom in the district so that clay items could be showcased there and also, to make it easier to take orders for the clay artisans.” “The demand of their products will depend on the quality of work and we have already asked them to register on the online shopping sites like Amazon for a wider reach to customers. The government is also planning to provide the reimbursement of registration fee. We have already started using clay tea cups, water drinking cups and plates during government meetings. We are trying to make the trend popular,” he added. Many clay artists like Ramsurat of Basantpur area, Arvind Kumar of Surajkund area, Umesh Kumar of Buxipur area also appreciated the efforts of the government and said that during the Covid-19 pandemic, these electric tools are like a gift of God. Clay artist Lalman Prajapati (55) of Basantpur area of Gorakhpur says, “I am happy that the government is thinking about us and the high tech equipment provided by the government are very useful. I am sure that with the electric tools we’ll be able to not only oust Chinese products from the market but also get huge orders from other places.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/local-potters-all-set-to-challenge-chinese-goods/articleshow/77790554.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||One held for involvement in Rs 110 crore fake billing scam||AHMEDABAD: The enforcement wing of the state goods and services tax (SGST) department on Thursday arrested Sanjay Patel for his involvement in the Rs 110 crore fake billing scam. Patel was absconding after being denied bail by the additional sessions court in Visnagar in connection with the case. Despite being issued summons before this, he did not cooperate with the investigating authorities. Patel’s arrest took place based on an intelligence input received by SGST officials, in connection with the SGST raids conducted across some 37 cumin trading firms in Unjha in April 2019. During the investigation back then, it was found that movement of goods was done more than once but the supporting bills only reflected a single movement of goods to evade taxes, which dented the state exchequer’s income. According to the SGST officials, tax evasion worth Rs 5.5 crore was reported with the involvement of three firms. In each of these firms, Patel was involved either as a partner or a sole proprietor. The firms include Maharaja Spices (proprietory firm), Maharaja Spices (partnership firm) and MP Commodities Limited, all based in Unjha. Patel was presented before the additional chief metropolitan court on Thursday, and has been ordered a remand of two days. Further probe in the matter is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/one-held-for-involvement-in-rs-110-cr-fake-billing-scam/articleshow/77792076.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Kanpur||Sanjeet’s kin stopped on way to Lucknow||Kanpur: Murdered lab-technician Sanjeet Yadav’s family members, who were on way to Lucknow to meet SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, were stopped at Ramadevi Chakeri highway and forced to return back on Thursday morning. The family claimed to have spoken to the SP chief on Wednesday over the phone and were assured of support. To recall, earlier they were stopped from staging a protest at Shastri Chowk in Kanpur. Body of Sanjeet is yet to be found. The family members, including Sanjeet’s father Chaman Singh, mother Kusum Singh and sister Ruchi along with SP leader Samrat Singh, were on way to Lucknow in a four-wheeler, when they were stopped at Ramadevi Chakeri highway from proceeding further allegedly by the police. “It was when the police asked to show them the meeting letter issued from the office of former CM Akhilesh Yadav, they drew a blank, following which they were asked to go back home,” said V K Pandey, CO, Govindnagar. However, according to Chaman Singh, they had been invited by the SP chief, with whom they had spoken on phone on Wednesday, to Lucknow. “But the police stopped us from proceeding further and forced us to return home, which is an undemocratic,” he added. To recall, 28-year-old lab technician Sanjeet Yadav was kidnapped in Barra area on June 22 and murdered by his abductors. According to the police, the kidnappers had dumped his body in the Pandu River. Earlier, Sanjeet’s family had alleged that when he was kidnapped on June 22, they were also asked by the police to arrange a ransom of Rs 30 lakh and hand it over to the kidnappers. They, however, claimed that they threw a bag containing the cash from the top of a flyover as instructed in the presence of police, but the latter could not prevent the kidnappers from escaping with the bag and also failed to get back Sanjeet. The police had till date arrested five accused including a woman in this connection but have failed to find Sanjeet’s body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/sanjeets-kin-stopped-on-way-to-lucknow/articleshow/77793890.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Students pool in money for teacher’s treatment||KOLKATA: After a 32-day battle with Covid-19, when chemistry teacher Subroto Roy was back home, the entire La Martiniere family was happy. Alumni of the two La Martiniere schools, teachers, present students and their parents stood beside the teacher by pooling in funds for his treatment. “The 47-year-old teacher had been in the ICU for 30 days, including 11 days on ECMO support,” said ECMO specialist Arpan Chakraborty at Medica Superspecialty Hospital, where Roy was undergoing treatment. He’s a popular teacher in the classroom, as well as on the cricket field and the cultural stage. When Aditya Sarkar, an ex-student of the 2015 batch of La Martiniere for Boys, got to know from the distraught family that Roy’s fight had turned serious and he was on ECMO, he put out an appeal on the social media for his friends and the alumni across the globe. “He had given 20 years shaping the future of his students. Now it was our turn to support him and his family,” said Sarkar, who is now a law graduate. Within hours, help started pouring in. Soon, Sarkar teamed with two other friends, Rumit Gambhir and Devang Maskara, for crowd-funding. Within two weeks, nearly Rs 6 lakh was arranged for. A sizeable contribution came from the Alma, which is the old boys’ association. Some teachers of the school like D K Chatterjee, P K De and Sudip Sur also extended a helping hand. “Apart from the patient’s condition, we also made them aware about the expenses. His students said they would raise funds for treatment. Our future is in good hands,” said cardiologist Kunal Sarkar who led the medical team. “We’ve had teachers, students, parents and everybody rushing in to help. I am so happy that we have won it together,” said Supriyo Dhar, school secretary. Roy was discharged from the hospital on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/students-pool-in-money-for-teachers-treatment/articleshow/77793742.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 28, 2020||Kanpur||Elderly lynched in UP after his cycle hits woman||KANPUR: A 60-year-old man was allegedly beaten to death by a group of men, after his bicycle hit a woman in Kotahriya village in Makhi police area of Unnao district on Wednesday. Two suspects have been detained by the police. According to the police, the victim identified as Rameshwar was riding his bicycle when he hit a woman. “The woman fell down after which an argument ensued between Rameshwar and her family members. Later more people joined them and they all started beating Rameshwar,” said a police officer. “He was later taken to a nearby hospital but was declared dead upon arrival,” he added. Rameshwar’s son Ram Babu broke down as he said, “It had come to fore that the assailants, after beating my father also tried to drown him in a water-filled pit in unconscious state. Those cruel people killed my father.” He said that a few villagers rushed to help him, but were threatened. They then rushed back to the village and alerted others. But by the time villagers reached the site, Rameshwar was lying in a pool of blood. Ram Babu said, “Those local goons are responsible for my father’s death and they should be immediately arrested,” he said further. A case has been registered and police have detained two suspects. “All the accused have been identified and will be arrested soon,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/60-yr-old-man-beaten-to-death-case-lodged/articleshow/77793911.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Lucknow||Fresh probe ordered into IAS officer’s mysterious death||Lucknow: A special CBI court ordered a fresh probe on Thursday, rejecting the closure report filed by the central agency in connection with the mysterious death of Karnataka cadre IAS officer, Anurag Tiwari (36), outside a government guest house in Lucknow in May 2017. It has directed the CBI to conduct further investigation in keeping in view the points and clues raised in the protest application filed by Anurag’s brother Mayank Tiwari. The court has summoned a progress report of the investigation on September 30. The order was passed by the special judicial magistrate (CBI) Subrat Pathak on the application of Mayank Tiwari. Filling the protest application against the closure report, Mayank had sought further investigation in the matter. Tiwari was posted as civil and supplies commissioner in Karnataka and had come to Lucknow after returning from a mid-career training at the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration in Mussoorie in May 2017. He was found dead in mysterious circumstances outside the state guest house on Meerabai Marg on May 17, 2017. Later, on the insistence of the family, the government had recommended the case to the CBI. The agency had taken over the case on June 15, 2017 and working on it, filed a final report on February 20, 2019 stating that the IAS officer’s death was accidental. A protest petition was filed by Tiwari’s elder brother Mayank in the first week of September, challenging the closure report of the CBI. The victim’s brother Mayank told TOI that all his points were taken into consideration by the special court. He said some the post mortem had revealed that Anurag died around 12.30 am but his body was recovered at 5.30 am. So, where was the body for so long. He further said that the CBI did not seek assistance from an external agency in opening the iPad and MacBook of his brother. Mayank also said in his protest petition that the agency was mum on Anurag’s second mobile phone, which is still missing. He has also said that the CBI should find out why Anurag cancelled a flight for Bengaluru on May 16 a few hours after booking and then booked another flight via Kolkata. He has also asked how Anurag suddenly changed his WhatsApp number at 1am on May 17. Also, why his brother’s phone was busy at 5.30am on May 17 and why the person who called from Jordan around 3.45am was not interrogated by any probe agency. Mayank’s father Badri Narayan Tiwari told TOI from his native village in Bahraich that he always had faith in the ‘court’. “Now I am hopeful that my youngest son will get justice,” he said. The CBI’s closure report had stated that IAS officer Anurag Tiwari was suffering from “acute gastroenteritis” on the day he died. Doctors in their written observation stated it’s medically proven that acute diarrhoea can trigger incapacitating weakness due to electrolyte imbalance, resulting in accidental fall and loss of consciousness. The CBI had pleaded before the court to close the matter having established with the help of head of department of forensic medicine at AIIMS, Sudhir Kumar Gupta, that the officer died because of accidental fall on a hard surface. Mayank’s counsel Nutan Thakur also contradicted the findings of the report of the CBI, in which the agency had stated that Anurag was suffering from acute diarrhoea. She said that hours before he was found dead, Anurag was having dinner at a restaurant with an IAS officer then posted in Lucknow. “Is it possible for a person having diarrhoea to dine at a restaurant,” she questioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fresh-probe-ordered-into-ias-officers-mysterious-death/articleshow/77794355.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Jaipur||Niti Aayog ranks Rajasthan 4th in export preparedness||JAIPUR: In the Niti Aayog’s Export Preparedness Index-2020, Rajasthan has been ranked at No. 4 after Gujarat, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. The state emerged as a top performer among 11 landlocked states. Except for export growth and orientation, the state has performed tremendously well across all pillars and sub-pillars, said the Niti Aayog’s report released on Wednesday. The Export Preparedness Index framework is an aggregation of four pillars, 11 sub-pillars, and 55 indicators, which capture the export landscape of sub-national governments in the country. While Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, and Maharashtra have taken significant steps to create an enabling environment to facilitate the business ecosystem, Rajasthan, along with Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, and Chhattisgarh, is not far behind, said the report. “Some of the significant steps Rajasthan has taken are: Simplified the process of filing applications by implementing online submissions, payment, tracking and monitoring without the need for a physical touch point for document submission,” said the report. “State’s performance in the Export Preparedness Index released by Niti Aayog should be effectively leveraged and marketed to attract investments from export-oriented units,” said Ashok Kajaria, chairman, FICCI Rajasthan State Council. In terms of ensuring smooth electricity supply, the state has ensured that distribution companies use automated tools to monitor outages in all industrial areas and the efforts have brought in significant transparency in the business ecosystem in the state, the report said. Dileep Baid, former chairman of CII, Rajasthan, said, “While it is good to know that the state has fared well in three out of the four pillars, this performance should also reflect in the actual exports growth where the state is placed at No. 15.” Under the exports ecosystem, Maharashtra, Odisha and Rajasthan have occupied the top three ranks. Among the landlocked states, Rajasthan, Telangana, and Haryana emerged as the top-performing states in this pillar. Pointing out that better research and development (R&D) infrastructure has positioned Rajasthan at a vantage point, the report said, “It is to be noted that the landlocked states, especially Rajasthan, have performed better than the coastal states in R&D infrastructure. Rajasthan, in comparison to Gujarat, has no inspection agency, but has a significantly greater ratio of National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) as well as research institutions. The ratio of research institutes stands at 1.5%, much higher than Gujarat’s 0.04%.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/niti-aayog-ranks-raj-4th-in-export-preparedness/articleshow/77793749.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
August 28, 2020||Jaipur||JEE & NEET students worried about reaching exam centres amid pandemic||JAIPUR: Students in Rajasthan are anxious about JEE and NEET that are expected to be conducted in September despite several requests to the government to postpone it. Although most of the students are keen to sit for the exams, travelling to the centre in public transport during pandemic is a major worry as many of them has been allotted centres 200-300 km away from home. Divyansh Jain, a NEET aspirant from Alwar city, said his centre is in Phulera that will take him around 6 hours to reach. “The government said they will provide centres near the home but to reach Phulera, I need to leave home early morning for the 1 pm exam. Moreover, public transport is not safe and not everyone can afford a taxi,” said Divyansh. Anjali Sharma from Baran district has her JEE exam centre around 5 hours away. “We know it very well that postponement of exam means wastage of a year for which we had worked so hard but there should be some facilities of transport provided by the government.” On social media, a campaign was run by many political parties, celebrities and activists against organizing of the exam during pandemic for which more than 10 lakh students will appear across nation. However, the government has decided to go forward with it and issued admit cards on Thursday. Puneet Sharma, an expert in higher education, said the government was correct on its part to organise exam or else one year of students will be wasted. “It is not like pandemic will end in a few months. Experts across the world believe it be there for at least two years. So, instead of just cancelling the exams, it is necessary to make other arrangements – arranging transportation for students to reach exam centres and proper distancing. The government has already increased the number of exams centres and guidelines have been issued for safety,” said Puneet. Rajasthan Engineering Admission Process (REAP) every year gives admission on the basis on JEE score but this year due to delay in JEE entrance administration, it has decided to give admissions on the basis of class XII board marks. Questions being raised on BSTC exam The Ashok Gehlot government is now being attacked by the opposition for demonstrating a double character in the examination of JEE and NEET. Former education minister Vasudev Devnani said while the government is opposing these exams, it is conducting the entrance examination for Rajasthan Basic School Teaching Courses (BSTC) on august 31. Around 6 lakh students will take part in this examination across the state. If there is such a fear of corona infection, then why is the entrance examination for BSTC being conducted, he questioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jee-neet-students-worried-about-reaching-exam-centres-amid-pandemic/articleshow/77793746.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Child scientists file for patent of their unique projects||AHMEDABAD: What sprouted green gram can do for your health? Apart from its benefits for immune system and digestion process, it can also make low-cost alkaline water! It was one of the three processes developed by child scientists in Gujarat that was recently submitted to the patent office in Mumbai by Gujarat Council on Science & Technology (GUJCOST). The officials are hopeful of a response within three months. Dr Narottam Sahoo, advisor to the GUJCOST, said that out of 28 outstanding projects identified during the National Child Science Congress (NCSC), they had selected three which had potential to get a patent. “Purpose of the exercise is to encourage the young scientists in identifying potential of their projects, and also create awareness about intellectual property (IP) rights,” he said. Ami Bhundiya, a class X student at GK Dholakia School in Rajkot, had prepared the alkaline water project. Daughter of a teacher couple, Ami said that she experimented with several mediums before zeroing-in sprouted green gram. “Our project started with the aim to find solution for acidic water created by several water purifiers. We realized that if the water is passed through special cartridges lined with the gram, it can reduce the acidic content of water,” she said. Bhagvatiba Jadeja, a student of TN Rao School in Rajkot, had found a process for preparation of handwash from natural ingredients found from the household. “I chose the project to promote good hygiene practices among all households – as it’s prepared with easily-found ingredients,” she said, adding that in the light of Covid-19, hand sanitization has become all the more important. The third project sent for patent is preparation of organic mulch by Heer Modi, a student of Anandbawa Ashram School in Jamnagar. “My inspiration was my surroundings – I saw that a lot of organic by-production was going waste which could be used for better agricultural production,” she said. The mulch she prepared has ingredients such as jaggery, cow dung, leaves of custard apple, etc. She said that its use is beneficial for organic farming and is cost-effective.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/child-scientists-file-for-patent-of-their-unique-projects/articleshow/77792095.cms||Parth Shastri
August 28, 2020||Kolkata||Bidhannagar civic body plans to start rapid antigen tests||KOLKATA: The Bidhannagar civic authorities are planning to conduct rapid antigen test on a mass scale after some civic officials tested positive for Covid. Bidhannagar Ward 38 councillor Nirmal Dutta tested Covid-positive on Tuesday and was quarantined at a Rajarhat facility. Earlier this month, Ward 6 councillor Subhash Bose died after contracting the novel coronavirus. The authorities will soon place a proposal to the state health department to acquire the rapid antigen test kits so that the civic authorities can conduct tests using their own set-up. The civic authorities held its board meeting on Wednesday, where this issue was discussed. “Conducting rapid antigen tests on a mass scale will help isolate Covid patients quickly as the test report comes within 30 minutes,” said a civic official. Active cases in Bidhannagar area have come down in the past 14 days with the number of people recovering exceeding that of new Covid cases in this period. The recovery rate has reached an all-time high of 72% on Thursday, when the total number of people affected by Covid was reported to be 3,790 and active cases 1,011. Till Thursday, 2,732 people had recovered. Total deaths in the civic area stood at 47 as on August 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bidhannagar-civic-body-plans-to-start-rapid-antigen-tests/articleshow/77793831.cms||Suman Chakraborti
August 28, 2020||Jaipur||Shrines in Rajasthan gear up to open from September 7||JAIPUR: Temples and churches in the city have started preparations for opening a day after the state government gave permission to the shrines to open from September 7. Moti Dungri temple administration has decided to open but with precautions. Kailash Sharma, the mahant of the temple said, “We will open from September 7. The temple bells will be removed and we have painted circles outside temple to maintain social distancing.” Similarly, Banwari Lal, the mahant of Shila Mata temple at Amber Fort said, “The temple bells will be tied and no prasad will be distributed. We have enough space to accommodate people.” Some temple authorities are yet to take any decision. Manasji Goswami, the priest of Govinddevji temple said they are worried if any one is found positive after opening the shrine, the government will shut it again. “We have decided to remain shut till September 30 but we can open on September 7 if we will get clarity in the notification issued by the government. We want some clarity that whether the entire temple will be shut again if someone is found positive amongst temple workers. We will finally decide on it after getting this clarification.” Swami Raghvendra Acharya of Galta Gate temple said they would first meet district administration officials regarding the support provided by them before taking a final decision. Churches have however decided to open from September 13 (Sunday) when usual mass is organised. Reverent of St. Andrews Church, Jaipur, Jagdish Sharma said, “We will maintain social distancing and will purchase body temperature machines. We will have a 2-hour prayer along with singing of hymns. We still need to get clarification if authorities will allow us to hold a mass and how many people will be allowed to sit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shrines-gear-up-to-open-from-sep-7/articleshow/77793754.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Jaipur||Covid prisoners in Barmer jail upload videos of pathetic condition inside||JAISALMER: A couple of videos of the 126 inmates who tested positive in Barmer jail on Wednesday have gone viral on social media with claims from the prisoners they were being kept like cattle stuffed in two wards. In the videos apparently shot on mobile phones, the prisoners can be heard accusing jailer Sumer Singh of mistreating them kept them like cattle stuffed in a stable. #Rajasthan : A couple of videos of the 126 inmates who tested positive in #BarmerJail on Wednesday have gone viral… https://t.co/Ru6pHfyfpc— TOI Jaipur (@TOIJaipurNews) 1598588477000The district collector has ordered investigation of the case. The SDM has been asked to investigate how a mobile phone managed to reach the inmates. As a precautionary step, the jail administration has stopped family members meeting the prisoners. Sixty-two inmates who tested negative have been shifted to Jodhpur. Barmer collector Vishram Meena said he had instructed SDM to find out how a mobile phone reached the prison. He added that two corona wards have been made inside the jail and non-Covid prisoners are being kept in Ward No. 3. It has been ordered to shift new prisoners to Balotara, Jodhpur and Jaisalmer jails. Collector said a three member team of SDM, DSP and social welfare officer has been made who will inspect the jail from time to time and will take stock of the health of prisoners. An arrangement has also been made that if the health of any prisoner deteriorates, he will be shifted to a Covid ward made separately in the hospital outside the jail. Currently, no prisoner is seriously ill and there is no elderly inmate. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said, “Along with strict arrangements, additional security personnel have been deployed so that positive and negative inmates do not mix with each other.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-prisoners-in-barmer-jail-upload-videos-of-pathetic-condition-inside/articleshow/77793762.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: AAI office sealed over property tax dues; reopened||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Cantonment Board on Thursday sealed the office of Airports Authority of India (AAI) located at the campus of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport in Ahmedabad over non-payment of property tax. According to a notice affixed outside the AAI office, property tax dues worth Rs 1.73 crore for the year 2018 and 2019-20 is due. It has been learned that the seal was removed and the office was reopened late at night on Thursday. The notice addressed to the airport director of SVPI airport, dated August 27, 2020, mentions that the ground, first, second and third floors of the AAI office building have been seized by the Cantonment Board. The notice mentions dues worth Rs 1,73,03,448 were pending for the period from April 1, 2018 till March 31, 2020. AAI has been given a time period of seven days to clear the dues along with the recovery costs. “Unless within seven days from the date of service of this notice, you pay to the board the said amount, together with the costs of recovery, the said property will be sold by public auction,” states the notice issued by the Cantonment Board. Despite a few attempts, the director of SVPI airport, A K Verma could not be reached for comments regarding the matter. It is learnt that in the past as well, notices were served to the AAI office in Ahmedabad regarding the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/aai-office-sealed-over-property-tax-dues-reopened/articleshow/77792106.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Bhopal||MP: 65-year plus MLAs may be asked to abstain from assembly session||BHOPAL: In view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, some of the elderly MLAs may be asked to abstain from the forthcoming assembly as a preventive measure. Threeday session of the Madhya Pradesh assembly is scheduled to be held from September 21 to 23. The assembly secretariat is also mulling the option to run the House with all precautionary measures. Seven ministers, besides chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, tested positive for coronavirus so far, and all precautions are being taken. Assembly secretariat, principal secretary, Awadhesh Pratap Singh, said, “Asking aged MLAs to abstain from attending the House is an option under consideration amid the corona crisis. However, the final decision would be taken in an all-party meet that would be held soon.” “Earlier, technical assistance was sought to maintain social distancing in the House. Things would be managed well and there should not be any problem. Around 100 seats in the assembly are vacant after division of Chhattisgarh from MP”, Singh added. Apart from the seats that fell vacant after division of Chhattisgarh, 27 seats are vacant due to resignations of 25 Congress MLAs and death of two MLAs. There are 27 members less out of the total strength of 230-member House. Officials said they have to make seating arrangements, maintaining social distancing for 203 MLAs. The MLAs with prolonged illness or above 65 years of age are in the high-risk group, they added. Another option into consideration is to allow only those MLAs to come to the House who have to ask questions. The staffers and securitymen of MLAs would not be allowed inside the assembly building and precautions like thermal screening and availability of medical team would be ensured during the session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/65-year-plus-mlas-may-be-asked-to-abstain-from-forthcoming-state-assembly-session/articleshow/77792092.cms||Ankur Sirothia
August 28, 2020||Chennai||2017 trust vote: Trouble over whip continues||CHENNAI: The ruling AIADMK and T T V Dhinakaran’s AMMK on Thursday locked horns over the whip issued for vote of confidence by the EPS government in February 2017, two months after J Jayalalithaa passed away. Rejecting the claims that a whip was served on the OPS faction MLAs, the AIADMK demanded that the AMMK petitioner produce the document to prove his claim. The AMMK also demanded that government whip, K Rajendran, be examined as witness. The three-hour-long hearing held through video conference by speaker P Dhanapal on a petition from AMMK member and disqualified MLA, N G Parthiban, seeking disqualification of two AIADMK MLAs, (minister) K Pandiarajan and R Natraj, who were among the 10 MLAs, who supported OPS and voted against the EPS government in February 2017, saw heated exchanges between the advocates representing the parties, sources said. The hearing comes in the wake of the Supreme Court raising a query as to why the petitions were kept pending for three years. “The AMMK, referring to Rajendran’s interactions with media, said the whip was issued to all AIADMK MLAs. The speaker’s attention was also drawn to the response of CM Edappadi K Palaniswami (again to mediapersons) after winning the vote of confidence that the speaker would decide on disqualification of those who voted against his government,” a source privy to the hearing said. Dhanapal is expected to hear the petitions against the other MLAs, including OPS, in a phased manner. Palaniswami in June submitted an affidavit to the speaker that he had the unanimous support of all the 122 MLAs, who were present at the meeting of AIADMK MLAs on February 14, 2017, and denied that a whip was issued to the other 11 MLAs, including OPS. “The AIADMK argued that the burden of proof is on the AMMK. The ruling party also argued that proceedings should not be conducted based on media reports and pointed to a recent SC ruling to that effect. It rejected the requests for examination of the whip by the petitioner, who is a disqualified MLA,” another source said. The AMMK also relied on an affidavit submitted by the AIADMK to the  Commission on March 15, 2017, in which it was stated that former chief minister O Panneerselvam was expelled from the party. “The AMMK also pointed to Pandiarajan moving the Supreme Court in March 2017, with a prayer to quash the trust vote won by Palaniswami, which he dubbed illegal. He had sought a secret ballot. The petition was later withdrawn,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/2017-trust-vote-trouble-over-whip-continues/articleshow/77792110.cms||Julie Mariappan
August 28, 2020||Jodhpur||Six arrested for poaching 23 spiny lizards at DNP||JAISALMER: The forest department arrested six persons for poaching 23 spiny lizards at the Desert National Park (DNP) on Thursday. The spiny lizard, called ‘Sanda’ in local language, is in high demand for its oil in India and abroad. As the poaching is extensive, the species is on the verge of extinction. During lockdown, poaching cases in India has gone up by 151%, as per a report released by international organisation TRAFFIC. The Jaisalmer district too seems to have become a hotspot for poachers. Deputy conservator of forest Kapil Chandrawal said the DNP staff arrested six persons for hunting spiny-tailed lizards inside the sanctuary near Matuo ki Basti in Jaisalmer range. Park officials got a tip-off from an informer and a team was formed to nab the accused. The team under range forest officer Jethmal Singh Sodha reached the spot and caught the accused red-handed along with hunting equipment, weapons and the lizards. Twenty-three spiny lizards, a protected species as per Schedule II of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972, were rescued alive. The accused persons confessed to entering the park illegally and hunting the reptile, the official said. The accused have been identified as Kanaran Bhil, Nemaram Bhil, Devaram Bhil, Rewaram Bhil, Langaram Bhil and Berasiram Bhil, all residents of Manpiya, Jaisalmer. The crime is non-bailable and can invite a minimum prison sentence of three years along with a minimum fine of Rs 10,000. The accused were sent to 15-day judicial custody. Their bail application has been rejected. The DNP team included ACFs Sagar Pawar and Vijay Borana, foresters Hajararam and Kanvraj Singh, forest guards Hukmaram, Ramswaroop Meena and driver Mansingh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/six-arrested-for-poaching23-spiny-lizards-at-dnp/articleshow/77796131.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Jaipur||Six arrested for poaching 23 spiny lizards at DNP||JAISALMER: The forest department arrested six persons for poaching 23 spiny lizards at the Desert National Park (DNP) on Thursday. The spiny lizard, called ‘Sanda’ in local language, is in high demand for its oil in India and abroad. As the poaching is extensive, the species is on the verge of extinction. During lockdown, poaching cases in India has gone up by 151%, as per a report released by international organisation TRAFFIC. The Jaisalmer district too seems to have become a hotspot for poachers. Deputy conservator of forest Kapil Chandrawal said the DNP staff arrested six persons for hunting spiny-tailed lizards inside the sanctuary near Matuo ki Basti in Jaisalmer range. Park officials got a tip-off from an informer and a team was formed to nab the accused. The team under range forest officer Jethmal Singh Sodha reached the spot and caught the accused red-handed along with hunting equipment, weapons and the lizards. Twenty-three spiny lizards, a protected species as per Schedule II of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972, were rescued alive. The accused persons confessed to entering the park illegally and hunting the reptile, the official said. The accused have been identified as Kanaran Bhil, Nemaram Bhil, Devaram Bhil, Rewaram Bhil, Langaram Bhil and Berasiram Bhil, all residents of Manpiya, Jaisalmer. The crime is non-bailable and can invite a minimum prison sentence of three years along with a minimum fine of Rs 10,000. The accused were sent to 15-day judicial custody. Their bail application has been rejected. The DNP team included ACFs Sagar Pawar and Vijay Borana, foresters Hajararam and Kanvraj Singh, forest guards Hukmaram, Ramswaroop Meena and driver Mansingh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/six-arrested-for-poaching23-spiny-lizards-at-dnp/articleshow/77793764.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Jodhpur||Shrines in Rajasthan gear up to open from September 7||JAIPUR: Temples and churches in the city have started preparations for opening a day after the state government gave permission to the shrines to open from September 7. Moti Dungri temple administration has decided to open but with precautions. Kailash Sharma, the mahant of the temple said, “We will open from September 7. The temple bells will be removed and we have painted circles outside temple to maintain social distancing.” Similarly, Banwari Lal, the mahant of Shila Mata temple at Amber Fort said, “The temple bells will be tied and no prasad will be distributed. We have enough space to accommodate people.” Some temple authorities are yet to take any decision. Manasji Goswami, the priest of Govinddevji temple said they are worried if any one is found positive after opening the shrine, the government will shut it again. “We have decided to remain shut till September 30 but we can open on September 7 if we will get clarity in the notification issued by the government. We want some clarity that whether the entire temple will be shut again if someone is found positive amongst temple workers. We will finally decide on it after getting this clarification.” Swami Raghvendra Acharya of Galta Gate temple said they would first meet district administration officials regarding the support provided by them before taking a final decision. Churches have however decided to open from September 13 (Sunday) when usual mass is organised. Reverent of St. Andrews Church, Jaipur, Jagdish Sharma said, “We will maintain social distancing and will purchase body temperature machines. We will have a 2-hour prayer along with singing of hymns. We still need to get clarification if authorities will allow us to hold a mass and how many people will be allowed to sit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/shrines-gear-up-to-open-from-sep-7/articleshow/77796393.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Udaipur||Shrines in Rajasthan gear up to open from September 7||JAIPUR: Temples and churches in the city have started preparations for opening a day after the state government gave permission to the shrines to open from September 7. Moti Dungri temple administration has decided to open but with precautions. Kailash Sharma, the mahant of the temple said, “We will open from September 7. The temple bells will be removed and we have painted circles outside temple to maintain social distancing.” Similarly, Banwari Lal, the mahant of Shila Mata temple at Amber Fort said, “The temple bells will be tied and no prasad will be distributed. We have enough space to accommodate people.” Some temple authorities are yet to take any decision. Manasji Goswami, the priest of Govinddevji temple said they are worried if any one is found positive after opening the shrine, the government will shut it again. “We have decided to remain shut till September 30 but we can open on September 7 if we will get clarity in the notification issued by the government. We want some clarity that whether the entire temple will be shut again if someone is found positive amongst temple workers. We will finally decide on it after getting this clarification.” Swami Raghvendra Acharya of Galta Gate temple said they would first meet district administration officials regarding the support provided by them before taking a final decision. Churches have however decided to open from September 13 (Sunday) when usual mass is organised. Reverent of St. Andrews Church, Jaipur, Jagdish Sharma said, “We will maintain social distancing and will purchase body temperature machines. We will have a 2-hour prayer along with singing of hymns. We still need to get clarification if authorities will allow us to hold a mass and how many people will be allowed to sit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/shrines-gear-up-to-open-from-sep-7/articleshow/77796392.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Ajmer||Shrines in Rajasthan gear up to open from September 7||JAIPUR: Temples and churches in the city have started preparations for opening a day after the state government gave permission to the shrines to open from September 7. Moti Dungri temple administration has decided to open but with precautions. Kailash Sharma, the mahant of the temple said, “We will open from September 7. The temple bells will be removed and we have painted circles outside temple to maintain social distancing.” Similarly, Banwari Lal, the mahant of Shila Mata temple at Amber Fort said, “The temple bells will be tied and no prasad will be distributed. We have enough space to accommodate people.” Some temple authorities are yet to take any decision. Manasji Goswami, the priest of Govinddevji temple said they are worried if any one is found positive after opening the shrine, the government will shut it again. “We have decided to remain shut till September 30 but we can open on September 7 if we will get clarity in the notification issued by the government. We want some clarity that whether the entire temple will be shut again if someone is found positive amongst temple workers. We will finally decide on it after getting this clarification.” Swami Raghvendra Acharya of Galta Gate temple said they would first meet district administration officials regarding the support provided by them before taking a final decision. Churches have however decided to open from September 13 (Sunday) when usual mass is organised. Reverent of St. Andrews Church, Jaipur, Jagdish Sharma said, “We will maintain social distancing and will purchase body temperature machines. We will have a 2-hour prayer along with singing of hymns. We still need to get clarification if authorities will allow us to hold a mass and how many people will be allowed to sit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/shrines-gear-up-to-open-from-sep-7/articleshow/77796394.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Goa||ISL to have own Covid testing facility in Goa||PANAJI: The organisers of Indian Super League (ISL) will set up their own Covid-19 testing laboratory in Goa for players, officials, broadcast team and all else who are associated with the five-month football tournament. The biggest sporting event to take place in the country during the pandemic will see 10 teams and nearly 1,000 people, including players and officials, be a part of the tournament. “The lab will be situated at a hotel and will be set up after consultations with the state administration. This will ensure that there is no strain on Goa’s health facilities when everyone arrives here,” said a source, who has been tracking the development. “The organisers will have their own doctors and nurses, who will take swabs and then do the testing. Players and officials will not be allowed to move out of the bio-bubble. Instead, swabs will be taken at the hotel itself,” said the source. A total of 500 players, officials and support staff of teams are expected in Goa for the ISL that will be played from November 21 to March 21. Another 150-200 staff will be from the broadcasters, while league staff, accredited agencies and security will take the personnel involved in the tournament to nearly 1,000 people. Players and officials, who will start arriving here in October, have been told to obtain Covid-19 negative certificates from their home cities, 48 hours before arriving in Goa. As a precautionary measure, more tests will be done upon arrival and they will have to spend some time in isolation, even if they test negative for Covid-19. Another official said ISL has put together a central medical team and hired a league hygiene officer who will oversee health protocols. “It’s mandatory for all participating clubs to have a hygiene officer of their own. This officer will be tasked with ensuring that all medical protocols are followed,” said the official. Everyone associated with the league will be classified into three groups—high protection, medium protection and general protection. The all-important high protection group includes players, team officials and families. Television presenters have also been included in this group since they would be interacting with players and officials on a regular basis. Members of this group will be tested twice to three times every week for Covid-19. The medium protection group which includes league, hotel staff and management officials will be tested twice a week, while the general protection group—accredited staffers—will have to mandatorily undergo one test every week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/isl-to-have-own-covid-testing-facility-in-state/articleshow/77794191.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
August 28, 2020||Goa||Goa: Health director tests positive, gets admitted to private hospital||PANAJI: Dr Jose D’Sa, director of health services, tested positive on Thursday and was admitted to a private hospital. The day also saw six Covid fatalities, which took the August death toll to 125 and the overall toll to 171. The state has reported 100 Covid deaths over the past 20 days. The past fortnight has seen a surge in positive cases and deaths with several politicians and high-profile persons testing positive. After a dip over the festival weekend, there was a rise again with 456 positive cases reported on Thursday and 421 reports awaited. Three of the latest deaths reported are from Margao and the rest from Taleigao, Paroda and Bambolim. One of them died at GMC and the rest at the ESI-Covid hospital, Margao. Bambolim reported its first death — an 84-year-old female — and Taleigao its third after a 58-year-old man succumbed to the virus. A 65-year-old lady from Paroda also died. The rest, a 95-year-old, 69-year-old and 54-year-old were all from Margao. Two of the patients from South Goa who died recently after being brought to the hospital weren’t aware they were Covid positive. “They didn’t know they were Covid positive and neither were their families aware. They were taken to hospital after they complained of breathlessness and uneasiness. One patient’s report came positive while he was being shifted to GMC and in the other case the patient tested positive in the post mortem,” a doctor said. In both cases, the patients tested negative on rapid antigen test and positive on TruNat. “If patients come in after day five and six of having Covid and if there is lung involvement, the throat swab doesn’t pick up the virus as it has already travelled to the lungs,” a doctor said. Several of the Covid deaths reported over this month are from Margao and neighbouring areas. The Margao urban health centre continued to report the highest active positive cases at 496. Health workers say community transmission is on here. “The cases in Margao are spread out. There’s no outbreak in any particular area. Containment zones are declared only when new positives appear in a cluster, but now the positives are very random. Once the contact who transmitted Covid to you cannot be established or traced it is community transmission,” the health worker said. The clergy home in Margao for retired priests reported its second Covid death — a 94-year-old priest who was admitted to the ESI hospital. A total of 16 elderly priests and four helpers tested positive in the home more than a fortnight ago. Four of them were hospitalised of which two passed away. One was shifted from ESI-Covid hospital to a private hospital. The rest are asymptomatic and are under home isolation, a priest said. “We are all well and have no symptoms. Eighteen days have already passed, but since we were all tested on different days we will be under home isolation for four more days,” the priest said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/health-director-tests-positive-gets-admitted-to-pvt-hospital/articleshow/77794293.cms||Lisa Monteiro
August 28, 2020||Nagpur||Post CBSE XII re-evaluation, CPS’s Tasneem now 2nd science topper||Nagpur: For the third year in a row, CBSE’s evaluation mistakes robbed a Std XII student of her moment of glory on results day in July. Post re-evaluation, Centre Point School (Wardhaman Nagar) student Tasneem Vali emerged as the second city topper in science stream after a whopping increase of 12 marks. Tasneem’s revised score is 97.6% which places her just one step below city topper Arunav Bhowmick (98%) and ahead of Aashna Chopra (97.4%). Coincidentally, all three toppers are now from Centre Point Group of Schools. When the results were declared in July, Tasneem knew that the score of 86 in Engineering Graphics (EG) subject was too low. “EG is a very scoring subject so immediately I sensed that something was amiss. Yes, one could lose marks in any subject, but certainly not to this extent,” said Tasneem. She went through the process of re-evaluation, in which students have to first apply for a photocopy of the answersheet. “When I looked at the answersheet, there were no markings by examiner which explained where my marks have been deducted,” said Tasneem. The EG paper has only four questions. “I scored full marks in the first question, hence put in a challenge for the remaining three,” said Tasneem. And when the re-evaluated score came to the fore, Vali was excited. “I was expecting an increase, but not 12 marks,” said Tasneem, who plans to pursue architecture from a Mumbai institute. In an eerie coincidence, for last three years all those who emerged as new city toppers after CBSE re-evaluation were from CPS. In 2019, it was Anupreeta Datey and in 2018 it was Ishrita Gupta who topped humanities stream in Nagpur post re-evaluation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/post-cbse-xii-re-evaluation-cpss-tasneem-now-2nd-science-topper/articleshow/77792118.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 28, 2020||Jaipur||Covid death count breaches 1,000 mark in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Covid-19 deaths in the state breached the 1,000 mark on Thursday. In the last 24 hours, 13 persons died of the virus taking the casualty count to 1,005. On March 25, the state had reported its first Covid death when a 75-year-old person lost battle against the virus in Bhilwara. Since then, the deaths are mounting every month. In August so far, 325 persons died of the virus across the state. Grappling with increasing number of Covid deaths, the state government has taken several decisions to bring down the mortality rate. Though the health department has managed to bring down mortality rate significantly, the actual number of deaths has increased considerably over months. “We have launched mission Life Saving (LiSa) under which we have been doing intense screening of vulnerable groups such as elderly population (above 60 years), below 10 years and pregnant women. Also special focus is more on those people are living with underlying diseases such as diabetes, hypertension and other chronic illnesses of heart, liver, kidney and lungs. More than 80% of people died due to Covid belong to the vulnerable category,” said a senior health department official. The official said they have introduced tocilizumab and remdesivir injections and also giving boost to plasma therapy to patients requiring it. “We have set up plasma banks in Jaipur and Kota and started the therapy in Jaipur, Udaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner and Kota,” said the official. Out of 1,005 deaths in the state, 26.5% happened in Jaipur. Even though the deaths are increasing, the mortality rate is going down and currently it is 1.3%. In March, only two persons had died, while in the following months of April, May, June, July and August, the state reported 56, 136, 219, 267 and 325 deaths, respectively. Since the actual number of deaths have been increasing significantly, the mortality rate has taken a dip. Though the highest number of deaths have happened in August, the mortality rate is the lowest compared to other months. In August (till date), the mortality rate remained at 0.9%, while in July it was 1.1%. It means that out of 110 persons tested positive for Covid-19, one person has died in August. Jaipur is worst-affected due to Covid as 26.5% of the deaths happened in the state. But in August, the contribution in deaths of Jaipur has decreased to 24%. A health department official said since Jaipur is more crowded and populated, the number of deaths are more. Also, serious patients from other districts come to Jaipur for treatment and they provide local address of Jaipur in hospitals and in case they die, the death is counted in Jaipur’s figure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-death-count-breaches-1000-mark-in-state/articleshow/77793806.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Jaipur||Ajmer: Police flag march as Tejaji fair called off||AJMER: Police on Thursday held a flag march in Sursura village to restrain people from gathering for the Teja Dashmi Mela, which will be celebrated on Friday. The district administration has banned any mela, fair or gathering because of Covid-19. Similarly, several places were told not to organise melas so people do not gather at one place. The state witnesses melas of deities Devnarayan, Pabuji, Tejaji, Ramdeora and others every year. Apart from the fairs in August and September every year, lakhs of devotees take up kawad yatras from Pushkar to different districts like Nagaur, Tonk, Bhilwara, Jaipur and nearby places. “The Devnarayan temple at Masuda is closed and the mela was called off last week as the state government had issued guidelines on Covid-19,” said Mahender Singh Gujjar of Masuda. On Thursday, police went to Sursura town of Roopangarh in Ajmer and organised a flag march with the committee of Teja mela. They asked people not to gather for the mela because of Covid-19. Officials also held a meeting of villagers and asked them to maintain law and order. Kharnal village in Nagaur district is the main temple of the deity Tejaji and therefore people from different parts of the state start pouring in to participate in the Teja Mela on Teja Dashmi which falls on August 28 this year. “We have asked the district administration to control the gathering,” said Sukhram Khudkhudia, president of Tejaji Janamsthali temple committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-flag-march-as-tejaji-fair-called-off/articleshow/77793796.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Bhopal||Nath visits CM House, meets Shivraj||Bhopal: PCC president Kamal Nath on Thursday morning paid a visit to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan at the latter’s official residence at 6, Shyamla Hills. The Congress leader reached CM House and was greeted by Chouhan and the two leaders went indoors for a meeting that lasted for around 20 minutes. When reporters asked the former CM about the visit, he preferred not to comment. However, sources said that Nath paid a courtesy call since Chouhan was infected with the Covid and returned from hospital after treatment. Sources also said that Nath discussed the upcoming three-day assembly session scheduled from September 21 to 23. The discussions centred on the election for the post of speaker and deputy speaker. Presently, Huzur MLA Rameshwar Sharma is the pro-tem speaker. He also discussed about the Covid situation in Madhya Pradesh with CM Chouhan, sources added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-visits-cm-house-meets-shivraj/articleshow/77792125.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Nagpur||1,000 deaths in August alone, Covid cases nearing 50,000 mark||NAGPUR: Covid-19 deaths continued to hound Vidarbha region on Thursday as 10 out of 11 districts in the region reported Covid deaths for the first time. All together 61 deaths were reported, the second highest daily toll after Wednesday’s 64. The death toll of Vidarbha has reached 1,399, of which 1,012 deaths occurred in the 27 days of August. Case fatality rate of Vidarbha, which was between 2.6% to 2.7% till yesterday, surged to 2.8% on Thursday. Increase of 0.1 appears negligible, but it’s serious as number of cases is also increasing daily. Total 1,808 new cases were reported on Thursday across Vidarbha. These took total Covid-19 cases to 49,854, just a few cases away from the 50,000 mark. Nagpur once again reported 1,050 – highest share in Vidarbha cases. These include 886 from Nagpur city (NMC), 162 from Nagpur rural (district) and 2 from other districts/states. Amravati (148), Chandrapur (132), Yavatmal (85), Bhandara (70), Wardha (65), Gondia (65), Buldhana (62), Gadchiroli (56), Washim (38), and Akola (37) followed. Only respite for the region is the increasing recovery rate. On Thursday, it was 61.24% which is constantly showing upward trend. However, Vidarbha’s recovery rate is way lower than Maharashtra and national average, both of which are around 75%. Recoveries include Nagpur (1,054), Amravati (131), Wardha (47), Washim (34), Buldhana (27), Yavatmal (26), Bhandara (24), Akola (20), Chandrapur (13), Gondia (11), and Gadchiroli (2). Amravati: Posting a 100-plus spike for the fifth consecutive day, and for the 15th time in the month, the district went past 5,000 mark to 5,128 with 148 new cases today. Deaths of four patients took the toll to 122 while 131 patients were discharged to take recovered patients to 3,759. This left 1,247 active cases, including 17 taking treatment in Nagpur and 337 in home isolation. A civil surgeon office report said a 60-year-old male from Vilas Nagar, a 64-year-old male from Balaji Nagar Plot, a 41-year-old man from Shankar Nagar and a 55-year-old man from Kurali village in Warud tehsil died during treatment. The rural belt reported 57 cases to take its count to 1,469. Village Loni reported 15 cases while Savanga reported eight and Shirajgaon Mozari seven. Dhamangaon Railway reported five cases. Village Kurali reported four cases along with Warud. Three cases each came from Chandur Bazar and Nandgaon Khandeshwar while Surwadi Khurd and Chikhaldara posted two each. In city, Wadarpura reported seven cases to take its count to ten while Saraswati Nagar with four cases took its score to 30. Sai Nagar, Gadge Nagar, Budhwara and Rampuri Camp reported three cases each while two each came from Rathi Nagar, Samadhan Nagar, Irwin Hospital, Ganesh Colony, Rajapeth, Narod Nagar. Fifty-three other localities reported single cases. Yavatmal: Yavatmal was rocked by five deaths in 24 hours, highest casualties so far. A 29-year-old youth of the city is among the dead, the youngest victim till date. All the other dead are also from Yavatmal city and tehsil. They are all men in the age group of 29 to 75 years. There are 80 new patients, 52 men and 28 women. Total 934 patients are under treatment, 654 in hospital, and 280 in home isolation. 26 patients were discharged. Washim: Two deaths of senior citizens from Shelu Bazar village took Covid toll of district to 30. A 75-yr-old man and an 86-yr-old man from Shelu Bazar village. Earlier, five deaths have been reported from Shelu Bazar. Total 38 new patients were detected while 34 patients were discharged. Now, Washim has 375 patients under treatment. Buldhana: An 82-yr-old man from the city and a 58-yr-old man from Sagwan, in Buldhana tehsil, died on Thursday. This took Buldhana’s toll to 44. The district received 463 reports, with 62 testing positive. Total 27 patients were discharged. Now Buldhana has 2,806 total cases, including 1,968 recovered, 44 deaths, and 794 under treatment. Akola: With one death on Thursday, Akola saw 37 testing positive. Now, the district has 3,662 cases, with 3,090 discharged. A 58-year-old man from Khedkar Nagar, Akola, died. Akola now has 147 deaths. Total 425 patients are under treatment. Wardha: Highest-ever single-day 65 cases were reported and a 55-year-old man of Arvi died on Thursday. 47 patients were discharged. The caseload of district increased to 797, with 544 recovered and 234 undergoing treatment. Death toll reached 19. Nineteen of the positive cases came from Wardha, 16 from Hinganghat, 10 from Arvi, seven from Karanja, six from Selu, 4 from Samudrapur, 2 from Deoli and a case in Ashti. Gadchiroli: With 44 new cases in Chamorshi; total 56 new cases were added on Thursday taking total cases to 992. Two patients were discharged, taking total to 839. With 1 death earlier, 152 patients are under treatment. Chandrapur: District set yet another record single-day high of 132, catapulting total to 1,799. The day also witnessed two deaths and discharge of 13 patients. The death toll now stands at 22, while 1,081 patients have been cured. This has left 696 active patients. The two victims include a 52-year-old person from Maulana Azad Ward in Ballarpur and a 60-year-old person from Pathanpura Ward in Chandrapur city. Both patients had comorbid conditions. Bhandara: The district reported a Covid-19 death for seventh consecutive day. Now, Bhandara has 17 deaths. Highest single day spike of 70 cases was reported on Thursday. These include 46 from Bhandara tehsil alone. The district has total 997 cases. With 24 patients discharged, 544 have now recovered and 423 are being treated. Gondia: The biggest single-day spike of 65 cases was seen in Gondia district. Of these, 51 are from hotspot Gondia tehsil. A 48-year-old patient from Tirora tehsil lost his life. 11 patients were discharged to take total of recovered to 783 from total 1,230 cases, with 16 deaths and 431 under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1000-deaths-in-august-alone-covid-cases-nearing-50k-mark/articleshow/77793835.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 28, 2020||Nagpur||NMC’s last-minute public hearing on tree felling irks greens||Nagpur: In a move that has angered city’s environmentalists, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has called for a public hearing at the last minute, regarding objections filed against felling of trees for Smart City Project Roads. Earlier this year, TOI had reported that Smart City Project special purpose vehicle Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSDCL) sought permission to cut 139 trees for construction of five roads in Smart City Project area. Opposing the move, green activists filed objection letters with the garden department of NMC. Following the opposition, a team of officials including Mahesh Moroney, deputy CEO of Smart City Project special purpose vehicle Nagpur Smart and NSSDCL and environment NGO Green Vigil Foundation conducted a joint survey and decided to save at least 30-35% of the trees. However, NMC issued “sudden” letters to opposing activists on Thursday, stating that they have to attend a public hearing on Friday at 4pm. The letter further stated that if the activists failed to attend the meeting, NMC will take the decision in their absence. Fumed by NMC’s hurriedness at the time of ongoing pandemic, Kaustav Chatterjee, founder of NGO Green Vigil said, “We had submitted our objection letters in January. How can NMC give us a day’s notice now? Since last one year, we have filed objections for a lot of cases of tree felling but NMC never took a hearing. He added that calling so many people at a time when Covid-19 is at its peak was not justified. Honorary wildlife warden of Nagpur Jaydeep Das agreed, “In these times of health emergency, suddenly the authorities dig out an eight month old notice of seeking objections and give a notice of less than 24 hours to be present physically with all relevant documents to support the objections. How ‘smart’ is this move by the concerned authorities, it clearly shows that the system is in to complete a farcial procedure and get on with destroying the green cover.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmcs-last-minute-public-hearing-on-tree-felling-irks-greens/articleshow/77792172.cms||Manka Behl
August 28, 2020||Chennai||Centre decision to hold Neet, JEE is unjustifiable, says Ramadoss||Chennai: PMK leader S Ramadoss on Thursday criticised the Centre for its decision to conduct the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (Neet) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) amid the Covid-19 pandemic. He called the move “unjustifiable” and “disappointing.” Despite repeated pleas and campaigns from students’ community to postpone the exams, the government announced that JEE and Neet would be held on September 1 and September 13 respectively. “The Centre has taken this decision without considering the views of the students and parents. It is disappointing,” he said in a statement and pointed out that the Centre’s approach indicated its callous attitude towards the wellbeing of students. Questioning the rationale behind conducting the exams when the number of fresh Covid-19 cases touched 70,000 per day, he said 16 lakh students had registered for Neet and 10 lakh for JEE. “It is not possible to conduct the examinations by maintaining social distancing. The exams would pave the way for the spread of the virus,” he added. The Centre should either cancel or postpone the exams without sticking to its stubborn approach, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/centre-decision-to-hold-neet-jee-is-unjustifiable-says-ramadoss/articleshow/77792185.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Delhi||Just 40% of Delhi Metro station gates to open||NEW DELHI: If Delhi Metro receives the go-ahead to resume operations, more than 60% of the entry points to stations will remain closed to ensure the commuters entering the metro train system undergo a thermal scan for Covid-19. While Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has prepared its standard operating procedures (SOP) for reopening of stations, a company official said, “The SOP is not a final document because eventually, DMRC will follow the guidelines issued by the central government. However, it will help in preparing ourselves for the resumption of services.” Delhi Metro has not run services for over five months. Resumption is expected to be permitted from September 1 as part of fresh relaxations of Covid restrictions. The 242 stations of the metro network, including the standalone Airport Express Line, have 671 entrances, of which just 257 will be open for commuters. Apart from two entries being kept open at interchange stations, the rest of the stations will have only one in use. Assistant managers, managers and senior supervisors of operations and management and the project department will be on ‘special duty’ for two weeks at the stations after the reopening to ensure compliance of Covid preventive measures. These officers will be responsible for maintaining ‘orderliness’. They will also visit all spots of public interface at the stations at regular intervals. According to the SOP, the officials will be deputed in two shifts, from 7.30 am to 2.30 pm and from 1.30 pm to 8.30 pm, which hints at the possibility of metro operations being restricted to between 7.30am and 8.30 pm, instead of the usual 6am-11.30pm regime. Apart from these officials, DMRC has also deputed five senior officials of the operations department as nodal officers in charge of the 10 metro corridors, including the Airport Express Line. Thermal scanning of every person entering the station premises will be carried out by security personnel and all ‘suspect’ individuals will be barred. Hand sanitisers will be available at entry points for both staff and commuters and all have to wear face masks. Entry to metro stations, however, will be regulated or halted in case of a crowd build-up or if social distancing is violated. Officers on special duty will ensure constant advisory announcements across the stations on maintaining physical distancing and precautions while in the coaches. Social distancing will be strictly enforced, starting at the automatic fare collection gates, and at security frisking points, platforms, inside trains and when exiting the system. A maximum of three people will be allowed inside elevators at a time, while a gap of one step will have to be maintained on escalators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/just-40-of-metro-stn-gates-to-open/articleshow/77792291.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 28, 2020||Jaipur||Recovery rate touches 80% again||JAIPUR: The graph of people recovering from Covid-19 is moving upwards as 1,006 more defeated the infection on Thursday taking the tally of suc people to 60,585. On the flip side, 1,345 persons tested positive taking the tally to 76,015. Currently, the count of active cases stands at 14,425. In the last 24 hours, 13 persons lost their lives to the virus taking the state’s toll to 1,005. The recovery rate has touched 80% again after almost two months as the count of recovered persons breached the 60,000 mark. On June 4, recovery rate had touched 80% for the first time and since then it kept going down. Besides, case fatality rate has also slipped to 1.3%, which was hovering over 2% in May and June. A health department officials said the main focus of the state government was to prevent mortality by early detection of cases by increased testing. Health minister Raghu Sharma said the number of tests is continously increasing. He said the health department will procure two Cobas-8800 machines from the US. The first machine will reach by the end of August, while the other will be supplied in October. With these machines, the testing capacity in the state will touch 60,000 test per day. At present, they are testing 34,000 people per day in the state, he claimed. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (225), Jodhpur (233), Kota (129), Alwar (121), Ajmer (113), Bhilwara (55), Rajsamand (54), Pali (30), Sikar (30), Banswara (27), Bikaner (26), Pratapgarh (25), Jhalawar (25), Bundi (23), Dausa (19), Udaipur (19), Bharatpur (18), Nagaur (17), Churu (17), Barmer (16), Sriganganagar (13), Sirohi (13), Dungarpur (12), Baran (12), Jhunjhunu (12), Chittorgarh (10), Tonk (9), Karauli (9), Sawai Madhopur (8), Dholpur (8), Hanumangarh (6), Jaisalmer (6) and Jalore (5).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/recovery-rate-touches-80-again/articleshow/77793822.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Kanpur||Post against PM Modi and UP CM: Suspended SI booked in Etawah||KANPUR: A suspended sub-inspector of police, Vijay Pratap, was booked for posting derogatory remarks against the Prime Minister and UP chief minister on social media. According to police, the SI had also made a derogatory remark against a particular religion. A case has been registered following a couple of complaints by district BJP President Ajay Pratap Dhakre and president Akhil Bhartiya Brahmin Sabha Shailendra Chowdhary at Kotwali police station, under various sections of IPC, besides IT Act, circle officer (City) Vaibhav Pandey said. To recall, SI Vijay Pratap had come to lime light for embarking on a 65-km run to protest his transfer to Bitholi police station in November 2019. He had then also posted a tweet stating, “I am being transferred due to the dictatorial attitude of RI (reserve inspector of police). I was asked by the SSP to stay back at reserve police lines but I am being forcibly transferred to Bitholi by the RI. You can call it my anger or unhappiness but I’ll run & go to Bitholi.” SP (City), Etawah, Ram Yash Singh had then said: “The sub-inspector was transferred from reserve police lines to Bitholi. Instead of accepting the transfer order like any disciplined officer, he posted a message on social media.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/post-against-pm-cm-suspended-si-booked-in-etawah/articleshow/77793952.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: AMTS bus brakes fail, falls into pit||AHMEDABAD: A tragedy was averted when a bus of the Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service (AMTS) fell into a roadside construction pit near Vaishnodevi Circle on Thursday after its brakes failed. Three passengers were injured and 50 others were safely extricated. The bus had veered towards a highway construction site and its front wheels fell into the construction pit, which was filled with lose earth and rainwater. Sources in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) admitted that the bus lacked maintenance and that it is suspected that the brake liners failed because of the wet weather. “The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is undertaking road widening and bridge construction activity on the stretch to ease traffic on the Nana Chiloda to Ujala Circle stretch,” said a senior AMC official. The incident took place when bus number 501 between Vasna and Chandkheda was passing Vaishnodevi Circle and it's brakes failed suddenly. The driver, Lalji Thakor,42, tried to steer the bus away from traffic and it fell into the pit. Inspector Dharmendra Chaudhari of Adalaj police said, “The driver told us that the brakes had failed and he tried to avoid traffic and a collision. Keeping his presence of mind, he tried to stop the bus by driving it into a pile of mud on the road side. It got pulled towards the pit which was filled with rain water and fell in. The pit was dug for work on the flyover in the area.” Chaudhari said that they have booked driver for rash driving and causing injuries in this case. Locals and cops deployed at Vaishnodevi Circle ran to the accident site and rescued the passengers. He also said that a team from the RTO examined the bus and found that the brakes were not working properly. RTO officers also gave an opinion that the brake liners must have failed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amts-bus-brakes-fail-falls-into-pit/articleshow/77792340.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man dies after hitting Rajkot CP’s car||AHMEDABAD: An elderly man from Ramnagar village of Bavla taluka of Ahmedabad district died after ramming his motorcycle into the rear of Rajkot police commissioner Manoj Aggarwal’s car near Sanand Bypass Crossroads on Thursday. Officers of Ahmedabad rural police said Bisukhan Malek, 65, was crossing the road on his motorcycle when he hit the rear of the Rajkot police commissioner’s car. Malek was a farm labourer and the sole earning member of his family. “He hit the rear window glass of the SUV and his face banged on the car. He suffered major injuries,” said inspector H B Gohil of Sanand police station, where a case of accidental death was registered. Gohil said Malek was driving at high speed and tried to cross the road when the commissioner’s car was passing from there. “He misjudged his driving, increased speed and hit the car,” stressed Gohil. Gohil said that Aggarwal and other cops got down from the car and called up 108 ambulance to take the man to hospital. “Malek was unconscious and his pulse rate was very slow when medicos of 108 ambulance examined him. He was taken to a primary health centre in Nani Devti village where he died during treatment,” said Gohil. Gohil said Malek was not wearing a helmet at the time of the accident and suffered major injuries on his face.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-dies-after-hitting-rajkot-cps-car/articleshow/77792191.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Roads built in last three years are not damaged’||AHMEDABAD: The terrible condition of roads in the city of Ahmedabad seem to be a major headache again for office bearers of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). The heavy rains in the city have caused widespread damage to roads in the city. AMC standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt, after a meeting of the committee, said that roads that have been damaged in the recent rains are those that were built more than three years ago. “In the last three years 300-odd stretches of road have been resurfaced and not a single one has been damaged,” he said. He said that some 39,000 sq m of roads in the city are damaged but these are those that weren’t built recently. He said the roads that have been damaged or have caved in are those where there are drinking water, stormwater or drainage lines passing underneath. He denied that the roads have been damaged because of bad quality of work. He said the AMC is presently going in for cold mix and wet mix patchwork and further repairs will be taken up after the intensity of the rain reduces. The monsoon is likely to recede after September 15. Bhatt said resurfacing of damaged roads will be taken up on priority basis by the corporation. Minister of state Pradipsinh Jadeja, who was recently in town to inaugurate development projects said that the state government has instructed municipal corporations to make suitable changes to road work tenders to ensure they last even in the rain. Jadeja said that the chief minister has already issued instructions to city civic bodies to begin repairs on all roads, including internal roads, as soon as the monsoon ends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/roads-built-in-last-three-years-are-not-damaged/articleshow/77792448.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh government releases lease amount to capital region farmers||AMARAVATI: A day after farmers in Amaravati staged protests demanding their dues, the state government released annual lease amounts as part of the Land Pooling Scheme (LPS) benefits on Thursday. The state government remitted Rs 158 crore into bank accounts of nearly 18,000 farmers who parted with their land for the capital city under the Land Pooling Scheme (LPS). The state government had promised to pay annual lease to all LPS farmers either for a period of 10 years or the first sale executed by farmers. The farmers who sold their returnable plots to a third party were not entitled to receive the annuity. The state government also released Rs 9.73 crore towards pensions for tenant farmers and agriculture labourers identified by the Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA). A monthly pension of Rs 2,500 for farmers and agriculture labourers was promised while taking over land under LPS as tenant farmers and agriculture labourers were identified as jobless due to the LPS. Although the state government had been paying annuity during every May and June, it was delayed due to the poor finances of the state government due to the Covid-19 induced economic crisis. The state government has not stopped implementation of any of its welfare schemes running into several thousands of crores, prompting the farmers to take out protests on Wednesday. The state government had issued two GOs to release annuity amount and pensions to farmers in June. However, the amounts were not credited into the accounts of the farmers. Meanwhile, Botcha Satyanarayana, minister for municipal administration, said that the release of annuity was delayed due to technical reasons. He said that the opposition parties were aware of the fact that they were crediting the amounts into farmers’ accounts on Wednesday and encouraged the farmers to stage protests. The minister said that the government wanted to increase welfare pensions to tenant farmers and agriculture labourers of the region to Rs 5,000 from the previous Rs 2,500 but put the scheme has been put on hold as the opposition parties have challenged the move. He said that the government has also put the allotment of house sites to the poor in abeyance only due to the opposition parties as they had challenged it in the courts. The minister appealed to opposition parties not to create hurdles to the welfare schemes aimed at helping the poor in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/govt-releases-lease-amount-to-capital-region-farmers/articleshow/77800160.cms||Samdani MN
August 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh government releases lease amount to capital region farmers||AMARAVATI: A day after farmers in Amaravati staged protests demanding their dues, the state government released annual lease amounts as part of the Land Pooling Scheme (LPS) benefits on Thursday. The state government remitted Rs 158 crore into bank accounts of nearly 18,000 farmers who parted with their land for the capital city under the Land Pooling Scheme (LPS). The state government had promised to pay annual lease to all LPS farmers either for a period of 10 years or the first sale executed by farmers. The farmers who sold their returnable plots to a third party were not entitled to receive the annuity. The state government also released Rs 9.73 crore towards pensions for tenant farmers and agriculture labourers identified by the Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA). A monthly pension of Rs 2,500 for farmers and agriculture labourers was promised while taking over land under LPS as tenant farmers and agriculture labourers were identified as jobless due to the LPS. Although the state government had been paying annuity during every May and June, it was delayed due to the poor finances of the state government due to the Covid-19 induced economic crisis. The state government has not stopped implementation of any of its welfare schemes running into several thousands of crores, prompting the farmers to take out protests on Wednesday. The state government had issued two GOs to release annuity amount and pensions to farmers in June. However, the amounts were not credited into the accounts of the farmers. Meanwhile, Botcha Satyanarayana, minister for municipal administration, said that the release of annuity was delayed due to technical reasons. He said that the opposition parties were aware of the fact that they were crediting the amounts into farmers’ accounts on Wednesday and encouraged the farmers to stage protests. The minister said that the government wanted to increase welfare pensions to tenant farmers and agriculture labourers of the region to Rs 5,000 from the previous Rs 2,500 but put the scheme has been put on hold as the opposition parties have challenged the move. He said that the government has also put the allotment of house sites to the poor in abeyance only due to the opposition parties as they had challenged it in the courts. The minister appealed to opposition parties not to create hurdles to the welfare schemes aimed at helping the poor in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-releases-lease-amount-to-capital-region-farmers/articleshow/77790887.cms||Samdani MN
August 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Rape survivor made to stay in police station||AHMEDABAD: Vatva GIDC police station had become a home for a 21-year-old Assamese woman, who was forced into prostitution after being lured to the city with the promise of a job and marriage. The cops let her to stay at the police station as she had nowhere to go to in Ahmedabad after she was rescued from a prostitution racket. However, her long stay at the police station landed the cops in trouble because they missed the law on sheltering such women. The city sessions court came to know about the woman living at the police station for the last month. It expressed shock and asked the city police commissioner to take disciplinary action against the investigating officer and the officer in-charge of the police station for the “illegality”. The court questioned police inspector R D Gohil as to how police kept her in the police station for the last month without an order from a competent court, and why they did not make arrangements to send her to a women’s institution. A month ago, she had managed to send an SOS to police. After she was rescued, she complained that she had been brought to the city from Hyderabad two years ago by one Masuk Qureshi alias Sonu, who promised to get her a job and to marry her, but she was pushed into the flesh trade. The cops traced Qureshi put him behind bars. As she had nowhere to go in Ahmedabad she made the police station her home. Qureshi sought bail and during the hearing, the court heard the rape survivor. As the accused raised questions about the victim’s credentials, the court asked her her name, family details and address. She revealed that she had been living in the police station only because she had no place to go to. The court questioned the police inspector as to why she was not placed in a shelter home, but drew a blank stare. On Wednesday, the court rejected the bail plea filed by the accused, but also took notice of the illegality committed by the cops in keeping the rape survivor at the police station for a month without a valid court order. Though the victim has not alleged maltreatment at the hands of police officials, “it is absolutely against the intent of law to keep the victim/prosecutrix in the police station for such a long period of time”, the court said. The court sent its order to the city police commissioner saying he should take a serious note of the order and take disciplinary action against the investigator and police station in-charge as early as possible and report to the court. The court has also sent a copy of its order to the Gujarat State Women’s Commission for appropriate action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rape-survivor-made-to-stay-in-police-station/articleshow/77792212.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Mumbai||IIT-Delhi to test returning students with in-house Covid kit||MUMBAI: Academic life at the IITs campuses seems to be picking up as several research students, and even some undergraduates who have connectivity issues, are coming back. Many IITs are preparing a safe working environment for the returning students. Across the IITs, close to 300-odd sophomores and seniors have returned, with the campuses encouraging close to 5,000 PhDs and senior researchers to come back. Indian Institutes of Technology, Delhi, which has its in-house Covid testing kit, is planning to test all students and researchers who will be returning to the campus. The institute is also in the final stages of signing an agreement with a laboratory that has a pan-India presence so that other academic institutions can also benefit. It is the only institute in the country to do so until now. All the IITs preparing to reboot their laboratories are taking precautions by installing plexiglass barriers and putting up exhaust fans to improve ventilation. Some IITs are also in the process of purchasing Covid health insurance and getting personal thermometers. “Many students who took admission in and prior to 2016 and those who are pursuing their PhD have come back to campus. Most of the students who have come back are locals from the NCR region who are pursuing their PhDs and working directly on Covid-19 research. Around 20 undergraduate students, who have internet connectivity problems, have also been allowed to come back,” said Shantanu Roy, dean (academics), IIT-Delhi. All the returning students will be quarantined in their hostel rooms for 14 days before they can step out. Canteen timings are being set and foot pedals are being installed on the doors. All other eateries and cafeterias have been shut down. Some IITs will send food to the students’ rooms while they are under quarantine while others have created a mess schedule and assigned seating areas. Students can step out of the campus only after getting written permission from authorities. Nearly 80 undergraduate and 1,500 PhD students have come back to IIT-Bombay campus. “Many students want to come back but we are unable to allow them all,” said Ajit Kumar Chaturvedi, director, IIT-Roorkee . Meanwhile Anamika Barua, associate dean, students’ affairs, IIT-Guwahati said that no student pursuing undergraduate or Masters degree is allowed to come back to campus. “Around 150 PhD students have already arrived at the campus and 750 have said that they will be coming back,” she added. Anil Sao, associate dean, academics, IIT-Mandi, also said that so far, 119 PhD and 13 MS students, and 18 project staff had returned. Interestingly, although the IITs have allowed students to take a gap year, just about no one is interested in taking a break. “So far, we have not received any request for a gap year,” said IIT Madras dean (academic courses) V Jagadeesh Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/iit-d-to-test-returning-students-with-in-house-covid-kit/articleshow/77794426.cms||Hemali Chhapia
August 28, 2020||Bhopal||Outbreak in Jabalpur jail, 45 test Covid +ve||Bhopal/Jabalpur: The shifting of Covid-infected prisoners from adjoining districts to Jabalpur Central Jail has led to a Coronavirus explosion in the prison, with 45 inmates testing positive. As per reports, Covid-infected prisoners were transferred to the Jabalpur jail without creating an isolation ward for them in the prison premises. A coronavirus-infected patient was shifted to Jabalpur Central Jail from Sehora jail on August 15. Two more from Patan jail arrived within the next two days. In what appears to be a serious act of omission by the jail administration, the infected patients were not admitted to a hospital, but shifted to live in common area with the other prisoners, say reports. In the past 12 days, 45 jail inmates at Jabalpur Central Jail have tested positive for Covid-19. Meanwhile, district collector has constituted a three-member committee headed by ADM to probe the matter. It is important to be noted that 600 prisoners from other jails have been shifted to Jabalpur Central Jail recently. It is believed that apart from the three Covid infected prisoners shifted here from Sehora and Patan, several more among the 600 prisoners could have been coronavirus carriers. They were shifted to the jail after physical screening only. District collector, Karmveer Sharma, while announcing probe into the entire episode said that the jail administration is aware of overcrowding in the jail, and appropriate action will be taken in this regard. Jail superintendent, Gopal Tamrakar, said that against a capacity of 2,400 prisoners, there are 3000 prisoners in the jail as of now. He said there was a quarantine centre in the jail, where a prisoner coming from outside used to be kept for three days before allowing him to mingle with other prisoners. Sources, however, said that samples of prisoners brought from other jails used to be taken but on occasions, they used to be shifted to jail without receipt of report, which sometimes takes days. An isolation centre for coronavirus patients among inmates was also created on August 25, said Tamrakar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/outbreak-in-jabalpur-jail-45-test-covid-ve/articleshow/77792215.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Vadodara||Bar association’s gen sec booked for threatening lawyer||Vadodara: The general secretary of Baroda Bar Association was booked on Wednesday for insulting and intimidating a lawyer last month. Complainant lawyer Kulin Sikligar alleged that the general secretary Ritesh Thakkar called him on July 2 night and hurled abuses at him and issued threats to him. Sikligar also alleged that Thakkar used abusive words for his friend Dakshay Bhatt as well. According to Sikligar, Thakkar called him in response to a message which he had circulated among lawyers on WhatsApp. Police said that Sikligar’s message was about questioning the help of Rs 15 lakh offered by the bar association’s president Hasmukh Bhatt for junior lawyers. Sikligar said that he learnt from his friends about Bhatt’s offer. The office-bearers of the lawyers’ body had met at the district court complex to discuss about helping junior lawyers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bar-associations-gen-sec-booked-for-threatening-lawyer/articleshow/77790916.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Covid negative international flyers can skip institutional quarantine||HYDERABAD: Now, international passengers arriving in Telangana will no longer need to undergo the mandatory seven-day institutional quarantine. But this, only if they have a negative Covid-19 report. According to a latest government order, dated August 26, passengers landing in the state via Vande Bharat and Air Transport Bubble flights who produce a “negative RT-PCR report on arrival with the test conducted within 96 hours prior to departure”, can skip institutional quarantine. They will, however, be required to “undertake 14 days of home quarantine”, GO stated. It also exempts flyers visiting state for business purposes, provided they return within four days of arrival “as evidenced confirmed return tickets”. “Passengers travelling for business reasons and having negative RT-PCR test conducted within 96 hours prior to departure shall be exempted from requirement of home/institutional quarantine”, order stated. But the government, order stressed, will have right to conduct rapid antigen tests, randomly on those submitting a negative result and those found positive will be isolated. While symptomatic passengers, order read, will be taken to medical facilities, asymptomatic passengers will have to opt for paid seven-day institutional quarantine followed by seven-days home quarantine. At present, there are 3,000 to 4,000 international passengers quarantined in about 30 hotels in city, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-ve-intl-flyers-can-skip-institutional-quarantine/articleshow/77792201.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh government releases lease amount to capital region farmers||AMARAVATI: A day after farmers in Amaravati staged protests demanding their dues, the state government released annual lease amounts as part of the Land Pooling Scheme (LPS) benefits on Thursday. The state government remitted Rs 158 crore into bank accounts of nearly 18,000 farmers who parted with their land for the capital city under the Land Pooling Scheme (LPS). The state government had promised to pay annual lease to all LPS farmers either for a period of 10 years or the first sale executed by farmers. The farmers who sold their returnable plots to a third party were not entitled to receive the annuity. The state government also released Rs 9.73 crore towards pensions for tenant farmers and agriculture labourers identified by the Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA). A monthly pension of Rs 2,500 for farmers and agriculture labourers was promised while taking over land under LPS as tenant farmers and agriculture labourers were identified as jobless due to the LPS. Although the state government had been paying annuity during every May and June, it was delayed due to the poor finances of the state government due to the Covid-19 induced economic crisis. The state government has not stopped implementation of any of its welfare schemes running into several thousands of crores, prompting the farmers to take out protests on Wednesday. The state government had issued two GOs to release annuity amount and pensions to farmers in June. However, the amounts were not credited into the accounts of the farmers. Meanwhile, Botcha Satyanarayana, minister for municipal administration, said that the release of annuity was delayed due to technical reasons. He said that the opposition parties were aware of the fact that they were crediting the amounts into farmers’ accounts on Wednesday and encouraged the farmers to stage protests. The minister said that the government wanted to increase welfare pensions to tenant farmers and agriculture labourers of the region to Rs 5,000 from the previous Rs 2,500 but put the scheme has been put on hold as the opposition parties have challenged the move. He said that the government has also put the allotment of house sites to the poor in abeyance only due to the opposition parties as they had challenged it in the courts. The minister appealed to opposition parties not to create hurdles to the welfare schemes aimed at helping the poor in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/govt-releases-lease-amount-to-capital-region-farmers/articleshow/77800161.cms||Samdani MN
August 28, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat sees 1,190 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Thursday, 1,190 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state, taking the total number of cases to 91,329. It was the fifth consecutive day the state recorded fewer than 1,200 daily cases. These cases included 258 from Surat, 163 from Ahmedabad, 123 from Vadodara, and 96 from Rajkot. The total cases in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot are now 30,930, 19,526, 7,685 and 4,339, respectively. The state also reported 17 Covid deaths, taking the death toll to 2,964 so far. These deaths included five from Surat, three each from Ahmedabad and Rajkot, and one each from Vadodara, Patan, Amreli, Anand, Kutch and Valsad. The total number of deaths in Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot districts are now 612, 125 and 86. A total of 1,193 patients were discharged in these 24 hours, taking the total of those discharged to 73,501. The discharges included 213 from Vadodara, 212 from Surat, 151 from Ahmedabad, and 110 from Jamnagar. The number of active cases in Gujarat is now 14,864, which makes up 16.3% of total cases recorded so far. The share of discharged and deceased patients is now at 80.5% and 3.2%, respectively. Gujarat carried out 76,227 tests in these 24 hours, taking its total to 20.45 lakh. The state health department says it is performing 1,173 tests per day per million people. Ahmedabad death toll now 1,700, accounts for 74% of deaths in state Ahmedabad: With the deaths of three Covid-19 patients in the 24 hours ending 5pm on Thursday, the Covid death toll for Ahmedabad district reached 1,700. In terms of Covid patients’ deaths, the district is the seventh in India, while it is 17th in terms of total cases. Analysis of the deaths reveals that compared to mid-June, the times it takes to record 100 Covid deaths has increased by almost seven times. While it took 27 days from 1,600 to 1,700 deaths, it had taken 23 days for 1,500 to 1,600 deaths, 11 days for 1,400 to 1,500 deaths, seven days for 1,300 to 1,400 deaths, five days for 1,200 to 1,300 deaths, and four days each for 1,100 to 1,200 and 1,000 to 1,100 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/state-sees-1190-new-cases-in-24-hours/articleshow/77796205.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||15L Covid health covers sold in 1 month: IRDAI||Hyderabad: General insurance companies have sold nearly 15 lakh standard Covid-19 health covers, including both — the indemnity-based Corona Kavach and benefit-based Corona Rakshak — in the past one month, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) chairman Subhash C Khuntia said on Thursday while addressing participants at the virtual 21st Ficci-Fincon 2020 on the theme ‘India Insurance in the Post-Covid world’. He said the high demand for the Covid-19 health cover shows there is a need for such products in the market and insurance companies must assess the evolving needs of people and come up with innovative products. Speaking about the overall sector, he said in 2019-20, the industry was able to mop up a premium of Rs 7.58 lakh crore with a growth rate of 12% Y-o-Y. He said the industry is recovering well from the Covid blow with general insurance already reporting growth in July. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/15l-covid-health-covers-sold-in-1-month-irdai/articleshow/77792246.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat sees 1,190 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Thursday, 1,190 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state, taking the total number of cases to 91,329. It was the fifth consecutive day the state recorded fewer than 1,200 daily cases. These cases included 258 from Surat, 163 from Ahmedabad, 123 from Vadodara, and 96 from Rajkot. The total cases in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot are now 30,930, 19,526, 7,685 and 4,339, respectively. The state also reported 17 Covid deaths, taking the death toll to 2,964 so far. These deaths included five from Surat, three each from Ahmedabad and Rajkot, and one each from Vadodara, Patan, Amreli, Anand, Kutch and Valsad. The total number of deaths in Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot districts are now 612, 125 and 86. A total of 1,193 patients were discharged in these 24 hours, taking the total of those discharged to 73,501. The discharges included 213 from Vadodara, 212 from Surat, 151 from Ahmedabad, and 110 from Jamnagar. The number of active cases in Gujarat is now 14,864, which makes up 16.3% of total cases recorded so far. The share of discharged and deceased patients is now at 80.5% and 3.2%, respectively. Gujarat carried out 76,227 tests in these 24 hours, taking its total to 20.45 lakh. The state health department says it is performing 1,173 tests per day per million people. Ahmedabad death toll now 1,700, accounts for 74% of deaths in state Ahmedabad: With the deaths of three Covid-19 patients in the 24 hours ending 5pm on Thursday, the Covid death toll for Ahmedabad district reached 1,700. In terms of Covid patients’ deaths, the district is the seventh in India, while it is 17th in terms of total cases. Analysis of the deaths reveals that compared to mid-June, the times it takes to record 100 Covid deaths has increased by almost seven times. While it took 27 days from 1,600 to 1,700 deaths, it had taken 23 days for 1,500 to 1,600 deaths, 11 days for 1,400 to 1,500 deaths, seven days for 1,300 to 1,400 deaths, five days for 1,200 to 1,300 deaths, and four days each for 1,100 to 1,200 and 1,000 to 1,100 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/state-sees-1190-new-cases-in-24-hours/articleshow/77796204.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Surat||Gujarat sees 1,190 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Thursday, 1,190 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state, taking the total number of cases to 91,329. It was the fifth consecutive day the state recorded fewer than 1,200 daily cases. These cases included 258 from Surat, 163 from Ahmedabad, 123 from Vadodara, and 96 from Rajkot. The total cases in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot are now 30,930, 19,526, 7,685 and 4,339, respectively. The state also reported 17 Covid deaths, taking the death toll to 2,964 so far. These deaths included five from Surat, three each from Ahmedabad and Rajkot, and one each from Vadodara, Patan, Amreli, Anand, Kutch and Valsad. The total number of deaths in Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot districts are now 612, 125 and 86. A total of 1,193 patients were discharged in these 24 hours, taking the total of those discharged to 73,501. The discharges included 213 from Vadodara, 212 from Surat, 151 from Ahmedabad, and 110 from Jamnagar. The number of active cases in Gujarat is now 14,864, which makes up 16.3% of total cases recorded so far. The share of discharged and deceased patients is now at 80.5% and 3.2%, respectively. Gujarat carried out 76,227 tests in these 24 hours, taking its total to 20.45 lakh. The state health department says it is performing 1,173 tests per day per million people. Ahmedabad death toll now 1,700, accounts for 74% of deaths in state Ahmedabad: With the deaths of three Covid-19 patients in the 24 hours ending 5pm on Thursday, the Covid death toll for Ahmedabad district reached 1,700. In terms of Covid patients’ deaths, the district is the seventh in India, while it is 17th in terms of total cases. Analysis of the deaths reveals that compared to mid-June, the times it takes to record 100 Covid deaths has increased by almost seven times. While it took 27 days from 1,600 to 1,700 deaths, it had taken 23 days for 1,500 to 1,600 deaths, 11 days for 1,400 to 1,500 deaths, seven days for 1,300 to 1,400 deaths, five days for 1,200 to 1,300 deaths, and four days each for 1,100 to 1,200 and 1,000 to 1,100 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/state-sees-1190-new-cases-in-24-hours/articleshow/77796206.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat sees 1,190 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Thursday, 1,190 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state, taking the total number of cases to 91,329. It was the fifth consecutive day the state recorded fewer than 1,200 daily cases. These cases included 258 from Surat, 163 from Ahmedabad, 123 from Vadodara, and 96 from Rajkot. The total cases in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot are now 30,930, 19,526, 7,685 and 4,339, respectively. The state also reported 17 Covid deaths, taking the death toll to 2,964 so far. These deaths included five from Surat, three each from Ahmedabad and Rajkot, and one each from Vadodara, Patan, Amreli, Anand, Kutch and Valsad. The total number of deaths in Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot districts are now 612, 125 and 86. A total of 1,193 patients were discharged in these 24 hours, taking the total of those discharged to 73,501. The discharges included 213 from Vadodara, 212 from Surat, 151 from Ahmedabad, and 110 from Jamnagar. The number of active cases in Gujarat is now 14,864, which makes up 16.3% of total cases recorded so far. The share of discharged and deceased patients is now at 80.5% and 3.2%, respectively. Gujarat carried out 76,227 tests in these 24 hours, taking its total to 20.45 lakh. The state health department says it is performing 1,173 tests per day per million people. Ahmedabad death toll now 1,700, accounts for 74% of deaths in state Ahmedabad: With the deaths of three Covid-19 patients in the 24 hours ending 5pm on Thursday, the Covid death toll for Ahmedabad district reached 1,700. In terms of Covid patients’ deaths, the district is the seventh in India, while it is 17th in terms of total cases. Analysis of the deaths reveals that compared to mid-June, the times it takes to record 100 Covid deaths has increased by almost seven times. While it took 27 days from 1,600 to 1,700 deaths, it had taken 23 days for 1,500 to 1,600 deaths, 11 days for 1,400 to 1,500 deaths, seven days for 1,300 to 1,400 deaths, five days for 1,200 to 1,300 deaths, and four days each for 1,100 to 1,200 and 1,000 to 1,100 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-sees-1190-new-cases-in-24-hours/articleshow/77792376.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt drops Aadhaar diktat for availing social security pension||Bhubaneswar: The state government on Thursday reversed its decision to make Aadhaar verification mandatory to avail monthly social security pension from August as well as the one-time ex gratia of Rs 1,000 after a number of genuine beneficiaries struggled to get pension. State social security and empowerment of persons with disabilities (SSEPD) secretary Bhaskar Sharma, in a letter to district collectors, said the state government has decided that an eligible beneficiary should not be denied pension for not having Aadhaar. The department has asked local authorities to identify beneficiaries not having Aadhaar and to facilitate the same. “If somebody is alive and identifiable as a beneficiary he/she should not be denied pension for not having Aadhaar. It will the responsibility of the local administration to identity these cases and provide them Aadhaar ID before the next phase of disbursement. A web-based system has now been put in place by which this data will be captured and monitored,” Sharma wrote. Around 48 lakh old elderly, differently-abled, widow and destitutes in the state avail monthly pension under the National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP) and Madhu Babu Pension Yojana (MBPY). Last month, the SSEPD department has asked collectors to disburse pension for the month of August and ex-gratia of Rs 1,000 to only those whose Aadhaar numbers are seeded in the NSAP/MBPY portal. According to Right to Food Campaign, Odisha, a non-governmental organization, around 10 lakh of the total 48 lakh beneficiaries could be deprived of their monthly pension because of this directive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-drops-aadhaar-diktat-for-availing-social-security-pension/articleshow/77790948.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Nagpur||HC dismisses PIL seeking declaration of PM-CARES fund||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Thursday dismissed a public interest litigation (PIL), filed by lawyer Arvind Waghmare, seeking details of PM-CARES Fund. Waghmare had sought a direction to the Centre to declare funds received and expenditure of the same on the government’s website periodically. He had also sought a directive to the government and the Trust under which the fund has been created to appoint or nominate at least two members from Opposition parties for the sake of transparency. Pleading before the division bench of Justice Sunil Shukre and Justice Anil Kilor, central government had opposed the PIL and sought its dismissal, saying a similar plea challenging the setting up of the PM-CARES was dismissed by the Supreme Court. The Trust was created to accept donations from people across the country and abroad to provide relief to those affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Waghmare in his petition said the PM-CARES Trust has Prime Minister Narendra Modi as its chairperson and ministers from the defence, home and finance departments as its members. “As per guidelines of the PM-CARES Fund, apart from the chairperson and three members, the chairperson has to appoint or nominate three more trustees. However, since the formation of the Trust on March 28, 2020, no appointment/nomination has been made till date, the petitioner had claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-dismisses-pil-seeking-declaration-of-pm-cares-fund/articleshow/77792239.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Open to healthy criticism: Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has said that it is open to healthy criticism and respects the fundamental right of freedom of expression, but will not tolerate any attempt to tarnish the image of the institution. The bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria observed so while rejecting the apology tendered by HC Bar association president Yatin Oza during the hearing of a criminal contempt of court case against him for comparing the high court to a gambling den. The HC was hearing Oza on the aspect of his apology as requested by the Supreme Court in this case. The judges said that repeated scurrilous remarks against judges and the court by Oza have not left any escape route for him. Earlier, the weapon of unconditional apology came to his rescue. “This was permitted in the past keeping up a rich tradition of Kshama Virsya Bhushanam (forgiveness is the jewel of heroes), showing magnanimity every time he acted, even hoping, trusting and believing in the wise words that every saint has a past and every sinner a future, not only has it emboldened the person to go on attacking the institute with more fervency, if still permitted, this institution would be inviting for itself more and many such unsubstantiated, unsustainable and baseless attacks from various quarters.” The court said there is a need to send a “clear and loud message” that “…We are open to every healthy criticism respecting the fundamental right of freedom of expression and at the same time, we are obligated not to permit any attempt to tarnish the image of the Institution and to despise and damage the prestige of the same and to demean the respect it enjoys by one and all.” The court concluded that terming the court a gambling den was not an emotional outburst, “but appears prima facie to be more guided by a definite and purposive object of attacking the Institution”. The court also said that the lawyer tendered an apology only after the apex court refused to entertain him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/open-to-healthy-criticism-hc/articleshow/77792261.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Nagpur||No new thermal power units in state, says Raut||Nagpur: Energy minister Nitin Raut has announced that no more thermal power generation units would be set up in the state as there is a huge gap between supply and demand due to the coronavirus pandemic-induced recession. Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has signed power purchase agreements (PPAs) for 35,000MW, but is purchasing only 14,500MW due to low demand. Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) has set a target for MSEDCL of meeting 25% of its demand from renewable sources in next five years. Hence, the government has decided to promote renewable energy only. Civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal and MLAs of Deolali, Igatpuri and Amalner had met Raut urging him to replace the old units in Nashik thermal power station by a new unit of 660MW. The energy minister turned down this demand. Earlier, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had rejected proposal to set up two new 660MW units at Koradi. He had told Raut to set up solar power plants instead as it is cheaper. Raut then chalked out plans to set up several solar power plants in the state in three phases. Raut told Bhujbal that power demand had gone done by 33% and several thermal units were lying idle. However, MSEDCL had to pay fixed charges to the generation companies for these units, which was a huge burden on power consumers. He further said the generation cost of old units was very high and hence MSEDCL could not purchase power generated by these units under merit order dispatch (MOD) regime. Same was the case with new units as capital cost was very high. So, it was not possible to set up a new unit at Nashik, he said. The MSEDCL has also an obligation to buy 8,000MW renewable energy and hence there was no question of starting new thermal units in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-new-thermal-power-units-in-state-says-raut/articleshow/77792299.cms||Ashish Roy
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Spl treatment for docs, kin at NIMS, TIMS & Gandhi: Eatala||Hyderabad: After three hours of meeting between doctors associations, paramedical staff associations and the state health authorities, health minister Eatala Rajender assured the health workers that special treatment would be provided to the doctors, paramedical staff and their family members at NIMS, TIMS and Gandhi Hospital. The announcement came after healthcare workers and doctors staged protests and held candlelight vigil for their colleagues who succumbed in line of duty. The healthcare staff has been upset that the state government did not announce any suppor to the family members and was not providing free treatment to kin of staff who had contracted Covid-19. A 50-bed facility will be set up exclusively in NIMS to ensure that health staffers be provided emergency care. The minister also assured to speak to the CM about the demand of ex-gratia to the medical personnel who died while providing Covid treatment. “The minister said the proposals from the department heads of various departments would be brought forward without delay and no one would be harmed. A permanent solution would be found. During discussions, the minister had a lengthy discussion on various issues raised by the doctors and associations and responded positively to most of the issues raised by them," read an official statement from the ministers office. The announcement came after healthcare workers staged protests and held candlelight vigil for their colleagues who succumbed in line of duty||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/spl-treatment-for-docs-kin-at-nims-tims-gandhi-eatala/articleshow/77792287.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Huge scope for state to improve exports: Experts||Bhubaneswar: With NITI Aayog’s Export Preparedness Index placing Odisha in fifth place, industry observers said there is a huge scope to improve exports in various sectors like marine, agriculture, handloom, handicrafts, textiles, IT & IT-enabled services. The NITI Aayog study said Odisha is the most cost-competitive state in terms of setting up and running a business while the state has ensured lowest cost in key parameters like wages of skilled labourers, industrial power tariff and land rate. The state’s total export volume is estimated to be Rs 51,742 crore in 2019-20 compared to 48,117 crore in 2018-19, with metal, mining, chemicals and petrochemicals being the major products exported. Going by the growth of seafood export from Odisha over the years, experts believe the sector has huge growth potential. The state’s seafood export has jumped from Rs 800 crore in 2011-12 to Rs 3,032 crore in 2019-20. The growth is despite exporters from the state having to depend on ports in Vizag and Kolkata to send their products as shipping liners are not coming to ports in Odisha. “If seafood export can start from Paradip port even with the help of a feeder vessel, it will be a great help for the growth of marine exports from Odisha. The facility will save both cost and time for the exporters,” said Kamlesh Mishra, Odisha region president of the Seafood Exporters’ Association of India. Mishra also said the state government should incentivise exporters by facilitating captive sources like neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. “We now buy seafood from farmers, process it and export it. If we have our own captive source, it will be a big boost. States like Andhra Pradesh is exporting seafood worth Rs 18,000 crore every year. We should come up with such a policy,” Mishra added. Sources said the state MSME department has been pursuing all stakeholders to facilitate seafood exports from Paradip port that has all facilities like international cargo terminal and refrigerator containers. Exporters also felt IT and ITes sector has huge growth potential. During 2019-20, IT and ITes exports from Odisha were estimated at Rs 4,500 crore. “As Odisha has promulgated ordinance to promote contract farming, it can also give a boost to the export of agriculture products. We need a similar policy to boost other sectors as well,” said a senior official. State government sources said it is planning a new export strategy for growth of exports in the state. “We have developed infrastructure like Raptani Bhawan that facilitates shifting of export-related organizations under a single roof. Federation of Indian Export Organization has opened its office to facilitate exporters. A refurbished quality control laboratory of Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA) has also been opened in the state to help the marine exporters,” said Saran Kumar Jena, director of export promotion and marketing, Odisha. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/huge-scope-for-state-to-improve-exports-experts/articleshow/77790970.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Pvt hospital overcharging Covid-19 patients sealed||Eluru: A private hospital, Gayathri Hospital, at Bhimavaram in West Godavari district was sealed a couple of days ago for allegedly overcharging Covid-19 patients. Authorities found that the hospital was violating several government norms regarding Covid-19 treatment. Speaking to TOI, Narsapuram sub-collector Viswanathan KS said Gayathri Hospital was found treating paediatric patients and Covid-19 patients in the same building. He added the hospital management was charging exorbitant fees for Covid-19 treatment. The hospital management did not have no objection certificate (NOC) from the fire department and nor did it have an effective bio-waste management system, Viswanathan said while adding that notices have been served to the hospital management whose response is awaited. The issue of the private hospital overcharging Covid-19 patients came to light when a video of a Dalit woman went viral on social media wherein she alleged that the hospital had asked for Rs 4.5 lakh to treat her husband who was suffering from Covid-19 and eventually passed away. It may be recalled that another private hospital in Eluru was sealed off recently for treating Covid-19 patients without government permission. The hospital— Muralikrishna Multi Specialty Hospital— was sealed last Saturday. Authorities have found that the hospital was collecting lakhs of rupees as fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/pvt-hospital-overcharging-covid-19-patients-sealed/articleshow/77790954.cms||Samson Raj
August 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Troubled family life: Depressed private airline staffer kills self in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A woman employee of a private airlines, who worked at a booking counter of the company, committed suicide by hanging at her uncle’s house in Maninagar on Thursday.  Police said they have learned from her relatives that she was in depression for a long time and could have committed suicide due to that. Police sources said Sneha Rashesh Sitwala, 32, a resident of Chandkheda had separated from her husband Rashesh about nine months ago and had been raising her 9-year-old son by herself. About four days ago, her uncle and aunt, who stay at Maninagar, tested positive for Covid-19. “Sitwala had come to their house to to take care of them. Her uncle was quarantined at home,” added a police source. Police said it had been her routine for the last four to five days to give tea to her uncle and aunt in the morning. “On Thursday, when she didn’t turn up in the morning, her uncle and aunt sensed something amiss and went to her room. They saw the door of the room was open and Sitwala was hanging from the ceiling fan with her sari tied around her neck,” said a police source. Police said, when Sitwala’s uncle and aunt saw their niece hanging from the ceiling fan, they called up police control room. “We reached the spot, lowered the body to ground, and sent it for postmortem. Sitwala was working with a private airline at its ticket booking counter and during the lockdown she was paid salary regularly. We have found no suicide note from the house. Hence we have registered a case of accidental death and are probing it,” said an official from Maninagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/troubled-family-life-depressed-private-airline-staffer-kills-self/articleshow/77792301.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat University permits pen & paper exam for all||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat University (GU) has issued guidelines for the offline exams (pen and paper) to be held in two phases in September. Candidates who have earlier registered for online exams can take part in the offline mode as well, it said. Such candidates are not required to take the online test. If a candidate wants to take both the offline and online exams, the result of the offline mode will only be counted, as per the guidelines. The GU will hold exams for arts, commerce, science and law students in two phases, the first to be held between September 3 and September 10 and the next to be held from September 12 and September 19. About 70,000 students in various GU affiliated colleges are expected to take this offline (pen and paper) format exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-permits-pen-paper-exam-for-all/articleshow/77792311.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 7-officer team to inspect Covid hospitals||GANDHINAGAR: Following orders of the Gujarat high court, the state government on Thursday appointed a team of seven IAS officers to evaluate preparedness and facilities at Covid hospitals in various districts. Pankaj Kumar, additional chief secretary, revenue department and Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary, health and family welfare have been named convener and co-convener of the team. Other members include Sonal Misra, secretary, Narmada, water resources and Kalpasar department for Rajkot and Bhavnagar region, Vinod Rao, secretary, education as Vadodara region in-charge, M Thenarasan, MD, GIDC as the Surat region in-charge and Milind Torawane, secretary, finance department as the Ahmedabad region in-charge. These officers will visit respective district Covid hospitals and assess hospital preparedness and isolation facilities and report to the state level team. Evaluation will be done on key parameters — patient satisfaction, infrastructure availability, legal license, human resources availability and cleanliness. The officials will interact with local doctors, nursing staff, patients and their relatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/7-officer-team-to-inspect-covid-hospitals/articleshow/77792326.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Kochi||‘Centre’s plans will prove costly’||Thiruvananthapuram: Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac said on Thursday that Centre’s proposals to bridge the GST revenue loss due to Covid-19 pandemic could prove dearer to the state. "The attorney general said that GST council should find ways to bridge the revenue gap. That is not a practical proposal. Centre should source money as loan and share it among states. Centre is supposed to compensate states if GST revenue comes down for whatever reasons," Isaac told reporters after attending the GST council meeting online. He added that the possibility for a consensus in the GST council was unlikely. According to the calculations of the Centre, there could a reduction of Rs 3 lakh crore in GST revenue; Rs 70,000 crore would be available through collection of cess. "The Union finance minister has proposed two options for states to deal with the crisis. But none of them are fully acceptable. Most of the states have opined that it would be better if Centre borrows money and transfer the same to the states," he said, adding that all states are expected to inform their stand within a week. It’s learnt that the council has proposed to sanction half of the GST arrears in cash and enhance the borrowing limit of states to meet the other half through market borrowing. Else, states may bridge the revenue gap through market borrowing. But both proposals were against the spirit of the earlier understanding between Centre and states, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/centres-plans-will-prove-costly/articleshow/77791015.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Rotary bank offers plasma to poor for free||Hyderabad: Rotary Challa Blood Bank’s plasma services can be accessed by anyone unlike other such facilities, where most plasma donations are coordinated and for in-patients at hospitals. The facility at Dharam Karan Road, Ameerpet has component separation, apheresis and plasmapheresis facilities. Rotary Blood Bank chairman Sharath Choudary said they provide a facility for collection of blood samples for pre-screening from the donor’s home. Pre-screening is needed to rule out HIV, diabetes as well as to test for the requisite amount of antibodies. Choudary said transparency would be the most crucial element. “The pricing for a unit of plasma for private hospitals will be Rs 10,500, for patients at government hospitals it will be Rs 4,500 and for those below the poverty line, plasma will be given free,” he said. A unit of plasma ranges between 200ml and 250ml. Since Rotary Challa Blood Bank is already an established blood bank, the addition of plasmapheresis machine cost them an additional Rs 20lakh. “We are in the process of creating additional stock of plasma. Once extracted, the plasma is stored at -40 degrees Celsius in freezers. Plasma has a shelf life of a year,” he added. Hyderabad: For donations, about five volunteers help with coordination and 12 former engineering students are helping the plasma bank go online. “Each volunteer monitors requirements at certain hospitals and matches donors with patients. Criticality is assessed so that plasma can be provided immediately,” said Sharmila Jain, who is leading the team of volunteers. A group of engineering graduates from Manipal have volunteered to coordinate efforts. Not only have they set up a website for recipients to register, but also coordinate with volunteers regarding requests. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rotary-bank-offers-plasma-to-poor-for-free/articleshow/77792308.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Nagpur||No point in delaying JEE, NEET, feel most parents & students||NAGPUR: As the debate over JEE/NEET rages across the country, many parents and students in Nagpur feel that postponing the exam won’t serve any purpose. Both exams are being conducted by National Testing Agency (NTA) and begin from September 1 onwards. JEE candidate Malhar Limaye said already too much time has been lost. “How much more will you postpone it now? You can’t wait for the outbreak to get over, hence exam has to happen now, with all precautions in place,” said Limaye. NEET candidate Janhvi Munne said “This delay is distracting for us because of dates being shuffled.” Her mother Vaishali agreed, saying, “If banks are open, shops are open, autos are plying then why stop exams? It’s illogical to say that coronavirus will only enter exam halls.” NEET candidate Gazhal Hemne said, “If every student takes basic precaution then there is nothing to worry about.” JEE candidate Amanshu Jaiswal agreed, saying, “Postponing exam will lead to stress.” Vandana Kumbhare, whose son Priyanshu is appearing for JEE, said students can’t remain locked up due to fear of Covid-19. “The virus is here to stay, so we have to learn to live with it. Everything around us is opening up and our kids have to adapt to the new normal. Precautions have to be taken, but both life and exams must go on,” said Kumbhare. A senior government official, who did not wished to be named, said his daughter is worried because of uncertainty in exam dates. “She looks more at the news rather than books. She is constantly checking to see if any new development regarding exam has happened,” said the official. Raje Pratapsingh Bhonsle, whose son is appearing for JEE, feels a balanced point of view is needed. “I may not have a problem with the exam because my child has a local centre and we can drop him off in a car. But we need to also think about those coming from outside, who may struggle with transportation to reach centres,” said Bhonsle. The JEE/NEET issue has now taken political colours, something which worries parents. Parent Sameer Joshi said, “All political parties must realize that we are putting our children’s academic future at stake. Delay in exam has already broken their tempo. And when malls are opening up, liquor shops are open, then why create such a scene only about exams,” said Joshi. Parent Dilip Chafle agrees. “Exam is to be held for just three hours, so where is the risk? All students will be wearing masks, sanitization of premises will be done, and social distancing followed, hence no point in postponing exam,” said Chafle. Kshipra Sharma, who is appearing for NEET, said she does have reservations about the exam. “Frankly, I am scared because of the rising number of cases in Nagpur. I will take a final call about giving the exam at the last moment itself, after studying the situation,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-point-in-delaying-jee-neet-feel-most-parents-students/articleshow/77795513.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 28, 2020||Bhubaneswar||‘Strengthening Rajendra University infra my priority’||What is your plan for Rajendra University? I am trying to strengthen the existing infrastructure and facilities for the students of the university. We have to create smart classrooms, laboratory and the best library. Everybody knows that a library is the centre of an institution, that’s why we need to improve and digitise it for the students. We are also taking different steps to impart quality education to them. Colleges in Balangir and Sonepur districts will come up under the new university. The institution will look after different issues of the colleges of this region. We are planning a second campus as this is an affiliating university. It will need space for expansion in future. I have personally met the collector of Balangir and requested him to earmark a 100-acre land for the campus in the town or on its outskirts. Is it a challenge to set up a university from a college? Yes, it is a challenge, but we are working on it and have appointed concerned officials. We have formed committees, including a UGC committee, to look after the progress of the works under way in the institution. University bodies will be formed soon. Another important work is to de-affiliate 65 colleges from Sambalpur University. They will come under Rajendra University after the process starts from September 1. We have also written a letter to transfer funds of Rajendra Autonomous College to the university. This apart, I have initiated all official formalities to run the institute like an affiliated university. I have visited the university and met teachers amid the pandemic so that online classes can continue. Why is participation in online classes so low We have started online classes for undergraduate and postgraduate students. As the VC, I found several students are not taking part in online classes. The major reason could be the lack of decent internet speed. Some students who stay in remote areas face difficulties with internet speed and electricity. It is time we bridge the digital divide in order to help every student. The shortage of teachers is another problem. Now, only government appointed regular teachers are taking online classes. There is no such guideline that allows guest faculty to teach online. They get paid for taking classes physically. Some departments don’t even have regular teachers. Hence, the teaching is affected. What are the steps to address shortage of teachers? Sambalpur University has invited applications for the post of teachers, but we could not call the candidates for an interview because of the pandemic. The university has 52 vacancies, as against 153 sanctioned posts. Now, it is not possible to call more than 100 candidates for the interview and many will come from outside the state. However, we will complete the recruitment process after the Covid-19 situation gets better. I am also trying to take up the teacher issue in Rajendra University with the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/strengthening-rajendra-university-infra-my-priority/articleshow/77790998.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Retirement at 60 likely only for non-gazetted officers||Hyderabad: The TRS government’s promise of increasing the retirement of government employees to 60 years may have riders. According to highly-placed sources, the recent meeting of the finance department which discussed fixing of retirement age explored various options, including limiting the move to only non-gazette rank employees. This would mean that only those up to the rank of superintendent will be able to retire at 60. Different quarters of employees are divided on this long pending demand. The Joint Action Committee (JAC) of Telangana Employees Association includes about 120 associations. Among these, the Telangana Non-gazetted Officers Association is the biggest organisation. “Telangana Gazetted Officers Association (TGA) does not seem to be very particular about enhancing the retirement to 60 years,” a top source from the employee associations said. The finance department is studying the retirement policies of different states, especially that of Tamil Nadu. When contacted, Telangana Planning board vice chairman B Vinod Kumar said the government was looking at available options. “The decision may not be immediate and will have some riders. We are more focused on bringing about changes in departments such as revenue and irrigation,” he said. If the plan of increasing the retirement age till 60 is applied only to non gazetted officers, only about 1.13 lakh employees will benefit. Some employees are of the opinion that there should be a unified policy on retirement. “Those who are influential already have the option of seeking extension of service. In such a scenario, it is better to have a common policy,” a revenue department official on condition of anonymity said. Sources told TOI that employee associations are hopeful of an ordinance on this soon. The government is more focused on governance changes immediately. It may be noted that enhancement of retirement age was one of the main election promises of the TRS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/retirement-at-60-likely-only-for-non-gazetted-officers/articleshow/77792324.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: PSC draws flak for penalizing rank holders over criticisms||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The decision of Kerala State Public Service Commissions (PSC) to initiate action against a group of rank holders, allegedly for speaking out against the commission, has started receiving flak as the decision is undemocratic and self-centred. The commission that has been under fire for some time in connection with alleged lapses in the conduct of various examinations decided to debar a group of PSC rank holders and take further legal action against them for raising ‘baseless’ allegations against the commission in connection with the recruitment to staff nurse vacancy in Kasaragod district and physiotherapist posts in health department. Instead of using complaint redressal mechanisms in the commission, the rank holders were leading malicious campaigns on social media platforms, the commission said. Attempts to tarnish the commission’s image by undermining facts known to the applicants themselves could not be entertained any more, the commission observed. Former chairman of the commission K S Radhakrishnan condemned the PSC decision. “Whatever be the reason, the decision to take action against rank holders for their open criticism is not acceptable. PSC should rather see the criticisms as opportunities to improve its functioning and correcting its mistakes. An institution like PSC is expected to respond to criticisms in a more responsible way that fits its constitutional stature and dignity,” he said. PSC authorities, however, said the move should not be generalized. Stern action is mooted as a deterrent against those who run baseless campaigns that undermine the dignity of the organization. “It’s not that the commission is taking a confrontational stand. The move is only aimed at a few people who are purposefully spreading lies and smear campaign against PSC. The commission has rights, under Rule 22, to take against those purposefully tarnishing the image of the commission,” said Saju George, PSC secretary. According to him, recruitment to 38 vacancies of staff nurse in Kasaragod district was put on hold following a Supreme Court order. Similarly, applications to physiotherapists in Ayurveda college and general physiotherapist in health department were invited on district- and state-level basis. Only those who applied for the posts notified against district-wise vacancies could be permitted to take the examination in the district of their choice. “The smear campaigners know all these facts,” he said. However, law experts refused to subscribe to PSC’s claims. “PSC has no right, under any rule, to debar people from taking examinations or getting appointments. A person can be debarred if he/she is proven to have engaged in any criminal offence,” said B G Harindranath, former state law secretary. BJP state president K Surendran said PSC was following fascist ways by threatening action against rank holders who speak against it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/psc-draws-flak-for-penalizing-rank-holders-over-criticisms/articleshow/77791024.cms||B S Anilkumar
August 28, 2020||Trichy||Auto drivers oppose fines through e-challan||Trichy: A group of autorickshaw drivers, owing allegiance to the Autorickshaw drivers’ protection association in Trichy, on Thursday petitioned the commissioner of police, Trichy, J Loganathan complaining of frequent imposition of fines for traffic violations in a single day. In their petition, they said that several drivers received e-challan text messages from the police department for violating the traffic rules. Quoting an instance, they said that a driver was fined twice for committing violation in ‘No parking’ area in four hours interval. They lamented that their paltry income during the Covid-19 pandemic was spent on paying fines. Hence, they appealed to the commissioner to stop the process of imposing fine online. Responding to their complaint, the commissioner said that he will ask his officers to check if the drivers were harassed. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/auto-drivers-oppose-fines-through-e-challan/articleshow/77792321.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Business||Congress, its allies politicising GST, says FM||NEW DELHI: Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday accused the Congress and its allies for politicising the Goods and Services Tax (GST), and hit out at the main opposition party for creating a “lack of trust” that led to delay in the implementation of the indirect tax reform. While maintaining that the GST Council, comprising state and union finance ministers, discussed the issue of compensation in a cordial manner, she said there were attempts outside to politicise the issue. “Who are the people trying to politicise it? Those who did not keep their promise on central sales tax (CST), because they didn’t pay as they promised to the states. GST itself had trouble taking off because of the said lack of trust. And, this lack of trust is due to those who are trying to politicise it from outside today,” Sitharaman said, while responding to criticism by Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday. Gandhi had held a video conference with the chief ministers of the states where her party is in power or is an ally and as well as with the West Bengal chief minister over the GST issue. Sitharaman said that her predecessor Arun Jaitley had to work very had to create a consensual approach leading to the implementation of GST and creation of a unified market. “There was this anxiety that all of us should get compensation and all of us should have some solution. GST (Council), like my predecessor (Jaitley) had said, works like a good federal institution, thinks like a statesman. That’s what happened today, there was no politicisation,” she said. Minutes after Sitharaman’s press conference, Congress held a press meet, which was attended by Puducherry CM V Narayanasamy, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal and Chhattisgarh minister TS Singh Deo, where they again attacked the Centre. “We are not happy with the outcome,” Badal said, adding that there was trust deficit. Singh Deo accused the GST Council of turning into a “majoritarian” body where the earlier approach of consensus had been given a go-by.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/congress-its-allies-politicising-gst-says-fm/articleshow/77794827.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Bhubaneswar||World celebrates Odisha’s famed Ikat art||Bhubaneswar: From the state’s Krushi Bhawan — whose outer appearance draws inspiration from the tie-and-dye design of a Sambalpuri saree — featuring on international architecture journal ‘Dezeen’, to the popularity of Sambalpuri handloom masks, to actor Vidya Balan flaunting a ‘mathematical equation’ Sambalpuri saree while promoting her movie ‘Shakuntala Devi’, the region’s famous ikat art is trending both online and on the streets. IAS officer Arabinda Padhee, who is now country director (India), International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics, said, “I feel elevated with pride seeing appreciation for Sambalpuri handwoven fabrics go beyond the boundaries of Odisha. Our culture is our best brand.” The officer, who often sports Sambalpuri shirts, added, “I have always promoted spread of the heritage in my own little way: be it by wearing handloom or respecting the language, culture and traditions. The recent episodes of visibility of Sambalpuri ikat fabrics makes me immensely happy.” The brickwork of Krushi Bhawan, built recently by the government, ‘wraps’ the upper floor to create a pattern reminiscent of the tie-and-dye art. The ikat design has been recreated using bricks of three different colours. Sambalpuri handloom masks, too, have become a fashion statement. From Union ministers Nirmala Sitharaman and Dharmendra Pradhan to governor Ganeshi Lal, many are flaunting Sambalpuri handloom masks. “We have distributed more than 12,000 masks by now,” said Sanjay Meher, who leads in making these breathable handloom masks. Suresh Pujari, MP of Bargarh, one of the hubs of Sambalpuri handloom, said there was a plan to distribute Sambalpuri masks among parliamentarians once the monsoon session began. About one-third of the state’s 60,000 weavers hail from Bargarh. Adding her weight to the visibility of the handloom fabric is Balan, who wore a black Sambalpuri ‘Sri Ganeet’ saree with mathematical equations woven over it while promoting her film. “I am thankful to all Sambalpuri artisans,” she had said in a video tweet. The saree, woven in Sonepur district using mulberry silk from Bengaluru, was made by Bhagabat Meher. “It was a proud moment,” says Meher (39) who got Rs 55,000 as proceeds from the auction of the saree last week. Others who have lent grace and prestige to the Sambalpuri saree include Sonia and Priyanka Gandhi and Aishwarya Rai Bachchan. “Growing up in a village of weavers is definitely a moment of pride for me,” said filmmaker Nilamadhab Panda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/world-celebrates-odishas-famed-ikat-art/articleshow/77791025.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Kochi||Govt allows liquor vends to function 2 extra hours||Thiruvananthapuram: Government has given more flexibility for the functioning of beverages corporation (Bevco) outlets anticipating heavy rush during Onam. It has extended working hours of these outlets by two hours till 7pm. At present, their working hours is from 9am to 5pm. The extra sale for two hours will be applicable for Bevco, Consumerfed and Kerala Tourism Development Corporation outlets. Also, the number of tokens allowed per day have been increased from 400 to 600. In addition to this increase, the outlets under these three organizations can sell additional 200 tokens during the extra two hours. Government has asked Bevco to make necessary changes in the BevQ mobile application to facilitate the extra tokens that have been allowed. Now, BevQ application will be modified so as to do away with the existing provision that a person needs to wait for three days before booking a second liquor purchase. The government has also extended the functioning of toddy shops from 8am to 7pm. However, there is no change in the timings of bar hotel liquor outlets. Bevco’s 270 outlets and 31 of Consumerfed along with 600 bar hotels are selling liquor using BevQ application launched by Bevco. Since sales resumed in the last week of May after lockdown due to Covid-19, sales through Bevco and Consumerfed had dropped significantly compared to the pre-Covid days as there were several restrictions on liquor purchase, including the queue system introduced through BevQ. The daily sales that was in the range of Rs 35 to 40 crores had dropped to Rs 6-7 crore. With the increase in timings and the number of tokens, the government expects sales to improve, though it may not touch the earlier figures. The improved timings will boost sales as festival season like Onam usually attracts a large number of customers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-allows-liquor-vends-to-function-2-extra-hours/articleshow/77791039.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Patna||Jitan Ram Manjhi meets Bihar CM Nitish Kumar amid buzz of seat-sharing talks||PATNA: Amid a strong buzz about seat-sharing talks, HAM(S) president and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, who quit the opposition’s Grand Alliance a week ago, met JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar at his official residence on Thursday. “Manjhi met CM Nitish Kumar at his residence, and both leaders held talks on political matters apart from other issues,” HAM(S) spokesperson Danish Rizwan told TOI. However, Manjhi later denied holding any political discussions with the JD(U) president and claimed that his talks with Nitish were mainly related to development issues of his constituency. Responding to a media query at his residence, Manjhi said everything (related to his entry into the NDA) would be clear by August 30. “I will talk to the media on August 30,” he said. “Manjhi Ji had gone to meet the CM to discuss development issues related to his constituency, but when two big political leaders meet, they naturally talk about political issues. Undoubtedly, both leaders discussed political issues. Everything will be clear in the next two to three days. We will come out with a concrete decision by August 30,” Rizwan said. Rizwan also said the doors of NDA were not closed for HAM(S). “We are thinking over all aspects before taking a final decision,” he said. Sources in the HAM(S) said Manjhi met JD(U) chief to have a seat-to-seat discussion on those assembly constituencies where HAM(S) wanted to put up its candidates. Sources said the HAM(S) mainly wants to contest Manjhi's sitting seat Imamganj, Barachatti, Sherghati, Tekari seats in Gaya district and his traditional Makhdumpur seat in Jehanabad. However, it is so far not clear whether Manjhi’s party would become a constituent of the NDA like the LJP, or it would merge with JD(U). Manjhi had left JD(U) in 2015 after being forced to step down as the CM to make way for the return of Nitish. He later formed the HAM(S) and contested 21 seats during 2015 assembly polls as an NDA constituent. But his party won only one seat (Imamganj). Soon after Nitish’s return in the NDA fold in July 2017, Manjhi walked out of it to join hands with the opposition’s Grand Alliance after bargaining a council seat for his son from the RJD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/manjhi-meets-nitish-amid-buzz-of-seat-sharing-talks/articleshow/77791055.cms||Madan Kumar
August 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Garbage plant is working at only 10% of capacity, says IIT report||CHANDIGARH: The city’s garbage plant is processing per day only 30 tonnes dry waste and 19 tonnes stored waste in the vicinity of the plant, thus operating at only 10% of the design capacity, states the report that IIT-Roorkee experts submitted to the municipal corporation. The 17-page report for remedial action to run the plant with its best capacity observed and recommended, “A large amount of unprocessed solid waste was found at the site, resulting in odour and leachate in the plant and there is no record of air emissions, compost quality, and calorific value of refuse derived fuel (RDF) produced. By strict enforcement of segregated waste collection rules, the capacity can further be increased to 20-40%. There is a need to keep the unprocessed waste in the shed. The drier the waste, the better would be the efficiency of downstream processing machines. All machines are already 12 years old, which is practically the life of such machines. Primary and secondary shredders are not in working condition.” The experts found that housekeeping and regular cleaning, as well as painting, were not up to the mark and stormwater management was poor. The team has suggested around a dozen remedial measures that cannot only increase the processing, but also make the machinery run better. The report elaborated, “Though the existing scheme for solid waste processing is technically correct, it is only applicable to the source-segregated dry waste. The plant should receive source-separated dry waste. It should have the least proportion of inert and organic impurities. By strict enforcement of segregated waste collection rules and obtaining further source-segregated dry waste, the capacity can further be increased to 20-40%, which is 60-72 tonnes per day (t/d). Unprocessed waste still contains a substantial proportion of organic waste (26%) with high moisture content (70-80%) that is not easy to remove before processing. It results in clogging of the trommel screen. It is also recommended to keep the unprocessed waste in the shed. The drier the waste, the better would be the efficiency of downstream processing machines.” About the poor state of primary and secondary shredders, the experts said, “A shredder increases the surface area, thereby better trommel separation and drying efficiency. Shredding also reduces the particle size of glass to enable effective separation in the downstream operation. If not removed, it lowers the heat value and creates severe abrasion and maintenance problems.” Yadav: Plan will be chalked out Municipal commissioner KK Yadav said, “Since we have received the technical report of IIT-Roorkee, a detailed plan will be prepared to bring about required changes to run the plant in a better manner.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/garbage-plant-is-working-at-only-10-of-capacity-says-iit-report/articleshow/77792334.cms||Deepak Yadav
August 28, 2020||Trichy||ASI’s new Trichy circle to give tourism a fillip||Trichy: The creation of a new circle for Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) headquartered at Trichy is set to harness the domestic and international tourism potential of unexplored monuments in the central districts. The role of the new circle in maintaining the existing monuments and recognising new ones is expected to help evolve an ecosystem for tourism development in the region that boasts three of the four Unesco world heritage sites in Tamil Nadu. The new circle will ensure more fund and manpower to maintain and develop the monuments falling under Trichy, Tirumayam and Thanjavur sub-circles. Archaeology enthusiasts say the increased attention will pave the way for unexplored protected monuments gaining attention. Out of the 411 protected sites and monuments in Chennai circle, Mamallapuram sub-circle has the highest number followed by Trichy. Many of the monuments in Trichy sub-circle, despite being unique, have not excelled in attracting tourists. “The move to have a separate circle for ASI in Trichy will facilitate more funds to develop the least explored sites. Effective marketing will certainly attract tourists to the region which has plenty of Chola era temples,” said S A Mubashir, joint secretary, Trichy Tourism Federation (TTF). Chairman of Gangaikondacholapuram development council, R Komagan, pitched for formation of local committees for each monument as a first step. “History enthusiasts and locals in the committee will promote ownership attitude to safeguard the monuments. The local committee is a natural choice to save and get spotlight on the least explored monuments,” he added. With Trichy having an international airport well-connected with southeast Asian countries that have a significant Tamil diaspora, developing and maintaining ASI monuments coupled with smart marketing will enhance the arrival of international tourists. The enthusiasts also added that tourism will improve the socioeconomic factors as many people will bank on tourists for a living in rural ASI sites. Reacting to the local committee demand, ASI sources said that NGOs and history enthusiasts will be involved in monitoring and maintaining the monuments. “ASI will not function alone, we work with stakeholders including district collectors to protect and promote the ASI sites. Tourism will certainly thrive with the formation of ASI Trichy circle,” Dr G Maheshwari, regional director (south), ASI told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/asis-new-trichy-circle-to-give-tourism-a-fillip/articleshow/77792389.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 28, 2020||Trichy||Abandoned baby’s picture released||Trichy: The Trichy district administration on Thursday released the picture of an abandoned female baby to enable the parents to claim her. The baby was abandoned at the bus shelter in Kadiyakurichi in Jeeyarpuram on the ourtskirts of the city around 6am on June 10. Locals rescued the infant and handed her over to the Jeeyapuram police. Later, the baby was brought to the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) by Sevai Child line officials. She was named Mahalakshmi and kept under the cradle baby system due to administrative reasons. On August 8, the baby was produced before the child welfare committee (CWC), which.issued temporary custody order to give care and protection to the baby at SOCSEAD- Martin Children home. District child protection unit (DCPU) said the baby will be kept in the home until she is given free for adoption certificate for legal adoption. Meanwhile, DCPU released the picture of the baby stating that anyone who knows the details about the parents or relatives can report to CWC, Trichy at 0431-2413819, 9629929412 or district child protection unit (DCPU), Trichy at 0431-2413055, 9047283819 within 21 days of the announcement. DCPU can be communicated through email: dcpstrichy1@gmail.com or can be approached at DCPU, Kalaiarangam upstairs, Cantonment. In case of no claim from anyone, the legally free for adoption certificate will be given. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/abandoned-babys-picture-released/articleshow/77792332.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Vadodara||Ban on Ganesha pandals adds to crisis in small biz||Vadodara: If they were thinking to even out their losses from the lockdown during Ganesha festival, all calculations of many big and small businessmen crashed after the administration banned worship in public pandals. The ban on celebrations in public has dealt a major blow to businesses like DJ musicians, event managers, sweet shop owners, and other small businessmen who are already reeling under huge losses. “Every year, our business used to take off from Ganesha festival. But the ban this year on installing big pandals has affected us directly as we are totally out of work with not a single pandal being installed in and around the city,” said Lalabhai Shyamwala. His business was to rent tents, chairs and other items apart from installing big pandals. Shyamwala said that they were already facing losses due to ban on other big gatherings too like weddings even after the lockdown was lifted. “I had applied for a housing loan as I was expecting to earn during this Ganesha festival. But, contrary to my calculations, there was no taker for my DJ music system this year and I haven’t earned a single penny this time. I have no option but to cancel buying a house,” said Lalsinh Chauhan, a DJ music artiste. Echoing similar sentiments, Dwarkesh Mehta of Yamuna Agarbatti, said, “Ganesha festival is our peak business time as thousands of devotees visit the pandals and offer incense sticks. Pandal organizers used to buy stock in bulk, but this time business is down by over 50 per cent.” Even sweet-shop owners in the old city are bitter about the cancellation of community celebration which is compounding their losses. Meanwhile, cops have strictly warned people of legal action if anyone is seen flouting the government order imposing ban on public celebrations of Ganesha festivals .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ban-on-ganesha-pandals-adds-to-crisis-in-small-biz/articleshow/77790962.cms||Tushar Tere
August 28, 2020||Mumbai||With 90% club up 20% this year, FYJC cut-offs to open high||MUMBAI: With students across boards recording better Class X results, more students with scores over 90% and 95% are in the race for FYJC seats this year, reports Vinamrata Borwankar. According to the provisional general merit list, which ranks all applicants based on their scores, 19,437 applicants have scored above 90% against 16,188 last year. Principals expect cut-offs in the first merit list to be higher than 2019. While the seats exceed demand —over 2.4 lakh have enrolled for 3.2 lakh seats in 843 junior colleges in MMR—the larger pool of students with 90% and above scores are likely to drive up cut-offs in sought-after colleges. In the top 100 ranks, 52 were from ICSE, 35 from Maharashtra board and 13 from CBSE. “Arts and commerce cut-offs are likely to rise this time around but we don’t except much of a difference in the cut-offs for the science stream,” said Vidyadhar Joshi, vice-principal, V G Vaze College, Mulund. Similarly, Rajpal Hande, principal of Mithibai College, Vile Parle, said they expect the first merit list to close at a higher percentage compared with the previous year as was also reflected during their minority quota admissions when the arts and commerce stream cut-offs were 81.6% and 89.4%, respectively, a jump of nearly 4%. Jai Hind College principal, Ashok Wadia said, “With students scoring better this year, not only will the cut-offs be high in the first list, the dip in the subsequent lists will be slow as well. For instance, in our minority quota admissions, there were way too many students with the same high scores. When this happens, the next list is only marginally lower than the first.” Among the total applicants, 2.2 lakh students are from the Maharashtra state board. In spite of the advantage of numbers, ICSE students have crowded the top. Among the first 100 ranks in the provisional merit list, 52 were from ICSE schools, 35 from state board schools and 13 from CBSE-affiliated schools. “Each year we have a lot of non-state board students in the first merit list but that is changing slowly as the HSC and SSC patterns change. We expect cut-offs to be higher but students must rest assured there is definitely a seat for them. They must just ensure they select the right preferences,” said Hemlata Bagla, principal, K C College, Churchgate. Of the total applicants with a score of 90% or more, 12,879 are from the state board. ICSE has the second largest pool at 4,624 of its 11,110 applicants having scored over 90%. As many as 1,749 of the 7,708 CBSE students who applied have a score of above 90%. As form filling for round one concluded last week, the education department released the provisional merit list and students had a chance to get corrections made, if any. The department will release a final general merit list before the first cut-offs are announced on August 30. Due to the pandemic, colleges are also preparing for a complete online process once students are assigned a seat. For instance, at V G Vaze College, 30 students would be assigned to one teacher who would be their point of contact from the start to end of admissions. At KC, dedicated email ids have been set up for students to reach out to faculty for any admission queries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/with-90-club-up-20-this-yr-fyjc-cut-offs-to-open-high/articleshow/77794444.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
August 28, 2020||Nagpur||Leopard kills 5-year-old on CSTPS premises||Chandrapur: In the first human kill by a predator on Chandrapur Super Thermal Power Station (CSTPS) premises, a leopard mauled to death a five-year-old girl in residential area while her mother watched in horror on Wednesday evening. The incident took place on a road in the colony near Paryawaran Chowk at around 6.30pm. Victim Lavanya Dhandekar, daughter of a CISF jawan deployed at CSTPS, was playing by the roadside when the leopard jumped out of shrubby patch and whisked her away. Lavanya’s mother watching over her was shocked and started screaming in panic. Neighbours rushed behind the beast for rescuing the girl. The leopard dragged the girl for some distance and then fled leaving her behind. People rushed the badly injured girl to a local hospital, where she was declared brought dead. Foresters led by RFO Rahul Karekar rushed to the spot to assess the situation. Forest department has alerted people and have increased patrolling in the area. Officials claimed they have installed camera traps for identification of the leopard and also placed two cages on strategic locations to trap the leopard. CSTPS has been in the limelight for the last few years because of presence of multiple tigers. The vast premises having thick vegetation all around had always provided good shelter to wild animals. Good number of boars and dogs along with stray cattle living on the vegetative cover in the plant have proved good prey base for the predators. While over five tigers had made CSTPS area their home, there have also been frequent sightings of leopards, bears and other wild animals. Many leopards prowling CSTPS have been caged in the past. This is 21st human kill in the district in predator attacks this year. While 19 people have died in tiger attacks, two lives have been claimed by leopards. Last year, predators had killed 23 people in Chandrapur district. Meanwhile, former forest minister Sudhir Mungantiwar and local MLA Kishor Jorgewar called upon the forest department to capture the leopard that has terrorized the residents in CSTPS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/leopard-kills-5-year-old-on-cstps-premises/articleshow/77792331.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 28, 2020||Delhi||DMRC stops work on Phase-IV stretch after forest department notices||NEW DELHI: Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Thursday said it had stopped all works on the Janakpuri West to Peeragarhi stretch under Phase-IV, stating it would resume operations only once all mandatory approvals were received by them. Earlier, Delhi Metro had received several notices from the department of forest and wildlife directing them to stop work immediately as they had no permission to carry out construction at deemed forest areas. “We have stopped work on the Janakpuri West-Peeragarhi stretch and will resume work after all mandatory approvals are met,” Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC, said on Thursday. The forest department said it had issued notices prior to the lockdown period as well, with DMRC refusing to stop construction work even after the warnings. The department said Delhi Metro did not have permission to carry out work on a 5.34km stretch on road number 26 between Vikaspuri and Peeragarhi Chowk, along with a separate 1,300 metre area near the Najafgarh drain. Both locations are marked as forest areas, meaning it is a violation of the Forest Conservation Act, 1980. Muan Guite, deputy conservator of forest (west), said the latest notice issued to DMRC was only two weeks ago. However, warnings to not carry out any work were being issued since February onwards. “We had told them not to carry out work as we were identifying these forest areas, but DMRC did not listen. A police complaint was also filed to make them stop, as work should only begin once we give them the green signal,” said Guite, stating the damage carried out will also be assessed. The forest department had also approached the Union environment ministry alleging damage to trees in these two forest patches. DMRC, however, said only preliminary work had been carried out so far and work was stopped after the forest department approached them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dmrc-stops-work-on-phase-iv-stretch-after-forest-dept-notices/articleshow/77792358.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Government sanctions seven new TP schemes||GANDHINAGAR: The state government on Thursday sanctioned seven new town planning (TP) schemes. These include three draft TP schemes, two preliminary TP schemes and two final TP schemes. With the sanctioning of seven TP schemes on Thursday, the total number of TP schemes sanctioned in 2020 has reached 50. The newly sanctioned schemes are AUDA’s draft TP scheme No. 430 Vishalpur and No. 436 (Vishalpur-Navapur-Sanathal), Bhavnagar’s draft TP scheme No. 16 (Aghewada), two preliminary TP schemes in Ahmedabad — No. 1 (Memnagar) and No. 47 (Motera-Koteshwar), and two final TP schemes – GUDA’s No. 11/A Adalaj and Rajkot’s TP No. 9. With the sanctioning of two TP schemes in Ahmedabad-AUDA area, 535 hectares of land of Vishalpur-Sanathal-Navapur area will come under planning. With these two TP schemes, authorities will get 134 public purpose plots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-sanctions-seven-new-tp-schemes/articleshow/77792328.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||10,621 fresh cases in Andhra Pradesh; two districts record over 1,000 new infections||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh on Thursday reported 10,621 Covid-19 cases, increasing the cumulative tally to 3,93,090, even as 92 more persons succumbed to the pandemic. The state has 94,209 active cases, while the Covid-19 toll increased to 3633 with the fresh deaths. The state’s rate of new positive cases stood at 11 percent, above the national average of over 8 per cent. According to a media bulletin released by the State Command Control Room, two districts recorded over 1,000 new cases even as 61,300 samples were tested on Thursday. East Godavari district reported the highest 1,089 cases, followed by 1,020 cases in Prakasam district. Nellore district reported 934 cases while Chittoor district registered 928 cases and Guntur reported 926 cases. Krishna district reported only 316 new infections, which took its tally to 14,966, the lowest in the state. It also has the lowest number of active cases of 2,101. With more than 8,528 patients recovering on Thursday the overall recoveries improved to 2,95,248, leaving 94,209 active cases. The recovery rate in Andhra Pradesh stood at 75 percent. Out of the 92 casualties on Thursday, Kurnool district accounted for 13 deaths while Nellore district reported 11 deaths and East Godavari district registered 10 deaths. Chittoor district registered nine deaths, seven deaths each were reported from Kadapa and West Godavari districts. Six deaths each were reported from Anantapur, Prakasam and Visakhapatnam districts. Guntur district witnessed five deaths and four deaths each were reported from Krishna, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts. With the six deaths, Anantapur district crossed the 300-mark of Covid-19 deaths on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/10621-fresh-cases-2-districts-record-over-1000-new-infections/articleshow/77791021.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case: Customs questions mediaperson||KOCHI: Commissionerate of Customs (Preventive) recorded the statement of a senior mediaperson with a vernacular TV channel on Thursday in connection with the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case. Anil Nambiar, a senior editor with Janam TV, appeared before the sleuths at the Kochi office of customs at around 10:30am on Thursday. He was let off at around 4pm, sources said. According to sources, a statement by accused Swapna Suresh that the mediaperson called her regarding a press statement that needs to be released following the seizure led the officials to record the statement of the journalist. It is learnt that Swapna told customs that Nambiar had asked her to get a statement issued, saying that the cargo from which gold was seized was not a diplomatic cargo but a personal baggage. She also told customs that Nambiar told her that he called her seeing the news in this regard. Sources said that Swapna gave statements about her knowing the journalist ever since they came in contact while processing an issue regarding his travel to the UAE about two years ago. This made the investigators seek clarifications from the mediaperson, sources said. The journalist is likely to be summoned again for questioning, sources said. Meanwhile sources said that Arun Balanchandran, a former IT fellow with the CMO, has been summoned by customs. He is likely to appear before customs on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/customs-questions-mediaperson/articleshow/77791141.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Delhi||Forest dept writes to NGT over Delhi Jal Board’s failure to plant trees||NEW DELHI: The state government’s forest and wildlife department has informed the National Green Tribunal about a fine of Rs 3.8 lakh imposed on Delhi Jal Board for illegal felling and pruning of trees at its premises in Chanakyapuri. In addition to the fine, DJB was also asked to plant 500 native trees as compensation. The task, however, remains incomplete, the department has claimed. Based on a complaint, the forest department said the deputy conservator of forest (south) was asked to inspect the site at Bungalow 1, Hasanpur Tower (near Nehru Park) in Chanakyapuri. Upon carrying a site check, the staff of the tree offence cell reported the illegal felling of three trees and pruning of 10 other trees had been done at the property of DJB. “The matter was processed as per the provisions of Delhi Preservation of Trees Act, 1994. Subsequently, a speaking order was issued, compounding the offence conditional to the payment of Rs 3.8 lakh (Rs 60,000 for each tree illegally felled and Rs 20,000 for each tree illegally pruned) and plantation of 500 trees of native species such as Amaltas, Neem, Bargat, Peepal by Delhi Jal Board,” the department’s report stated. The forest department stated that while the fine amount had been deposited, DJB had not complied in planting the trees, which was supposed to be carried out by June 30, 2020. The Jal Board, on the other hand, claimed to have carried out plantation of 500 native tree species at the DJB staff quarter premises at the STP at Kondli. The DCF (south), however, maintained that the area had already been earmarked for carrying out compensatory plantation. “Carrying out the plantation of 500 native trees by DJB is one of the conditions of the compounding offence, which has not been carried out till August 11, 2020,” the department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/forest-dept-writes-to-ngt-over-djbs-failure-to-plant-trees/articleshow/77792418.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 28, 2020||Mumbai||Debris samples from building collapse site in Mahad to be sent for forensic test||NAVI MUMBAI: The Police and Mahad Municipal Council staffers have jointly collected samples from the debris, which will be sent to the forensic lab for testing to check its composition and quality. The Mahad municipal council has handed over documents of the Tarique Garden building to the Raigad police. The main accused builder is yet to be arrested. Meanwhile, the last batch of the NDRF team at the Mahad collapse site, who were set to leave, were asked to stay back at the last moment, due to the intervention of public representatives and district administration. Mahad municipal council engineer Suhas Kamble said, “A panchnama was done at the building site in the presence of our staff and the deputy SP-Mangaon, who is investigating the case. Samples of the collapsed building were collected by the police and will be sent to a forensic lab to find out the composition of concrete, quality of materials used, etc. The police team was handed over the Tarique Garden building papers.” According to police sources, the main accused, Farooq Kazi, and his family have left their Taloja residence to evade arrest. Raigad police PRO Suresh Yamgar said, “Investigation is on and information will be shared if there is any progress.” Public representatives and district officials wanted NDRF permanently stationed in Mahad due to repeated disasters. A temporary base for the NDRF is now being worked out by the Raigad district administration. Raigad district information officer Manoj Sanap said, “The collector had asked the NDRF team to station at a temporary base. Sub-divisional officer Vitthal Inamdar will submit a report for a permanent NDRF station in Mahad owing to repeated disasters.” NDRF Second-in-Commandant Sachidanand Gawade said, “The last team of NDRF will stay till the end of this month at Mahad in view of the monsoon.” Citing landslides in the ghat, flooding in Mahad town due to the swelling Savitri river and past incidents like the bus tragedy in Ambenali ghat, Savitri river bridge collapse and now the building collapse, former MLA Manik Jagtap had on Wednesday written to the CM demanding a permanent NDRF station in Mahad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/debris-samples-from-building-collapse-site-in-mahad-to-be-sent-for-forensic-test/articleshow/77793938.cms||Umesh K Parida
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana saw least decline in Q1 GST revenue among south states||HYDERABAD: While government revenues dwindled due to the pandemic, Telangana managed to secure better GST collection than most states in the first quarter of the current financial year. Except Karnataka, other southern states such as Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Tamil Nadu saw a steep decline in GST revenue in this period. Among southern states, Telangana saw a decline of 35% in GST revenue compared to the same period last year while AP and Kerala saw a decline of 46%; Tamil Nadu, a decline of 45%; and Karnataka, a decline of 37% as per data released by the Union finance ministry. Among industrialised states, Gujarat saw the sharpest drop in GST revenue, by 48%. “Our GST revenue did not fall much because of robust agricultural activity and government procurement of crops at minimum support price (MSP). Infrastructure projects also kept running,” state planning board vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar told TOI. “One should look at economic performance in August to get a better understanding of the new normal for GST revenues,” Kumar said adding that Telangana is not among states that rely hugely on GST compensation from Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-saw-least-decline-in-q1-gst-revenue-among-south-states/articleshow/77792421.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 28, 2020||Mumbai||Pandemic management finds its way into medical curriculum||MUMBAI: Right from donning and doffing personal protective equipment (PPE) to managing an outbreak – MBBS students will learn it all, early on. After the world saw five to six pandemics in recent years, the worst of all, Covid-19, has prompted the Medical Council of India (MCI) to include a module on pandemic management in the undergraduate medical curriculum. Another module aimed at creating awareness and preparing graduates in the psychosocial care of patients and the community at large during a pandemic, will soon be added to the curriculum. The pandemic management module is designed to equip MBBS graduates to treat and prevent emerging diseases and to help them acquire competencies in handling the illness, and the social and legal issues arising out of such outbreaks, said the foreword of the module. It will be taught at various levels during the five-year course. So far, epidemics only had minor references in the MBBS curriculum till now - mostly under the community medicine subject. Dr Avinash Supe, former dean of KEM Hospital and GS Medical College, and also the chairman of the expert group of Medical Council of India’s academic cell, which helped in framing the module, said, “We have seen a few pandemics in recent years and Covid-19 has made it important – globally and locally – to study pandemic management in detail. The curriculum though had references of pandemics, it wasn’t dealt with explicitly. In this module, we have looked at various aspects including microbiological studies, to clinical and psychosocial aspects of pandemic management. In fact, a detailed module on the psycho-social aspect will soon be added.” The expert group includes eight other doctors from other groups as well. The pandemic management module is designed to equip MBBS graduates with skills to treat and prevent such diseases and help them acquire competencies in handling the illness||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pandemic-mgmt-finds-its-way-into-med-curriculum/articleshow/77793932.cms||Yogita Rao
August 28, 2020||Kochi||P C Chacko decries ad-hocism in Congress||THRISSUR: Senior Congress leader P C Chacko, whose recent remarks on ‘letter writers’ in the party had created ripples at the national level, said on Thursday that too much ad-hocism was prevailing in the party currently, and it was time to end this. Chacko, who was here to attend a party programme on Thursday, said that Congress must have elected bodies from mandalam-block levels up to the working committee, as well as an elected president, “whoever that be”. “Even smaller parties are working well with elected bodies, and why should Congress shy away from this,” he asked. Though his earlier remarks had created an impression that he was against the ‘letter writers’, he was sore with the party leadership later as he was not invited for the last working committee meeting. His latest remarks are more in tune with those of the letter writers. “I agree with the spirit of the letter, but my objection was against leaking it out. I had told even Shashi Tharoor that the letter should not have been leaked out. He agreed and said that he was not aware how it got leaked.” “Why leak out the letter when the working committee was scheduled to meet soon. They could have raised the issue in the meeting. All those developments created an impression that there is confusion in the party leadership, and this creates advantages for BJP,” Chacko clarified. He said Congress should hold an annual AICC session where an acting president can be elected and a plenary session every three years to elect a full-fledged president. These are provisions in the party constitution, and they must be strictly enforced, Chakco said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/chacko-decries-ad-hocism-in-cong/articleshow/77791093.cms||T Ramavarman
August 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||SDPI decries visits by cops||AHMEDABAD: Leaders and workers of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) of the city allege that they are being hounded by cops under the pretext of inquiring about their party activities. Leaders allege that visits of cops to their offices and homes have increased after the alleged involvement of SDPI workers in the recent Bengaluru riots. “The name of SDPI is being dragged into the Bengaluru riots. Since that incident, there have been instances where IB personnel, special branch or LCB cops have visited homes of our office-bearers even at 1:30am to get basic details like our party work and number of party members. These details can be sought any time during the day as well,” said Ikramuddin Shaikh, state secretary of SDPI. He added that SDPI is registered with the election commission and all its activities are for public good. “It appears as if they are trying to intimidate SDPI workers,” the leader added. Gulbarg Society case survivor, Firozkhan Pathan, who also joined SDPI along with his supporters in March earlier this year, said that IB and local police have visited him thrice at the SDPI office at Lal Darwaja and at his home. “We have been working for all communities, and this surveillance is uncalled for,” he said. SDPI set up base in Gujarat in May 2018 and has an active membership of over 2,000 members, of which about 1,500 are in Ahmedabad. “Until now, our activities were just in Ahmedabad, but we are adding new members to our political party in Surat, Bharuch, Sabarkantha, Banaskantha, Patan and Mehsana districts as well,” said Shaikh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sdpi-decries-visits-by-cops/articleshow/77792401.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Bhopal||Silawat asks Jitu to maintain dignity in politics||Indore: A day after former higher education minister Jitu Patwari called Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia ‘blackmailer’, water resource minister Tulsiram Silawat on Thursday asked him to maintain dignity in politics. Patwari, who led a delegation of senior Congress leaders including MLAs to meet district collector Manish Singh in Residency Kothi and raised various issues including soyabean crop loss to farmers, had targeted Scindia and called him a ‘blackmailer’ while he had also levelled allegations of corruptions against chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. Water resource minister on Thursday asked Patwari to maintain dignity in politics. “Patwari is in a hurry. He should think before making any such comment,” Silawat said. He added that everybody in the country knows the Scindia family and contribution of late Madhavrao Scindia in strengthening the base of Congress. “Whatever Patwari says has no base. Congress has come to the ground and its leaders have no issue to speak upon,” water resource minister said. He asked Patwari to recall what comments he had made when Laxman Singhji (senior Congress MLA and Rajya Sabha MP Digvijay Singh’s brother). “Jyotiraditya Scindia has left Congress for development of Madhya Pradesh and for betterment of farmers, women and youths of the state,” Silawat said adding that some people are fond of speaking and being published in newspapers. In overexcitement, they make such comments. I condemn such statements. In politics, such comments should not be made. “Patwari is like a younger brother to me. I once again want to advise him to maintain dignity in the politics,” water resource minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/silawat-asks-jitu-to-maintain-dignity-in-politics/articleshow/77792410.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Trichy||‘Study centuries-old irrigation techniques in Pudukkottai’||Trichy: Considered as a treasure trove by archaeologists, Pudukottai district will reap the benefits of the formation of a new ASI circle in Trichy covering the central and southern region. With plenty of waterbodies, many of them being centuries old, archaeologists will be pitched to research and document the water management and irrigation marvels in the district.Pudukottai district accounts for around 90% of the 82 monuments and sites classified under Trichy ASI sub-circle. Considered as a district with rich and unique archaeological sites on a par with Kanchipuram, Pudukottai has several tanks that are several centuries old.“Waterbodies in Pudukottai district has inscriptions that tell us the history and techniques of the then irrigation system and the purpose of such designs devised centuries ago. Trichy ASI circle should devote more time and resources to document these waterbodies that supported agriculture in a rainfed district,” K Sridharan, deputy director (retired), state archaeology department, told TOI. Cholas, Pandyas and Mutharaiyar dynasties over the centuries have revered irrigation management in Pudukottai region. There are more than 5,000 waterbodies in the district of which Kavinaadu Kanmaai, established in the 9th century, is one of the oldest, archaeologists added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/study-centuries-old-irrigation-techniques-in-pudukkottai/articleshow/77792405.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Trichy||Musician performs FB live to help struggling fellow artistes||Trichy: As the entertainment industry was hit by Covid-19 outbreak derailing the livelihood of artistes in many orchestra troupes, a Trichy-based musician started performing live on Facebook to raise fund for his fellow singers and musicians. The people who watch the online show are contributing to the welfare of the troupe members to tide over the crisis period.Since the beginning of the lockdown, weddings have become a low key affair involving minimum number of participants and people started avoiding orchestra troupes at such functions. As temples in the rural areas also started postponing or cancelling functions, the troupe members have to do odd jobs to eke out a living. Meanwhile, to support the needs of singers and musicians in Trichy, 62-year-old N Sundaresan of ‘Isaiyal Inaivom Gurupriya’ orchestra is virtually conducting music shows during the lockdown. Broadcasting the performances once in a week on Facebook and other social media platforms, Sundaresan has been raising fund for the unorganised artistes.He displays bank account details and Google pay credentials in the live show, and good Samaritans donate what they can towards the struggling music artists. “As we have displayed our mobile numbers, people are sponsoring grocery kits for singers and musicians. Close to 800 people have watched our online performances so far,” N Sundaresan said. He organises the online shows from him home at Kallukuzhi here.The show, being held for the past four weeks, has helped around 50 musicians get some income and essential commodities. They also share pictures of the struggling artistes receiving welfare kits with the donors. “As I felt unpleasant to receive the commodities for free, I sang a few songs in the live performance,” K Manikandan, a 36-year-old singer, said. Some of the prominent people in the city have also volunteered to help on seeing the live performances. Sundaresan, the man behind the live music shows, said that the Facebook live for two hours on every Saturdays will continue in the coming weeks to help the struggling orchestra troupes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/musician-performs-fb-live-to-help-struggling-fellow-artistes/articleshow/77792424.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 28, 2020||Kochi||HC tells govt to consider pineapple farmers’ plea||Kochi: In a petition filed by All Kerala Pineapple Farmers Association and its president James George, the high court ordered the government to consider the representation made by the association in the next two weeks. The other respondents in the petition included the President, Reserve Bank and various banks. The representation had sought a comprehensive relief package for Covid-battered pineapple farming sector, to write off the loans of creditors who have been repaying loans regularly till 2018, grant interest-free loans for future farming till things improve, announce a minimum support price of Rs 25 for pineapple and immediately revive manufacturing units to produce various value-added products using the fruit. Meanwhile, the association had staged a dharna in association with Pineapple Traders Association and Infam among others in front of the Krishi Bhavan in Vazhakulam on Tuesday. A pineapple farmer had committed suicide last week in Vazhakulam because of the mounting debts due to Covid-19. Speaking on the crisis James said Vazhakulam region, known for its GI-tagged tropical fruit, will see more such drastic actions unless both central and state governments intervened with urgent remedial measures to help save the famed pineapple farming region of India. Currently, the exposure of loans in the region amounts up to Rs 450 crore and not a single farmer could service his credit in near future. We urge both the governments to initiate quick action (including governments to initiate action to write off loans of creditors with good track record), restructure remaining loans, streamline corporate CSR funds to support the sector etc, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-tells-govt-to-consider-pineapple-farmers-plea/articleshow/77791115.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Biggest one-day rise since July 10 at 1,840 cases||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded its third successive single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Thursday with 1,840 people testing positive for the disease in the past 24 hours. This is the highest single-day spike in August. Before this, 2,089 new cases were recorded in a single day 48 days ago on July 10. Delhi’s tally has increased to over 1.67 lakh, while the death toll is 4,369. There were 22 fatalities in the past 24 hours. The positivity rate is currently 8.73%, according to the latest update shared by Delhi government. On Wednesday, it stood at 8.5%. On Monday and Tuesday, it was recorded at 8.9% and 7.7%, respectively. In July, the positivity rate had reduced to less than 6%, signalling that the disease spread was under control. Experts said the rise in positivity rate was a matter of serious concern and could signal the return of the threat of the pandemic. But what had led to this situation? Dr SK Sarin, director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, who is also a part of the task force formed to manage the Covid situation in the state, said lower rates of RT-PCR testing could be one of the reasons. “Our dependency on rapid antigen tests has to be reduced. It has low sensitivity, which means it throws up a high rate of false negative results,” he added. Sarin added that at least people with comorbidities and those living in high risk areas, such as containment zones, should be tested using RT-PCR. “Increased mobility and lack of social discipline has also fuelled the crisis,” he said. A few experts also pointed at the possibility of mutation of the virus, leading to resurgence in new cases. However, large studies need to be carried out to confirm it. Indian Council of Medical Research director general Dr Balram Bhargava advised people to maintain all precautions, like wearing masks, washing hands and ensuring social distancing. “People aren’t following social distancing norms and some don’t even wear masks. The resurgence is a direct result of that. We are seeing increased footfall in hospitals too,” said Dr Rommel Tickoo, associate director, internal medicine, at Max Healthcare. The number of active cases, which had reduced to less than 10,000 at the end of July, has touched 13,208. The occupancy of Covid beds, ICU beds with ventilator support and ICU beds without ventilator support was 27%, 37% and 45%, respectively. Top private hospitals like Apollo, Max Smart, Max Patparganj, Fortis Vasant Kunj and Venkateshwar didn’t have a single ICU bed with a ventilator on Thursday at 10pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/biggest-one-day-rise-since-july-10-at-1840-cases/articleshow/77792456.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
August 28, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai: Homeless victims of building collapse allege govt apathy||NAVI MUMBAI: Four days after the Tarique Garden building collapse in Mahad the homeless flat owners have declined to take shelter in the temporary shelter at Ambedkar Smarak on Wednesday evening. Residents have alleged that the government has not given them any assistance and there is no relief and rehabilitation arrangements. Akhtar Pathan, who was residing in the building, alleged, “The flat owners and tenants are now homeless. However, four days after the incident, no financial assistance has come from the government. Survivors of the building collapse are taking shelter at homes of their relatives and those known to them. The authorities have ignored us.” Social activist Bashir Chichkar said, “The administration has made no arrangements for their stay. We demand immediate release of financial assistance.” Mahad municipal council engineer Suhas Kamble said, “Arrangements have been made for 50 persons with food at the Ambedkar Smarak, but no victim has turned up. We haven’t received any response from the victims when we reached out to them on Wednesday. Their jamat is deciding on the issue.” Pathan added, “We are meeting the revenue authorities with our demands.” Mahad sub-divisional officer Vitthal Inamdar said, “Demand for compensation has been sent to the government for approval. A decision is awaited.” Mahad tahsildar Suresh Kashid said, “A committee of 10 members from building have been formed to vet the list of victims. They will get back to us on Friday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/homeless-victims-of-bldg-collapse-allege-govt-apathy/articleshow/77793946.cms||Umesh K Parida
August 28, 2020||Jaipur||MGNREGA labour budget hiked to 37 crore person days||Jaipur: The Centre has approved revision of the state’s labour budget for MGNREGA from 30 crore persondays to 37 crore persondays for the year 2020-21. With this, the total budget for the scheme will go up to around Rs 10,000 crore from the approved amount of Rs 8,100 crore for the financial year 2020-21. “The persondays generated up to August is 26.23 crore (which is 87.4 per cent of the total labour budget approved earlier i.e. 30 crore persondays). During our meeting with the Centre, we had proposed the labour budget should be revised up to 38.24 crore persondays (as per the calculation done by the state’s MGNREGA department),” said MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan. “Even if the total labour budget stood at 37 crore persondays, we can still exceed by 10 per cent on PD generation over and above the revised budget. Thus, we will be receiving an additional budget of Rs 2,000 crore. Of the total, 10 per cent (Rs 200 crore) will be given by the state government,” he added. The reasons cited by the state government for revision of labour budget during a PowerPoint presentation to the Centre were - the demand for work under MGNREGA is substantially high because of the livelihood crisis in the rural areas caused by the COVID-19 lockdown and pressure from the migrant labourers. Most of the areas fall under rain-fed agriculture and because of delayed rainfall, demand for work was higher; increased awareness among workers about Form-6 and receipts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mgnrega-labour-budget-hiked-to-37-crore-persondays/articleshow/77793910.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Trichy||Baby found abandoned in bag near temple||Pudukottai: A four-day-old infant was found in a big shopper bag near Thirumayam in Pudukottai around 6 pm on Wednesday. Police at Namanasamudram said they arrived at the spot on being informed by passersby that a bag carrying the baby was hanging from the branch of a tree near Ilangudi Ayyanar temple. It was Mariappan, a shepherd, who first saw the big shopper and the infant and informed devotees who arrived at the temple. Police rescued the baby and informed Child Line authorities who arrived there and took possession of it. The baby was admitted to the government medical college hospital in Pudukottai. Police have registered a case and commenced investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/baby-found-abandoned-in-bag-near-temple/articleshow/77792440.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: MVA aims to cut governor’s power to choose vice-chancellors||MUMBAI: The Maha Vikas Aghadi government in the state will take a relook at the Maharashtra Public Universities Act, energy minister Nitin Raut said on Thursday, pointing out that it was “high time” the amendment was made to provide for curbing arbitrary powers of the governor to appoint vice-chancellors. At the state cabinet meeting on Wednesday, Raut had raised the issue, and he was backed by dairy development minister Sunil Kedar. A senior bureaucrat confirmed to TOI that following the deliberations in the cabinet meeting, the department of higher and technical education has initiated the process for amending the Act. Raut told TOI on Thursday, “In my opinion, arbitrary powers of the governor to appoint vice-chancellors need to be curbed as priority. In the recent past, Raj Bhavan had appointed RSS sympathizers as VCs. Such things will have an adverse impact on the education system. We have suggested to the CM that the law be amended to provide for consultation with government before appointment of VCs.” Raut said the state government will in particular take a look at Sections 8 (control of state government on universities), 9 (chancellor and his powers), 11 (appointment of vice-chancellors) and 13 (appointment of pro-vice-chancellors). Raut said that as per the rules at present, a search committee is set up for shortlisting nominees and a panel of five candidates then placed before the Governor, who selects one of them. In the process, the state has no role, he said. “We feel that before appointing a VC, the governor must consult the state government and the chief minister. VCs must be apolitical and they should not join hands with political parties and organizations,” Raut said. Raut alleged that even most nominees on statutory committees of the universities were, especially during Devendra Fadnavis’s tenure as CM, directly or indirectly associated with the RSS. The Bengal government had made two crucial changes in the West Bengal Colleges and Universities (Administration and Regulation) Act, 2017, and introduced the West Bengal State Universities (Terms and Conditions of Service of the Vice-Chancellor and the Manner and Procedure of Official Communication) Rules, 2019, last year. According to these changes, the governor, as chancellor of state universities, has no power to pick the vice-chancellor from the panel provided by the state education department. The education department provides candidates’ names in order of preference and the governor has no authority to even alter that order. The governor can merely ask for a clarification but will have to go with the state’s choice. Earlier, the chancellor could choose the vice-chancellor in consultation with the state government. The chancellor does not have any power to give extensions to vice-chancellors without the state government’s consent. The chancellor also cannot have any direct communication with vice-chancellors. The chancellor’s suggestions or advice to VCs have to be routed through the state government.  -With inputs from Kolkata||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mva-aims-to-cut-guvs-power-to-choose-vcs/articleshow/77794503.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
August 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Development Authority to start online public meetings for 2041 masterplan||NEW DELHI: Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is at present preparing the Master Plan for Delhi 2041, in partnership with National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA). To ensure the plan is proactive, for the first time DDA will hold online meetings with various stakeholders. “The public engagement strategy is being pursued rigorously. These meetings are scheduled to be conducted in September and October with various stakeholders and citizen groups such as RWAs, markets and traders associations, industry associations, informal sector, women, children and youth, professional bodies, etc.,” a DDA spokesperson said. To begin the process, an online meeting has been planned on September 2, with the RWAs of unauthorised colonies of Delhi, to understand the issues and discuss possible solutions for improving the quality of life of residents in these areas, he said. The RWAs and citizens groups can register themselves for the meeting by sending an email to mpd2041@gmail.com, after which a link to the meeting with the time slot and reference material will be mailed to them. To improve public participation, DDA has also launched an interactive microsite as the ‘Public Engagement Portal for MPD-2041’. “The portal will share information on the preparation of MPD 2041 and will provide citizens the opportunity to share their feedback and opinions through visioning and perception surveys,” he said. “Announcements of upcoming public consultation meetings and events will also be available on dda.org.in at feedback/suggestions for mpd2041 icon where all the press notes and public notices will be available,” he said. “The vice-chairman of DDA is hoping for active participation by Delhiites for shaping a shared vision for Delhi,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dda-to-start-online-public-meetings-for-2041-masterplan/articleshow/77792464.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Diabetes the most prevalent comorbidity among T patients||Hyderabad: Diabetes has been found to be the top co-morbidity among patients and victims of Covid-19 in Telangana. With the disease emerging as a leading co-morbid factor in Covid-19 deaths across the country, the Centre has now issued guidelines to screen patients for hyperglycaemia (high blood sugar) at time of admission. “Diabetes is followed by hypertension and heart disease when it comes to co-morbidities. This is the case in both Covid-19 patients who are being admitted in hospitals as well as Covid-19 deaths,” said Chest Hospital superintendent Dr Mahboob Khan. The hospital handles severe Covid-19 cases. “Among patients with severe symptoms, 50 to 60% have some co-morbidity while in non-admitted patients, co-morbidities are estimated to be between 20 and 30%,” Dr Khan said. Other co-morbidities recorded in Covid-19 patients in the state are cancer, chronic kidney disease, lung infection, gastric ulcer, HIV, tuberculosis, hypothyroidism, morbid obesity with hypertension and neurological disorders. Centre too has flagged TB as a top risk factor for SARS-CoV-2 infection and has asked Covid-19 hospitals to screen all diagnosed TB patients for Covid-19. The state has so far seen five cases of TB patients contracting the virus and two cases of HIV patients being infected. “Among patients with co-morbidities, the death rate is as high as 75% — especially among patients having a combination of two co-morbidities...We are also seeing cases with two co-morbidities, bilateral pneumonia and Covid-19. These are the most complicated cases and makes it difficult to survive,” said a senior health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/diabetes-the-most-prevalent-comorbidity-among-t-patients/articleshow/77792451.cms||Amrita Didyala
August 28, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Man hacked to death over personal enmity||THANJAVUR: A 31-year-old electrician was hacked to death by two people near Kumbakonam in Thanjavur on Wednesday. Police have intensified their search operation to nab the culprits. According to police, the deceased has been identified as M Kalyanasundaram, a native of Thiruvidaimaruthur in Thanjavur district. The incident took place when he was sitting on the front yard of his house on Wednesday night. Two bike-borne people attacked Kalyanasundaram with sharp weapons and fled from the scene. Kalyanasundaram succumbed to his injuries on the spot. On information Thiruvidaimaruthur police headed by deputy superintendent of police Asokan and inspector Kavitha rushed to the spot and conducted an inquiries. Preliminary inquiries revealed that Naveen, 32, a native of the same area, had one-sided feelings for a girl, who was the relative of the victim. He had gone over to the girl’s house and expressed his desire to marry her a few days ago. During the incident, Kalyanasundaram refused Naveen’s proposal, which made Naveen angry. In a fit of rage, Naveen arrived at his place with his friend Mahendran and hacked him, police sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-hacked-to-death-over-personal-enmity/articleshow/77792454.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||PIL seeks nod for Ganesh Visarjan, Navratri garbas||AHMEDABAD: A PIL filed in the Gujarat high court on Thursday sought permission for Ganesh visarjan (immersion) and garbas during the Navratri festival, against the prohibition orders passed by the state government on public celebration of religious festivals due to the Covid-19 situation. The PIL was filed by a Vadodara resident, Arvind Sindha, through advocate Darshan Gandhi. The petitioner has sought modification to the government’s order issued on August 8 banning all religious festivities in public. The petitioner has contended in his PIL that if the Election Commission of India (ECI), in its broad guidelines to hold elections, can permit campaigning for elections with Covid guidelines being followed, citizens can be permitted to follow their religious rituals with observance of all Covid guidelines. He has questioned the government decision to restrain religious festivities particularly when the government has permitted all economic activities. The PIL dubs the prohibition on Ganesh visarjan and garbas during Navratri a violation of constitutional rights including those under Articles 25 and 26, granting citizen freedom to profess religion. The petitioner sought modification of the government’s prohibitory order to the extent that people may be permitted to immerse Ganesha idols in lakes and rivers in small groups of three to five. Similarly, when the government permits attendance of 50 persons at weddings, it may grant permission to these many people to play garba during Navratri. The religious festivities can be regulated by Covid guidelines, the petitioner has submitted. Meanwhile, a PIL has demanded permission to perform religious rituals in private places like Imamwadas during Muharram, which is later this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pil-seeks-nod-for-ganesh-visarjan-navratri-garbas/articleshow/77792452.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||PI withdraws quashing plea||AHMEDABAD: Police inspector D B Gohil, who is absconding, withdrew his quashing petition from the Gujarat high court on Thursday in connection with the FIR lodged against him and his former five subordinates at Fatehgunj police station for the custodial death of Telangana resident Shaikh Babu Nishar in December 2019. Gohil had approached the high court after registration of the FIR by Vadodara police upon the HC questioning the inquiries conducted earlier during the hearing of a habeas corpus petition filed by Nishar’s son, Salim. Justice A C Joshi earlier recused himself from hearing Gohil's plea. On Thursday, Justice A S Supehia was not inclined to entertain the plea at this stage, resulting in its withdrawal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pi-withdraws-quashing-plea/articleshow/77792443.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Jaipur||Football club seeks pact with JDA before giving ground for parking lot||Jaipur: The Jaipur Union Football Club (JUFC), one of the oldest football clubs in the country, has asked the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) to ink an agreement with it before taking over the ground at the Ramniwas Bagh for the construction of an underground parking lot. The club fears that the civic body may violate certain terms and conditions which the club had mentioned in a letter and submitted to the JDA. Despite several reminders, the office-bearers claimed that the JDA is not in a mood to adhere to the terms and condition laid by the club administration. They also threatened to approach the court if officials do not take their demands seriously. Secretary of the club Mahipal Swami said, the football club was developed in 1889 and has heritage value. The JDA should restore the ground to its original shape, once the parking is developed. “We are stressing to ink an agreement. However, officials are ignoring our demands. Earlier, the club had given 2X200 metre land for traffic diversion after the JDA assured it would be returned. However, JDA later refused. Therefore, we want a legal contract should be signed so that JDA do not back out again,” Swami said. He added, “We would also approach to the court if the JDA do not listen to our demands.” The club is also demanding that the JDA should not cut old trees and remove club’s irrigation tank. There are two irrigation tanks at the ground known as ‘Old Lilypool’ and it has pipelines of British era, which is a unique feature. The JDA will soon invite tenders for the Rs 94-crore underground project, which will accommodate nearly 1,530 cars. An official said, as per the preliminary design, majority of the constructions will be beneath the football ground at the park. The two-storeyed parking lot will be constructed in approximately 49,000 square metre area. A JDA official said, “Once construction is started, the JDA will complete the project in 30 months. The ground will be handed over to the club administration after restoring it to its original shape.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/football-club-seeks-pact-with-jda-before-giving-ground-for-parking-lot/articleshow/77793927.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||T reports 2,800 new infections||Hyderabad: Telangana on Thursday recorded 2,795 new Covid cases of Covid-19 and eight deaths, taking the total caseload to 1,14,000 in the state, even as new cases continue to emerge from the districts. While the total number of Covid-19 deaths now stands at 788, so far 86,095 patients have recovered from the virus infection, while 27,600 patients get treated at various hospitals. The recovery rate in the state is currently at 75 percent, nearing the country average of 76 percent. On Thursday, 60,386 tests were conducted in the state, leading to an increase in the tests per million population to 30,772. The case fatality rate in the state dropped further to nearly one percent on Thursday continuing a downward spiral. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-reports-2800-new-infections/articleshow/77792461.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Chennai||Quarantine relief for business visitors in Tamil Nadu for 72 hours; libraries to open||CHENNAI: In an effort to boost economic activity in the state, under restricted lockdown due to Covid-19 since March, Tamil Nadu government on Thursday exempted “business travellers” visiting the state for a short duration of three days (72 hours) from the need to undergo quarantine. Business travellers representing various industries including IT/ITeS, hospitality, entertainment and legal can avail the facility, a government order said. The state, through another order, also permitted libraries, except branch and village libraries, to function from September 1. State-owned Elcot had earlier approached the government seeking nod to permit representatives of Ascentium Business Solutions Pvt Limited that was engaged by Elcot for 12 months for facilitating investments in IT/ITeS and electronic hardware manufacturing. As these representatives wanted to visit Tamil Nadu from Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh and have brief stays in the state, Elcot had requested the government to relax the e-pass norms for them. The state information technology department, while recommending the proposal, felt business travellers from other industries, too, need to travel to the state. Hence, it requested a general approval for all categories of business travellers, it said. After careful examination of the proposal, the state government issued an order that e-pass shall be issued to all business travellers representing industry, IT/ITeS, hospitality, legal and entertainment segments – visiting Tamil Nadu for a short stay of 72 hours and that they would be exempted from quarantine. Welcoming the decision, Hari K Thiagarajan, chairman, CII Tamil Nadu, said the industry body had earlier on Thursday morning submitted a request to the state chief secretary to permit intra-state, inter-state and international business related travel. “We requested that such travellers should mandatorily undergo RT-PCR tests and obtain negative results before undertaking such travel,” he told TOI, while urging the state government to look into the troubled phase that the hospitality sector was undergoing due to the prolonged lockdown and related restrictions. The Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association too welcomed the move. “Looks like some positive signals are emanating finally for the industry, which is going through a phase of uncertainty. The order is God-sent for service industry, since manufacturing sector depends on it a lot for the upkeep of the machinery,” M Balachandran, president, AIEMA said. Meanwhile, another order said that all libraries, except brand and village libraries will function from 8.00 am to 2.00 pm on all working days starting from September. An order issued by chief secretary K Shanmugam has permitted functioning of lending, reference and own-book reading sections at Connemara public library, Anna Centenary library as well as district central libraries and full-time branch libraries. Lending section alone will function in branch and village libraries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/quarantine-relief-for-biz-visitors-in-tn-for-72hrs-libraries-to-open/articleshow/77792466.cms||D Govardan
August 28, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: BJP targets govt over fuel cess in power bills||JAIPUR: BJP state president Satish Poonia has targeted the state government on various issues including its Covid-19 management, additional burden on crores of electricity consumers in the name of fuel surcharge and cancellation of recruitment of 2,000 doctors. Poonia said that the Congress government has given a big shock to more than 1.40 crore electricity consumers in the state. Now, electricity companies will charge a fuel charge of 30 paise per unit in the bill, which will be a double whammy on the common people and farmers of the state. He said that the BJP will organise an online campaign ‘Halla Bol’ through social media and via other means, against the ‘anti-people’ policies of the state government and issues including hike in electricity rates. Poonia, opposing the cancellation of the recruitment of 2,000 doctors, said that recruitments are pending in lakhs of posts in the state. He said the cancellation of the doctors’ appointment raises a question mark over the system. He said that the medical minister said the examination was cancelled due to the flaws. The chief minister Ashok Gehlot and the medical minister should now clarify what were the flaws in this examination which led to the cancellation. Poonia, talking about the government’s management of Covid, said more than 74,000 cases and more than 900 deaths have been reported so far. Many cases have been reported within the CMO, but the state government and CM Gehlot are not paying adequate attention to fix the system and the problem areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-targets-govt-over-fuel-cess-in-power-bills/articleshow/77793940.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Delhi||Covid’s wide reach touches pancreas too||NEW DELHI: Eight months into the pandemic, scientists are still learning about the effects of Covid-19 on various organs of the body. Initially, it was thought that the infection mainly affected the upper and lower respiratory tracts. Later, manifestations of the disease in the heart and brain also became evident. Now, it turns out that the pancreas — the organ behind the lower part of the stomach that secretes enzymes that aid in digestion — is also being affected by the infection. Whether the effect was direct or indirect was still a matter of research, said doctors. Dr Atul Kakar, vice-chairperson, department of internal medicine at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, said he had come across at least five Covid-19 patients in the last one month who had pancreatitis. “Normally, pancreatitis is caused by gallstones or heavy and chronic alcohol use. We investigated the causes, including increased cholesterol, but the patients had none. We then concluded that pancreatitis was caused by Covid-19,” he added. All patients of pancreatitis who were positive for Covid-19 were less than 40 years old. They complainted of diarrhoea and abdominal pain. “Usually, inflammation of the pancreas takes several weeks to subside, but the silver lining in this case is that Covid-induced pancreatitis tends to settle faster,” Kakar said. A study published recently in the journal Gastroenterology from China also pointed towards pancreatitis in Covid-19 patients. “Even after eight months, Covid-19 is still an enigma. What started off as a viral pneumonia is now a multi-systemic disease,” Dr Neeraj Nischal, associate professor in the department of medicine at AIIMS, said on Wednesday. In the webinar organised on extra-pulmonary manifestation of Covid-19, Dr Nishchal said they followed 122 patients admitted to one Covid ward at the hospital. “Interim analysis of the data showed that 53% of the patients had extra-pulmonary symptoms. Of them, 70% had comorbidities at the time of admission,” he added. The doctor gave the example of a 15-year-old who had come with complaints of severe pain in the abdomen and some pulmonary symptoms. CT scan suggested bulky pancreatitis and treatment was started. “Covid-19 can present with solely gastrointestinal manifestations,” said Nishchal. Dr SK Sarin, director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, said they had come across many cases of liver damage due to the viral disease. “Covid-19 patients with chronic liver conditions, for example fatty liver that is quite common in India, have higher risk of morbidity and mortality due to the infection. Treating physicians should be aware of it and take measures to protect the liver in addition to managing the infection,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covids-wide-reach-touches-pancreas-too/articleshow/77792519.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
August 28, 2020||Delhi||Has Delhi University cracked online code? It may have scholars to thank||NEW DELHI: With just three days left for Delhi University’s widely opposed online open-book examinations, most of the glitches evident during the mock tests and the first week of the exams have been sorted out. It has taken a lot out of the team of research scholars in the university’s Institute of Informatics and Communication (IIC) to ensure that constant upgrades met all the challenges. “The system was created from scratch. Nowhere in the country or in another university has this sort of online exam process been attempted and on this scale,” said Sanjeev Singh, head of DU’s computer centre and associate professor at IIC, adding that it was the creation of a team of research scholars enrolled in the university. Team member and research scholar Sharad Mishra recalled how the work on setting up the online exam system began only after the Covid-19 outbreak when DU realised it couldn’t hold physical exams. “We would normally take a year to develop and test such a system. But we began discussions in April and began working on the OBE project in June.” Mishra said that the university mulled various options, including online multiple choice type questions. “But the latter was met with opposition from many teachers who pointed out that MCQ was not conducive for assessment of a lot of courses,” he disclosed. The mock tests proved a mine of information. The project team of five “tried to optimise things by considering the criticism and feedback given during the mock tests”. Mishra said, “The mock tests showed us a way to refine the system, to make students familiar with the process and assure us that our methodology was correct.” Another team member, Mukesh Rawat, revealed that the university had been incorporating more and more features in the original setup on the directions of the courts. “We started off with the examination forms, and then we made provisions for students to use e-mail for attempting the exams. We have made so many provisions for the examinees that they even get their question papers half an hour before the exams begin,” said Rawat. However, there still remains one drawback to the system, which is regarding acknowledgement of receipt of the answer sheets submit through email. Singh admitted that the research laboratory got over 17,000 complaints, many of which were from students asking why they were yet to receive an acknowledgement slip. “We explain to the students that when they email their answer scripts to the university, if the internet connection is slow, then the mail server diverts the answer documents to the queued system for delayed onward transmission,” said Singh. “While the mailed answers don’t reach DU at that particular moment, they eventually do, so students need not worry.” Singh said that over the course of the exams, the group found that over 85% of the students rely on their mobile phones to access mails or the university’s exams dashboard. Data showed that of the 82,854 final year undergraduate and postgraduate students, 80,149 registered for the exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/has-du-cracked-online-code-it-may-have-scholars-to-thank/articleshow/77792483.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
August 28, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Social worker’s widow subjected to polygraph test||Bhubaneswar: Social worker Aditya Dash’s wife Bidyashree underwent a lie detector test on Thursday in connection with the crime branch’s investigation into her husband’s death. The result of the test is likely to come out in five to seven days. Although Bidyashree is neither an accused nor a suspect in the case, the probe agency subjected her to the polygraph test to determine if the couple’s marriage was under strain, and ascertain the reasons behind the altercation that had broken out between the two a few hours before Aditya’s death. After a war of words with his wife, an aggrieved Aditya had left his home in Sundarpada here on the night of July 6, only to be found dead by the tracks near Lingaraj station on July 7. “Once we receive the test report from the state forensic science laboratory (SFSL), we will match her statements with the ones recorded earlier by us,” a crime branch officer said. Bidyashree, who underwent the test for about five hours from 10.30 am at SFSL here, refused to speak to the media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/social-workers-widow-subjected-to-polygraph-test/articleshow/77791135.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
August 28, 2020||Trichy||Rs 100-cr revenue fall for Trichy rly division: DRM||Trichy: Trichy railway divisional manager (DRM) Ajay Kumar has said that the railway division’s passenger revenue has fallen by over Rs 100 crore during the lockdown period between April and July. The revenue earned during this period was only Rs 2.7 crore compared Rs 128 crore earned during the corresponding period last year. Meanwhile, Trichy railway division has refunded close to Rs 5 crore to passengers who booked tickets during the lockdown period, the DRM said during a media briefing on Thursday.The railway division has earned Rs 160.9 crore by handling 2.9 tonnes of freight, which is an improvement of 9% compared to the freight revenue earned during the corresponding period last year, Kumar said.Kumar said that steps are being taken to appoint more than 70 gatekeepers for the Karaikudi-Pattukottai section where the meter gauge tracks were converted to broad gauge. He said that efforts were on to launch an additional passenger train service to Bengaluru from Trichy. He also stated that there was no possibility to divert the Nagercoil-Bengaluru express via Trichy.Replying to a question whether any proposal to cancel train services or halts in Trichy division were underway, based on railway board’s new guidelines, he said that no such action was being initiated in the division.While listing out achievements of the division, the DRM said that a total of 58,614 stranded passengers including guest workers had been taken to their native places during the lockdown by operating Covid special trains. He said Covid-19 patients were being treated at the Ponmalai workshop railway hospital with 110 beds. Liquid oxygen tank of 1 kilolitre capacity had been made available at the hospital for the uninterrupted supply of oxygen to patients in the Covid ward, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rs-100-cr-revenue-fall-for-trichy-rly-division-drm/articleshow/77792475.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Trichy||TN only state to bag investments after Covid struck, says CM EPS||Nagapattinam: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has said that Tamil Nadu was the only state in the country to attract investments even during the Covid-19 period. As a result, the state’s gross domestic product is at 8% at a time when the country’s GDP stood at only 4%. He was speaking at a meeting with farmers, industrialists and self-help group members while reviewing Covid-19 preventive measures in Nagapattinam on Thursday. Handlooms and textile minister O S Manian, district collector Praveen P Nair and other senior officials were also present. “We are creating more job opportunities in the state by attracting more investments. When the GDP rate is remaining 4% in the country, it stands at 8% in Tamil Nadu”, the chief minister said. The state government has been taking all efforts to contain the spread of the coronavirus. On an average, 70,000 tests are conducted in the state every day, the highest in the country. Fever camps and door-to-door screening also helped to minimize the spread, he said. “The only way to find the virus is testing. I participate in every meeting only after getting tested myself. Since this is a challenging time for us, the government alone cannot do much without the cooperation of the general public”, he said. Asked about further extension of lockdown, Palaniswami said the decision would be taken after a consultation meeting with the district collectors on August 29. On NEET, the chief minister said that Tamil Nadu government stood firm on it stand that the examination be postponed. Work to lay pipelines was under way in the protected agriculture zone in delta districts as the works were already approved before the zone was declared as protected. On agricultural activities, the chief minister pointed to the huge volume of paddy procurement in the state. “Timely completion of desilting works in delta districts has helped farmers to get irrigation water up to tail-end areas. Proper distribution of inputs like seeds and fertilizer has also helped us to procure 28 lakh tonnes of paddy through direct procurement centres this year, while it was 23 lakh tonnes last year”, he further stated. Earlier the chief minister laid foundation stones for various new projects worth Rs 207.6 crore in the district. He also unveiled various buildings and infrastructure projects completed at an estimate of Rs 43.6 crore in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-only-state-to-bag-investments-after-covid-struck-says-cm-eps/articleshow/77792460.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||CR Paatil’s North Gujarat tour from September 3||GANDHINAGAR: After his tour of Saurashtra, state BJP president CR Paatil will begin his tour of North Gujarat from September 3. He will begin from the Ambaji temple and visit several towns of Banaskantha and Patan districts and meet social and religious leaders along with party workers during the day. On September 4, Paatil will visit the famous `Vir Maya ni Tekri’, the world heritage site Rani ki Vav and Umiya Mata temple and will interact with party workers of Mehsana district. He will visit Sabarkantha and Aravalli districts on September 5. On Thursday, Paatil visited Delhi for the second time after becoming Gujarat BJP president. He will remain in Delhi for a couple of days. It is not known whether he will meet PM Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and national party president J P Nadda. When contacted, Paatil said, “I have come to Delhi for work related to different parliamentary committees.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/paatils-north-gujarat-tour-from-september-3/articleshow/77792474.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Jaipur||‘Surcharge after power tariff hike is arbitrary and illegal’||JAIPUR: With power consumers struggling to pay current bills, the fuel surcharge on consumers for the third quarter of the previous fiscal alongwith the power bills of upcoming months has generated angry reactions. The discoms had decided to charge fuel surcharge from consumers in a staggered manner for the months of (October- December 2019) in the power bills from September this year at 39 paise per unit as approved by the Rajasthan Energy Regulatory Commission (RERC) in November last year. Fuel surcharge is the variation in the approved and actual variable cost of power purchased by discoms. The variation allowed by RERC is being passed on to consumers on quarterly basis. This is a double whammy for consumers as it comes close on the heels of the power tariff hike of 12 % effected in February. Former CMD (Jaipur Discom) and ex-chairman of Rajasthan Discom RG Gupta termed the decision arbitrary and illegal. Gupta said, “The decision to carry forward the surcharge after tariff hike is like charging the customers twice.” He said, “The RERC must have considered this factor while effecting a hike in power rates. As per rule, fuel surcharge of a previous quarter has to be charged in the next quarter. It cannot be carried forward after a year,” he claimed. He said the power regulatory commission should take a suo motu cognizance and intervene in the interest of the consumers. Rajasthan Energy Regulatory Commission chairman Shreemant Pandey said, “The commission will intervene and look into the matter if any complaint is filed with the commission. We have not received any complaint in this regard,” said Pandey. The Discoms, meanwhile, justified the move saying it could not recover the fuel surcharge in the first quarter of this year due to lockdown. Now it is being passed on to consumers in a staggered way as its finances are in poor condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/surcharge-after-tariff-hike-is-arbitrary-and-illegal/articleshow/77793945.cms||Joychen Joseph
August 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||No important files lost in the blaze, says CM||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said no important files were destroyed in the fire that occurred in the protocol section of the Secretariat. “The preliminary reports are that a few files were damaged partially. ADGP Manoj Abraham is investigating the case and the report will be available within a week. Another probe has also begun to find the scientific reasons behind the fire,” he said. Vijayan alleged that BJP and UDF are trying to politicize the issue and it is unfortunate that UDF is following in the footsteps of BJP whenever such incidents happen. On the Life Mission controversy, the chief minister said there was no need for taking Centre’s consent for entering into an agreement with an agency like Red Crescent. Only if the state government is entering into an agreement with the UAE government, a consent has to be taken from the Centre, he added. The government has entered into an agreement with Red Crescent. They have outsourced the work to another agency and government has no role. However, government issued stipulations on construction of buildings and it ensured that the same was being followed. On corruption allegations in Wadakkancherry project, he said government has not initiated a probe since details of the project hasn’t been collected yet. The details are being collected and a decision will be taken only after a detailed analysis of the project, Vijayan said. No-confidence motion The chief minister said he was ready to answer all allegations raised by the opposition in the assembly. “The opposition was abusive and raised slogans with bad words against me. I was willing to answer, but they were not ready to listen,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/no-important-files-lost-in-the-blaze-says-cm/articleshow/77791190.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Vadodara||First time after three days, no fresh peak made||Vadodara: For the first time after three days, the number new Covid-19 cases did not make a peak in the city and district. Out of 2,355 tests conducted since Wednesday evening, 116 positive cases were detected. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) and district administration continued to ensure that the number of tests increased consistently. The 2,355 tests conducted in the 24 hours since Wednesday evening remained the highest so far. The positivity rate was pushed further down with 4.92 per cent persons testing positive, the lowest after testing gained momentum. In the city, the highest number of new cases were detected in the west zone where 27 persons tested positive followed by the north zone where 21 persons tested positive. Twenty cases were found in the east zone and the south zone accounted for 14 tests. Areas of the district outside VMC limits reported 34 fresh Covid-19 cases. The cases were reported from Sayajipura, Varnama, Por, Dashrath, Vemali, Savli, Shinor, Karjan, Padra and Dabhoi. The total number of positive cases in the city and district now stands at 7,576. Two more deaths were confirmed by the VMC taking the total number of deceased to 136. The deaths include only those due to Covid-19 as the primary cause and not those due to comorbidities being the main reason for death. As many as 108 persons were discharged from various hospitals in the city taking the total number of patients discharged so far to 5,843. These include patients who tested positive for Covid-19, but died due to comorbidities or other ailments being the primary reason for death. The number of active cases in the city now stands at 1,587. Out of these 59 patients are on ventilators or BIPAP machines and 161 others are on oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/first-time-after-three-days-no-fresh-peak-made/articleshow/77790992.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Take loan to pay states: Harish to Centre||Hyderabad: Telangana government on Thursday demanded the Centre take a loan to pay GST compensation to states. During a GST council meeting of state finance ministers with Union minister Nirmala Sitharaman, state finance minister T Harish Rao pointed out that the Centre had been adding GST and cess surplus to the Consolidated Fund while asking states to take loans to cover their deficit. He also said the Centre owed Rs 2,700 crore to Telangna as IGST. Harish said that while states had lost 60% of their income due to GST, Centre only lost 30%. “Centre should stick to its promise to states and take a loan to pay GST compensation,” the minister said and added that given the lack of clarity due to the Covid-19 situation, the Centre should continue its routine of paying GST compensation every two months. He also pointed out that Telangana is one of the highest GST-paying states but received least compensation. So far, the state has paid over Rs 18,000 crore in GST but has received only Rs 3,223 crore in compensation. Sribala Vadlapatla||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/take-loan-to-pay-states-harish-to-centre/articleshow/77792500.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 28, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Terracotta gems in 250-year-old temple||KOLKATA: Hundreds of terracotta tiles and architectures showing European influence were found in a 250-year-old temple in Panskura, which is being restored by experts from Gurusaday Museum, Musee India and a few more agencies. The vicinity of Vaishnavite and Shakta temples on the premises of the temple appears more interesting to the restorers. The restoration work started little before the lockdown when the team of restorers was invited by the Maiti family, owners of the temple area.  “As the work progressed, we were surprised by the rare terracotta art work on the temple. There were distinct influences of European style of architecture fused with the terracotta tiles,” said Anirban Banerjee, technical assistant of Gurusaday Museum. The European influence is more visible in the arches and pillars of the temple. “There is no written record on the temple’s history but a plaque, found during the restoration, mentions that a rasmancha or platform near the temple had been built in 1859. Maiti family had built the temple,” said Rupesh Samanta, an official with the Kashijora Parampara Heritage Organisation that has been active in restoring temples in the Panskura-Kashijora area.  Locals guided the team to another local temple having 17 peaks, of which a few were damaged before the restoration. When the team spoke with the locals, they could not say much about deities inside the temple. What startled the restorers was the presence of Vaishnavite temple and Shakta (worshippers of Shakti) temple on the same premises. “Inside the temple, we found the head of a deity that seems to be of Lord Rama from the iconographic suggestions. Archeological Society of India can corroborate that. We do not have much evidence of Lord Rama being worshipped in Bengal,” said Banerjee. Hiranmoy Pattanayak, designer with the National Museum, New Delhi, who is also involved with the restoration, said that there are several such temples in Panskura that need to be restored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/terracotta-gems-in-250-year-old-temple/articleshow/77792480.cms||Rohit Khanna
August 28, 2020||Jaipur||Heavy rain brings deficit to 6.4%||Jaipur: The fifth spell of monsoon has brought the rainfall deficit to mere 6.4 per cent this season. Majority of the places have received normal or excess rainfall barring Sriganganagar and Churu districts wich are still in the rainfall-deficit category. As the sixth spell of monsoon will progress from Saturday, there is a possibility that the state may get higher rainfall compared to 2019. Many dams are reservoirs are already brimming with water while some have already reached full capacity. So far, the state has received an average rainfall of 394.71 mm compared to 421.69 mm till this period in 2019. “ Up to the fourth spell, Rajasthan had a deficit of 39 per cent and from there it reached a mere deficit of 6.39 per cent. We hope this too will vanish after the sixth and final spell,” said a senior officer of Jaipur Met office. Mahi Dam, Kota Barrage and Jawahar Sagar are already brimming with water. Bisalpur Dam, which caters to the drinking water needs of Ajmer, Tonk and Jaipur, has reached at 313.03 RL/metre against its full capacity of 315.50 RL/metre. According to data available with the water resources department, Jaipur city, which earlier had a deficit, now has received 14 per cent more rainfall compared to last year. “In Jaipur district, 475.68 mm was received this season in comparison to 415.40 mm last year,” said an officer. Many places in Jhalawar, Bundi , Baran, Chittorgarh, Jalore, Sirohi, Dungarpur, Banswara, Alwar and Bharatpur have received a good rainfall this season so far. “Despite heavy rainfall, districts including Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh are still in the category of deficit rainfall. These two districts need one or two good spells of heavy rainfall,” said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/heavy-rain-brings-deficit-to-6-4/articleshow/77793951.cms||Ashish Mehta
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||People stream back to city as Covid cases shoot up in dists||Hyderabad: Scores of people who rushed to their ancestral homes in villages after the lockdown was lifted are now gradually returning to Hyderabad. The reverse exodus is especially stark in districts that are facing an increased spread in coronavirus infections. “We went to our house in Khammam district’s Nelakondapally. We used to engage in NREGS works initially, but now it’s not easy to find employment. Covid cases too are on the rise here,” Chandrasekha, an auto driver from the city, said. “My family and I returned a week back and I am now back to riding autos for a living,” he added. Several people TOI spoke to said they feared they may not find jobs on returning to the city. “I used to work at a restaurant as assistant chef. The outlet in Namapally is now open, but it is working with limited staff, so I’m not sure if I can resume my job,” said SK Vali, who went to Vikarabad after lockdown was announced.  Another reason for families to return to Hyderabad is the announcement of online classes for students. “If we are in remote areas, there will not be proper network and attending classes will be difficult,” K Siva Kumar, father to two high schoolers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/people-stream-back-to-city-as-covid-cases-shoot-up-in-dists/articleshow/77792493.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 28, 2020||Coimbatore||4 youngsters arrested for murdering friend||Coimbatore: Four youngsters were arrested in the city on Thursday for beating their friend to death with a cricket stump and other sports equipment over a dispute.The victim, Arun Kumar, 28, a resident of Moscow Nagar, was working as a printer.He was found dead in the hostel of Chikkana Arts College on Thursday morning by the college security personnel who alerted police. Investigation by police revealed that Arun Kumar was last seen with his friends - Bharathkumar, 21, and Muthukumar, 23, from Moscow Nagar, Tamilselvan, 20, from Vasantham Nagar and a 23-year-old man from Chikkana College. The college hostel remained closed for the past five months. Police said the accused were playing carrom in the college hostel where Arun Kumar was found dead. “There was a rivalry between Arun Kumar and his friends over a bike accident that took place a few days back. Arun Kumar had come to the hostel to argue with the boys about the accident. In a fit of rage, the boys beat Arun Kumar to death with a cricket stump and other sports equipment,” the Tirupur north police inspector said. “The body had many contusions. It has been sent for postmortem,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/4-youngsters-arrested-for-murdering-friend/articleshow/77792514.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC: What steps to help disabled take DU exams?||NEW DELHI: Concerned about the plight of disabled students who wish to take Delhi University exams, Delhi high court on Thursday asked the ministry of railways to consider arranging their travel to the national capital. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said the Centre may also examine the feasibility of issuing confirmed tickets to such students at subsidised rates at least five days before the second round of exams starts on September 14. It directed the human resource development and social justice and empowerment ministries to collectively approach the railways ministry and request for arranging travel of students in the persons with disability (PWD) category from far off places like Bihar, Chhattisgarh and eastern UP to Delhi to appear in exams through physical or online mode. The bench directed the three ministries to file separate affidavits on the steps taken by them and listed the matter for further hearing on September 1. It noted that PWD and visually impaired students may indicate to DU if they want to appear physically or submit papers through email and avail scribes. The court was, meanwhile, informed by DU that results of those students who appeared for online open-book examinations (OBE)would be declared at the end of October, if things went as per plan. The high court is hearing petitions, including one filed by National Federation of Blind seeking to set up effective mechanisms for visually impaired and PWD students so that instructions and teaching material reach them properly during the Covid-19 pandemic. The online exam for final-year undergraduate students began from August 10 and will end on August 31. The students, who will be left out of online exams, will be given an opportunity to appear in physical examinations scheduled from September 14. Senior advocate SK Rungta, appearing for National Federation of Blind, said the court may see if the central government or DU can bear the cost of transportation of students and he will provide them food and accommodation. Senior advocate Sachin Dutta, representing DU, informed the court that the figures will show that 90% students in the PWD category have appeared in the online OBE. But Rungta maintained that DU does not have the data of PWD students and according to his information, about 222 students in this category did not sit for the online exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-what-steps-to-help-disabled-take-du-exams/articleshow/77792547.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Mumbai||Postponement will lead to zero academic year: IIT directors||MUMBAI: Zero academic year, a washed-away session, two batches in 2021? All of this will only lead to the student’s loss, said directors from across all Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT) who broke their silence on the debate on holding the Joint Entrance Exams in September. Almost all of them assured parents and students that precautions are in place to ensure that every exam centre is safe with hygienic conditions intact. Some directors were appalled at the fact that politics that is in play across party lines when it comes to the entrance exams. “It’s very unfortunate that political angles are emerging in a matter that deals with the future of the students. This should be avoided,” said IIT Ropar director Sarit Kumar Das. “For people who want postponement, how long do you want that to be? Does anyone know what the situation will be like in five months? So, postponement is virtually leading to a situation, where we are looking at a zero academic year, which is bad for everyone — the students, parents, jobs, and institutions.” Directors felt that if the entrance exam is conducted in September, the academic year would still start by November or December, which already is one semester lost. Classes at the IITs commence in August. IIT-Delhi director Ramagopal Rao said, “I feel sad for those students preparing for the examinations. I did receive a number of emails from them. As if Covid is not enough, this uncertainty about exam dates is further adding to the students’ stress levels.” He added, “The consequences of postponing exams any can have serious repercussions on IIT academic calendars and for the candidates. I fail to see how we will run two batches together. Our academic calendars are too packed and linked to many other things. The delays can impact the careers of bright students. We have already lost six months.” T.G. Sitharam, director of IIT-Guwahati, echoed similar sentiments when he said, “JEE exam is held multiple times in a year and students who don’t appear this time can take it after six months. The students’ efforts should be kept in mind and it is critical that the exams are conducted as scheduled.” IIT-Gandhinagar director Sudhir Jain said the pandemic is here to stay until a vaccine is found. “It is important that we keep moving towards our individual goals, one step at a time. It is necessary that JEE is held as per schedule with appropriate precautions. Delaying the exams will put students at a loss.” Most directors feel that they should be allowed to decide on safety norms. “Please leave it on us, the academicians, the experienced administrators and a professional IT company which conducted it for year. We will do a good job and the future of the youngsters will be secure. Don’t politicize the issue, let it be an issue of our children’s future,” added Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dont-politicize-students-future-say-iit-directors-on-neet-jee-debate/articleshow/77794540.cms||Hemali Chhapia
August 28, 2020||Mumbai||Domestic air traffic finally crosses 1,000 departures per day||MUMBAI: In the past three months, the total number of daily domestic flights operated by airlines across India never crossed 1,000 departures per day. However, this week, on Monday and Wednesday, airlines operated a total of 1,012 and 1,044 departures respectively, crossing a small milestone in a rather long journey to normalcy. On May 25, the day operation of domestic flights resumed, airlines operated only 428 flights, according to ministry of civil aviation data. Though the growth has more than doubled since then in the past three months, the domestic air traffic volume is not even half of what airlines operated last year. Data from Airports Authority of India shows that airlines operated a total of 89,000 domestic departures in August 2019, which is about 2,900 departures per day. One of the reasons why domestic air traffic took so long to cross the 1,000 mark is because of added restrictions on departures out of Mumbai airport. “Pre-Covid, Mumbai handled about 330 daily domestic departures, which was about 11 % of India’s total domestic departures. But since the state government limited Mumbai airport operations to only 50 departures per day, Mumbai’s contribution is down to only 5 %. Had Mumbai airport been allowed to operate to one-third of its capacity, then it would have handled about 120 daily departures,’’ said an airline official, requesting anonymity. On the bright side, with fewer flights, passenger loads on arrivals flights into Mumbai are better than those to other cities, he added. “There is an increased demand for seats on flights to Mumbai from non-metros. We’re hoping that the state government increases the number of daily flights (departures and arrivals) out of Mumbai from the current 100 to 200 per day soon.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/domestic-air-traffic-finally-crosses-1000-departures-per-day/articleshow/77793986.cms||Manju V
August 28, 2020||Jaipur||Flyers from UAE to Jaipur need not register themselves||Jaipur: In a major relief to people travelling to Jaipur from United Arab Emirates (UAE), the Centre has allowed their entry without registering themselves. The government has also allowed people of the city to travel to UAE without any retrictions. During lockdown, only Indians stranded in various countries including UAE were allowed to travel in inbound flights under Vande Bharat mission after registering themselves on a government website and undergoing several paper formalities. “Creation of the air bubble is a pact by the Centre with various countries allowing people to travel orrespective of the citizenship. Detailed guidelines and SOPs have already been issued by the Union home ministry in this regard,” said Jaideep Singh Balhara, director, Airports Authority of India (AAI), Jaipur, on Thursday. A senior officer of a foreign airline welcomed the move. “According to the new rules, passengers on our flights don’t have to register on the Indian embassy portal. So this is a major relief for them and us,” the officer added. India has so far created air bubbles with USA, UK, France, Germany, UAE, Qatar and Maldives. “This has been done to ensure smooth transport of people of these countries for work Visa and other reasons,” said an officer. However, passengers will have to do their advance Covid test and in case the passenger willing to travel is positive, he would be allowed only when he is asymptomatic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/flyers-from-uae-to-jaipur-need-not-register-themselves/articleshow/77793955.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Puri temple doors to get silver coating||Bhubaneswar: If everything goes as planned, the Jagannath Temple in Puri will shine brighter. The temple administration is contemplating silver plating on the wooden frames of eight doors. At least 800kg of silver may be used to coat the doors. Artisans from Rajasthan will likely be engaged in the work, recently proposed in a meeting of the temple managing committee. A devotee has agreed to donate the silver. Besides the four entrances of the temple, the Beharana dwar, Jaya Bijaya dwar and the doors of the outer and inner Ratna Bhandar (treasury) will be plated with silver, temple managing committee member Madhab Pujapanda said. Temple sources said a leading jeweller from Bhubaneswar had recently created the design and contacted skilled artisans in Rajasthan for the job. At least a quintal of silver will be used for plating each door. Nearly 14-18 gauge thick silver covers will be given on each door. “The managing committee said the proposal will be sent to the state government for approval. We will ensure that the silver coating work does not affect the rituals in the temple. The Archaeological Survey of India will monitor the work,” Pujapanda said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/puri-temple-doors-to-get-silver-coating/articleshow/77791183.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
August 28, 2020||Coimbatore||BJP will be a force to reckon with in TN: Ex-IPS officer||Coimbatore: Former IPS officer K Annamalai, who recently joined BJP, on Thursday said the saffron party will emerge as a force to reckon with in Tamil Nadu after the assembly election.Annamalai, who was given a rousing reception on his maiden visit to Coimbatore after joining BJP, said more youths will join the party. Hitting out at the Dravidian parties, Annamalai told reporters at the party office here that the parties failed Tamil Nadu. “BJP is the only party for the common man,” he said, adding that the upcoming assembly election will be a turning point for BJP in the state. Even as the state’s economy is stuck in a rut, Dravidian parties chose to harp on Tamil pride to dupe people, he said. Seeking to know the contribution of Dravidian parties for the growth of Tamil, Annamalai said that on the other hand, Prime minister Narendra Modi is giving due importance to Tamil in national and international fora.Annamalai said that his goal is to work for the growth of the party in Tamil Nadu. The former police officer said he will contest in elections if the party high command directs him to do so.Denying the charges that the Centre is attempting at Hindi imposition through the new education policy, Annamalai, said was condemnable to ask health officials from Tamil Nadu to leave an online meeting because they expressed inability to understand Hindi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bjp-will-be-a-force-to-reckon-with-in-tn-ex-ips-officer/articleshow/77792520.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Tirupur man dupes Chennai couple||Coimbatore: A Chennai-based couple was duped of Rs 4 lakh by a man from Avinashi near Tirupur, who had promised to arrange them a loan of Rs 1 crore.Police said Alwin Rai, a resident of Perumalpuram extension in Tambaram in Chennai, wanted to expand his truck transport business and was looking for a loan. His wife Jennifer was told by one of her friend, Kiruba, about an advertisement in a newspaper that promised financial assistance for business purposes. Jennifer contacted the mobile number in the advertisement. The person who spoke to her gave her the contact number of one Acharya, and asked her to approach him for loan.“As per the complaint, Acharya agreed to arrange for a loan of Rs 1 crore, but said the document charges would amount to Rs 4 lakh, which needed to be paid upfront. He also asked Alwin Rai to come to Avinashi on August 26,’’ said a police officer. Acharya had told the couple that he would give Rs 55 lakh in person and the remaining would be transferred online.Accordingly, the couple reached Avinashi on Wednesday and met Acharya at a hotel near the national highway on the outskirts of the town. The couple gave Rs 4 lakh cash to Acharya, who then handed them a briefcase which, he said, had Rs 55 lakh cash, the first tranche of the loan.After he left the place, the couple opened the briefcase and to their shock, found that the notes were fake. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tirupur-man-dupes-chennai-couple/articleshow/77792545.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Focus on food processing in Nizamabad: CII||Hyderabad: Apex industry body Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has recommended a sharper focus on agriculture and food processing sector to boost growth in Nizamabad district. Stating that little value addition is being done to farm produce or mineral resources in the district, Confederation of Indian Industry, in its Nizamabad District Development Plan, said, “The profile of the district can be transformed from a purely agrarian economy to an agrarian and industrial economy. This will facilitate value capture at the point of produce, provide livelihood opportunities, economic development of the district and eventually inclusive growth.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/focus-on-food-processing-in-nizamabad-cii/articleshow/77792559.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Kalyani Rafael JV set to expand its R&D centre for optoelectronics in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Encouraged by the success of its earlier ventures in Hyderabad, Kalyani Rafael Advanced Systems (KRAS), a joint venture between the Kalyani Group and Israel’s Rafael Advanced Defense Systems, is set to expand its R&D footprint in the city by opening a R&D centre for optoelectronics this year. “We haven’t restricted ourselves to remain a production or system integration house… we have a R&D centre here and with the help of RICH and TASK, we have opened a Centre for Excellence for radio frequency engineering …and this year, we are opening a new R&D centre for optoelectronics,” Rudra Jadeja, CEO, KRAS, said while participating in the CII Make in Telangana’s session on ‘Defence & Aerospace: Towards Atmanirbhar Bharat (Self Reliant India)’ on Thursday. Apart from the CoE, KRAS has a missile subsystem manufacturing facility as well as a maintenance repair and overhaul (MRO) facility for missile systems in Hyderabad. While he did not specify the details, he said KRAS has reached out to the government to allot additional land. The missile subsystem manufacturing unit was set up on Hyderabad's outskirts at an investment of around Rs 70 crore (around $10 million) and was inaugurated in August 2017. During the launch of the plant in Hyderabad, Kalyani Group chairman Baba Kalyani had said that Hyderabad is the epicentre of the missile ecosystem in the country. “Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL) is the largest missile manufacturer in the city…all the technological development related to missiles happens here. It is easier to get skilled people, suppliers and supply chains in this area,” Kalyani had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kalyani-rafael-jv-set-to-expand-its-rd-centre-for-optoelectronics-in-city/articleshow/77792538.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Kolkata||App-based toto to ply in New Town||KOLKATA: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) is planning to introduce app-based toto service from September onwards. Officials said the service would help the drivers reach out to more commuters, especially senior citizens, who cannot walk up to the nearest e-rickshaw stand. The authorities held discussions with two start-ups on introduction of the toto service. One of the start-ups is already operating in Barrackpore with 1,500 e-rickshaws while the other is planning to start Toto operations in New Town from September. Both the aggregators connect toto drivers with passengers like the app cab services. NKDA officials said the aggregator that is keen on launching the service next month had recently conducted a survey and found total 740 e-rickshaws plying in New Town. “The plan is to bring all these e-rickshaws under the app-based system,” said an official. The NKDA officials have handed over stickers with QR code to some drivers who can go for cashless transaction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/app-based-toto-to-ply-in-new-town/articleshow/77792552.cms||Suman Chakraborti
August 28, 2020||Delhi||In the pits: Here is how Delhi plans to revive its mega lake||NEW DELHI: Once shaped uniquely like a horseshoe, this waterbody was as big as the touristy Nainital lake. But over decades, Bhalswa lake has lost out to the sanitary landfill and dairy colonies and ceded its respectful size. Dumping of garbage and livestock excreta into the lake has been killing it fast, till now. The Public Works Department has now started work on the overhaul of the drainage system at the waterbody near Jahangirpuri in northwest Delhi. This is meant to prevent animal dung and sewage from entering the water. At the same time, Delhi Jal Board will set up a wastewater treatment plant to recharge and replenish the dying 150-acre lake. Tracing the genesis of Bhalswa lake’s woes, a PWD official involved in the restoration project, said that when the parallel ring road was being constructed around four years ago, the Bhalswa drain was blocked. After completion of the work, the civic agencies forgot to unblock the drain. When water and waste accumulated in the colonies and posed a threat to health, the frustrated residents broke the walls of the Bhalswa freshwater lake, and soon turned it into a sludge-filled sewage pit. TOI found that drains from the dairies nearby had been punctured at numerous places, and sewage and dung discharged directly into the waterbody. Garbage dumping and eutrophication have created islands of mud and thrash, in size up to half of the lake’s width along Outer Ring Road. For temporary respite, PWD has set up two 75hp pumps that will divert the water and sewage from the area and prevent accumulation. However, for the long term, the agencies are unblocking the drains. Working without a budget and “using only our maintenance funds”, PWD has formed a team to keep tabs on what is happening around the lake and pinpoint the source of problems. Bhalswa lake historically fell on the northern Yamuna floodplain and was a major source of water for the area. But an embankment built in 1964 cut off the lake’s water supply. The horseshoe lake is said to have formed when the Yamuna changed course, leaving behind a truncated looped portion. Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage had come up with a plan to manage the lake, but it was never implemented. Last year, DDA, PWD and DJB carried out a joint survey of Bhalswa lake aiming to revive an old proposal for developing the area into an ecotourism spot. According to the proposal, the site would include facilities for boating and angling and allow space for picnics and a decorative water fountain, according to PWD officials. Ankit Srivastava, technical advisor to DJB, disclosed that the water utility had written to PWD to start the work on repairing the drainage system. “DUSIB and DJB have jointly planned a scheme in which a decentralised sewage treatment plant with a purification capacity for 5.6 million litres will be set up on land belonging to DUSIB,” said Srivastava. Srivastava also said that DJB was aware that the wall of the lake was frequently broken into and cow dung dumped into the lake area. “A stormwater drain will divert the much to the STP,” he said. “The waste water will be purified there. Since a lot of waste water has already entered the lake, a portion of the sewage treatment plant will also have an intake of lake water.” “In the first phase the focus is on stopping the inflow of and treatment of waste water,” revealed Srivastava. In the second phase of the project, he said, the island of mud that has formed would be cleared. Watch Here is how Delhi plans to revive Bhalswa lake||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-the-pits-here-is-how-city-plans-to-revive-its-mega-lake/articleshow/77792582.cms||Paras Singh
August 28, 2020||Coimbatore||25 new cases in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district added 25 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 1,497.The new cases, including 13 women, were reported from Ooty, Coonoor, Aruvankadu, Wellington and Pandalur besides villages such as Adikaratty, Kookalthorai, Beragani and Aravenu. While two men who visited Coimbatore tested positive, the remaining 23 cases were secondary and tertiary contacts of the earlier cases with travel history.As many as 48 patients were discharged.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/25-new-cases-in-nilgiris/articleshow/77792576.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Two convicted for stealing phone in ’18||Hyderabad: Two persons who had in 2018 robbed a man of his mobile phone late in the night, have been convicted and directed to undergo two-years of imprisonment by a local court in Malkajgiri. Police said that in 2018, victim Abdul Rehman was talking over his phone while walking to his house at Lalapet after attending a birthday party. The convicts Harshavardhan and Anil Kumar came on a bike from the rear side, attacked Rehman and snatched the mobile phone. Based on the complaint, a case was then registered. The accused were arrested and subsequently a chargesheet was also filed. Officials said that the court convicted both Harshavardhan and Anil Kumar and directed them to undergo two-years of imprisonment besides paying Rs 2,000 fine. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-convicted-for-stealing-phone-in-18/articleshow/77792587.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Exports keep textiles sector afloat: Experts||Hyderabad: Contrary to the textile industry’s expectations that apparel exports will be hit due to Covid-19 and that the domestic market will keep the sector afloat, it is actually the exports business that has come to its rescue, said industry experts. Speaking at the CII Make in Telangana conclave’s session on ‘Opportunities & challenges in textile & apparel sector: scaling & reaching,’ Rahul Mehta, managing director, Creative Garments Private Limited, said “When Covid hit, the general expectation was that exports would be severely impacted…but exports are picking up and they are still down by 30-40%. However, the domestic market is in a bad shape…due to lockdown.”TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/exports-keep-textiles-sector-afloat-experts/articleshow/77792572.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Street play spreads awareness on Covid-19||Udhagamandalam: A street play organized by the district administration was held at Charing Cross in Ooty on Thursday to create awareness about Covid-19.The play depicted the importance of social distancing and using mask. Nilgiris district monitoring officer and CEO of Indcoserve Supriya Sahu said, “People don’t seem to be careful about coronavirus. Hence, we thought of an effective ground-level activity which would reach the public.”According to Sahu, the mask is not worn properly by most of the people and social distancing is not maintained as it should be. “A corona mascot will be placed at all junctions in the town so that people are aware of the seriousness of the situation.”Later, in the presence of Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya, Sahu launched the Covid-19 test report website at Tamizhagam. “Those who have undergone tests for Covid-19 will get an SMS with QR code. By scanning the QR code, they can get their result,” she said. “The QR code will ensure that nobody can duplicate the result.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/street-play-spreads-awareness-on-covid-19/articleshow/77792571.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Coimbatore||No more automatic approval of e-pass in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The government has stopped automatic online approval of e-pass in the Nilgiris since Wednesday. The decision was taken in the wake of the hill district recording a huge influx of visitors after August 17, when relaxation in issuing e-passes started. According to Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya, the district is seeing at least 3,000 visitors a day. As a result, Covid-19 cases have increased, she said. “Hence, the government has exempted the Nilgiris from auto approval of e-pass. Like earlier, visitors will have to get the pass approved from the district collector after applying online.” she said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/no-more-automatic-approval-of-e-pass-in-nilgiris/articleshow/77792577.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Kochi||Kerala CM launches 1,022 homes of Life Mission||THRISSUR: Even when controversies are raging over Life Mission’s flat project at Wadakkanchery, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated 1,022 houses constructed in collaboration with the Mission at Kodungallur on Thursday. According to municipal chairman K R Jaithran, houses with a maximum floor area of 600sqft were constructed in two years. The project, roughly estimated at Rs 60 crore, was executed under the PMAY-Life Mission programme. The Centre was providing Rs 1.5 lakh for the project and Life Mission was giving Rs 50,000, while the municipality was giving Rs 2 lakhs. The beneficiaries will also get about Rs 26,000 under Ayyankali employment generation programme. The rest required for the construction of houses will have to be mobilized by the beneficiaries, Jaithran said. The municipality was providing counselling support to beneficiaries, with help from experts, for construction of houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cm-launches-1022-homes-of-life-mission/articleshow/77791232.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala CM launches 1,022 homes of Life Mission||THRISSUR: Even when controversies are raging over Life Mission’s flat project at Wadakkanchery, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated 1,022 houses constructed in collaboration with the Mission at Kodungallur on Thursday. According to municipal chairman K R Jaithran, houses with a maximum floor area of 600sqft were constructed in two years. The project, roughly estimated at Rs 60 crore, was executed under the PMAY-Life Mission programme. The Centre was providing Rs 1.5 lakh for the project and Life Mission was giving Rs 50,000, while the municipality was giving Rs 2 lakhs. The beneficiaries will also get about Rs 26,000 under Ayyankali employment generation programme. The rest required for the construction of houses will have to be mobilized by the beneficiaries, Jaithran said. The municipality was providing counselling support to beneficiaries, with help from experts, for construction of houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-launches-1022-homes-of-life-mission/articleshow/77801214.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Jaipur||Goods train chugs from Jaisalmer’s Sonu station||Jaisalmer: Jaisalmer’s limestone will now reach different parts of the country as the much awaited goods train started running from Sonu . The trains, flagged off by railway deputy chief engineer Baldev Ram and Rajasthan State Mines and Minerals (RSMM) general manager D D Shripat, left from Sonu railway station to Bhilai and Jharkhand’s Bokaro late on Wednesday. The construction of Sonu-Hamira railway line started in December 2019, but due to technical reasons and other necessary processes, the operation of goods trains did not start on this 58.5km track which was built at a cost Rs 350 crore. Efforts were being made for the last many years to start good strains and RSMM had to send its limestone to Jaisalmer at a distance of 70km for loading into the goods train. This was proving costly in the competitive market. Jodhpur railway division spokesperson Gopal Sharma said the RSMM and railway administration were trying to start loading of limestone from Sonu mines since 2011, but the efforts realised on August 26 this year. The other main achievement is that the average speed of goods train in this division was 21km per hour, which has been increased to 50kmph, which was maximum in NWR. Sharma said the first goods train with 58 rakes carrying limestone left for Bhilai, at a distance of 1,600km, on Wednesday. Similarly, another goods train left directly for Bokaro from Sonu mines. RSMM general manager Shripat said the project will prove to be a milestone along with contributing to the development of Jaisalmer. It was a much awaited project for which efforts were being made for quite a long time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/goods-train-chugs-from-jaisalmers-sonu-station/articleshow/77793975.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Jaipur||Most RU teachers not taking online classes, say students||Jaipur: Amidst pandemic, online teaching may have become a necessity, but the students of Rajasthan University are far behind the trend. Although the government has ordered that schools and universities should start taking online sessions, students claim that this has not been followed by the university’s teachers. Mahesh Gurjar (name changed), a student of Rajasthan College said that ever since classroom teaching has stopped, most of the teachers are not taking online classes. “Students started to complain to the administration that teachers are not taking online classes. Hence, since the last five days, some teachers have started to organise online classes, although majority have still not,” said Mahesh. Kailash Kuri, a student of five-year law in Rajasthan University said they have complained many times but teachers haven’t started taking online classes. Rajasthan University, vice-chancellor JP Yadav, while talking to TOI said that classes are regularly being organised but if students have any issue, they can complain to the administration or their department’s head. Student political parties at the university are also objecting to the lethargic attitude of the administration. ABVP state secretary Hushyaar Meena said, “Students are regularly calling us that classes are not being organised. Although many teachers have started taking up classes in university, but in colleges situation is really bad.” Similarly, NSUI spokesperson Ramesh Bhati said that in final semester, not a single class has been held. “I am in final semester but none of our teachers has taken our classes and neither the syllabus has been completed. They have the attitude that we will pass out this year so they are focusing on students from other years. We have complained to the university administration but teachers are still lethargic,” said Bhati. Some teachers have complained although they take online classes, students do not attend the sessions. There are classes when only five students attend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/most-ru-teachers-not-taking-online-classes-say-students/articleshow/77793965.cms||---
August 28, 2020||India||MEA: India, China to resolve issues ‘expeditiously’||NEW DELHI: The foreign ministry on Thursday said India and China had agreed “to resolve outstanding issues in an expeditious manner and in accordance with existing agreements and protocols”. This was a reiteration of the understanding arrived at the most recent meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC) held between the two countries last week. Answering questions on the current state of play in eastern Ladakh, MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said, “Complete disengagement requires re-deployment of troops by each side towards their regular posts on their respective sides of the LAC. It is natural that this can be done only through mutually agreed reciprocal actions. Thus, it is important to bear in mind that achieving this requires agreed actions by both sides.” India has been insisting that unilateral change of position on the ground was unacceptable. India has also held the entire relationship with China contingent to peace and tranquillity on the LAC. China wants to “reserve differences”, as its ambassador said here this week, looking at the LAC crisis as a “brief moment”. That is not how India sees it. “Both sides also agree that full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas would be essential for overall development of bilateral relations,” Srivastava said. The spokesperson added that foreign minister S Jaishankar has been invited to attend the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation foreign ministers’ meeting in Moscow on September 10, but that no decision had been taken. If Jaishankar does go, it would be his first meeting with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi and the first chance for the two countries to talk candidly and face-to-face. The two men had a tough conversation the morning after the Galwan Valley clashes. Russia also persuaded India to participate with China at a virtual meeting of Russia-India-China foreign ministers. But a face-to-face meeting would have a different resonance. Recalling the recent WMCC meeting, Srivastava said, “The two sides had a candid and in-depth exchange of views on the existing situation in the India-China border areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mea-india-china-to-resolve-issues-expeditiously/articleshow/77794928.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist tally crosses 13K-mark as 439 test positive for virus||Coimbatore: Covid-19 cases in the district crossed the 13,000-mark on Thursday, when it recorded 439 new cases, taking the tally to 13,398. In three days, the district has added more than 1,000 cases.The doubling time of cases in the district now stands at 23 days and at this rate, according to the health department, the total number of Covid-19 cases is likely to touch 26,000 by September-end.The toll rose to 274 with the state including 11 more deaths that occurred in the district in its bulletin.With the number of active Covid-19 cases climbing to 3,325, more than 85% of which is from the city corporation limits, all the beds at the Covid care ward for females at Codissia trade fair complex are occupied. As a result, many patients were turned away in the day.Dr Velayudham, one of the handlers of the centre, said, “We are getting D hall ready for women. It will become functional on Friday morning. We are also getting B hall ready for men with 460 beds. E hall is kept aside for families and that’s also full.”Beds are, however, available at the Covid care centres at Tejaa Shakthi College and Sasurie College and a few government hospitals, including the one in Pollachi.The number of active cases is also expected to soar to 5,000 as the number of patients getting discharged is lesser than that of the admissions.On Thursday, 357 patients were cured and discharged, taking the total number of recovered patients to 9,799.The new cases were spread across Udayampalayam (7), Sowripalayam (3), Shanmugam Street at RS Puram (4), Lakshmi Puram at Kasturi Samy Layout at Peelamedu (4), new TNHB Colony at Uppilipalayam (6), Krishnaraj Nagar at Kalampalayam (3), Anna Nagar at Ganapathy (4), Srinivasa Nagar at Jothipuram (4), Lakshmi Mills (1), Vinayagar Koil Street (4), Saibaba Colony (2), Venkittapuram (1), Krishna Colony (2), Race Course (4), Vettaikaran Kovil Street at P N Pudur (4), Nethaji Nagar and Ranganayaki Nagar in Sowripalayam (7) and Selvapuram (10), among other areas.Of the 11 deceased, one was above 80, three were in their 40s, another three in their 70s and the remaining were in their 60s.A health department official said, “Two men – a 75-year-old and a 60-year-old - died within 24 hours of hospitalization. They had comorbidities. A 60-year woman, who had a history of renal transplant, was brought dead.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-tally-crosses-13k-mark-as-439-test-positive-for-virus/articleshow/77792584.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Cow’s death: 3 men held for placing crude bomb||Coimbatore: Forest department officials on Thursday arrested three men for placing a crude bomb (avuttukkai) at Sengalpadugai near Kallar in Mettupalayam that killed a cow on August 17.They were identified as M Gunasekaran, 22, of Dhasampalayam, V Srikanth, 22 and N Krishnan, 64, of Kendaiyur near Mettupalayam. The trio, along with Krishnan’s son K Prakash, 30, had made several bombs by watching YouTube videos, said Mettupalayam forest range officer Selvaraj. “Gunasekaran, a Class X dropout, was working as a plumber. Srikanth is a wall painter and Prakash, a labourer. They wanted to kill wild boars for meat. They bought crackers used during temple festivals and extracted gunpowder from them to make avuttukkai. They tested a bomb at an agricultural field near the reserve forest. Later, they made three bombs and placed them near the agricultural fields at Sengalpadugai to hunt wild boars,” he said.A cow owned by A R Mohammed Jaffar Ali of Mettupalayam suffered injuries after it bit a bomb. Forest range officials registered a case on August 15. “After the cow died, Gunasekaran and Srikanth handed over the other two bombs to Krishnan, who hid them in his house. They have confessed to the crime,” said Selvaraj.Prakash is absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cows-death-3-men-held-for-placing-crude-bomb/articleshow/77792578.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Nagpur||‘Ordnance factories need additional investment for modernization’||Nagpur: Amid moves to corporatize the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) to improve its performance, experts in the field say the factories need to acquire a global outlook and be well versed with systems of international business procedures. Currently, access to foreign markets is restricted by non-trade barriers. For the ordnance factories to get a hold in the global market, strategic foreign policy interventions are needed, they said. Experts are of the view that transformation from domestic manufacturing powerhouse to global juggernaut can only be possible with policy support for leveraging the inherent technical strengths of the factories honed over two centuries. As the business environment in the country is transformed, ordnance factories have to develop commercial skills to be able to take advantage of emerging opportunities in the area of defence production. Competition is becoming more intense with the entry of Indian private sector firms. Earlier, the area was dominated by foreign firms. “The factories can no longer exist as a protected production agency which obtains orders on nomination basis. To accelerate the process of modernization, additional investment support will be needed,” says a note shared by sources following the chain of events in light of the corporatisation plans. Sources said the Indian ordnance factories could produce ammunition and equipment for which it had the technology, in times of need. But getting the same items through imports was difficult. “The factories have been able to indigenize 97% of its ammunition and 90% of its other items. Lately, it has developed the 155x45 mm Danish artillery gun and also up gunned the existing 13omm to 155x45mm. Research and development accounts for 25% of the factories’ revenue,” said the sources. In times of Covid the factories have started bulk manufacture of hand sanitizers and PPEs. “The testing of PPEs has also begun in seven of the factories which has eased the pressure on rest of the industry,” said an insider.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ordnance-factories-need-additional-investment-for-modernization/articleshow/77808887.cms||Shishir Arya
August 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Back on its feet and growing strong||AHMEDABAD: With drug exports growth bouncing back to pre-Covid levels and domestic sales on the revival path, the pharmaceutical industry will be among the first to come out of the disruption caused by the coronavirus pandemic. The future is even brighter for the pharma industry with countries across the world now strengthening their healthcare systems to combat Covid-19 like pandemics. “Pharma exports grew over 9% in the April-June quarter. This growth rate is almost the same the industry witnessed in pre-Covid period. The industry not only sustained the business but also managed to grow, which is an achievement given the challenges brought out by the outbreak and the lockdown,” Viranchi Shah, senior vice-president, Indian Drug Manufacturers Association (IDMA), said while speaking at the ‘Pharmaceuticals: The Road Ahead’ session’ conducted as part of The Times of India’s 4-day Virtual Conclave — Getting Back Dhandho: Making Gujarat Future Positive. The session was moderated by Sunil Parekh, advisor to Zydus Cadila Group and Jubilant Bhartia Group and the founding curator of Ahmedabad Global Shapers, a World Economic Forum Initiative. “As far as the domestic market is concerned, while acute and other therapeutic segments have suffered, sales of drugs for chronic diseases have maintained growth. The domestic market is on a revival path. With this, the pharmaceuticals will be one of the first industries to come out of Covid-19 induced disruption,” added Shah. The industry players also hoped for brighter prospects for the industry in the wake of countries sprucing up their healthcare systems to fight any possible pandemics in future. “I am pretty sure that the pharmaceutical industry, domestically and globally, is going to reach higher levels than where it was before the pandemic. As the Covid-19 situation improves, the patients will again start visiting doctors for pending ailments. As a result, business will start booming again,” said Ketan Patel, chairman and managing director, Troikaa Pharmaceuticals Limited. According to Patel, renewed focus on hygiene, quality nutrition and keeping the immune system strong will bring larger demand in the nutraceutical space. Overall, Gujarat consumes 4% of drugs sold in India. However, the state accounts for around 30% of the country’s pharmaceutical production and exports. Although, the pharmaceuticals industry has not been impacted as severely as other sectors, it certainly faced problems in supply and demand post the lockdown. Talking about the impact of the pandemic on Gujarat pharma industry, Ameesh Masurekar, founding director of pharma market research firm AIOCD AWACS, said that Gujarat’s pharma market registered a degrowth of 13% in April-June period as compared to 6% negative growth across India. “Shortage of labourers and people refraining from going to doctors and hospitals for general ailments amid fear of Covid-19 infection also contributed to the negative growth,” he added. “The focus of Gujarat’s pharma companies is indeed availability, accessibility and affordability of drugs,” said H G Koshia, commissioner, Gujarat Food and Drug Control Administration (FDCA). Despite there being no price controls, the pharma industry has made sure that it takes no benefit of the situation and has kept the cost of drugs used in the treatment such as remdesivir, favipiravir or HCQ on lower side. According to the panelists, the industry has been able to send the right message that the industry is not only there for business but also for social cause. Although Gujarat enjoys a strong presence in manufacturing drug formulations and some active pharma ingredients (APIs), the pharma firms are still heavily dependent on China for sourcing APIs, which are raw materials used to make medicines. “The government has introduced a policy regarding APIs, which help make APIs available at more economical rates. This will help boost our exports and make Gujarat as well as India more competitive in the global market,” added Mahendra Patel, managing director, Lincoln Pharmaceuticals Ltd. In order to make Gujarat self-reliant in APIs, a mega API park has been planned in the state under the central government’s Rs 10,000 crore programme to develop three mega API parks and four medical devices park across India. “Gujarat government acquired close to 1,000-acre land in Bharuch for the park. A detailed project will be submitted to the central government in the next six months,” added Koshia. A medical device park is planned to be developed near Rajkot. When asked about the competition with China, Viranchi Shah, added, “Post Covid, everybody banking on China is now looking at one additional source of supply. In pharma, there is no better option than India. Financial support and initial handholding to the industry by the government is needed to make Indian pharma industry competitive.” The industry players also stressed on the need of automation and technology adoption in areas such as digital audits and distribution channels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/back-on-its-feet-and-growing-strong/articleshow/77792669.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Officials harassing us in the name of Covid control, say traders||Coimbatore: Even as the officials crack down on shops that fail to ensure social distancing norms and have sealed commercial outlets where workers have tested positive, traders have alleged that they were being harassed in the name of Covid control.Members of Tamil Nadu Traders Association said that the Coimbatore authorities were forcing the shop owners to test all their employees even though they don’t show any symptoms for Covid. In a petition, the traders said that they welcome the Covid control measures and are ready to follow the guidelines laid down by authorities. But asking all the workers to be tested when they don’t show any symptoms would add financial burden to commercial establishments which are already suffering poor sales, they said. Pointing out that government staff were threatening with stern action if all the employees were not tested, the traders appealed to the district administration to revise its orders to the effect that only those who have symptoms are tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/officials-harassing-us-in-the-name-of-covid-control-say-traders/articleshow/77792588.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Jaipur||Farmers attempt to enter Jodhpur city for ‘mahapadav’||Jodhpur: The month-long agitation of farmers is intensifying in Jodhpur. A contingent from 10 tehsils of Jodhpur, which is camping on the city outskirts, is waiting to enter the town for demonstration. They began their march to Jodhpur three days back and after failure of two round of talks with the administration, they have been trying to enter the city to launch a ‘mahapadav’ at the Jodhpur discom headquarters. They reached Mandalnath, near Jodhpur on Thursday, leaving their vehicles behind after police stopped them. On Wednesday, they began to walk towards Jodhpur in groups, leaving main roads and continued walking until police again stopped them at Mandalnath on the outskirts of Jodhpur on Thursday. “We have been demonstrating since August 5 on various levels to draw the attention of the government to our demands. But the government has not exhibited any concern or interest in our issues,” said district president of Bhartiya Kisan Mahasangh, Naresh Vyas. It may be noted that the farmers have been consistently demanding resumption of electric subsidy of Rs 833, which has been withdrawn by the government, and exemption of electric bills of past six months apart from some other issues. The administration and discom officials have held two rounds of midnight talks with the farmers’ delegation on Tuesday and Wednesday. “Both these demands are the main demands of the farmers and they want an immediate assurance on these demands, which is not possible as both these demands are not district level demands but state level demands and only state government could take any decision,” said a district official. On the other hand, agitating farmers are not in mood to give in until their demands are met and are determined to hold a sit in at the discom office. “We are left with no alternative then to hold a mahapadav at Jodhpur as government has not been listening to our voices despite our regular attempts including submitting our demand charter to the government and administration,” said Tulcharam Sanwar, representative of Mahasangh. On the other hand, former MLA of Osain, Bhairaram Siyol also submitted a memorandum to the district administration in support of the demands of the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-attempt-to-enter-jodhpur-city-for-mahapadav/articleshow/77793982.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Nagpur||Exhibition promotes vegetables grown in wild||Yavatmal: Farmers from 16 tehsils on Thursday displayed rare vegetables grown in the wild (commonly known as ranbhaji), which were bought by curious urban consumers from 88 stalls set up at an exhibition and sale. Following instructions from the agriculture minister Dadasaheb Fusey, the agriculture department is organizing taluka-wise exhibition and sale of these vegetables across the district. The event was organized on the collector’s office premises under the aegis of Agriculture Technology Management Agency (ATMA). It was inaugurated by district guardian minister Sanjay Rathod. Prominent among those who attended the function were ZP president Kalindabai Pawar, CEO Shreekrishna Panchal and agriculture superintending officer Navnath Kolapkar. The minister also released a book ‘Ranbhaji cha mahathva va upyog’ (Importance of wild vegetables and their utility). The minister and other dignitaries visited the stalls and took information about the vegetables. In his inaugural address, the minister spoke on a variety of vegetables that grow naturally in forest areas of the district and said that the new generation is not aware of their nutritional value. “Mass awareness is needed to popularize these vegetables and their nutritional value including medicinal use,” he said. “The agriculture department must encourage farmers to cultivate and sale such vegetables so that they can also earn additional income,” said Rathod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/exhibition-promotes-vegetables-grown-in-wild/articleshow/77792554.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Delhi||North Delhi Municipal Corporation orders vigilance probe into allegations of corruption||NEW DELHI: The North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor announced a vigilance inquiry into the appointment of medical health officer (MHO) and alleged corruption in purchase of medicines. The decision was taken after AAP councillors created a ruckus in the House soon after it commenced operations on Thursday. They gathered in the well, shouted slogans and demanded suspension of MHO Ashok Rawat. Mayor Jai Prakash initially clarified that one inquiry has already been conducted by the additional commissioner to investigate the allegations of wrongful posting of MHO and “nothing came out of it”. But when ruckus continued, the mayor adjourned the house for some time. After 10-15 minutes when the house was resumed, the mayor ordered a vigilance inquiry in the matter. However, the announcement failed to please the AAP councillors. “The mayor is trying to protect the corrupt people and avoiding discussion over the wrongful appointment of an official. The issue of corruption is not going to be solved until stringent action is taken in such cases. We demanded his suspension and formation of a sub-committee with councillors from all parties as its members. But the mayor didn’t pay heed to our demand and passed the agenda. We will continue to raise the matter in future meetings also,” said AAP councillor and leader of opposition Vikas Goel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpn-orders-vigilance-probe-into-allegations-of-corruption/articleshow/77792599.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 28, 2020||Jaipur||Man hangs self, daughter found unconscious in room||Kota: A 50-year-old man allegedly committed suicide by hanging self from the ceiling fan in his room on the second floor at the Umer Colony under the Makabara police station on Thursday. His 25-year-old daughter was also found unconscious in the same room. She is undergoing treatment at the MBS Hospital in Kota. The police are yet to find the reason behind the incident. The man’s body was handed over to family members after post-mortem on Thursday. Circle inspector of Makabara police station Ranjeet Singh said the man has been identified as Izzat Hussain and his daughter Karishma. His wife and elder son had gone to deliver bidi in the market. When they returned home, they found Hussain hanging from the fan and Karishma lying unconscious nearby, he said. Singh said, the deceased man had suffered from paralysis attack on August 15 and had reportedly been in depression since then. However, he was undergoing treatment. His daughter was married, but she had been living separately from her husband with her father, he said. "The reason behind the incident is yet to be investigated as no suicide note was recovered from the room. Besides, the family members are not speaking anything at this time." He said, no marks of injury on the body or of rope around the neck of the unconscious woman were visible. She is undergoing treatment in the hospital and once she gains consciousness, her statement will be recorded to ascertain actual situation and reason behind the incident, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-hangs-self-daughter-found-unconscious-in-room/articleshow/77793988.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Five benches to hold physical hearings||NEW DELHI: After functioning virtually for nearly five months, Delhi high court will resume physical hearings in five courts from September 1. In a cautious attempt to return to normalcy amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic, the court administration on Thursday announced detailed standard operating procedures for lawyers, litigants, clerks and others for physical hearings in matters that would be heard by the five benches on a rotation-basis. Since March 24, the high court had been hearing cases through videoconferencing. Apart from these five benches, all the other courts would continue hearing matters virtually till at least end of September, said an office order issued by registrar general Manoj Jain. Consequently, all the pending non-urgent matters listed before the court from September 1-30 would be adjourned to November 3 to December 7, respectively. The cause list would specify in advance the courts that would take up matters through physical hearing and those through videoconferencing, specified the release from the court, adding that the high court would remain open for five days a week. According to the SOP uploaded on the court’s website, entry to the three court blocks for physical hearings would be restricted to only one advocate per party, whose case would be listed that day. If the litigant was appearing as party-in-person pursuing the case without any legal assistance, only then would she/he be allowed entry. Apart from the main lawyer, only senior counsels engaged in the case would be allowed inside, while the registered clerks could come only to deliver bulky case files and leave. Juniors, interns or law students associated with the advocate concerned, relative of any litigant and non-registered clerks would not be allowed entry, the SOP said. It noted that people displaying symptoms of flu, fever and cough would not be permitted. All those allowed entry would have to mandatorily wear mask at all times, undergo thermal screening at the designated entry points, sanitise hands at the time of entry, follow social and physical distancing of six feet and adhere to all the directions and guidelines issued by the government. To ensure strict adherence to the norm of social distancing, seats in each courtroom have been limited to bare minimum and entry time to any court block regulated as per the time slots mentioned in the cause list for different batches. The SOP added that each batch should consist of 10 cases and no person be permitted entry inside the court blocks before the designated time-slot. Watch Delhi HC to resume physical hearings in five courts from September 1||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/5-benches-to-hold-physical-hearings/articleshow/77792595.cms||Abhinav Garg
August 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Five Covid hotspots identified in Salem||Salem: The district recorded 413 fresh cases on Thursday, pushing its Covid-19 tally to 9,379. Deputy director of health services Dr J Nirmalson said 3,031 people are currently being treated in the district, while 126 people have died of the infection. Till date, 6,222 people have been discharged from private and government hospitals in the district.The health department said nearly 60% of the cases have been reported from the municipal corporation limits. Based on this input, the corporation has identified five Covid-19 hotspots in the city, from where most number of cases are being reported. The hotspots have been identified as Shevapet, Kitchipalayam, Ponnammapet, Kalarampatty and Dadhagapatty.“We have formed 65 medical teams and special camps are being conducted. We will control the positive cases within 20 days in these hotspot areas,” he said.The commissioner said barring Shevapet, the remaining hotpsots have narrow roads, with most streets having houses with no space between each other. “Even Shevapet is well known for commercial buildings with trading activities,” he said.Containment measures in these five hotspots is proving to be a hectic task for the health department, an official said.The commissioner has further directed health department officials to conduct medical camps on a daily basis in these areas. “We have planned to carry out at least three camps in a day to cover all the 450 streets within 15 days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/five-covid-hotspots-identified-in-salem/articleshow/77792600.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Vadodara||Godhra’s procession ritual broken this fest||Vadodara: A 68-year-old tradition of bringing out a procession for Ganesha immersion was not followed for the first time in Godhra. The town has a tradition of bringing out a single procession of Ganpati idols for immersion which culminates at the Ramsagar pond. Ganpati festivities in Godhra were organised inside temples or households 68 years ago. It was decided to hold these publicly and the festival at Vishwakarma temple in the town’s Vishwakarma Chowk was organised as a public festival. Similar events were held across the town and the number of pandals organised in the town increased over the years. Since then the Ganpati immersion procession begins in Vishwakarma chowk where all idols are assembled and the procession heading towards Ramsagar pond passes through some of the sensitive areas of the town. The pandemic, however, ensured that this tradition was sacrificed for greater good. The idols were immersed at their respective locations, while those going to Ramsagar pond were sent back by the police. Meetings with the organisers and other measures were taken by the administration to ensure safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/godhras-procession-ritual-broken-this-fest/articleshow/77791575.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Coimbatore||AAI warns job aspirants to be wary of fake ads||Salem: The Airport Authority of India (AAI) has warned job aspirants not to fall prey to fake advertisements offering jobs in its name. According to director of Salem airport V K Ravindra Sharma, AAI recently noticed fake advertisements promising jobs to aspirants in its name. Desperate candidates are reaching AAI with complaints ranging from fake vacancy advertisements to forged appointment letters for which they had paid money. “A few aspirants had approached the Salem airport with fake appointment letters,” the director said. Ravindra Sharma clarified that AAI has not set up any agency or website to advertise job vacancies or accept any applications for recruitment. “All the vacancies and recruitment in AAI are notified on AAI’s official website (www.aai.aero) and other leading newspapers. Only application fee is payable at the time of online registration and no other payments are sought at any stages of recruitment.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/aai-warns-job-aspirants-to-be-wary-of-fake-ads/articleshow/77792592.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Arrear students place banner praising CM||Erode: A day after the state government cancelled arrear exams for college students, a flex banner came up at Kollampalayam in the city on Thursday praising chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami for making the announcement. Motorists travelling on the Kollampalayam Main Road noticed the flex banner. Titled as ‘arrear-manavargalin arasane (king of arrear students)’, the banner has a couplet from Thirukkural. The students have also praised the CM in the banner. The Surampatty police came to the spot and removed the flex banner. A case was also registered by police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/arrear-students-place-banner-praising-cm/articleshow/77792596.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Staff of section affected by fire to assist probe||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government on Thursday appointed officials from the sensitive general administration department (political) section to assist the disaster management team probing the fire that broke out in the same section of the secretariat on Tuesday evening. The opposition has alleged that the fire was a sabotage allegedly orchestrated with the help a section of officials working there. According to an order issued by the department on Thursday evening, government appointed under-secretary and state additional protocol officer A P Rajeevan, section officer Sudarshanan and section assistants Hari P Nair and Pramod would assist the probe team led by disaster management commissioner A Kowsigan. The official on whose seat the fire broke out has also been included. In the order, the government has said these officials have been appointed as per the request of the committee. However, government sources said even though the probe team is expected to take statements from officials of the section, it was not justified on the part of the government to appoint the same officials to assist the team. The committee has been asked to submit its report in a week. Meanwhile, BJP state president K Surendran said the ministers are deliberately trying to mislead the probe. He asked how could the ministers reach a conclusion before completing the probe and said ministers E P Jayarajan, T M Thomas Isaac and G Sudhakaran are explaining things in different ways. Also on Thursday, governor Arif Mohammed Khan forwarded the complaint submitted by opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, for ‘appropriate consideration’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/staff-of-section-affectedby-fire-to-assist-probe/articleshow/77791262.cms||KP Saikiran
August 28, 2020||Jaipur||‘Revive old water harvesting structures’||Jaipur: Experts and officials on Thursday appealed to people to conserve water by reviving traditional water harvesting structures.  Speaking at a webinar on water security and challenges, the experts said there is an urgent need to strengthen government policies and planning. “The community should support conservation of water and focus on traditional water harvesting structures which are important for water conservation,” said Superintendent Engineer Satish Kumar Jain of the Public Health and Engineering Department.  He also highlighted the role of the government in water conservation.  The Director of Jaipur's Centre for Environment and Development Studies, M S Rathore, said the government should strengthen the role of civil societies in supplying and distributing water equitably. “The government should ensure that slums get the water they need,” he said at the webinar organised by the Centre for Advocacy and Research (CFAR).  He also said water should be managed in a decentralised way, and communities should be made responsible for managing it. Affirming the idea of community engagement, Jaipur Municipal Corporation's Executive Engineer Manoj Goswami shared the government vision of managing community toilets with community support. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/revive-old-water-harvesting-structures/articleshow/77793994.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops save man from killing self||Hyderabad: Three cops from Chandrayangutta were felicitated by Hyderabad CP for saving a man’s life as he was attempting suicide. A house owner reached out to the Chandrayangutta cops saying his tenant in Phoolbagh area had locked his room and attempting to kill himself. Additional Inspector N Prasad Varma, SI Mohd Shafi along with Mohd Ibrahim rushed to the spot and rescued him. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-save-man-from-killing-self/articleshow/77792624.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Delhi||District officials in Delhi crack the whip on mask violations||NEW DELHI: While Covid-19 testing is going to be doubled as a measure to contain the spread, district authorities in Delhi have also stepped up action against people for violations like not wearing face masks or spitting in public, not maintaining social distancing norms, etc. Increased testing and enforcement are going to be two important tools in the fight against Covid-19 in the capital. While district administration has also been penalising people for Covid-19 related violations, the lion’s share of prosecution is being done by Delhi Police. Sources in Delhi government said that in a meeting on Wednesday, chief secretary Vijay Dev directed senior district officials to carry out strict enforcement drives. “The district administration has been diligently carrying out perimeter control and aggressive testing at containment zones and bulk of challans for violating Covid-19 norms were done by Delhi Police personnel. However, now we have put more focus on enforcement too,” said a North district official. “We started an awareness campaign and prosecution drive on Wednesday itself,” he added. Many districts, including the North district, have increased the number of ‘mobile units’ for enforcement drives. “We have set up nine teams, which have senior revenue officials, a civil defence volunteer and a Delhi Police personnel. We are visiting areas that are sensitive from the point of view of social distancing and prosecuting people. More people will start following safety protocols in next three to four days,” the official said. “We are ensuring strict enforcement and apart from Delhi Police, our administration, including sub-divisional magistrates, is also keeping watch,” said Harleen Kaur, District Magistrate (South-East), adding that particular focus is kept on weekly markets that have recently opened. “We are very alert and work is being done in a coordinated manner,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/district-officials-crack-the-whip-on-mask-violations/articleshow/77792602.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 28, 2020||Jaipur||Two detained on suspicion of spying||JAISALMER: Two persons have been detained on suspicion of espionage, based on information from the BSF in Barmer district. They have been taken to police station for inquiry. Many numbers in their phones have been found suspicious. These numbers were found to be international & strategic photographs related to defence were also found in them, which were sent to Jaipur central investigation centre on Thursday for investigation and intensive inquiry. In their phones, lot of important information like photos of the BSF, information on roads and other details have been found. In the other matter, in which ATS has detained Mushtaq Khan, he was also sent to Jaipur for interrogation. Police official sources said that on information from BSF, police detained two suspicious persons in the border belt in Chauhatan area (Barmer district) identified as Vikram Jat and Rewta Ram Jat, residents of Nagna police station area in Barmer. They work as labourers in Bharatmala project and there are around 30-40 numbers of Pakistan, Iran, Saudi Arabia etc. in their phones, along with photos of under-construction roads, other sensitive areas and other information which they have shared with the international numbers. Confirming the matter, Barmer SP Anand Sharma said two labourers working in Bharatmala project were found suspicious and were sent to CIC, Jaipur on Thursday for investigation and intensive inquiry. On the other hand, sources said that the link of Mushtaq Khan (detained by ATS 2 days ago) with ISI is getting thicker. He had also come to border areas of Jaisalmer. He had gone to Longewala area and visited war museum and has sent photos across the border. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-detained-on-suspicion-of-spying/articleshow/77793991.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||APTDC ties up with KGH to provide meals at Covid centre||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) will collaborate with King George Hospital (KGH) to supply breakfast, lunch and dinner free of cost for Covid-19 patients and staff at the new CSR block, which will start functioning as a 500-bed Covid centre from September. The packed food will be prepared at Haritha Hotel kitchen following government standard operating protocols (SOP). Regional director of AP tourism and executive director of APTDC (Visakhapatnam hub) AV Ramaprasad is the nodal officer from the revenue side in charge of supplying food to the CSR block. “On Wednesday, as per district administration orders, we had requested the divisional manager of APTDC, Vizag, Prasad Reddy for supplying packed food for Covid-19 patients and staff as per the government-approved menu, conditions and rates as and when the patients are admitted. The invoice would be raised in the name of the superintendent of KGH,” said Dr PV Sudhakar, principal of AMC and in-charge superintendent of KGH. M Krishna Mohan, marketing manager of APTDC-Vizag said, “We are waiting for the work order or instructions from the KGH management and then we can start sending the food packets in disposable containers for the patients. We are willing to cater to more patients if required in future. The food will be prepared with utmost care as per government SOP and would be daily handed over to the coordinator of the CSR block.” The meals will consist of a morning drink of ragijava with jaggery and milk followed by breakfast at 8.30 am, which would have a south Indian menu along with tea or coffee. Lunch at 12.30 pm will comprise rice or roti, vegetable or chicken curry, dal and curd or fruit, and dinner at 7.30 pm will be rice or roti, vegetable curry, two boiled eggs and curd or fruit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/aptdc-ties-up-with-kgh-to-provide-meals-at-covid-centre/articleshow/77791248.cms||Sulogna Mehta
August 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Wedding halls to be turned into Covid-19 care centres||Coimbatore: With the district expected to record 450 to 500 cases of novel coronavirus daily for the next one week, the city corporation and the health department are working on to set up more Covid care centres to treat the increasing number of active cases, which now stands at 3,325.Two popular wedding venues - Suguna Kalyana Mandapam at Kalapatti and Adithya Convention Centre at Saravanampatti - would soon be converted into Covid care centres. The move comes two months after setting up one such centre at Codissia trade fair complex, which also used to host weddings among other events. Six months ago, all these facilities were used to host either the most prestigious conferences or colourful weddings. In stark contrast, now they would be equipped with hundreds of beds, medicines, doctors and nurses to treat the people who test positive for Covid-19.The city corporation has also taken over Muthusamy Mudaliar Kalyana Mandapam in Kuniamuthur and the facility would most likely be turned into a triage centre for Covid-19.The city corporation would also convert physical education students’ hostel at Bharathiar University and students’ hostel at Anna University’s regional centre into Covid care centres with 450 and 200 beds, respectively. The alumni association’s Rajalakshmi auditorium at the Government College of Technology would, meanwhile, be turned into the triage centre for the west zone.District revenue officer Ramadurai Murugan confirmed that they have taken over Suguna Kalyana Mandapam, which will be equipped with 300 beds, and two halls at Adithya Convention Centre. “The city corporation will decide on the number of beds to be set up at Adithya Convention Centre.”Health officials have, meanwhile, inspected Suguna Kalyana Mandapam on Avinashi Road, sending out signals that they might also take over the facility.Muthusamy Mudaliar Kalyana Mandapam’s manager said the decision to take over the facility was conveyed to them only on Wednesday night. “Officials are taking it over for four months. We were renting it out for small functions with a crowd of less than 100 for the past five months.”In fact, Suguna Kalyana Mandapam at Kalapatti hadn’t also received any prior intimation on taking over the facility and its management had to cancel booking for a wedding that was to take place on Friday. They were told about the takeover move only on Wednesday.This sudden takeover has prompted owners of two small wedding halls on Mettupalayam Road and Chinniyampalayam to ask the people, who have made bookings for weddings for September and October, to keep other options ready. “We are now ensuring that we have the money to return booking advances,” said owner of the marriage hall on Mettupalayam Road.On their part, many families are planning to hold weddings and other functions at home, with a crowd of less than 50 people. Vignesh Rajaram, father of a bride whose wedding is scheduled for September, said, “Our plan is to hold the function at home with just close relatives in a simple manner.”Officials said they were arranging more beds as a precautionary measure. “Presently, we have around 6,500 beds in hospitals and Covid care centres, of which 1,165 are in government hospitals. Now, 250 beds are available in government hospitals and primary centres and another 1,500 beds in government-run Covid care centres,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/wedding-halls-to-be-turned-into-covid-19-care-centres/articleshow/77792631.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Mobile phone thief arrested||Coimbatore: A 35-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday evening on charges of stealing mobile phones from gated communities. Four phones were recovered from him. The accused, identified as R Naveendranathan from Thrissur in Kerala, was a seasoned burglar and he used to break into apartments early in the morning, when most were asleep. He was mostly dressed in a tracksuit and a jogging gear, which he used as a facade to enter gated communities without anybody doubting his identity.Police said he was a school dropout and was involved in a petty theft case in Thrissur. Later, he moved to Bengaluru where he was working in a hotel. Due to the lockdown, he moved to Coimbatore from Bengaluru two months ago. He was currently staying at a lodge near Coimbatore central prison.Race Course (crime) police inspector Sujatha said Naveendranathan is involved in a series of mobile phone theft cases reported from five apartments in the past two months. Police said he entered a house in an apartment on Avinashi Road on August 7 and took away an expensive mobile phone belonging to a bharatanatyam teacher. Likewise, he entered four more apartments in Race Course police station limits. “Our special team followed him for the past two months. Finally, we arrested him and seized four mobile phones. He is well-versed in Malayalam, Tamil, English, Hindi and Kannada,” said inspector Sujatha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mobile-phone-thief-arrested/articleshow/77792636.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Jaipur||CID arrests Barmer double agent for espionage, scans his bank accounts||JAIPUR: Mushtaq Ali Khan, 40, got in touch with ISI agents while visiting Pakistan almost two years ago and started spying for the agency. The CID (Special Branch) on Thursday arrested Khan after his joint interrogation and collecting incriminating evidences against him. A case under appropriate sections of Official Secrets Act has also been registered against him. Senior officials of the intelligence wing of Rajasthan police stated that the preliminary investigation suggested that as an Indian national visiting Pakistan it is a must to have attendance at police station in Pakistan every evening. “ISI agents usually approach Indians, especially those visiting from border districts, when they come to police stations. It appears that he was allured with money by ISI agents during his visit to Pakistan in 2018. Since then he was sending important information, whatever sought from him by his Pakistani handlers,” Umesh Mishra, additional director general (ADG, Intelligence) told TOI on Thursday. He added that after getting evidences, the accused Khan has been arrested under Section 3 and Section 3/9 of the Official Secrets Act. A joint intelligence team had been interrogating Khan for the past four days following his involvement in espionage as revealed by the state’s Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS). “All his social networking accounts and bank accounts are being scanned. Also, it has to be ascertained as to how much money was paid to him to reveal the secret information,” said a senior officer. Senior officers said that people of western Rajasthan, whenever they visit Pakistan, are threatened as a well as allured to pass on sensitive information. “In the past cases too, it was revealed that ISI agents are active at various police stations in Pakistan. Whenever Indians visit the police station for paper formalities they are threatened or allured to send the information they want,” said a senior officer. Khan’s father Khandu Khan was arrested by Kotwali police station of Barmer on August 9 with illegal possession of counterfeit currency notes and narcotics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cid-arrests-barmer-double-agent-for-espionage-scans-his-bank-accounts/articleshow/77793999.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Kochi||Important files moved out of Secretariat: Chennithala||Thrissur: Leader of opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Thursday reiterated his allegation that the recent fire in the Secretariat was part of a design to destroy evidence regarding the controversial gold smuggling case and other scams. Chennithala was inaugurating the fast organized by UDF demanding CBI inquiry into the alleged corruption and irregularities in the construction of the flats under the Life Mission-UAE Red Crescent housing project at Wadakkanchery. Chennithala alleged that several important files, including those related to the UAE consulate and embassy were taken away from the Secretariat. The leader of opposition pointed out that of the Rs 20 crore allocated for the flat complex and a healthcare project, Rs 4.25 crore has been drained out as commission. If GST is also taken into account only Rs 11 crore will be actually available for the two projects. No permit for Life Mission project: Akkara Wadakkanchery MLA Anil Akkara said that RTI replies indicate that no building permit was received from the municipality for the flat complex and health centre now being constructed at Wadakkanchery. According to him, the present permit is granted by the municipality for 203 units which has been designed by Habitat for Life Mission. The Red Crescent has informed that it was planning to construct a township with 140 houses and a health centre. Unitac, which is the new execution agency, has not received any permit for the new plan it has designed from the municipality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/important-files-moved-out-of-secretariat-chennithala/articleshow/77791316.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Man shares child porn, arrested||Coimbatore: A 40-year-old man was arrested for uploading and sharing child pornography on social media.Police identified the accused as K Balakrishnadass alias Balaji, of Rajaji Road at Ram Nagar. A bachelor, he is engaged in printing flex banners.A police officer said Balaji was in the habit of watching child pornography on mobile phone. “He used to download the videos for watching them again. On August 15 evening, he uploaded some videos on a pornography website and shared them with his friends on social media.”The National Crime Records Bureau and National Centre for Missing and Exploited Children, meanwhile, collected the internet protocol address of the device that Balaji used to upload and share child pornography and sent that to the officials of crime against women and children in Chennai.Officials in Chennai shared the details with the city cybercrime police who on Wednesday traced Balaji, picked him up and handed him over to Kattoor police sub-inspector Muthu.Balaji was subsequently booked under Sections 67A (punishment for publishing or transmitting of material containing sexually explicit act, etc., in electronic form) and 67B (punishment for publishing or transmitting of material depicting children in sexually explicit act, etc., in electronic form) of the Information Technology Act, 2000, and Section 15(1) (punishment for storage of pornographic material involving child) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-shares-child-porn-arrested/articleshow/77792611.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Simhachalam trust board meeting held||Visakhapatnam: The Simhachalam Devasthanam trust board listed over ten proposals to improve the temple’s revenue sources in its virtual meeting on Thursday. The discussion focused on the lease of around 16 acres of temple land to private persons for setting up commercial complexes, kalyan mandapams and parking spaces that could fetch revenue. However, the board members said the decision to lease out the temple’s lands to private parties calls for more detailed discussions. Executive officer of the temple, D Bhraramba, said the government has issued guidelines on leasing out temple land. Land that is not disputed may be given on lease. A proposal to increase the toll-gate tariff at Simhachalam hill was raised. The appointment of a sub-committee for development of the temple, revenue sources and sanitation were also discussed, the members said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/simhachalam-trust-board-meeting-held/articleshow/77791290.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Chennai||4 lakh and counting: Eased norms to push up Tamil Nadu's Covid count||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu reached a grim milestone 173 days after its first Covid-19 case – the case tally reached four lakh and the death toll inched towards 7,000. “It’s a sad milestone and we should be prepared for many more,” said National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Prabhdeep Kaur, who is on the state task force to combat the pandemic. The state added 5,981 fresh cases on Thursday taking the total to 4,03,242. The toll rose to 6,948 with 109 more deaths. At the end of the day, there were 52,364 people still under treatment across the state. This includes 13,450 patients in Chennai, the state’s epicentre. “As we plan to relax lockdown andslowly open business, public transport, malls and theatres, cases are likely to go up and the doubling period may come down. We are seeing this happen in some best performing countries such as Spain, Germany and Japan,” Kaur said. In the absence of a drug of choice and a vaccine, the only tools left with the state are aggressive screening, isolation of positive cases and early treatment, she said. The state saw1.57 lakh fresh cases and more than 3,000 deaths in August. The state has been recording a daily average of 5,800 cases and 112 deaths. “We seem to have plateaued. The aggressive effort now is push the curve down,“ said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “Cases may increase, but our doctorshave adequateexperience in handling the situation now. Our deaths rate is still one of the lowest in the country and our recovery rate is over 80%. We are working out ways to minimise deaths ,” he said. Chennai reported 1,286 cases and 32 deaths, while the three neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (323), Chengalpet (298), and Kancheepuram (256) together clocked 877 cases and 24 deaths. The bed occupancy in the city’s four medical college hospitals was more than 71%. The 11 northern districts including Chennai reported 52% of the fresh cases and 58% of the deaths in the state. While the west continues to report more cases than the south, for the first time active cases in the eight western districts (9,479) exceeded those in the southern districts (9,424). Coimbatore (439) and Salem(13) had the most fresh cases in the west, followed by Tiruppur (96) and Namakkal(84). There were 21deathsin the zone,of which11 were from Coimbatore. Five districts in the South – Theni (130), Virudhunagar (152), Tirunelveli (118), Kanyakumari (104), Dindigul (102) --registered cases in three digits. Together the ten districts recorded 11 deaths. While the eight central districts together reported 682 cases, most cases came from Pudukottai (136), Thanjavur (122) and Trichy (113). The districts together reported13 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/4l-counting-eased-norms-to-push-up-covid-count-in-state/articleshow/77792666.cms||Pushpa Narayan
August 28, 2020||Trichy||4 lakh and counting: Eased norms to push up Tamil Nadu's Covid count||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu reached a grim milestone 173 days after its first Covid-19 case – the case tally reached four lakh and the death toll inched towards 7,000. “It’s a sad milestone and we should be prepared for many more,” said National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Prabhdeep Kaur, who is on the state task force to combat the pandemic. The state added 5,981 fresh cases on Thursday taking the total to 4,03,242. The toll rose to 6,948 with 109 more deaths. At the end of the day, there were 52,364 people still under treatment across the state. This includes 13,450 patients in Chennai, the state’s epicentre. “As we plan to relax lockdown andslowly open business, public transport, malls and theatres, cases are likely to go up and the doubling period may come down. We are seeing this happen in some best performing countries such as Spain, Germany and Japan,” Kaur said. In the absence of a drug of choice and a vaccine, the only tools left with the state are aggressive screening, isolation of positive cases and early treatment, she said. The state saw1.57 lakh fresh cases and more than 3,000 deaths in August. The state has been recording a daily average of 5,800 cases and 112 deaths. “We seem to have plateaued. The aggressive effort now is push the curve down,“ said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “Cases may increase, but our doctorshave adequateexperience in handling the situation now. Our deaths rate is still one of the lowest in the country and our recovery rate is over 80%. We are working out ways to minimise deaths ,” he said. Chennai reported 1,286 cases and 32 deaths, while the three neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (323), Chengalpet (298), and Kancheepuram (256) together clocked 877 cases and 24 deaths. The bed occupancy in the city’s four medical college hospitals was more than 71%. The 11 northern districts including Chennai reported 52% of the fresh cases and 58% of the deaths in the state. While the west continues to report more cases than the south, for the first time active cases in the eight western districts (9,479) exceeded those in the southern districts (9,424). Coimbatore (439) and Salem(13) had the most fresh cases in the west, followed by Tiruppur (96) and Namakkal(84). There were 21deathsin the zone,of which11 were from Coimbatore. Five districts in the South – Theni (130), Virudhunagar (152), Tirunelveli (118), Kanyakumari (104), Dindigul (102) --registered cases in three digits. Together the ten districts recorded 11 deaths. While the eight central districts together reported 682 cases, most cases came from Pudukottai (136), Thanjavur (122) and Trichy (113). The districts together reported13 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/4l-counting-eased-norms-to-push-up-covid-count-in-state/articleshow/77795031.cms||Pushpa Narayan
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Centres to be shifted out in a day or two, say officials||Hyderabad: Education department officials said that it would take a day or two for all the Covid-19 testing centres to be moved out of government schools. Meanwhile, teachers have said that they should be allowed to work from home until then. Officials said that for the time being, teachers can go to nearby government schools if they are not comfortable working on the same premises that house Covid testing centres. “Almost all Covid-19 testing centres were moved out of the schools by Thursday evening. Few centres in Cantonment will be moved out by tomorrow,” said B Venkata Narasamma, the district education officer, Hyderabad. She said that there is enough space for teachers to maintain physical distancing even with the centres running from one part of the school and added that the school in Banjara Hills, in fact, has two separate gates, of which only one is being used by those coming for testing. Teachers, meanwhile, also demanded that only 33% or 50% of staff should be asked to attend school every day and added that all health support should be provided through local primary healthcare centres. They said that all Covid-19 positive teachers, who are currently under isolation/quarantine/or hospitalized, should be treated as on duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centres-to-be-shifted-out-in-a-day-or-two-say-officials/articleshow/77792681.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Madurai||4 lakh and counting: Eased norms to push up Tamil Nadu's Covid count||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu reached a grim milestone 173 days after its first Covid-19 case – the case tally reached four lakh and the death toll inched towards 7,000. “It’s a sad milestone and we should be prepared for many more,” said National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Prabhdeep Kaur, who is on the state task force to combat the pandemic. The state added 5,981 fresh cases on Thursday taking the total to 4,03,242. The toll rose to 6,948 with 109 more deaths. At the end of the day, there were 52,364 people still under treatment across the state. This includes 13,450 patients in Chennai, the state’s epicentre. “As we plan to relax lockdown andslowly open business, public transport, malls and theatres, cases are likely to go up and the doubling period may come down. We are seeing this happen in some best performing countries such as Spain, Germany and Japan,” Kaur said. In the absence of a drug of choice and a vaccine, the only tools left with the state are aggressive screening, isolation of positive cases and early treatment, she said. The state saw1.57 lakh fresh cases and more than 3,000 deaths in August. The state has been recording a daily average of 5,800 cases and 112 deaths. “We seem to have plateaued. The aggressive effort now is push the curve down,“ said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “Cases may increase, but our doctorshave adequateexperience in handling the situation now. Our deaths rate is still one of the lowest in the country and our recovery rate is over 80%. We are working out ways to minimise deaths ,” he said. Chennai reported 1,286 cases and 32 deaths, while the three neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (323), Chengalpet (298), and Kancheepuram (256) together clocked 877 cases and 24 deaths. The bed occupancy in the city’s four medical college hospitals was more than 71%. The 11 northern districts including Chennai reported 52% of the fresh cases and 58% of the deaths in the state. While the west continues to report more cases than the south, for the first time active cases in the eight western districts (9,479) exceeded those in the southern districts (9,424). Coimbatore (439) and Salem(13) had the most fresh cases in the west, followed by Tiruppur (96) and Namakkal(84). There were 21deathsin the zone,of which11 were from Coimbatore. Five districts in the South – Theni (130), Virudhunagar (152), Tirunelveli (118), Kanyakumari (104), Dindigul (102) --registered cases in three digits. Together the ten districts recorded 11 deaths. While the eight central districts together reported 682 cases, most cases came from Pudukottai (136), Thanjavur (122) and Trichy (113). The districts together reported13 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/4l-counting-eased-norms-to-push-up-covid-count-in-state/articleshow/77795029.cms||Pushpa Narayan
August 28, 2020||Erode||4 lakh and counting: Eased norms to push up Tamil Nadu's Covid count||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu reached a grim milestone 173 days after its first Covid-19 case – the case tally reached four lakh and the death toll inched towards 7,000. “It’s a sad milestone and we should be prepared for many more,” said National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Prabhdeep Kaur, who is on the state task force to combat the pandemic. The state added 5,981 fresh cases on Thursday taking the total to 4,03,242. The toll rose to 6,948 with 109 more deaths. At the end of the day, there were 52,364 people still under treatment across the state. This includes 13,450 patients in Chennai, the state’s epicentre. “As we plan to relax lockdown andslowly open business, public transport, malls and theatres, cases are likely to go up and the doubling period may come down. We are seeing this happen in some best performing countries such as Spain, Germany and Japan,” Kaur said. In the absence of a drug of choice and a vaccine, the only tools left with the state are aggressive screening, isolation of positive cases and early treatment, she said. The state saw1.57 lakh fresh cases and more than 3,000 deaths in August. The state has been recording a daily average of 5,800 cases and 112 deaths. “We seem to have plateaued. The aggressive effort now is push the curve down,“ said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “Cases may increase, but our doctorshave adequateexperience in handling the situation now. Our deaths rate is still one of the lowest in the country and our recovery rate is over 80%. We are working out ways to minimise deaths ,” he said. Chennai reported 1,286 cases and 32 deaths, while the three neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (323), Chengalpet (298), and Kancheepuram (256) together clocked 877 cases and 24 deaths. The bed occupancy in the city’s four medical college hospitals was more than 71%. The 11 northern districts including Chennai reported 52% of the fresh cases and 58% of the deaths in the state. While the west continues to report more cases than the south, for the first time active cases in the eight western districts (9,479) exceeded those in the southern districts (9,424). Coimbatore (439) and Salem(13) had the most fresh cases in the west, followed by Tiruppur (96) and Namakkal(84). There were 21deathsin the zone,of which11 were from Coimbatore. Five districts in the South – Theni (130), Virudhunagar (152), Tirunelveli (118), Kanyakumari (104), Dindigul (102) --registered cases in three digits. Together the ten districts recorded 11 deaths. While the eight central districts together reported 682 cases, most cases came from Pudukottai (136), Thanjavur (122) and Trichy (113). The districts together reported13 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/4l-counting-eased-norms-to-push-up-covid-count-in-state/articleshow/77795028.cms||Pushpa Narayan
August 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Terminator’ train to chug along, without the fanfare||NEW DELHI: A “terminator” train will be flagged off from New Delhi railway station on Friday to curb mosquito breeding along the railway tracks and waterbodies falling on the route. However, the launch will be done without much fanfare because of the pandemic. South Delhi Municipal Corporation said that like every year, the train will run during the monsoon period from August 28 to October 2 in association with Northern Railway. “The train, equipped with power sprayers to kill the insects, will start operations at 11am and cover various areas across Delhi,” said a senior official. While the SDMC commissioner and senior railway officers will flag off the train, only select municipal employees who will be spraying the insecticide will be allowed inside the station. “Truck-mounted power sprayers will be provided to workers for spraying the insecticides up to a distance of 50-60 metres along the tracks, especially near residential areas, drains, waterbodies and water collection points,” said the official. The train will move at a speed of 20kmph and cover a distance of about 150km in each cycle. In all, 10 cycles will be conducted. The train will pass through Tilak Bridge, Lajpat Nagar, Nizamuddin, Delhi Cantonment, Sarai Rohilla, Palam and other parts of north and east Delhi, such as Kishanganj, Adarsh Nagar, Sabzi Mandi, Narela and Shahdara. “Besides waterbodies, insecticides will be sprayed in depressions on both sides of tracks where chances of mosquito breeding remain high after rain. Though cases of dengue and chikungunya remain low this year, we are taking all precautions,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/terminator-train-to-chug-along-without-the-fanfare/articleshow/77792655.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 28, 2020||Salem||4 lakh and counting: Eased norms to push up Tamil Nadu's Covid count||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu reached a grim milestone 173 days after its first Covid-19 case – the case tally reached four lakh and the death toll inched towards 7,000. “It’s a sad milestone and we should be prepared for many more,” said National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Prabhdeep Kaur, who is on the state task force to combat the pandemic. The state added 5,981 fresh cases on Thursday taking the total to 4,03,242. The toll rose to 6,948 with 109 more deaths. At the end of the day, there were 52,364 people still under treatment across the state. This includes 13,450 patients in Chennai, the state’s epicentre. “As we plan to relax lockdown andslowly open business, public transport, malls and theatres, cases are likely to go up and the doubling period may come down. We are seeing this happen in some best performing countries such as Spain, Germany and Japan,” Kaur said. In the absence of a drug of choice and a vaccine, the only tools left with the state are aggressive screening, isolation of positive cases and early treatment, she said. The state saw1.57 lakh fresh cases and more than 3,000 deaths in August. The state has been recording a daily average of 5,800 cases and 112 deaths. “We seem to have plateaued. The aggressive effort now is push the curve down,“ said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “Cases may increase, but our doctorshave adequateexperience in handling the situation now. Our deaths rate is still one of the lowest in the country and our recovery rate is over 80%. We are working out ways to minimise deaths ,” he said. Chennai reported 1,286 cases and 32 deaths, while the three neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (323), Chengalpet (298), and Kancheepuram (256) together clocked 877 cases and 24 deaths. The bed occupancy in the city’s four medical college hospitals was more than 71%. The 11 northern districts including Chennai reported 52% of the fresh cases and 58% of the deaths in the state. While the west continues to report more cases than the south, for the first time active cases in the eight western districts (9,479) exceeded those in the southern districts (9,424). Coimbatore (439) and Salem(13) had the most fresh cases in the west, followed by Tiruppur (96) and Namakkal(84). There were 21deathsin the zone,of which11 were from Coimbatore. Five districts in the South – Theni (130), Virudhunagar (152), Tirunelveli (118), Kanyakumari (104), Dindigul (102) --registered cases in three digits. Together the ten districts recorded 11 deaths. While the eight central districts together reported 682 cases, most cases came from Pudukottai (136), Thanjavur (122) and Trichy (113). The districts together reported13 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/4l-counting-eased-norms-to-push-up-covid-count-in-state/articleshow/77795032.cms||Pushpa Narayan
August 28, 2020||Coimbatore||4 lakh and counting: Eased norms to push up Tamil Nadu's Covid count||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu reached a grim milestone 173 days after its first Covid-19 case – the case tally reached four lakh and the death toll inched towards 7,000. “It’s a sad milestone and we should be prepared for many more,” said National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Prabhdeep Kaur, who is on the state task force to combat the pandemic. The state added 5,981 fresh cases on Thursday taking the total to 4,03,242. The toll rose to 6,948 with 109 more deaths. At the end of the day, there were 52,364 people still under treatment across the state. This includes 13,450 patients in Chennai, the state’s epicentre. “As we plan to relax lockdown andslowly open business, public transport, malls and theatres, cases are likely to go up and the doubling period may come down. We are seeing this happen in some best performing countries such as Spain, Germany and Japan,” Kaur said. In the absence of a drug of choice and a vaccine, the only tools left with the state are aggressive screening, isolation of positive cases and early treatment, she said. The state saw1.57 lakh fresh cases and more than 3,000 deaths in August. The state has been recording a daily average of 5,800 cases and 112 deaths. “We seem to have plateaued. The aggressive effort now is push the curve down,“ said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “Cases may increase, but our doctorshave adequateexperience in handling the situation now. Our deaths rate is still one of the lowest in the country and our recovery rate is over 80%. We are working out ways to minimise deaths ,” he said. Chennai reported 1,286 cases and 32 deaths, while the three neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (323), Chengalpet (298), and Kancheepuram (256) together clocked 877 cases and 24 deaths. The bed occupancy in the city’s four medical college hospitals was more than 71%. The 11 northern districts including Chennai reported 52% of the fresh cases and 58% of the deaths in the state. While the west continues to report more cases than the south, for the first time active cases in the eight western districts (9,479) exceeded those in the southern districts (9,424). Coimbatore (439) and Salem(13) had the most fresh cases in the west, followed by Tiruppur (96) and Namakkal(84). There were 21deathsin the zone,of which11 were from Coimbatore. Five districts in the South – Theni (130), Virudhunagar (152), Tirunelveli (118), Kanyakumari (104), Dindigul (102) --registered cases in three digits. Together the ten districts recorded 11 deaths. While the eight central districts together reported 682 cases, most cases came from Pudukottai (136), Thanjavur (122) and Trichy (113). The districts together reported13 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/4l-counting-eased-norms-to-push-up-covid-count-in-state/articleshow/77795027.cms||Pushpa Narayan
August 28, 2020||Delhi||Betrayed by Centre on GST: Manish Sisodia||NEW DELHI: Deputy CM Manish Sisodia on Thursday said that though other states could take a loan from Reserve Bank of India if they needed GST compensation, Delhi, which was facing a revenue shortfall of Rs 21,000 crore this fiscal, couldn’t do so because of its unique status. Talking to the media after attending a GST council meeting, Sisodia said that when the new tax regime was rolled out, states were promised compensation for the next five years with 14% growth. “But today, the central government has refused to pay saying that according to the law and amid the situation created by the pandemic, we are not liable to be paid anything,” he added. “It was decided that, if required, the Centre would take a loan to be repaid through cess. But today, the Centre has refused to take a loan for any state. They have given the option that if compensation is needed, they can ask RBI to give a loan to the states. However, due to the unique status of Delhi, we cannot take a loan. They are showing double standards with the people of Delhi,” said Sisodia. Sisodia said that in the first two years, the central government earned extra cess of Rs 47,000 crore. Even though it was supposed to be given as compensation, the fund was kept by the Centre. “If GST would have not been there, we would have been able to define our taxes. We would have been able to manage our expenses on our own. But after joining the GST regime, states had to surrender most of their rights to the GST council. Today, many states, including BJP-led ones, demanded compensation from the Centre,” he added. Delhi government collected Rs 7,000 crore less tax in the last four months and the shortfall for the entire financial year is expected to be Rs 21,000 crore. “The central government should take a loan on our behalf as we need to pay salaries to our doctors, teachers, engineers, transport and other employees. This is the biggest betrayal of the central government in the history of federalism in India,” said Sisodia. The deputy CM added that he wasn’t against GST as it was a good idea, but the Centre had failed to implement it properly. “If they had implemented it properly, the states wouldn’t have to beg like this. There are many problems that were supposed to have been fixed by now. Whatever evasion was taking place under the VAT/sales tax regime is still continuing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/betrayed-by-centre-on-gst-sisodia/articleshow/77792686.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Exam ‘shock’ for AKTU 1st year PG batch||LUCKNOW: Around 4,000 first-year PG students of engineering, architecture and pharmacy of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University were in for a shock when the university declared their examination schedule on Thursday. According to government directions, the examination of only final-year students was to be conducted. “We are not ready. It was announced that only final-year PG exam will be held,” said MTech student Aditya Singh. Aditi Srivastava said, “This last-minute announcement will affect our scores as we are not prepared.” AKTU spokesperson Asheeh Mishra said, “Since there are no theoretical examinations in the last year of MTech, MPharma and MArch, we had to schedule examination for first year. Final year is based on practical and dissertation. It will be wrong to award a degree on the basis of just one theory examination held earlier.” He said students need not worry as the examination will have multiple choice questions and mock tests series will be made available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/exam-shock-for-aktu-1st-yr-pg-batch/articleshow/77794008.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Nagpur||Run train at 30 kmph in Chanda forests: Panel||Nagpur: Taking serious note of a series of wild animal deaths on upgraded Gondia-Chanda Fort-Ballarshah railway line under the South East Central Railway (SECR), the state wildlife board (SWBL) sub-committee asked the railways to restrict speed of trains to 30 kmph in forest patches of Chandrapur district. At the fourth meeting of the committee consisting of experts and user agency officials from railways, highways & roads, irrigation and MSEDCL departments, chief wildlife warden Nitin H Kakodkar, who heads the panel, expressed displeasure over slow pace of implementation in decisions taken in earlier meetings. Kakodkar said, “SECR claimed to have reduced speed of trains from earlier 100 kmph to 60 kmph in forested sections but that is also too high in forests surrounding Tadoba from where track passes. We demanded to restrict speed to 30 kmph in tiger corridor and guidelines in elephant corridor must be applicable in Chandrapur too. We will write to them.” At least 50 wild animals have died in train hits in the last decade including four tigers, five sloth bears and equal number of leopards and several herbivores between Talodi-Sindewahi-Mul-Kelzar-Junona-Chandrapur section. On the issue of insulated power lines (air bunch cable) project to get rid of wild animal poaching due to electrocution, Kakodkar said, “MSEDCL has floated tender for two transmission lines between sensitive Chichpali-Mamla & Padmapur-Chichpali. We have paid power company Rs2.45 crore from Tadoba funds. Overall, 49 lines were surveyed in and around TATR for insulation which need Rs50 crore but funds is an issue.” Expert member Kishor Rithe strongly objected to Tadoba paying money for insulation project. “The 11kv feeder lines passing through wildlife areas belong to MSEDCL. Why should wildlife department pay for it?” he said. Rithe further said that of the 49 power lines, estimates for 34 were sanctioned. “However, demand note of Rs14.60 crore was issued for 16 lines. Of the Rs4 crore for above two transmission lines, Rs2.45 crore were paid as first instalment from NTCA funds. Now the project is stuck for lack of funds.” Rithe expressed dismay that MSEDCL has not removed power lines from relocated villages from tiger reserves — Melghat (14), Navegaon-Nagzira (4), Tadoba (4), and Tipeshwar (2). NR Praveen, Chandrapur CCF, who was then TATR field director, said, “We paid to MSEDCL as it was our priority to save tigers and wildlife. A tiger was electrocuted in 2018.” However, he admitted in 2017-18, a similar project between Padmapur-Mohurli was completed from state funds. Wildlife Protection Society of India’s (WPSI) Nitin Desai, who was special invitee, said, “Other agencies involved in taking various mitigation measures must put their act together. Measures discussed in meetings should take material shape without much delay. Things appear to be going in the right direction in-principle but delays could be deadly on the ground.” Senior forest officials APCCF HS Hooda, CCF Ravikiran Govekar, CF Jitendra Ramgaonkar, WCT president Aneesh Andheria were part of the meeting and discussions. Gosikhurd canal mitigation on trackThe mitigation measures suggested by the committee on Gosikhurd canals falling in Bramhapuri forest division seem to be on the right track. PCCF (wildlife) NH Kakodkar said of the 64 passes suggested over canals, water through 10 spots is being supplied through underground pipes. “Of the remaining 54, work on 27 passes has been completed. At 8 spots there is resistance from local farmers where chain-link barriers can be set up. Work on remaining passes is underway. We need to have a look at these passes by conducting a site visit,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/run-train-at-30-kmph-in-chanda-forests-panel/articleshow/77792680.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 28, 2020||Lucknow||Redundant coaches revamped for use as freight rake||Lucknow: Last week, Izzatnagar division of North Eastern Railway (NER) dispatched 118 mini-trucks to Benapole in Bangladesh from Haldi Road station in Uttarakhand. The uniqueness of this consignment was that NER used its nearly two dozen redundant Integral Coach Factory (ICF) coaches, which had earlier served in railways for more than three decades to ferry passengers. According to NER officials, due to the rise in demand for freight services, railway engineers came up with an idea to convert passenger coaches into automobile ferrying wagons—which are known as newly modified goods (NMG) wagons. “The speed limit of NMG wagons is 100kmph against the regular wagons whose operational limit seizes at 75kmph. After removing all the berths, and welding the windows and doors with metal sheets, the modified coaches turn into freight rakes, which can be used for 10 more years in goods services. Since NMG wagons have excellent goods carrying capacity and are pulled by electric locomotives, it becomes cost-effective from the operational point of view and the benefit is further carried forward to the consumer,” said Pankaj Kumar Singh, the chief public relations officer of NER. On August 18, a consignment of 118 mini-trucks was dispatched from Izzatnagar division in NMG wagons and the rake covered over 1,360km to deliver the vehicles scratch-free to neighbouring Bangladesh. Each wagon had a capacity to carry five mini-trucks, said Singh. He added, “The customer was charged Rs 13,440 a unit, while in a regular wagon, it would cost them Rs 27,315 a unit. By road, the cost could have been Rs 16,666 a unit. After the first delivery, we expect more business for our NMG rake. Currently, our engineers have converted 70 ICF coaches into NMG ones at Izzatnagar and 18 at Gorakhpur coach maintenance facility.” From the delivery of the 118 mini-trucks, railways earned Rs 16.8 lakh as revenue. According to railway sources, the conversion of one ICF coach into NMG wagon cost NER around Rs 6 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/redundant-coaches-revamped-for-use-as-freight-rake/articleshow/77794017.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: CCTVs help free child from kidnappers||NEW DELHI: The CCTV cameras installed across the capital proved their usefulness when a child was released by his kidnappers for fear of being caught as the incident got recorded on video. Social welfare minister Rajendra Pal Gautam said, “The installation of CCTV cameras was planned by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, which is showing pleasant results today. The footage of the crime went viral, forcing the kidnappers to let the child go. Several motorcycle thieves were also caught because of the cameras.” Aam Aadmi Party’s Seemapuri assembly president Prof Arif said, “The eight-year-old child was kidnapped from Sunder Nagri on August 12. After the family reported the kidnapping, police analysed footage of CCTV cameras installed by Delhi government in the area to get clues. The kidnappers released the child for fear of being caught by the cops. The boy returned home alone around 8.30pm on August 17. The CCTV cameras have led to a significant reduction in street crime and provided a sense of security to people returning home late at night.” The boy’s father said that he runs a shop in Sundar Nagri. “My son would usually play outside the shop and then go to his grandfather’s house about 500 metres away. I found him missing around 3pm on August 12. I then checked the footage of CCTV cameras installed near my house and saw some men kidnapping my son. I then called the cops, who saw the footage and arrested one of the suspects. His accomplice let me son go the next day as he got scared,” he added. “My son was abducted by a member of a child trafficking gang. For about five days, my son remained with him, but he did not ask for any ransom. He took my son to Meerut to sell him. He bought two pairs of clothes and a bicycle for him. There were four more children, including two girls, who told my son that even they had been abducted by the gang,” said the father.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cctvs-help-free-child-from-kidnappers/articleshow/77792693.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Teachers wary of Covid testing centres at school||HYDERABAD: Government school teachers who reported for duty on Thursday were in for a shock as certain Covid-19 centres are still being run from the school premises. Teachers of several schools in Banjara Hills, Trimulgherry, Marredpally and Bolarum, among other areas, said that they are not comfortable with working from the same building that is housing a Covid-19 testing centre. Hundreds of people suspected to be suffering from the disease throng the centres every day. The teachers fear that they will get infected and pass the virus on to their family. “Medical staffers are saying that they need at least two days to shift the centre to some other location. Our officials are asking us to adjust for these two days. If they can’t move the Covid-19 testing centre immediately, they should at least allow us to work from home until then. The officials can’t expect us to risk our lives,” said a teacher of Government Girls High School in West Marredpally. The teacher added that a total of 16 teaching and 3 non-teaching staff reported for duty on Thursday. The teachers said that the situation is scary as those coming for tests were roaming in the campus and throwing around swabs, masks and other medical waste. “The school premises was not even sanitized. We paid money from our pocket and got the washrooms cleaned, but it was of no use as even those at the Covid-19 testing centre were using the same washrooms,” said a teacher working at the Government High School, Trimulgherry. The teacher said that all the 22 members who reported for duty stayed in the staffroom for the entire day. Teachers at Government High School in Banjara Hills said that there is only a makeshift barricade between the area teachers are using and the testing centre. “If we continue working at the school with the testing centre in it, we all will definitely get infected,” said a teacher, adding that 40 teachers and about eight supporting staff were present at the school. Members of the Telangana Progressive Teachers Federation (TPTF) said that they have been requesting the officials from the second week of August to get the testing centres shifted and school premises disinfected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teachers-wary-of-covid-testing-centres-at-school/articleshow/77792696.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
August 28, 2020||Delhi||UK PMO helps Delhi cops prevent suicide attempt||NEW DELHI: It was a race against time on Wednesday night for policemen who were alerted by the office of the British prime minister about a possible suicide attempt by a woman in Delhi. In an email sent to the United Kingdom PM, the 43-year-old woman, a former municipal corporation school teacher, had said she would kill herself if no help arrived within two hours. This message was urgently conveyed to the Indian high commission in London, which forwarded it to the external affairs ministry and Foreigners’ Regional Registration Office. The police control room and all the police districts in the city were put on alert. At 11pm, the cops traced the IP address of the device on which the email was sent to Rohini. Technical surveillance zeroed in on the address at Sector 21, but the exact location couldn’t be pinpointed. After a search of nearly two hours, the cops resorted to knocking on the doors in each of the colonies to enquire about the woman. The security guards were also roped in for the search. Around 1am, the woman was finally located on the first floor of an apartment. The cops called on the mobile number provided by a security guard, but the phone went unanswered. Knocking on her door elicited no response either. “Fearing the worst, we called the fire department and disaster management teams to cut open the grille and the front door,” said P K Mishra, DCP (Rohini). “The noise brought the woman to the door. Frail and clearly anxious and frightened, she requested the police team to leave saying she was okay. Only a few policemen remained to counsel her.” Police officers found the woman’s house filled with animal excreta and reeking horribly. The woman too was in a malodorous state. During counselling, the woman revealed she was a divorcee and had left her job as a school teacher for personal reasons. She admitted to taking big loans a few years ago that she was now unable to repay. “We tried to find out more, but she avoided our questions,” said a police officer. Doctors later told the cops that the woman was suffering from depression arising from unresolved emotional issues and the stress caused by her financial burden. After consulting a magistrate, police got her admitted to Institute of Human Behaviour & Allied Sciences (IHBAS) for treatment. Efforts are being made to locate her relatives who can take custody of her once she recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/uk-pmo-helps-police-prevent-suicide-attempt/articleshow/77792688.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Residents dread to tread muddy, pothole-ridden SK Garden road||BENGALURU: SK Garden Main Road linking RT Nagar and JC Nagar with Benson Town, Tannery Road, Fraser Town and Cantonment Railway Station has turned into a dirt track. Residents claim traversing the stretch is impossible for both motorists and pedestrians. After BWSSB dug up the road to lay pipelines, one side is covered with heaps of soil and the other pockmarked with craters. While the condition has been the same for nearly a year, the stretch turns into a cesspool at the slightest hint of rain or sends up clouds of dust on dry days. Vinod Kumar, who lives on SK Garden Main Road, said, “In two months we will be celebrating the first anniversary of degradation of this road. With heaps of mud and debris occupying nearly half the road for 10 months, people are only being encouraged to dump whatever they want.” Several senior citizens have stumbled on the road, given its poor condition. Yogeshwari Cathrine, a resident, said, “My 85-year-old father wants to be independent. Hence he keeps heading out to buy small things. Last month, he twisted his ankle on a pothole and fell down.” “I have to sweep my house at least three times a day to get rid of the dust. I keep the doors and windows closed,” she added. The residents also lament that with stagnant water, potholes have turned into a breeding spot for mosquitoes. Due to dust particles in the air, many are developing breathing disorders. “I am already an asthma patient and I know that the air I’m breathing is unhealthy,” Vinod said. Samuel Yeshwanth, another resident, said, “In case of an emergency, one can’t rush a patient to the nearest hospital in a private vehicle nor can an ambulance ply on these roads without any hassle.” He added: ““No e-commerce delivery personnel are willing to enter the road. They stop nearby and ask us to walk up to them and pick up the parcel.” SK Garden corporator Mohd Zameer Shah was not available for comments. Work will be over by SeptemberWhen we tried resuming work on SK Garden Main Road, we were told there’s is an event happening at a nearby church, which is why we should resume it after August 31. The work will be completed by September-end Venkatashiva Reddy, executive engineer, BWSSB||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/residents-dread-to-tread-muddy-pothole-ridden-sk-garden-main-rd/articleshow/77791404.cms||Mrinalini Bhat
August 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Auto fares shoot up in Visakhapatnam, but so do violation of Covid-19 norms||VISAKHAPATNAM: Violations of the Covid-19 restriction on the number of passengers in autorickshaws have become rampant in the city. Passengers also claim that drivers are charging an exorbitant fare, using the restriction as a pretext. “The other day I was asked to pay Rs 40, instead of Rs 20, from Carshed crossing to RTC Complex. The driver told me they are charging double because he can’t carry more than two passengers. En route, he took a group of four travelling together. Despite no social distancing, I ended up paying double the fare,” said Madhurawada resident K Arun Kumar. Although there is a government-approved fare structure for autorickshaws in Visakhapatnam, it is routinely flouted and most autorickshaws run on specific routes carrying passengers on a share basis. At times, the fare is fixed in negotiation with the passenger, instead of the government-recommended fare structure. Officials of the traffic department of Visakhapatnam city police told TOI that they are aware of the situation but it is not possible to monitor the 24,000 autos on the city’s roads as several traffic cops are on Covid-19 duty. “Still, we are prosecuting them under Section 179 of the MV Act and imposing a fine of Rs 500 under this section,” ADCP (traffic) CH Adinaranaya told TOI. Leaders of unions said autorickshaw drivers had no income from March-end to May-end. The number of passengers since restrictions were lifted is less than before and most of the time there is a wait before they get a passenger. “Forget about making a profit, they can hardly meet fuel expenses now,” G Vamanamurti, secretary of Auto Drivers’ and Workers’ Federation, a trade union organisation affiliated to AITUC told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/auto-fares-shoot-up-but-so-do-violation-of-covid-19-norms/articleshow/77791329.cms||Arpit Basu
August 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Bullet owner fined Rs 57,000 for 101 violations in 11 months||BENGALURU: A Royal Enfield Bullet owner has been asked to cough up Rs 57,200 as fine for 101 cases of traffic violations booked against him in a span of 11 months. L Rajesh Kumar, 25, a private company employee, has sought three days’ time to clear the dues and could become one of the highest penalty payers in the city if he does so. Adugodi traffic police have seized Rajesh’s Bullet (KA 01-JB-1961) and issued a notice to him to pay the fine towards the challans raised against him between September 12, 2019 and August 26 this year. “If he fails to pay before Friday, we will refer the matter to court. Then he has to approach the court, pay the fine and get his vehicle released,” said an investigating officer. When Adugodi traffic cops flagged down Rajesh’s bike near Wipro Junction in Koramangala I Block on Wednesday for jumping a traffic signal, they were surprised that six tickets had already been raised against him since morning: three for jumping signal, two for violating one-way restrictions and one for not having a rear-view mirror. A bigger shock awaited police when they delved deeper — 94 cases were pending against Rajesh since September 2019 and he had not paid fine in any. He had purchased the bike in mid-2019. The matter was referred to senior officers, who decided to seize Rajesh’s Bullet. He was handed over a 5.5-ft long challan. A resident of Electronics City, Rajesh rides daily to Whitefield to reach his office. Most offences were recorded on the stretch between his house and workplace, police said. “More than 60 of the violations were committed post-April this year. Since there were fewer police personnel on the road due to Covid-19, Rajesh never wore a helmet. Forty-one cases of riding without helmet were booked against him,” police said. Vendor had paid Rs 15,000On December 15, 2019, a 41-year-old vegetable vendor from Rajajinagar I Block had paid Rs 15,400 for 71 traffic offences — including 55 for riding without helmet — in two years. The violator was handed over a 5.1-ft long challan by cops, according to whom, it was the highest fine amount paid by an individual for violating traffic rules in the recent past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bullet-owner-fined-rs-57k-for-101-violations-in-11-months/articleshow/77791322.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: 30,000 patients benefit from e-OPD at PGI||LUCKNOW: More than 30,000 patients have consulted specialist doctors at Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences so far through the electronic-outpatient department (e-OPD) and electronic-Covid care service (e-CCS) facilities rolled out in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. “It was for the first time in the history of the institute that so many patients were attended through e-OPD and all the doctors and staff left nothing to chance to extend a helping hand to the patients,” said SGPGI director Prof RK Dhiman. About 31,578 patients — 28,867 from eOPDs and 2,711 from CCCs – from across UP and neighbouring states have benefited from the twin facilities till August 18, as per the data provided by the institute. The pandemic, said the institute, posed a big challenge of ensuring timely OPD consultation to follow up patients and to provide assistance to those referred from other hospitals. As an alternative, e-OPD was started from May 11, under which separate rooms equipped with tele consultancy facilities were allotted to all the departments. Highest 2,714 patients were attended by the nephrology department followed by edomedicine (2,406 patients). Besides, it said, 60 cases of invasive prenatal diagnosis by amniocentesis or chorionic villus sampling were done by the medical genetics department through e-consultation. Tests done in the genetic lab include prenatal diagnosis for thalassemia, DMD, down syndrome and cytogenetic microarray, which are available only in SGPGI in UP. The eCCS was started from May 1 and included four specialists from medical, surgical, intensive care and preclinical departments. Highest 1,583 patients availed the facility in May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/30k-patients-benefit-from-e-opd-at-pgi/articleshow/77794028.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Vadodara||‘Court proceedings in sec 188 cases a waste of time’||Vadodara: Even as the state government has hinted at withdrawing the non-serious cases lodged under section 188 (disobeying an order promulgated by a public servant) of the IPC during lockdown, the judicial magistrates in Vadodara had been asked not to conduct proceedings in such cases way back in June. On June 22, the principal district and sessions judge of Vadodara had issued a circular the judicial magistrates in the district not to take cognizance of cases based on the chargesheets filed by the police. Citing ‘waste of time,’ as the reason, principal district judge MR Mengdey had cited section 195(1) of CrPC according to which complaints about sections 172 to 188 of IPC have to be registered with the judicial magistrates’ courts and the courts are barred from taking cognizance of such cases based on the chargesheet. Last week, TOI had reported that the judicial magistrate’s court in the city had dismissed three cases on the same grounds mentioned in section 195 of CrPC in the first hearing itself. IPC sections 172 to 188 deal with offences such as obstructing a public servant in discharging his public functions and disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant, among others. The circular will have an impact on 8,726 offences registered against 11,534 people by Vadodara city police between March 25 and May 31. Police had registered offences for violation of lockdown guidelines of maintaining social distancing and not roaming around in public without any purpose. The judicial magistrates were asked to follow the procedure while taking cognizance of cases registered under section 188 and 16 other preceding sections of IPC. The circular, a copy of which is with TOI, was issued in June and widely circulated among the lawyers on Thursday. The state government is, however, considering a proposal to withdraw non-serious offences like going for a morning walk, sitting in the society space or terraces, walking pets among others. The principal district judge stated that it had come to his notice that the courts of judicial magistrates are taking cognizance of the cases based on the chargesheet filed by police. “It is a waste of time when proceedings of such cases are conducted by taking cognizance of the chargesheet,” the circular read. According to CrPC, in such offences, police have to give a written complaint to the judicial magistrate who will then decide about it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/court-proceedings-in-sec-188-cases-a-waste-of-time/articleshow/77791023.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Lucknow||Edu task force focus on creating incubation hubs in universities||Lucknow: In the introductory meeting of the task force for implementation of the National Education Policy 2020 (NEP), deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma asked all education departments to institute their steering committees and prepare a blueprint for a new India. The framework should be prepared on the theme of ‘study in India and stay in India’, Sharma said. The meeting saw deliberations on developing inter-departmental linkages by creating incubation hubs in universities. “People from all departments—primary, secondary, higher and technical—can meet and chart ways on imparting quality education in the state,” said a member. At school level, the governance model needs an overhauling with strengthening of foundational literacy. A member was of the view that two plans—a two-year short-term plan and a seven-year long-term plan—were the need of the hour. While an orientation programme for people at district level should begin immediately, identification of unserved schools, upgrading of existing ones and mapping of schools should be done gradually for universal access to quality education. Further, weekly planning needs to be done to enhance quality. There is an immediate need of comprehensive evaluation and examination system. A member of the task force came up with an idea of multidisciplinary approach till class IX. This will need thorough discussion of subjects to be included in schools. For instance, agriculture can be included for science students in class IX. In higher education, major changes have to be made at two levels— fragmentation and multi-disciplinary universities. There should be research-based teaching universities and teaching-based research universities. In the meeting, Sharma said, the framework should be such that job-oriented education is imparted from elementary level. Sharma added that the steering committees will have to work on ways to ensure 100% enrolment in educational institutes. The NEP will bring an end to Lord Macaulay’s education policy, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/edu-task-force-focus-on-creating-incubation-hubs-in-universities/articleshow/77794045.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Nagpur||One-day janata curfew observed in Chamorshi||Nagpur: The residents of Chamorshi town in Gadchiroli observed one-day janata curfew on Thursday as 44 tested Covid-19 positive in a span of 48 hours. It’s learnt, the 17 persons had tested positive on Wednesday. On Thursday, another 27 were found positive from a containment zone. On Tuesday, four persons had tested positive in Chamorshi town. Two of them were from Kewat mohalla. After the civic administration conducted tests on 24 high-risk contacts, 17 of them tested positive. Chief officer of Nagar parishad, Chamorshi, Satish Choudhuri said there was a weekly market on every Thursday at Chamorshi which could have led to fast spread of the infection. “The market is visited by residents from adjoining villages. There is a sizeable crowd which would have been difficult to monitor and enforce Covid distancing. So janata curfew is needed to stop the spread of infection,” he said. Chaudhuri said the one-day lockdown would help the civic administration conduct sanitization and disinfecting drives at the required location. “We needed a lockdown for taking corrective steps and conducting tests,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-day-janata-curfew-observed-in-chamorshi/articleshow/77792690.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Fire breaks out in three-storey bldg||Hyderabad: A fire broke out on the ground floor of a G+3 storey building in Gowliguda limits. Four fire tenders were pressed into service after the fire control room received an alert at around 8 pm on Thursday. The ground floor, said to be a textile showroom, caught fire first. The officials are yet to find the cause of the fire. No casualties were reported. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fire-breaks-out-in-three-storey-bldg/articleshow/77792732.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Polavaram project work gathers pace||AMARAVATI: Even as the Godavari river is in spate with flood due to heavy rains in the upstream, the state government has ensured that the works on the prestigious Polavaram project are continued without break. The contractor Megha Engineering and Infrastructures Limited (MEIL) continued the work even during the flood to complete the project on time. The irrigation department and MEIL ensured had put in place all safeguards for the workers. “The state government and MEIL had drawn up a plan in to continue work in any kind of adverse condition. At the Polavaram site, the Godavari river received a maximum flood of 21 lakh cusecs last week. We continued the works even when the project area received massive flood of 21 lakh cusecs,” said Sudhakar, irrigation department chief engineer and in-charge of Polavaram project. Satish Babu Angara, project in-charge, MEIL, said that so far, two lakh cubic meters of concrete work was completed on the spillway and 1.10 lakh cubic meters of concrete work in the spill channel. The excavation of 20,000 cubic meters of the hill, gap-3 concrete dams, gap-1 diaphragm wall and earthworks are in progress at 902 hill. Shuttering, deck sheeting, 500 sq. meters of works are progressing on the spillway. At the same time, 300 meters of shuttering, girders, 1000 tonnes of steel cutting for deck sheeting work completed in the non-flow block. Body safety belts and other safety equipment were provided to workers. The contractor has engaged four swimmers in two boats for immediate rescue, in case of an accident. Shuttering works are underway to manufacture trunnion beam to fasten spillway gates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/polavaram-project-work-gathers-pace/articleshow/77791353.cms||Samdani MN
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Schools file FIR against parents, upset HC||Hyderabad: Upset with the state and the official machinery for allowing private schools to file FIRs against parents for questioning their fleecing methods during the pandemic, the Telangana high court on Thursday directed the government to furnish the details of action it took against errant private schools for violating the GOs on fee collection. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing petitions filed by the Hyderabad School Parents’ Association and others who were questioning methods of the private schools in the name of conducting online classes. The bench raised several doubts about access to children in tribal areas and affordability for poor parents. The bench sought a detailed counter from the government by September 18. State’s special counsel A Sanjeev Kumar informed the bench that the government had taken a decision to allow online classes from September 1. “We have planned the online schedule in such a manner that it will not burden the children in any manner,” the counsel said. Children of primary classes from one to five will be taught only two subjects per day and for just one-and-a-half hours. “For classes 6 to 8, it will be two hours in three subjects. And for classes 9 to 12, it will be three hours and four subjects per day,” he said. There would be gaps between these classes too, he added. “The government wants to ensure that there is no zero academic year this year on account of the pandemic,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-file-fir-against-parents-upset-hc/articleshow/77792753.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
August 28, 2020||Kolkata||Majerhat bearing design gets Eastern Railway nod||KOLKATA: Eastern Railway (ER) has cleared the design of the bearings for Majerhat bridge. The state PWD, implementing the bridge reconstruction project, wants to commission the new bridge by October. “The bearings’ design has been cleared. PWD is free to install them in the bridge girder now,” ER’s chief public relations officer Nikhil K Chakraborty told TOI on Thursday. TOI had on Sunday reported that construction of Majerhat bridge had stopped because of the pending clearance. A span of the ROB fell on September 4 2018, cutting off New Alipore, Behala and beyond from the rest of the city. The new 650m bridge, being built since January 2019, has missed its September 2019 deadline. It needs the zonal railways’ clearance at various stages of construction. ER and PWD engineers video-conferenced on Monday and Tuesday to sort out the three issues relating to the bearings’ design. Unless the 12 bearings along the 76m girder over the railway tracks are in place, the deck slab cannot be cast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/majerhat-bearing-design-gets-er-nod/articleshow/77792752.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
August 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Four held with ganja at Visakhapatnam railway station||VISAKHAPATNAM: Four persons were arrested on board AP Express for possession of ganja by Government Railway Police (GRP) and Railway Protection Force (RPF) on Thursday. Thakur Suna (21, Odisha), Ramnarayan (55, UP), Santan Das (27) and Vindeeshwar Kumar (21, Bihar) were arrested under the NDPS Act and three separate cases were registered by GRP Visakhapatnam. A special team of GRP and RPF was formed at Visakhapatnam to inspect luggages of all boarding passengers. The special team apprehended four persons and seized 38kg dry ganja worth Rs 3.8 lakh from Visakhapatnam Railway station while they were trying to board AP Express. They were produced before the railway magistrate and remanded in judicial custody, said Jitendra Srivastava, senior divisonal security commissioner, Waltair division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/four-held-with-ganja-at-vizag-rail-stn/articleshow/77791381.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Chennai||Pallavaram civic body seals gate of building, residents irked||CHENNAI: The Pallavaram municipality sealing the entrance of an apartment complex where one person tested positive for Covid-19 has not gone down well with the residents. The case comes a few days after the municipality officials had allegedly nailed a tin sheet on the front door of a house. The sheet was later removed. According to residents, the municipality sealed the gate of an apartment on Bharatipuram Main Road. The complex has eight flats and 30 residents. “Only one resident tested positive. However, the municipality officials sealed the front gate with a tin sheet,” said advocate Ramadass, who is an office-bearer of the local resident welfare association. “How will the residents get access to essentials,” he asked. V Santhanam, a senior citizen and activist who lives in Chromepet that falls under the Pallavaram municipality, said the civic body was ill-treating residents. “We are civilised people and can remain in quarantine or isolation. There is no need to seal houses like this. What if there is a medical emergency for which the patient has to rush?” he said. Two senior officials from Pallavaram municipality TOI spoke to said the measures were taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “There are four index cases in that area which means that it is now a designated containment zone. We have to barricade the road. However, it is a big road and we took a call to tie a tin sheet at the entrance of the flat which now has two cases,” a senior official said. In Chennai, Greater Chennai Corporation puts a barricade outside the apartment complex where a positive case is found. “But the corporation has access to more funds. For us a tin sheet is cheaper,” the official said. Another official said shops were operating from the ground floor of the apartment despite a Covid-19 case. However, Ramadoss and Santhanam said there was no such shop and the apartment was “completely residential”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pallavaram-civic-body-seals-gate-of-bldg-residents-irked/articleshow/77792749.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
August 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||30L energy-efficient houses for housing scheme beneficiaries||Visakhapatnam: The state government has started work on building 30 lakh energy-efficient buildings for beneficiaries of its house site scheme for the poor. The project will be taken up in two phases over a period of three years. In each phase, 15 lakh houses will be built over 15 months. Work on the first phases is expected to begin on October 2, according to principal secretary (housing) Ajay Jain. “Perhaps, this energy-efficient building project is the first such in the world as the government has targeted 30 lakh units for poor people. At present, layout identification work has been completed. The project will hopefully begin with distribution of housing pattas on Gandhi Jayanti Day on October 2,” Jain told TOI. Each house will have a plot area of 360 square feet, Jain said, and will be built as per Green Building Standards. “Energy-efficient fans and bulbs will also be provided by the government,” Jain said, adding that each house would cost around Rs 2 lakh and beneficiaries would not need to contribute. “The lion’s share of the project cost will be borne by the Union government through its housing scheme and the remaining share will be borne by the state government,” Jain added. All 30 lakh houses will be built on 44,000 acres of land that have been subdivided into nearly 17,000 layouts across 13 districts in the state. Officials said the cost of the sites is estimated at Rs 22,000 crore. “A model house has been built at Tadepalli. All the houses will be built along similar lines,” Jain said. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has inspected the model house at Tadepalli. It was learnt that the government plans to name the project YSR Jagananna Colony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/30l-energy-efficient-houses-for-housing-scheme-beneficiaries/articleshow/77791398.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
August 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad district reports 214 Covid patients & 4 deaths||Aurangabad: The district reported 214 fresh Covid-19 patients on Thursday, including 144 from the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) area and 70 from the rural parts, taking the total number of cases to 21,937.A total of 659 patients have succumbed to Covid-19 in the district including four deaths reported at the government medical college and hospital (GMCH) on Thursday.As many as 16,713 patients have recovered from the contagion so far in the district.  With the fresh cases, the active cases rose to 4,601.One of the deceased includes a 60-year-old man from Bhavanipura in Soegaon taluka, who was referred from the Jarandi Covid treatment centre.The deceased also include a 33-year-old resident of Vitthal Nagari, Jogeshwar in Gangapur taluka, a 76-year-old woman from Swami Samarth Nagar, Vaijapur and a 58-year-old resident of Wadwani in Paithan taluka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-district-reports-214-covid-patients-4-deaths/articleshow/77790083.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Lucknow||HC judges have diverse say on land conversion plea||Lucknow: The Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court on Thursday recorded varied opinions on a plea seeking conversion of leasehold rights to freehold rights of property worth crores in Nishatganj ward Mohalla Baba Ka Purwa in favour of petitioner Prayas Buildcon Pvt Ltd. Justice PK Jaiswal of the division allowed the plea, while Justice DK Singh of the same bench not only dismissed the writ petition but also imposed Rs 10 lakh fine on the petitioner builder. Justice Singh also asked the registry to place the file before the Chief Justice for constitution of a larger bench to consider some questions. Holding that the instant writ petition was a second petition, Justice Singh set questions as to whether the second writ petition was maintainable, whether it was not abuse of process of court and whether it was not barred by principle of res-judicata. Filing the petition, the builder had demanded that the housing and urban planning department and other government agencies should proceed in accordance with the directions issued on May 17, 2019 passed in a previous writ petition. It also wanted that the respondents issue a demand letter to the petitioner in furtherance of such conversion process, seeking deposit of the remaining 75% amount as per the valuation rates. In fact, M/s Upper India Couper Paper Mills Co Ltd had leased out the land in question to the petitioner in 1940s. The petitioner has been litigating for long for conversion of the land into freehold. Allowing the plea, Justice Jaiswal said, “The instant writ petition is the third round of litigation on an almost identical issue. Thirteen years have passed from the date of the application . This is an extremely cumbrous and ineffective procedure. It puzzles us why Lucknow Development Authority could not dispose of the conversion application.” Expressing contrary view, Justice Singh said, “The relief claimed by the petitioner is barred by principles of res-judicata/constructive res-judicata and, therefore, this writ petition is not maintainable.” Justice Singh added, “The petitioner has tried to pollute the stream of justice by resorting to tactical approach contrary to law by filing an application and finding the bench inconvenient, during the pendency of the said application, the present writ petition has been filed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hc-judges-have-diverse-say-on-land-conversion-plea/articleshow/77794051.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Chennai||Enumerate daily wagers across Tamil Nadu: Madras HC to govt||CHENNAI: The Madras high court has directed the Tamil Nadu government to undertake an extensive drive to identify, register and enlist all unorganised manual workers in the state to ensure that they get the benefits of various schemes implemented by the state. A division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha has directed the state to ensure contribution to such welfare boards from those who utilise the services of such workers. The court passed the order while refusing to direct the government to extend the cash assistance provided to registered members of construction workers welfare board for Covid-19. Rejecting the pleas made by Nirman Mazdoor Panchayat Sangam (union for unorganised workers) and others, the bench said, “Though the cash assistance was given under the Disaster Management Act, the fund utilised from the board, meant for usage of the registered members, and therefore, the petitioners cannot seek parity.” Certainly, any relief if given to the petitioners will adversely impact the registered members, apart from making all the schemes virtually impossible to be given effect to, the court added. “However, we find that the unregistered, unorganised workers cannot be left in the lurch. We are dealing with illiterates and semi-literate persons. The state government itself has stated that efforts were made for registration/enumeration. Due to mere ignorance, the unregistered members cannot lose the benefits in future. Once they register, they are entitled to the benefits,” the judges said. The petitioners, who are all unregistered unorganised workers, wanted the court to direct the state to provide them cash assistance on a par with registered workers, to tide over the financial difficulties which arose during to the lockdown introduced due to the pandemic, by utilising the funds available with the boards meant to be used for various schemes. Disposing of the pleas, the court made it clear that the exercise should be completed by the state within 12 weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/enumerate-daily-wagers-across-tn-madras-hc-to-govt/articleshow/77792756.cms||---
August 28, 2020||India||TV news editor’s ‘communal’ tweet draws sharp response||NEW DELHI: A series of tweets by Sudarshan News TV channel’s editor-in-chief Suresh Chavhanke, targeting a specific community for their “infiltration” in the UPSC, drew a sharp response from the IPS association, who called the post “communal and irresponsible”. The tweet, which also carried a promo of Chavhanke’s forthcoming show on admissions into civil services, claimed that the number of public servants from the minority community has increased over the years, which he termed a “conspiracy”. Several IPS and IAS officers individually took to the social media platform to condemn it for promoting hate speech. “A news story targeting candidates in civil services on the basis of religion is being promoted by Sudarshan TV. We condemn the communal and irresponsible piece of journalism,” IPS Association tweeted from its verified handle @IPS_Association. Chavahanke, also mentions Jamia Millia Islamia in his promo, “cautioning” people to think what would happen if “extremists” from the university end up becoming district magistrates. Following this, Jamia Teachers’ Association wrote to the university administration, asking them to file a criminal defamation suit against Chavhanke.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tv-news-editors-communal-tweet-draws-sharp-response/articleshow/77794942.cms||Anam Ajmal
August 28, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Mafia Mukhtar Ansari’s empire crushed by crackdown||LUCKNOW: Eastern UP don Mukhtar Ansari’s three-decades-old mafia empire straddling Azamgarh, Mau, Ghazipur and Lucknow is crumbling with massive dents to his wealth and armoury with Thursday’s demolition of family property in the state capital being the last straw. Ansari’s gang registered as Intra-State Gang No. 191 in police records has been facing the heat from police and district administrations since last three months in line with chief minister’s zero tolerance to crime. Property worth Rs 66 crore of the don and his family have been confiscated till date. “There has been extensive crackdown on the economic empire of Ansari and other gangsters too are under the scanner,” said additional director general of police, law and order, Prashant Kumar. Kumar also said, 74 gun licences held by the don’s family members and henchmen have been cancelled, 47 suspended and an inquiry into others is underway. A slaughter house operating by Ansari’s henchmen in Mau has been shut down and 28 members arrested. Similarly, Rs 4.5crore extortion racket from illegal parking business of two and four-wheelers was busted by Mau police and 13 gang members were arrested. In July, the don’s illegal fish trade was stopped and property of Rs 13 crore seized. Police also unleashed intensive crackdowns in Azamgarh, where government land of Rs 65 lakh was freed from encroachment by the Ansari gang. Likewise in Lucknow, property of Ansari’s aide, Jugnu Walia, worth Rs 2.3 crore has also been confiscated. Ansari’s sharp-shooter Harikesh Yadav was killed in an encounter while Rs 7crore property of coal mafia, Umesh Singh, considered close to the don has been confiscated in Mau.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mafia-mukhtars-empire-crushed-by-crackdown/articleshow/77794059.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
August 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Marathwada retains 8 posts in revised BJYM state body||Aurangabad: Bharitya Janta Yuva Morcha (BJYM), the youth wing of BJP, has revised its state body and brought down the total number of members and office-bearers from 141 to 51. The decision in this regard was taken in the recently held meeting at Mumbai. As per the revised formation of the body, state BJYM has three general secretaries, nine vice presidents, 11 secretaries, one treasurer, one women’s wing co-ordinator and members. Marathwada region has missed out on several key names comprising sons and daughters of political bigwigs, but still has managed to retain eight posts, including three crucial ones. Rahul Lonikar, son of former minister Babanrao Lonikar, has been appointed as BJYM general secretary. During the previous term, he was the vice president. Bhokardan MLA and son of union minister Raosaheb Danve, Santosh, was general secretary during the previous term. He has been elevated to Jalna district president of parent body. Rajendra Sable Patil from Aurangabad city, who was the state secretary of BJYM, has been elevated to the post of BJYM vice president. Prerna Honrao, hailing from Latur, has bagged the state secretary post. Abhishek Jaiswal is a new entrant from Aurangabad and has been appointed as treasurer. Harshvardhan, son of newly elected Rajya Sabha member Bhagwat Karad, Ravi Patil Khatgaonkar, son of former MP from Nanded, Lalita Jadhav from Latur and Rohit Deshmukh are the fresh entrants in the state body and have been appointed as executive body members of BJYM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/marathwada-retains-8-posts-in-revised-bjym-state-body/articleshow/77769304.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||JNTU-H promotes all students detained for shortage of credits||Hyderabad: The Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTU-H) has promoted all students who were detained due to shortage of credits either during the 2019-20 academic year or previous academic years. The decision was taken following directions from the All India Council for Higher Education and the Telangana State Council of Higher Education. In a letter issued to all constituent and affiliated colleges, the university stated: “If any student, who was detained due to shortage of credits, approaches your college, such students may be given re-admission. Identify all such students who were detained due to shortage of credits in any of the previous academic years and intimate about their promotion, so that such students will be benefited.” Further, students who have registered for semester exams are also eligible for promotion. “Every student has to secure certain number of credits to be promoted to next semester. Students will still have to appear for the examination as and when they are conducted. However, as per new rules, they will not be detained for shortage of required credits,” said Kamakshi Prasad, J NTU director of evaluation. The university has proposed to conduct fourth semester MBA examinations along with fourth year second semester BTech/BPharm examinations from September 16. The exam centre preferences given by the MBA students shall also be considered for the allotment of centres. “The service for registration of semester exams (with applicable late fee) for final semester BTech/BPharm/MBA university exams shall be made available from August 31, 2020,” reads the letter. The online classes for BTech/BPharm second, third and fourth year students commenced on August 24. The classes are confucted for two to three hours per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jntu-h-promotes-all-students-detained-for-shortage-of-credits/articleshow/77792763.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||ACB: Former tehsildar didn’t cooperate||Hyderabad: ACB sleuths said that former Keesara tehsildar EB Nagaraj and three others accused in Rs 1.1 crore bribery case, have not cooperated with the investigators during the police custody. After three days in police custody, the four accused including Nagaraj, realtor Anji Reddy, his associate Ch Srinath Yadav and Rampally VRA B Sai Raj were produced before the magistrate on Thursday and sent in judicial remand. ACB DSP Suryanarayana said that the accused did not cooperate with the ACB team. “The investigation is still on. We know that Yadav brought the bribe amount. We are trying to identify the source of the bribe amount. The wife of Nagaraju has mislead us during the searches conducted at their house about a bank locker key. She is currently absconding,” the DSP said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/acb-former-tehsildar-didnt-cooperate/articleshow/77792765.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Lucknow||CM Yogi Adityanath inaugurates 160-bed Covid hospital in UP's Gonda||LUCKNOW: A 160 bed Covid-19 hospital was inaugurated in Gonda on Thursday by chief minister Yogi Adityanath who said it will ensure good care to people contracting novel coronavirus infection in east UP. CM Yogi Adityanath also dedicated a 300-bed hospital worth Rs 32.37 crore to public, and said one 300-bed Covid hospital is being constructed in Noida also. “The Covid-19 hospital at Devipatan will serve people of nearby districts and provide them good quality medical care. The Gonda Covid hospital would be linked digitally with SGPGI. Officials should ensure adequate staff so that testing is carried out in two shifts,” the CM said, while thanking the Tata Trust and Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation for the hospital. The people of aspirational districts like Bahraich, Shravasti, Balrampur would greatly benefit from the facility, he added. CM Yogi directed officials to start Level-2 Covid hospitals in Shravasti and Balrampur also. He said three medical colleges are being constructed in Devipatan division, including one as a satellite centre in Balrampur, and one medical college is coming up in Gonda. “The number of corona cases and death rate in UP is much less than many countries in the world. When the first Covid case was reported in UP in March, the state was equipped to test just 60 samples a day. Now we are testing up to 1.40 lakh samples a day,” Yogi said. Divisional commissioner SVS Rangarao said 1,96,562 samples have been tested in the division till now of which 5,650 had tested positive. Out of these, 4,065 patients have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-inaugurates-160-bed-covid-hospital-in-gonda/articleshow/77794070.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Chennai||Global warming to make Chennai monsoons severe||CHENNAI: Incidents of knee-deep pools forming on Chennai streets during the northeast monsoon could become more common in the coming years if rising global temperatures are not brought under check. A new study has found there could be a 5% increase in rainfall during the northeast monsoon between 2020 and 2049 and up to 21% between 2070 and 2099 over most parts of south peninsular India. This despite measures to control greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to global warming. But if very little or no measures are taken and high emissions continue, northeast monsoon rainfall could rise by 11% by 2050 and by 38% before the end of the century. The overall frequency and intensity of rainfall could increase and changes could start to become rapid by 2050; the highest 24-hour rainfall and consecutive five-day rainfall events could become intense; the number of consecutive dry days could reduce, but the number of very wet days could go up, the study observed. Tamil Nadu receives nearly half of its annual rainfall while Chennai gets about 63% from the northeast monsoon which contributes to more than 30% in parts of Kerala, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Rayalaseema and south interior Karnataka. Much of the rain is from phenomena like depression. The study was a collaborative work of Pune-based Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (a ministry of earth sciences lab) along with National Institute of Technology, Rourkela and SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai. The findings came out of climate simulations and projections of 20 different global climate models from NASA Earth Exchange. K Koteswara Rao from IITM, Pune said, "Coastal regions and cities like Chennai will suffer due to increased local convection resulting in heavy rainfall as the air absorbs more moisture directly from the sea." The researchers said chances of regions like Chennai facing another 2015-like flooding scenario are more. A red atlas developed in 2019 by city-based National Centre for Coastal Research showed that such low-lying old localities as Periamet, Pattalam, Kosapet, Manali, Thiruvottiyur, Chintadripet and Perumbur could go under 3ft-6ft of water if the city gets 30cm of rain in 24 hours, like in 2015. Many streets in west Chennai localities like Anna Nagar, Aminjikarai, Shenoy Nagar, Pallikaranai, Thoraipakkam and Madipakkam have high-risk of flooding. Over the years, a warming of earth’s climate has caused extreme weather events. In 2019, eight cyclones brewed over the north Indian Ocean, while in May 2020, weather buoys in Bay of Bengal measured a record 32 deg C-34 deg C sea surface temperatures that eventually helped Cyclone Amphan become a category 5 storm in 18 hours. While the study gave a picture over the entire south peninsular India, meteorologists said it may not hold good for all states. "In 2017, only Tamil Nadu recorded poor monsoon rain while states like AP and Karnataka had good rain. There may be more such variations as you forecast over smaller regions. Right now, our forecast accuracy is only 60% to 70% for district level. The accuracy reduces to 50% at taluk level," said N Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, IMD. "But this year, we expect a good northeast monsoon."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/global-warming-to-make-city-monsoons-severe/articleshow/77792766.cms||U Tejonmayam
August 28, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Heavy downpour? Corporation counting on desilted drains, lakes||CHENNAI: The Greater Chennai Corporation has machinery and manpower on standby for the northeast monsoon. Officials said lake restoration, removal of encroachment and storm water drain projects have been going on for over a year. Work stalled due to Covid has been restarted in the past two months. Also, projects such as flood monitoring systems and rainfall gauges to get real-time information have been proposed. The electrical department is fitting 30 rain gauges at zonal offices and ward offices to collect rainfall data. Flood monitoring devices and cameras to check water level in rivers will be installed in the coming days. A 250km network of drains has been laid in the past one year taking the entire stormwater drain length to 2,078km. “Several projects are in the pipeline and plans are in place for heavy rainfall. Machinery has been ramped up and the civic body is prepared for the worst,” state municipal administration secretary Harminder Singh said. The civic body has dug 2,500 wells in parks, drains and roadside under the smart city project. Out of the 210 ponds that were taken up for restoration and de-silting, work in 110 have been completed. “All the lakes and drains in vulnerable and low-lying areas will be de-silted first,” said Sankar superintendent engineer of the stormwater drains department. “Almost all these locations such as Vyasarpadi, Washermenpet, Poonnamallee High road, Teynampet, Valasaravakkam, Velachery, Adyar, Mylapore, Kodambakkam, Nungambakkam, Anna Nagar, Kodambakkam will now be stagnation free due to the newly constructed drains and rain water harvesting structures.” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/heavy-downpour-corpn-counting-on-desilted-drains-lakes/articleshow/77792796.cms||Komal Gautham
August 28, 2020||Aurangabad||9 accused of abetting suicides||Aurangabad: The city police have registered cases against nine people in two separate cases for abetting the suicide of two individuals. In one case, Satara police have booked the in-laws of a man, who died by suicide after jumping into a well in the Matkar Vasti area in the outskirts of the city on Tuesday, for allegedly harassing him to pay the maintenance or a lump sum of Rs 25 lakh go their woman relative or face grave consequences. The father of the deceased said in the complaint that his son had a marital dispute with his wife and the two were living separately. In another case, Mukundwadi police have registered an offence against five people, including three women, for abetting the suicide of a deaf woman. According to the woman’s father, he had married his daughter to a relative who was hearing-and-speech impaired in May 2018. However, after marriage, her husband and her in-laws tortured her, forcing her to immolate herself on Tuesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/9-accused-of-abetting-suicides/articleshow/77790170.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Bhopal||20% of all COVID deaths in state this month took place in Bhopal||Bhopal: This month, 20% of all deaths in the state due to COVID-19 have taken place in the state capital. The substantial spike in deaths matches the increase in overall death rate in Madhya Pradesh, in the same period.In the beginning of August, the death toll in Bhopal due to COVID-19 was 181. It increased to 266, going by the health department’s COVID-19 bulletin on Wednesday. Corresponding increase in other places of the state has been witnessed in Gwalior, Morena and Jabalpur. These three cities have reported a spike as the contagion gripped the northern districts. Gwalior deaths increased from 13 to 37, Morena 9 to 13 and Jabalpur 29 to 69, in a span of 26 days. Indore accounted for 14% of all deaths in August.Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is an infectious disease caused by the newly discovered coronavirus. Most people who fall sick with COVID-19 will experience mild to moderate symptoms and recover without special treatment.“We have been proactively working to limit COVID transmission and keep the mortality below 1%. Districts like Bhopal which are reporting high fatality rate, need to refine as well as strengthen the approach and strategies related to testing, contact tracing, surveillance, containment, home isolation, availability of ambulances, hospital beds, oxygen and treatment protocols,” said a health official.“It was observed that out of the total deaths in MP in the last three weeks, 305 of the 409 deaths are in 12 districts. We need to have continued and rigorous vigil so as to contain the spread of infection as well as take steps to reduce fatalities,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/20-of-all-covid-deaths-in-state-this-month-took-place-in-bhopal/articleshow/77791458.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Lucknow||Ficci to help boost eco-tourism in UP||LUCKNOW: UP’s initiative of ‘One District, One Destination’ (ODOD) for eco-tourism is set to get a boost, with Ficci getting involved as a facilitator between the government and industry. Concurrent with ‘One District, One Product’ (ODOP) scheme, ODOD aims to identify one destination in every district that could be branded as an eco-tourism spot to attract nature enthusiasts. Sanjay Singh, secretary, forest department, said ODOD concept will have each district nominate an area or dedicate an event that attracts people not only from outside but also locally. International Bird Festival, which started in 2015, has already made Chambal sanctuary an important eco-tourism spot. The first virtual interaction between the stakeholders on promoting eco-tourism in UP was held on Tuesday. Ficci UP State Council head, Amit Gupta, said, “The idea was to convey to the government what the market and industry expects and giving the two parties involved a common platform.” It is for the last two years that the forest department has been working on ODOD concept. UP has several eco-tourism spots, of which prominent ones are tiger reserves, wildlife sanctuaries and wetlands. other destinations need to be identified and developed to woo tourists. Chairman, Association of Tour Operators, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, Prateek Hira, said the traveller sentiment is badly hurt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ficci-to-help-boost-eco-tourism-in-up/articleshow/77794088.cms||Neha Shukla
August 28, 2020||Bhopal||Why & how Old Bhopal suffered the most||Bhopal: The figures of death due to Covid-19 infection compiled by the district administration till August 24 shows that areas under Aishbagh police station have suffered the maximum damage, where 30 coronavirus patients have died out of 254 deaths reported in the city till Monday. It is followed by Jehangirabad with 24 deaths, Talaiya 21 and Shahjahanabad 20. In fact, all the areas with greater mortality rate are from the Old City except for Habibganj, the only police station area in new Bhopal which has death figures in double digit (12). Doctors, activists and officials of the district admimistration have different interpretation for this. While director of Siddhanta Hospital, Dr Subodh Varshney, told TOI that any pandemic has a tendency to spread more in heavily-populated areas because the viral load in those areas is obviously much more than open areas with lesser population. “If the virus spreads in Jehangirabad or Aishbagh, it will obviously do more damage in these areas than Arera Colony,” he said. Rashida Bi, who runs Chingari Trust for the welfare of mentally and physically challenged children from gas victim families, however, said, “We have person-to-person record of at least 150 persons who died due to coronavirus infection. It is getting difficult to get their details now, but our data shows that 70% of the people, who have died, are gas victims and your list of worst-affected areas also shows that residents of gas-affected areas have been affected more. This, despite the fact that we had forewarned the state government and district admimistration to take urgent preventive steps so that gas victims, who are more vulnerable to the infection, are protected.” A district administration official, on the condition of anonymity, said, “It is no surprise. Any death is sad, but Jehangirabad and Aishbagh were the first coronavirus hotspots in the city and patients are still coming in from those areas. And, at the initial stages when almost the entire Jehangirabad and Aishbagh had been declared containment zone, mortality rate from coronavirus infection was higher, too.” In areas under Arera Hills police station, Shyamala Hills, Ratibad, Katara Hills, MP Nagar, Najirabad, Berasia, Intkhedi, Parwalia and Sukhi Sewaniya, there has been no loss to life due to coronavirus infection. Among other police station areas, Ashoka Garden has reported 9 deaths, Avadhpuri 3, Ayodhya Nagar 6, Bairagarh 8, Bilkhiriya 1, Chhola Mandir 3, Gandhi Nagar 4, Gautam Nagar 6, Govindpura 6, Gunga 1, Habibganj 12, Hanumanganj 11, Jehangirabad 24, Kamla Nagar 4, Khajuri Sadak 2, Koh-e-fiza 11, Kolar Road 4, Kotwali 13, Mangalwara 6 and Misrod 3. Nishatpura haz registered 6 deaths, Piplani 9, Shahjanabad 20, Shahpura 5, Station Bajariya 4, Talaiya 21, Tila Jamalpura 7 and TT Nagar 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/why-how-old-bhopal-suffered-the-most/articleshow/77791477.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
August 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Protest against lathicharge on BJYM activists in Dhule||Aurangabad: A day after the Dhule police lathicharged a few members of the BJP’s student wing, members of the outfit in Aurangabad staged a protest at the Kranti Chowk demanding action against the police officers involved in the lathicharge in Dhule on Wednesday.The activists said the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) members were staging a protest to seek clarification on many issues involving the student community from the Dhule guardian minister Abdul Sattar, when the police resorted to the lathicharge.The city unit president of BJP, Sanjay Kenekar, who led the agitation in Aurangabad, said the government has asked the guardians not to pay the fee, while schools seem to have a free hand to charge and seek exorbitant amounts from the students and guardians. "The government should clear its stand on this issue," he said.On Wednesday, when Sattar was in Dhule, members of BJYM and Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) tried to meet him to raise their demands. They were denied permission. Therefore, they later blocked Sattar’s vehicle when he was going to the district collectorate.“Since he was in Dhule, it was the best time for us to meet him and put forth our demands regarding fees of college students in view of Covid-19,” said Viraj Kishor Bhamre, senior office-bearer of ABVP.Bhamre added, “The action of the police in Dhule and the minister should be condemned. The ABVP will protest against the government throughout the state until the demand regarding the fees is met.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/protest-against-lathicharge-on-bjym-activists-in-dhule/articleshow/77790196.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Lucknow||Gujarat, MP among five states keen on replicating UP govt’s ODOP model||LUCKNOW: With the Centre keen on all states adopting UP’s flagship programme of ‘One District-One Product’ (ODOP), MSME minister Sidharth Nath Singh offered to share expertise with those interested in replicating the Uttar Pradesh model. In an open session chaired by Union commerce minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday, states such as Gujarat, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur and Telangana have expressed interest in taking up the programme. Sharing the experience of implementing ODOP, Singh said it has helped UP increase its exports by 28% in 2018-19. “The broad objective of the programme is to develop local art, craft and traditional skills, thus preventing migration from the state... ODOP has helped create employment opportunities at the rural level,” he said. Goyal discussed how ODOP could play a crucial role in building an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision, and contribute to the ‘Make in India’ initiative. He said ODOP could act as a national movement. “It will help us achieve the target of being a USD 5 trillion economy and become a global player in areas where we have significant traditional strength,” Goyal said. He asked states to make industrial development their top priority and choose one unique product from each district for which they should make interventions like designing, packaging, marketing and branding to create recognition for them at a global level, like the carpets of Bhadohi and textiles of Surat. Goyal said India should learn from experience of the US and Japan and focus on R&D along with innovation to meet domestic and global needs. The minister also spoke about the Investment Clearance Cell, the largest single window system comprising central departments and all states on one platform. He said the ministry is planning to make it operational in the next six months. Additional chief secretary (MSME) Navneet Sehgal spoke about the ODOP Cell that has been created to run the programme. The department shared its methodology of first identifying a product from each district and creating an eco-system for their growth. A diagnostic study was carried out to determine what efforts were needed to boost the industry, secure loans and funding for the industries and then the government tied up with companies to design and market the products on e-commerce websites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/guj-mp-among-five-states-keen-on-replicating-up-govts-odop-model/articleshow/77794089.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 28, 2020||Kolkata||August news gives West Bengal a ray of hope||KOLKATA: More than half of the 1,21,046 Covid patients, who were admitted to hospitals in the state since the beginning of the pandemic, were discharged in August. In fact, the number of discharges this month — 72,672 — has outnumbered the total cases for this month, which stood at 67,995 on Thursday. The discharge rate in Bengal has gone up a little over 80%. A team of doctors set up by the health department has been visiting Covid wards of different hospitals, identifying patients overstaying in hospitals and recommending their discharge so that beds are free for patients who need them more. Bed occupancy in some government facilities in the city has now dipped below 50%. “We found many patients in every Covid hospital who were fit for discharge but were still occupying beds. These beds should be available to patients who really need hospital care. The initial scarcity of beds could be wiped off only after the number of discharges increased,” said gastroenterologist Gopal Krishna Dhali, who heads the School of Digestive and Liver Diseases at SSKM Hospital. Dhali was appointed as the officer on special duty (OSD) for overall Covid-19 management in the state and was asked to form a team to visit hospitals to physically check on patients and recommend discharge. “We found that many patients, who were absolutely fine, were scared to return home unless they got a negative certificate,” said neurologist Biman Kanti Roy of Bangur Institute of Neurosciences, a team member. Since August beginning, the number of daily discharges has been constantly above 2,000. The number crossed 3,000 every day last week. “We have also come across cases where relatives do not want to take them home immediately out of fear of ostracization,” said Partha Sarathi, internal medicine specialist attached with RG Kar Medical College. The team had split into sub-teams and were assigned to visit different government Covid facilities twice or thrice a week. The teams had various specialists pulled in from different medical colleges and included doctors Alok Pandit, Rajshekar Maity, Souvanik Mandal and Yogiraj Ray, among others. “Doctors in Covid hospitals are doing their best. With so many patients overstaying, it was not only creating a bed crisis but was also putting tremendous pressure on healthcare workers,” said paediatric gastroenterologist Gautam Ray of SSKM, who has been a part of the team visiting MR Bangur Hospital. Bed occupancy in some of these government facilities had shot up to 75%-100% in July-end. Now, it has dropped to 50%-70%. “Our bed occupancy now is about 50%. For the past one week, we have been discharging about 27 patients per day on an average against per day admission of about 24 patients a day. Dr Dhali himself had visited our Covid ward on a few occasions, checking on patients,” said Aswini Kumar Maji, superintendent of Rajarhat CNCI Covid Hospital. In addition to stressing on discharge of recovered patients, the teams are also working with doctors on patients who can be shifted to general wards from CCU to HDU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/august-news-gives-bengal-a-ray-of-hope/articleshow/77791460.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 28, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: 10 cops test positive for Covid-19||NASHIK: A total of 10 policemen from Satpur police station tested positive for Covid-19 following which two of them have been hospitalised, while the remaining eight have been home quarantined. “Police personnel of a unit often carry the risk of getting infected if someone among them has already caught the infection and the same has happened at the Satpur police station,” a senior police officer said, adding that out of the 10 policemen, one is a police sub inspector (PSI) while the remaining nine others are constables and head constables. The Satpur police said that the eight home quarantined personnel have absolutely no symptoms of Covid, but considering that they could pass on the infection to other people they have been suggested home quarantine. Currently, 17 police personnel from Nashik city police are admitted to hospitals and 17 others have been home quarantined. So far, tests have been done on 146 policemen out of which 129 have been found positive. As many as 110 personnel have discharged and two police personnel have also succumbed to the infection in Nashik city. According to the police, various initiatives are underway to prevent police personnel from catching the infection. However, given the nature of duty of the police personnel, the risk of them catching the infection continues. Immunity boosting homeopathy tablets are being given to the over 3,300 police personnel and officials as well as their families from time to time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/10-cops-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/77794090.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 28, 2020||Nashik||‘Covid-19 count to be 20% lesser than govt projection’||Nashik: The civic administration is confident that the number of Covid-19 patients in the city will be 20% less than the state government projection of 30,000 cases by August end. So far, around 21,500 Covid-19 cases have been registered in the city. “We are expecting the tally of positive cases to reach 24,000 by August end,” said officials from Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). The rate at which Covid-19 cases are doubling in the city has improved over the last one month. “The doubling rate of positive cases, which was six days on June 6 and 13.5 days on July 15, has now improved to 22 days,” said civic officials. The recovery rate among Covid-19 patients, which was only 43% till June 30, has now improved to 85%. The recovery rate was around 72% by the first week of August but the rate has shot up in the last three weeks, said officials. “We had deployed over 400 teams of health officials and staff to find suspected Covid-19 patients and conduct antigen tests for them. We brought the spread in the slums under control by extensively screening patients. Moreover, we also deployed separate teams of municipal teachers to find out comorbid patients and conduct their antigen tests. This helped improve both the doubling rate of the infection and recovery rate of Covid-19 patients,” said officials. “We also increased tracing of high-risk and low-risk contacts of each patient. We have conducted their antigen tests for early detection and provide the confirmed cases immediate treatment. This helped us bring down the death rate from 4.81% on June 30 to 2.14% so far,” said NMC officials. The rise in the number of Covid-19 patients in the last 30 days was because the testing was also increased. “Around 12,000 patients were recorded during the last 26 days due to a rise in the number of tests conducted under Mission Nashik Zero programme,” said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-19-count-to-be-20-lesser-than-govt-projection/articleshow/77794091.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 28, 2020||Lucknow||‘UP tapped infra for rich harvest during lockdown’||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday informed the Centre that the state government harnessed measures to boost agriculture even during the pandemic. At a video conference with Union agriculture and farmer welfare minister Narendra Singh Tomar, the chief minister said the state government also established a dialogue with the Centre and other states under the ‘Atma Nirbhar’ programme, which helped tide over the agri crisis. The CM said, the state government allowed farming even during the lockdown, which reaped a rich harvest of seasonal crop. He informed the minister that the state government deployed 4,774 harvesters and 5,153 reapers for wheat crop. “The state government also allowed entry of harvesters and reapers from other states,” Yogi told Tomar. At the same time, 5,953 government purchase centres were operated while allowing transportation of food grains up to the purchase centres. He said, the purchase centre procured 35 lakh tonnes of wheat, 38,700 metric tonne of gram (chana) and 319 tonnes of mustard. The CM said, purchase of pulses rose 16 times as compared to last year’s 2,362 metric tonnes. “Purchase was sent directly to farmers’ account,” he said. Yogi said, the government also ensured running of all 119 sugar mills with full capacity while ensuring crushing of 1,118 lakh metric tonnes of cane to produce 126 lakh metric tonnes of sugar. He also informed the Centre that sugar mills produced 150 lakh litres of sanitizer during the lockdown. He said, state government also waived mandi tax from 46 agricultural crops to help farmers sell produce and increase their income. Yogi said that as part of Centre’s initiative, two-farmer produce organisations would be set up in each development block. The CM reiterated the government was in the process of constructing 37 foodgrain godowns which would have 10% space reserved for farmers. Union minister Tomar said, farmers face problems if processing of food grain is not in place. “The Centre had come up with the 1 lakh crore package to boost farm infrastructure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-tapped-infra-for-rich-harvest-during-lockdown/articleshow/77794092.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Aurangabad||MIDC to take call on service tax levied on Bamu sub-centre||Aurangabad: The board of directors of Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) is soon expected to take a call on the demand for waiving the service tax being charged on the Osmanabad sub-centre of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu).“State industrial minister Subhash Desai has given an assurance to this effect,” NCP MLC Satish Chavan said.“A special meeting was convened in Mumbai in the presence of Desai, MIDC top-brass and other officials to discuss the waiver in service charges for the Bamu sub-centre. Moreover, MIDC has not been providing any essential services to the sub-centre and, therefore, cannot claim any additional charge,” he added.Among other demands related to the sub-centre, the meeting, which was attended by Osmanabad MP Omraje Nimbalkar and other public representatives, also witnessed opposition to the completion of construction on minimum 40% of land allotted to the sub-centre. “As per MIDC norm, 40% construction must be over within five years of land allotment. The condition could not be fulfilled due to finacial constrains and should be relaxed,” Chavan said.Earlier this year, state education minister Uday Samant had also assured that the demand for necessary waiver in service tax would be pushed at the level of the MIDC. But things did not progress then.The Bamu sub-centre was established on August 16, 2004, on an industrial land in Osmanabad. “The univerity pays Rs 72 lakh every year to the MIDC towards the service tax,” a Bamu official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/midc-to-take-call-on-service-tax-levied-on-bamu-sub-centre/articleshow/77790215.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Nashik||1,039 new cases, 21 deaths in Nashik district||Nashik: As many as 1,039 Covid-19 positive cases, including 807 from the city, have been reported in Nashik district in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of positive cases to 33,088. Nine of the 21 people from the district who succumbed to Covid-19 infection were from the city alone. The death toll stands at 470 in the city and 834 in the district. As many as 547 patients were discharged from across the district on Thursday, of which, 403 were from the city. At present, the district has 5,658 active cases. Of these, 3,232 active cases are from the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/1039-new-cases-21-deaths-in-nashik-district/articleshow/77794098.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali administration boosts plasma donation, designates hospitals||MOHALI: For the treatment of Covid-19 patients with co-morbidities admitted to level- III tertiary care, the Mohali administration has strengthened plasma storage banks by designating four major hospitals in the district for the job. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said more hospitals would be added to the list and these would be authorised to store the donated plasma. Plasma banks have been set up at Grecian Hospital, Fortis Hospital, Max Hospital and Ivy Hospital in Mohali. These are fully equipped to extract the plasma out of blood and store it appropriately so that a recipient does not have to run around for therapy. Dayalan said efforts were being made to increase the plasma storage capacity in other hospitals too, for which required infrastructure would be provided. He said, “We also plan to motivate the cured patients to donate plasma. Recently, the first-ever plasma therapy here was given to a police officer after Mohali SDM donated plasma.” He said the list of Covid-19 survivors has been prepared July 1 onwards and teams would visit their houses to motivate them to donate plasma. “Health teams will find healthy and willing patients and take their blood samples from their residences. After testing them for sufficient antibodies, they will be requested to donate plasma,” added Dayalan. He said the administration has strengthened the bed capacity at level 2 also by having 200 additional beds in Gyan Sagar Hospital and eight new ambulances have been added to the existing fleet. More ventilators and high-flow nasal cannulas have also been procured, he added. The district administration has set up two testing centres at Nayagaon and Sohana to ease the pressure on the civil hospital and reduce the waiting time for patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-admn-boosts-plasma-donation-designates-hospitals/articleshow/77792932.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
August 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Accident victim dies, 128 test Covid positive in Mohali||MOHALI: Mohali district recorded its 68th casualty due to Covid-19 on Thursday, when an accident victim, who had tested positive, succumbed at a hospital. “The 63-year-old woman of Sector 69 was admitted to Mayo hospital, Mohali, following a road accident,” said civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh. The day also saw 128 new positive cases from the district. Six policemen posted at Balongi police station have also contracted the virus. Besides, 41 patients have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/accident-victim-dies-128-test-ve-in-mohali/articleshow/77792919.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Batu to begin online classes from September 1||AURANGABAD: In line with the directives from All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada Technological University (Batu) has declared its schedule for academic year 2020-21 with online classes slated to begin from September 1. The new academic schedule, which has been affected by the Covd-19 outbreak, will be of 120 days and applicable for undergraduate, postgraduate and other courses of engineering, pharmacy and architecture streams. “The academic calendar shall be applicable to all university teaching departments and affiliated colleges. All the affiliated institutions shall prepare their academic calendar as per university academic calendar and publish it in the college prospectus and upload it on their websites,” Batu dean S I Nalbalwar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/batu-to-begin-online-classes-from-sept-1/articleshow/77790228.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Kochi||Landless and debt-prone, workers from Tamil Nadu most vulnerable: Study||KOCHI: A study by Welfare Services has revealed that 51% of interstate guest workers in Ernakulam district do not own land in their native states, while 16% are burdened by debt. The study, in partnership with Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development (CMID) and published by Caritas India found that workers from Tamil Nadu, as a community, is one of the most vulnerable groups as 74.4% among them are landless and 31% are in debt. Guest workers from Tamil Nadu also had a high number of illiterates (43.7%). Their median remittance for a period of three months was Rs 24,000 and average expenditure stood at Rs 5,000, as per the survey held during December 2019 to January 2020. Nearly two-third of the guest workers surveyed belonged to scheduled caste (SC), scheduled tribe or other minority communities. Migrants belonging to other backward communities constituted over half of the workers. While 48.2% of migrants from West Bengal were landless, the figure was 33% for Assam but workers from these regions who owned land had larger land parcels than those from other states. All guest workers, irrespective of their native state, had a median income of Rs 15,000. Around 10% of the workforce had income above Rs 15,000. The average working hours were 9.1, but for workers from Assam the figure was higher — 12 hours. Only 3.3% of those surveyed had income of Rs 5,000 or below, while 15.1% had an income between Rs 5,000 and Rs 10,000. The study also showed that their access to workplace benefits are dismal as only 5.4% had ESI and 3.1% were provided Provident Fund. Only 0.5% of workers had their own house and the bulk of them (41.6%) stayed in rented rooms. While 32.9% live in workers quarters provided by employers, 23.5% stay in independent rented houses. Only 3.5% lived alone. Median rent paid by them every month was found to be Rs 800. The collective bargaining power was found to be minimal as 95.3% had no membership in trade unions (TU). TU membership was highest among people from Tamil Nadu (19.5%). Only 1% of workers from West Bengal and Assam had TU membership. The study also found that during the 2018 floods, 19% of workers were affected.  “None of the workers surveyed had heard about the Interstate Migrant Workers Welfare Scheme (ISMWWS) launched by the state government in 2010. This shows that Kerala has sound policies and schemes but the reach among the intended sections are poor,” said CMID executive director Benoy Peter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/landless-debt-prone-workers-from-tn-most-vulnerable-study/articleshow/77791491.cms||Binu Karunakaran
August 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University extends fee submission date till September 5||CHANDIGARH: The Panjab University, Chandigarh on Thursday extended the last date for depositing fees for all students of the ongoing courses to September 5. The earlier date was August 31. The move was confirmed by Prof R K Singla, dean of university instructions. Besides, the admission schedule for the undergraduate courses other than BA LLB, B.Com LLB, CET UG courses, Bachelor of Travel and Tourism Management (BTTM) and Bachelor of Hotel Management and Catering Technology (BHMCT) in the University Institute of Hotel and Tourism Management (UIHTM) at the Panjab University campus has also been revised. The date for submission of provisional admission lists by the departments for approval of the DUI’s office has been shifted to August 31 from August 26. It is now to be submitted by 3pm on August 31. Accordingly, the date for approval of the lists of all the departments has been moved from August 27 to August 31 and September 1. The student outfits were, however, not happy with the university’s decision to only extend the date for depositing fees and continued to demand complete fee waiver or a friendly fee policy for economically weaker students. The protesting parties said the university should seek money from the Centre to meet the fund crunch, instead of burdening the students, who are already suffering due to the pandemic. It was on August 10 that the PU had scrapped nearly month-long online classes for the August-December semester that started from August 3, announcing to resume the same from September and extending the last date to deposit fee to August 31. However, now the date stands further extended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-extends-fee-submission-date-till-sept-5/articleshow/77792906.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Kolkata||No clear picture on Kolkata Metro service resumption yet||KOLKATA: The state government is yet to approach the Railway Board with a formal proposal to resume Metro and suburban services in Kolkata from September 1, a senior official in Delhi said. Services, even restricted ones, can resume only if a clearance is received by the zonal railways in Kolkata from the ministry of railways and the ministry of home affairs (MHA). These ministries are unlikely to take a decision by themselves unless the state government sends a formal request. On Wednesday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said that the railways may resume restricted Metro and suburban services after consultations with her government. “From what we have gathered, the Railway Board or MHA is not considering to resume Metro or suburban services in Kolkata, at least for now. It may allow commercial services in certain lines of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) though as the situation is different there. If the Bengal government does manage to convince the MHA otherwise, we have no problem in working out formalities. But, the state government is certainly aware that running restricted services will have its share of problems,” an official in Kolkata said. Eastern Railway and South Eastern Railway run nearly 1,600 suburban services from Sealdah and Howrah daily. Even if only 400 are to be run, the crowds will be unmanageable, officials feel. The layout of suburban stations aren't suited for crowd control and things are likely to get out of hand if a train arrives every one hour instead of the normal 7-12 minutes. Operating Metro services with restrictions will not be an easy task either. “In the past, the state had proposed allowing only people performing emergency duties in the Metro. Checking people on this basis before allowing them to enter stations will be a problem. Similarly, allowing only seating inside coaches will be a problem. The greatest threat, both for Metro users and staff, will be the underground section as it is confined space,” a Metro official maintained. Both Metro and suburban services were suspended from March 25 due to the pandemic. Metro Railway has worked on several plans to run restricted services if orders do arrive from Delhi but nearly all of them have certain problems. Ideally, Metro would like less than 50 people on a platform at any time (100 in the case of an island one) but this would mean staggering the rush at several points. Similarly, calculating the exact number of passengers getting off at a particular station and allowing a similar number to board (if only seating is allowed) will be another issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-clear-picture-on-metro-service-resumption-yet/articleshow/77791483.cms||Jayanta Gupta
August 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Chief tests +ve, KMC health dept in Covid grip||KOLKATA: Atin Ghosh, a member in the board of administrators (BoA) governing Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC), went into home isolation on Thursday after he tested positive for Covid-19. On Sunday, the chief municipal health officer (CMHO) had tested positive and has been in isolation at home. With several key functionaries in the KMC health department testing positive, the deadly virus is invading the civic body’s headquarters, infecting those who are engaged in the fight against coronavirus. Sources in the KMC conceded that the health department officials are at a loss since several others may have to opt for home quarantine as they had come in close contact with both Atin Ghosh and Soumitra Ghosh, the CMHO, last week. Questions are also being raised whether Firhad Hakim, the chairman of the BoA, will go into isolation since he had held meetings relating to Covid-combat plans with both Atin Ghosh and the CMHO. Though no confirmation was available, sources in the mayor’s office said Hakim might continue his work at the civic headquarters in absence of the CMHO and Atin Ghosh, two key officials who look after the KMC’s Covid-response teams. The civic brass has asked all senior officials who were closely associated with either the CMHO or Atin Ghosh to undergo a mandatory Covid-19 test on Friday. “Permission will be granted to senior health officials to continue their work who test negative. Those who test positive will need to stay at home. They will be again tested before joining office,” said a KMC health department official. According to sources in the KMC health department, at least three deputy CMHOs who are actively associated with the Covid-combat teams were at risk of getting infected as they were part of the CMHO’s team and were in regular touch with him and Atin Ghosh. “We hope that they don’t test positive for Covid-19 as the department needs their help to implement the Covid-combat plans and guide the Covid-response teams,” said a KMC health department senior official. Among these three deputy CMHOs, while one looks after Covid tests, another is in charge of communicating with the ward medical officers who are engaged as frontline health officials. According to a civic official, besides three deputy CMHOs, several other key officials also need to undergo Covid-19 tests on Friday. “Among them, one senior official is the coordinator of the Covid-combat plan and another looks after Covid cremations. Both of them have to test negative to continue with our drive. Otherwise, the entire health department will get paralyzed and that will adversely affect Covid-combat operations,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/chief-tests-ve-kmc-health-dept-in-cov-grip/articleshow/77791478.cms||Saikat Ray
August 28, 2020||Lucknow||Gorakhpur’s BJP legislators squabble over PWD engineer||LUCKNOW: Even as chief minister Yogi Adityanath is leading the state into the battle against the coronavirus pandemic, his home turf Gorakhpur is witnessing an intense squabble between the local BJP legislators. At the epicentre of internal bickering is Gorakhpur Urban MLA Dr Radha Mohan Das Agarwal who has taken to social media to raise his voice on various issues — from law and order to faulty construction works. The latest issue to drag his attention is Deoria Road passing through the city leading to waterlogging in some of the residential colonies. However, the difference this time is that a few MLAs of his own party have joined the issue with him. Agarwal, who raised the issue in the recent session of UP assembly and separately met deputy chief minister Keshav Maurya seeking removal of the PWD engineer KK Singh, who supervised the road project, has come to face a piquant situation with four BJP MLAs from various constituencies in Gorakhpur — Pipraich MLA Mahendra Pal Singh, Gorakhpur rural MLA Vipin Singh, Sahjanwa MLA Sheetal Pandey and Campierganj MLA Fateh Bahadur Singh — coming in support of the engineer by writing a letter to Maurya. Even BJP MP from Gorakhpur Ravi Kishan, too, has reportedly supported Singh. The legislators contend that the engineer was executing many projects in their assembly constituencies and therefore his removal would affect the development of their constituencies. Speaking to TOI on Thursday, Agarwal said that he had the right to raise the issue which affected the people who elected him. “It is my constitutional right to raise the issue concerning my constituency,” said the pediatrician-turned-politician. Agarwal said that construction of around 1km of Deoria Road has turned into a barrage stopping flow of flood water from river Rapti and inundating the colonies. “Why the road project was not evaluated by the engineer while executing it,” Agarwal, a four-time MLA, said. He said that the PWD could have made provision of an outlet to release water, which was never done. After the four MLAs stood in support of engineers, Agarwal tweeted: “Ye Rishta Kya Kehlata hai… (What does this relationship means)”, He said that the legislators grudge that the officers do not listen to the people representatives. “But when I raised an alarm, the MLAs stood in support of the engineer,” he tweeted, while tagging CM Yogi, deputy CM Keshav Maurya and BJP’s general secretary (organisation), Sunil Bansal. Sahjanwa MLA Sheetal Pandey said that he did not believe in negative politics. “I don’t want to comment on the jurisdiction of Radha Mohan Das Agarwal.” He told TOI. Pandey in his letter addressed to Maurya on August 23 had termed Singh as a diligent engineer under whose supervision quality construction was being executed. “He should not be removed as it would affect the ongoing works,” he said in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gorakhpurs-bjp-legislators-squabble-over-pwd-engineer/articleshow/77794137.cms||Pankaj Shah
August 28, 2020||Ludhiana||2 lose Covid-19 battle, 94 test positive in Pkl||tnnPanchkula: Two patients lost their lives to Covid-19 and 94 tested positive in Panchkula on Thursday.With this, the district case count has increased to 1,923, including 730 active ones. The toll tally now stands at 15.Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “The two casualties included a 60-year-old woman of Manakpur village and a 75-year-old man of Sector 17, who died at Alchemist Hospital, Sector 21, due to breathing problems.” The 94 positive cases included 53 from Pinjore and the rest from other parts of the district.So far, 1,178 patients have been cured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-lose-covid-19-battle-94-test-positive-in-pkl/articleshow/77792983.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Amritsar||Members of martyr’s extended family stage protest||BATHINDA: Members of the extended family of Ashok Chakra recipient Havaldar Joginder Singh of Datewas village in Mansa accused the state government of not fulfilling the promises made by Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh during his previous term. The family members, supported by Shaheed Joginder Singh sports club of Datewas village intended to hold a protest on Independence Day but were dissuaded after revenue minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar, who unfurled the Tricolor in Mansa, assured to look into their demand in 10 days. However, when nothing was done, the family staged a protest in the village on Thursday. Posted in 2 Sikh, Havaldar Joginder Singh was martyred on April 24, 1956 in Nagaland at the age of 33 years. He was awarded Ashok Chakra, India’s highest peacetime military decoration awarded for valour, courageous action or self-sacrifice away from the battlefield. Joginder Singh was unmarried and has no direct blood relation left. The protesting family members are grandsons of Joginder Singh’ brother. An official said the state government did not consider them having a direct link with the martyr and so they did not receive any benefit. Chief minister Amarinder Singh visited the village to unveil his statue in 2006 and promised an ex-gratia grant of Rs 5 lakh, job to one of the relatives, a sports stadium and gate in his memory,” said Darshan Singh, grandson of Joginder Singh’ brother Ajmer Singh. He added that the government did cosider them the martyr’s kin in 2006 and had allotted two motor connections. Now, the government does not consider us the martyr’s kin, he said. Sports club president Dilpreet Singh said the government must fulfil the promises made with the village and the family. The martyr belonged to the village and any promise made in his name must be fulfilled, he asserted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/members-of-martyrs-extended-family-stage-protest/articleshow/77794155.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Nashik||2 companies pulled up for failing to observe safety norms||Nashik: The squads appointed by the district administration to inspect Covid-19 preparations in the industrial areas asked two companies to keep their units closed for four days for failing to comply with the safety protocols. The companies were asked to have the necessary infrastructure in place before resuming operations to keep the spread of Covid-19 under control and ensure the safety of the workers. A senior officer from Maharashtra Industries Development Corporation (MIDC) said, “Six squads have been formed to check if the companies are complying with the Covid-19 guidelines.” The squads have inspected more than 300 companies so far. The squads are especially focussing on the companies with higher work force and working in multiple shifts as the chances of infection spread was higher in such units. The officer said that the squads were asked to see if social distancing norms were being observed in the industries, sanitisation of goods and vehicles entering the factory premises, ensure hygiene in the canteen area and proper distancing between employees when they have food in the premises, ensure if the companies have thermometers and pulse oximeters to screen the employees entering the industry, among a host of other responsibilities. During one such visit, the two companies were found not adhering to the safety protocols and also compromising on canteen norms. Hence, they were asked to stall operations for four days and told to install the necessary infrastructure during that time. The officer said the squads have had a good effect on the companies as the number of Covid-19 cases coming from the industrial areas has dropped significantly. He further the periodic inspection by the squads would continue till further notice and that action would be taken against all those failing to comply by the safety norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-companies-pulled-up-for-failing-to-observe-safety-norms/articleshow/77794150.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 28, 2020||Lucknow||MLA Agarwal slapped with notice by BJP||Lucknow: The UP BJP served a show-cause notice on Gorakhpur Urban MLA Dr Radha Mohan Das Agarwal for his posts on social media 'that could dent the party's image'. The notice was served by UP BJP general secretary JPS Rathore on the directions of state party chief Swatantra Dev Singh. Dr Agarwal recently took to social media in raking up the issue of a road which he claimed was causing flooding in some of the residential colonies in his constituency. The four-time MLA from Gorakhpur has been at odds with the four other MLAs from the district on the issue and took to social media to put across his points. "Dr Agarwal’s act comes under the category of indiscipline and going against party lines,” Rathore said. The MLA has been given a week’s time to respond to the notice. He is the fourth MLA to have received a show cause notice from the saffron party in the past few months. Earlier, two Hardoi MLAs -- Suresh Tewari and Shyam Prakash had been served a notice. While Tewari was accused of instigating people not to buy vegetables from Muslims, Shyam Prakash had levelled corruption charges against Hardoi health authorities in the purchase of medical equipment. Sitapur MLA Rakesh Rathore was also slapped with a notice after an audio went viral in which the MLA was mocking at steps taken by the government to combat corona outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mla-agarwal-slapped-with-notice-by-bjp/articleshow/77794160.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Chandigarh||‘I shall hate to see the day when any state feels pressurised to breach the GST spirit’||CHANDIGARH: Soon after attending the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council meeting on Thursday, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal said that he was feeling cheated as to how the Centre was running away from its commitment to pay GST compensation to states. Talking to Sanjeev Verma, the finance minister said the commitment was given by a sovereign country like India and not some banana republic. The states reserve the right to approach the court. What are the key takeaways from today’s Goods and Services Tax (GST) council meeting?The meeting lasted about 5 hours and most of the opposition states, particularly Punjab, showed them the entire minutes of the meetings of the GST council under Arun Jaitley, where there was no ambiguity that the Government of India will pay. This was the spirit under which this whole GST regime was initiated. But after 5 hours, it seemed that some kind of trust deficit is there because first you are presented with the opinion of the learned attorney general, then it is told that it was an act of God where even the Union government was not collecting GST. In an epidemic like this, the Centre should have made good the loss. Finally, we were able to prevail upon them that legally and morally, you are bound to pay the states the compensation. But the solution, which I think was thrust on us, was that the states will borrow and the borrowing will be facilitated by the Centre. This whole borrowing will be taken care of (repaid) through the GST cess collection after 2022. But then basically, we are mortgaging our future earnings to live for the present and that is not how this compensation is going to work. I am really not happy with this. What is Punjab government’s stand?Punjab had been advocating that under the Constitution, there is Section 279A(ii) wherein we reserve the right of activating the dispute resolution mechanism, which they have not done. We reserve the right to go to court. This issue is not even political. It is apolitical. We are not happy with the outcome. We, the opposition states, have today asked for seven days’ time because we are answerable to our cabinet and legislature and then see how it goes. GST was built on the promise that if there is going to be any GST deficit by any state, the Centre would make good the loss. We are facing a situation where doubts are being raised as to whether the Centre is legally accountable for compensation or compensation should be met by allowing the states to borrow. It is one thing to say that there are no funds available for compensation but it is entirely another thing to say that there is no commitment to pay compensation. Punjab is also demanding the Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST) wrongly credited by the Centre.IGST is close to Rs 54,000 crore, which the central government has wrongly credited to the Consolidated Fund of India. We want that entry to be reversed. This will give us a breathing space for at least three-four months. Finally, there is some kind of rumour being spread that 14% is too much for the central government to give. But it was negotiated when the Indian economy was growing at 12-13% at current prices. At the same time, we were told that with the implementation of the GST, leakages will be plugged and the GDP will grow by 2%. When will the states get the pending GST compensation for five months?They are saying that once they activate these provisions of borrowing, they will borrow and give it to the states. Of course, the state will be borrowing from the RBI. In fact, we pointed out that if states borrow, the cost of debt will go up. But they said they will try to facilitate and talk to the RBI. Did the GST council propose to increase tax on some more items or include more commodities under the GST?These issues were not discussed today. States had supported implementation of GST believing that all taxes and cesses would be subsumed. How do you see the central government’s move of levying cess in the health sector, petrol and diesel thereafter, wherein states failed to get any share, rather than increasing basic rates? A hungry stomach knows no law and I shall hate to see the day when any state feels pressurised by its citizens to breach the spirit of GST only because it failed to meet substantially all the commitments and expectations. If I can’t meet my expenses, what do I do? In the last three and half years, they (Centre) have raised the prices of petroleum by way of special excise nine times or 900%. In an ideal situation if it was not special excise, 42% would have belonged to the states. By giving 14% GST to the states, they have taken away much more by these special cesses. I have cut my hands and given them my financial sovereignty and in a state like Punjab, 25% of our entire tax base was subsumed because we used to tax food grains. We are told don’t worry and the Centre would make states strong enough and compensate. Now they say borrow. Borrowing and compensation are not the same. We feel almost cheated. Is the Punjab government in a position to fulfil its committed liabilities – salaries, pensions and payment of interest on loans – for August?We are meeting them but at the same time we do not want to be cheated by the Centre of their commitment. The commitment was given by a sovereign country like India and not some banana republic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hungry-stomach-knows-no-law-and-i-shall-hate-to-see-the-day-when-any-state-feels-pressurised-by-citizens-to-breach-the-spirit-of-gst/articleshow/77794148.cms||Sanjeev Verma
August 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula appoints 12 nodal officers||PANCHKULA: The Panchkula administration has appointed 12 nodal officers to contain the spread of Covid-19. Deputy commissioner M K Ahuja said, “Municipal corporation joint commissioner Sanyam Garg, district education officer Urmil Ruhil and MC executive officer Jarnail Singh will be the nodal officers for integrated disease surveillance programme, bio-medical waste management, sanitation and contact tracing.”  Dr Rajiv Narwal, Dr Sandeep Jain, Dr Anita Vasudev, Dr Mankirat and Dr Meenu will be the nodal officers for home isolation and monitoring of Covid-19 patients. SDM Richa Rathee, HUDA estate officer Anil Kumar Doon, district development and panchayat officer Kanwar Daman Singh and MC joint commissioner Sanayam Garg will be the nodal officers for Covid care facilities in the district, including Swami Devi Dayal College, BRS Dental College, Government College for Girls, Sector 14, and Kisan Bhawan. Dr Anuj Bishnoi, Dr Parvinderjeet, Dr Mohit, Dr Sanjeev Goyal, Dr Parminder, Dr Meena Bansal, Dr Vikas Gupta and Dr Umesh Modi will assist them in the management of beds in the government hospital. District revenue officer Ramphal Kataria, district information and public relation officer Dr Saroj Aggarwal, Dr Mankirat, Dr Liza Joshi, Dr Amit Sammi, Dr Neeraj Arora will assist them in coordination with labs and private hospitals. CEO of zila parishad Nishu Singhal is nodal officer for private hospitals and paid Covid care centres. Dr Shivani Huda, Dr Neetu will assist them. General manager of Haryana Roadways Ravindra Pathak will provide them transport facility. ACP Raj Kumar will focus on the law and order situation.  DC said for contact tracing, 13 teams have been formed. Asha and Anganwadi workers, along with teaching staff, have been included for this work. Sampling facilities have also increased in the district. Earlier, the health department used to collect samples from nine places and now there are 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pkl-appoints-12-nodal-officers/articleshow/77792988.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
August 28, 2020||Nashik||Breaking chain of coronavirus will be my top priority, says new commissioner||Nashik: Municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav, who took charge from outgoing municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game on Thursday, said that his top priority will be to break the chain of coronavirus in the city besides completing pending projects of the ik Municipal Corporation (NMC). Jadhav held a meeting with Game to understand the ongoing projects of NMC and the overall Covid-19 scenario in the city. He also held interactive meetings with all the head of departments thereafter. The state government had issued an order on Thursday evening announcing the transfer of joint CEO of Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) Kailas Jadhav as the municipal commissioner of Nashik. Jadhav immediately arrived at Nashik and took over the charge from the outgoing commissioner at 1.30 p.m. in the presence of all HODs of the civic body. “Presently, the outbreak of the Covid-19 is a major threat to the city. Hence, I will give major focus on health sector and ensure that better heath services are provided to people. Apart from this, focus will be laid on sanitation of the city,” said Jadhav. “Many good projects were started by my senior colleague Game in the city during his last 20 months. TI will take them forward and ensure that they are completed at the earliest. I am committed for the overall development of the city and will involve everyone in the development of the city,” he said. In the evening, Jadhav visited the Covid Care Centre at Thakker’s Dome along with additional municipal commissioner Praveen Ashtikar and health officials. They reviewed the facilities being provided by the civic body to the patients undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/breaking-chain-of-coronavirus-will-be-my-top-priority-says-new-commissioner/articleshow/77794141.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Partially-burnt body found in Dadumajra||CHANDIGARH: An unidentified man was found murdered at a forest area near a garbage dump in Dadumajra on Thursday morning. Forest guard Mukesh Kumar said in his police complaint, “While taking a round of the area, I saw a partially-burnt body and sounded the police around 8.30am. The upper part of the body was mutilated by animals. It is difficult to recognize it as the face is disfigured.” Sectors 24 and 11 police reached the spot and a CFSL team collected evidence. The body was sent to GMH-16 for the post-mortem. Cops have shared the details with other police stations of the city, Mohali and Panchkula. “We are checking the list of missing persons too. The victim seems to be between 35 and 40 years old. The accused, it appears, burnt the upper part of the body to conceal its identity. The post-mortem report will make the cause of death clear,” said a cop. A murder case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/partially-burnt-body-found-in-dadumajra/articleshow/77793030.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Kochi||GIFT City to come up in 220 hectares at Aluva||Kochi: Kochi Global Industrial Finance and Trade (GIFT) City will come up in 220 hectares near Cochin International Airport (Cial). The land acquisition for the project will begin within six months. National Industrial Corridor Development and Implementation Trust (NICDIT) has approved to develop GIFT City as an early bird project under Kochi Bangalore Industrial Corridor. The state government has accorded administrative sanction for establishing and developing GIFT City. The government has also sanctioned an amount of Rs 540 crore for land acquisition, which will be the share of Kerala government in the project. Alkesh Kumar Sharma, additional chief secretary-industries (KBIC) who is also heading the special projects in Kerala, said the project would provide an integrated ecosystem for development of globally competitive hi-tech services and financial hub. "GIFT City is an Onam gift to people of Kerala. We are planning to complete land acquisition by February 2021. Master planning agency will start work from early September this year and complete it by February 2021. Activities like MoEF clearance, tenders and the like will start in March 2021 and will be completed by May-June 2021," he said. Construction works will start after the selection of agency through a transparent bidding process, he added. The project aims to bring in investment to the tune of Rs 1,600 crore for development of trunk infrastructure, besides giving impetus to building PPP infrastructure to the tune of Rs 18,000 crore over a period of 10 years. GIFT City will create over 1.20 lakh direct and 3.6 lakh indirect employment opportunities for people of the state and is expected to have a multiplier effect on the economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gift-city-to-come-up-in-220-hectares-at-aluva/articleshow/77791582.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Chandigarh||No interim relief on arrest, order on Sumedh Singh Saini’s bail plea reserved||MOHALI: A local court here on Thursday did not pass any order on the plea for interim stay on the arrest of former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini — an accused in the alleged disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, a junior engineer — and reserved order on his bail application for August 29. The period of stay on arrest of Saini ended on August 27. The duty judge, additional sessions judge (ASJ) Sanjay Agnihotri, had on August 25 while giving interim protection to the former DGP adjourned the hearing for Thursday, to be taken up in the designated court of ASJ Rajnish Garg. Facing arrest following the addition of murder charge to the FIR over Multani’s alleged disappearance, after two co-accused turned approvers deposing against Saini, he had filed on Monday the application seeking anticipatory bail. In his previous order, ADJ Garg had asked the special investigation team (SIT) to give three days’ prior notice to Saini after adding Section 302 (murder) of the IPC to the FIR before arresting the accused. The three days’ notice period ended at 6pm on August 24, but before that, Saini had moved the anticipatory bail application. The state through its special public prosecutor Sartej Singh Narula had opposed the bail application, citing that now they have three approvers in the case, who have deposed as eyewitnesses to the inhumane torture given to Multani while in the custody of then SSP Sumedh Singh Saini. First, two former UT cops, then Inspector Jagir Singh and ASI Kuldep Singh — both co-accused with Saini — became the approvers and were granted pardon in the case. Then, a third person, who was in the lockup along with Multani, also became an approver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-interim-relief-on-arrest-order-on-sainis-bail-plea-reserved/articleshow/77794169.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
August 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Nothing even about odd formula: Traders||CHANDIGARH: With the UT administration implementing the odd-even system for opening of shops in the city’s congested markets and enforcing weekend lockdown, the small shopkeepers are the worst hit. Due to the restrictions, the shopkeepers in rehri markets of sectors 15, 19 and 22 are able to open their shops for two to three days a week. This has drastically reduced their earnings to “Rs 1,000 to Rs 3,000 a day”. Pardeep Saini, who runs a handloom shop in Sector 19 rehri market, said, “First, curfew and national lockdown hit us hard. And now, odd-even system and weekend lockdown have affected our business.” Sanjiv Kumar, who runs a shoe shop in Sector 19 rehri market, said, “We have to pay taxes, school fees of children and salaries to employees. The UT has imposed restrictions even as less customers are coming to markets due to the pandemic.” Vikram, who works in a garment shop in Sector 22 rehri market, said, “The customer footfall has decreased post-pandemic. And now, we are able to open our shop only twice or thrice a week. This has reduced the daily earnings of the shop to Rs 2,000 a day. We are worried about our jobs.” Vikas Singh, who runs a garment shop in Sector 15, said, “Before imposing the restrictions, the UT should have done a reality check. With less customers in markets, we are finding it difficult to manage our daily expenses.” Review meeting on August 28  The UT administration will take a call on continuation of weekend lockdown on August 28. UT administrator VP Singh Badnore will hold a review meeting, in which the final decision will be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nothing-even-about-odd-formula-traders/articleshow/77793069.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
August 28, 2020||Gurgaon||71 fresh Covid cases in Ambala||AMBALA: Seventy-one people tested positive for Covid-19 in Ambala on Thursday, taking its case count to 3,430, including 444 active cases. Of the 71 new cases, 40 are from Ambala Cantt, 12 each from Ambala City and Chourmastpur, four from Shahzadpur and one each from Barara, Mullana and Naraingarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/71-fresh-cases-in-ambala/articleshow/77798733.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Covid-19 rages on, snuffs out 5 lives in Tricity||CHANDIGARH: Two people died of Covid-19 and 188 – the highest single-day case spike – tested positive in Chandigarh on Thursday. With this, the city case count has mounted to 3,564 and the toll tally to 43. The first casualty is a 75-year-old resident of Sector 46. He had tested positive on August 24 and died due to respiratory failure at GMCH-32 on Wednesday night. The second casualty is a 54-year-old man of Sector 41, who breathed his last on Thursday. Panchkula : 2 succumb, 94 contract diseaseTwo patients lost their lives to Covid-19 and 94 tested positive in Panchkula on Thursday. With this, the district case count has increased to 1,923, including 730 active ones. The toll tally now stands at 15. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “The two casualties included a 60-year-old woman of Manakpur village and a 75-year-old man of Sector 17, who died at Alchemist Hospital, Sector 21, due to breathing problems.” The 94 positive cases included 53 from Pinjore and the rest from other parts of the district.So far, 1,178 patients have been cured. Mohali: Virus kills woman, infects 128Mohali district recorded its 68th casualty due to Covid-19 on Thursday, when an accident victim, who had tested positive, succumbed at a hospital. “The 63-year-old woman of Sector 69 was admitted to Mayo hospital, Mohali, following a road accident,” said civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh. The day also saw 128 new positive cases from the district. Six policemen posted at Balongi police station have also contracted the virus. Besides, 41 patients have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-die-record-188-down-with-disease/articleshow/77793090.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Mumbai||Covid research funds can be claimed as CSR spend now||MUMBAI: The government has amended the corporate social responsibility (CSR) rules to help boost research, innovation and funding for new vaccines, drugs and medical devices related to Covid-19. The Companies Act has included Covid-19 related research and development (R&D) expenditure on new vaccines, drugs and devices to be considered as corporate social responsibility (CSR) spends, subject to certain conditions. The notification says companies can claim them, if the research is in collaboration with a publicly-funded institution. The CSR law mandates companies with a net worth of Rs 500 crore and above, or with revenue of Rs 1,000 crore and above, to spend 2% of the average net profits of the previous three years on CSR projects. Under the rules amended last year, expenditure incurred by companies on activities to pursue the ‘normal course’ of their business is not counted as CSR expenditure. Hence, a pharma company could not fund pharma R&D under CSR activity till now. The notification says, “Provided that any company, engaged in research and development activity of new vaccine, drugs and medical devices in their normal course of business, may undertake research and development activity of new vaccines, drugs and medical devices related to Covid-19 for the years 2020-21, 2021-22 and 2022-23 subject to the conditions that (i) such research and development activities shall be carried out in collaboration with any of the institutes or organisations mentioned in item (ix) of Schedule VII to the Act”. The move is expected to give a leg up to companies, institutions and research labs to set up collaborative programs for Covid-19 R&D, and boost innovation. “Universities and labs should grasp this opportunity and set up collaborative programs for Covid-19 R&D, also get support for other areas”, K Vijay Raghavan, principal scientific adviser to the government, said in a tweet. Madhu Sudan Kankani, a partner in Deloitte India, said, “Companies would be able to consider R&D expenses as eligible CSR expenditure, which may support the internal funding of such initiatives.” Till now, most companies have made Covid-related investments in their own labs, and not in collaboration with government institutions. There are few examples like Cipla, which tied up with Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT), and Bharat Biotech's collaboration with Indian Council of Medical Research for Covid-19 drugs and vaccines respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-research-funds-can-be-claimed-as-csr-spend-now/articleshow/77794182.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
August 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Youth found dead in Mullanpur village||MOHALI: A youth was found dead in Dulwan village of Mullanpur on Wednesday. A passerby called up the police on spotting the body. A driving licence found on it helped establish its identity. “The licence bears the name Sunny, a resident of Peer Muchalla. An SUV with a temporary registration number was found at the spot,” said a cop Dhakoli SHO sub-inspector Narpinder Singh said, “We have initiated proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC. The postmortem, which will be conducted on Friday, report will make things clear. The SUV has been impounded.” Police said his family had lodged a missing person complaint at Dhakoli police station.  Sources said the victim was a drug addict and had gone to Mullanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/youth-found-dead-in-mullanpur-village/articleshow/77793096.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Nashik||BJP’s ‘Adhyatmik Aghadi’ for opening of temples||Nashik: The Bhartiya Janata Party’s ‘Adhyatmik Aghadi’ has called for a ‘ghanta naad’ agitation against the state government on August 29 at 11 am if the state government failed to open the doors of temples, gurdwaras, buddha vihars and jain sthanaks. Addressing the media at Nashik, convener of the Aadhyatmik Aghadi Aacharya Tushar Bhosle on Thursday said that the citizens of Maharashtra are yearning to go to temples and seek mental peace, but the government perhaps wanted to show up a secular-face and was, therefore, silent on opening of temples, gurdwaras, jain sthanaks and buddha vihars in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bjps-adhyatmik-aghadi-for-opening-of-temples/articleshow/77794158.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Ravneet Singh Bittu to be Congress whip in LS||CHANDIGARH: Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu is set to be the Congress party whip in Lok Sabha, in keeping with the changes decided by Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Bittu said he was yet to be officially communicated of the decision but it would be a big responsibility. “I will work at coordinating with the party MPs from the northern states so that an effort is made to get them ample opportunity to share their views in the Parliament and the party continues to effectively play the role of opposition against the BJP.” According to reports, Sonia has picked Gaurav Gogoi as the Congress deputy leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bittu-to-be-congress-whip-in-ls/articleshow/77794167.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Chandigarh||71 fresh Covid cases in Ambala||AMBALA: Seventy-one people tested positive for Covid-19 in Ambala on Thursday, taking its case count to 3,430, including 444 active cases. Of the 71 new cases, 40 are from Ambala Cantt, 12 each from Ambala City and Chourmastpur, four from Shahzadpur and one each from Barara, Mullana and Naraingarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/71-fresh-cases-in-ambala/articleshow/77793042.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Over 900 aged above 60 test Covid positive during surveys||PUNE: As many as 922 citizens aged 60 and above, all with underlying conditions, tested positive for Covid-19 during disease surveys condducted by both the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations. There were 502 patients within PMC limits and the rest, 420, are residents of areas under the PCMC. The swab samples collected during the surveys — specifically carried out to trace at-risk patients who may have the infection — were tested via RT-PCR. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said a total of 540 survey teams are currently active within the PMC limits. The PCMC has another 390 teams trying to detect Covid-19 in the community. These teams have, so far, surveyed nearly 2.64 lakh citizens within Pune city and nearly 3,500 residents within the Pimpri Chinchwad limits. The 922 fresh cases were detected from among 1,365 senior citizens who had underlying conditions. The surveys are crucial as they help local authorities quickly track down at-risk people who may have infection. Early detection can lead to swifter care. The door-to-door visits then will reduceCovid’s mortality rate in the region. Rao told TOI that the surveys were relaunched with more equipment and tech from August 1. “We now have an app called Vayashri, into which we can save details of the surveyed senior citizens. The earlier surveys were manual and were hectic to conduct and record. Our nodal officers, appointed for a particular area, also have pulse oximeters with them to check blood oxygen levels of residents,” he added. Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner, Shravan Hardikar, said even though the total number of citizens surveyed in twin towns is stated as 3,000, PCMC officials have in fact, checked on nearly 2 lakh senior citizens. “This survey is quite important, especially for the areas within PCMC limits. We have one of the highest case fatality rates (8.5%) among Covid-19 patients who are above 60 years of age. These surveys will help us bring down the CFR. The activity, which started some two months ago, is expected to continue for some time.” Abhijit More, a health activist, praised the initiative. “We knew the surveys were on. The swabs being collected from senior citizens with symptoms will surely help us achieve some early detection,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-900-aged-above-60-test-covid-positive-during-surveys/articleshow/77793098.cms||Piyush Bhusari
August 28, 2020||Pune||After Bharati hospital, KEM doctors begin Covishield’s human trials||PUNE: A day after doctors at Bharati hospital kickstarted human trials of the Covishield vaccine, their counterparts at KEM Hospital began their phase 2 by inoculating two volunteers on Thursday. The doses by KEM were administered at its research unit in Vadhu (Shirur taluka) in Pune district. On Wednesday, Bharati had injected Covishield into two volunteers — a 48-year-old healthcare worker and a 32-year-old private professional. On Thursday, the hospital injected four more people — between the ages of 21 and 62 — with the vaccine candidate. “The 62-year-old is a healthy male. A total of 15 healthy volunteers are likely to be vaccinated by Friday,” said Bharati hospital’s medical director Sanjay Lalwani. Lalwani added that neither of the two volunteers who were inoculated on Wednesday had developed any side effects in the last 24 hours. At KEM, doctors said they are screening more volunteers. “We have vaccinated two adult volunteers on Thursday. Screening of a few more is currently underway,” said KEM hospital's gastroenterologist Ashish Bavdekar. Bavdekar, however, refused to reveal details of the volunteers. “As per ICMR trial protocols, volunteer information has to be kept confidential,” he said. Bharati and KEM hospitals are two of the four trial sites in Pune for the Oxford University-developed Covishield. It’s being manufactured by Serum Institute of India. The other two hospitals are the state-run B J Medical College and Sassoon Hospital and Jehangir hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/after-bharati-hospital-kem-docs-begin-covishields-human-trials/articleshow/77793146.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 28, 2020||Aurangabad||WRD told to switch off Jayakwadi illumination||AURANGABAD: The practice of illuminating Jayakwadi major irrigation project, which started since last year’s monsoon, has come under criticism from the district administration. In the latest review meeting, the district administration has asked the state water resources department (WRD) to discontinue the practice at the earliest. Meanwhile, the water release from the Jayakwadi dam is imminent as it had filled up to 85% of the live storage by Thursday afternoon. The dam was receiving inflows at 19,000 cusec from upstream areas in the morning. “The district administration has raised apprehension that the illuminated Jayakwadi dam might attract more visitors to the reservoir. We were told that such crowding is unwanted for the safety of the dam as well as visitors,” a senior WRD official said, preferring anonymity. Safety issues arise at the Jayakwadi dam every year and the nearly filled Nathsagar (the dam’s reservoir) only aggravates the concerns. The dam does not have a proper round-the-clock security cover with armed security guards, despite official recommendations from the Central and the state security agencies in past. The Jayakwadi major irrigation project, one of the biggest dams in Maharashtra, only gets improved security apparatus coinciding with the release of water. Welcoming the order against illuminating the dam, water rights activist Abhijit Dhanorkar said the WRD authorities must disclose expenditure incurred on lighting up the dam. “It is illogical to illuminate the dam and attract more visitors when the security of the reservoir is already porous. The expenditure incurred on putting up the illumination system must be recovered from salaries of authorities concerned,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/wrd-told-to-switch-off-jayakwadi-illumination/articleshow/77790357.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Nashik||Credai welcomes decision on stamp duty reduction||Nashik: The Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai) Nashik on Thursday welcomed the state government’s decision of reducing stamp duty charges from 5% to 2% by December end. Moreover, the stamp duty charges will be 3% between January 1 and March 31 in 2021. Credai Nashik said that the government’s decision of reducing the stamp duty will boost realty sector in the city. At present, the real estate sector is going through a phase of recession and the outbreak of Covid-19 has badly affected the realty sector. But, the government’s move to reduce the stamp duty by 2% up to December 31 and 3% up to March 31 next year will definitely boost the property transaction in the city, said Ravi Mahajan, president of Credai Nashik. This will save around Rs 1 and Rs 1.5 lakh of people opting to buy 1 BHK and 2 BHK flats respectively. People who were willing to buy properties, but had cancelled their plans due to current scenario will now get a chance to own their dream home, said Mahajan. Mahajan said that banks have already reduced the rate of interest on home loans. Also, property prices are stable since the last three years. “Therefore, this is an opportunity for people to buy their own home,” said Mahajan. Earlier, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) had provided relief to the realty sector towards payment of development and premium charges in three instalments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/credai-welcomes-decision-on-stamp-duty-reduction/articleshow/77794170.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 28, 2020||Dehradun||15 in Haridwar break norms by taking out Ganesh Chaturthi procession, booked||Haridwar: A case has been registered against 15 locals for allegedly taking out the procession of Lord Ganesh without permission in Haridwar’s Jawalapur police station limits. Police booked them under the Disaster Management Act. SHO Jawalapur police station Praveen Singh Koshiyari told TOI, “Amid Covid-19 outbreak, we are not giving permission to take procession on Ganesh Chaturthi and Muharram. A case has been registered against them and have asked all the locals to follow the Covid-19 guidelines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/15-in-haridwar-break-norms-by-taking-out-ganesh-chaturthi-procession-booked/articleshow/77790360.cms||MS Nawaz
August 28, 2020||Mangaluru||Youth held for father’s murder||MANGALURU: A taxi driver, arrested for the murder of his father, has confessed that getting ridiculed every day for not going to work forced him to kill his father, said police. Dakshina Kannada police arrested Dayananda, 27, a resident of Kutyar Road, Belthangady taluk in Mangaluru, on Wednesday night. It is alleged that Dayananda had attacked his father Vasu, 68, during his morning walk in Belthangady on August 24. Soon after the attack, he fled from the crime scene and switched off his cell phone. He then came to Mangaluru to work as a car driver. Though police had primarily suspected Dayananda’s role in the murder, they couldn’t trace him. Acting on a tip-off, police nabbed him on Wednesday. Police added that he had rented out a room in the city. Police said Dayananda had no cordial relationship with his father. Things turned uglier after the lockdown, where the duo used to fight over trivial issues. The victim allegedly used to humiliate Dayananda as he was unemployed during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/youth-held-for-fathers-murder/articleshow/77790354.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Lucknow||Ayodhya DM honoured for reviving extinct Tamsa river||AYODHYA: The Water Innovation award has been conferred on Ayodhya district magistrate Anuj Kumar Jha for launching a campaign to revive the Tamsa river by mobilising manpower under the flagship MNREGS. The Union Jal Shakti ministry honoured him for his efforts to breathe life into an extinct river, which is now brimming and charting its mythological course from Ayodhya’s Basedi village, where Lord Ram is believed to have spent the first night of exile on its banks.In January 2019, the district administration launched the exercise to revive the 215km-long river, which was a trickle then. The Tamsa banks, which is dotted with 82 villages before it flows into the Ghagra in Shrawan village of Ambedkar Nagar district, finds mention in Tulsidas’ Ram Charitra Manas. Tamsa was once one of the three main rivers in central-eastern UP, including Ghaghra and Rapti. After the river dried up, land was encroached upon by farmers. Residents in the Tamsa hinterland, however, are happy with the revival of the holy river. Talking to TOI, Ayodhya district magistrate Anuj Kumar Jha said, “We used 5.61 lakh man days under MNREGS to revive the river and planted 70,000 trees along its shores. At least 1.23 lakh saplings were also planted in villages in the Tamsa hinterland. Around 300 ponds and 200 water drains in the region were linked through canals to ensure round-the-clock flow and limit flooding during monsoon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayodhya-dm-honoured-for-reviving-extinct-tamsa/articleshow/77794175.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
August 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Two months on, UT cops yet to act on adviser’s directive||CHANDIGARH: It has been over two months since UT adviser Manoj Parida, who also holds the charge of chief vigilance officer (CVO), Chandigarh administration, had recommended to the UT police department to take departmental action against two senior police officials of the vigilance department, but an action-taken report is still awaited. The adviser had issued the letter to the police department on June 22 only after the approval of UT administrator V P Singh Badnore. Confirming that his office has not received any action taken report, Parida said he would seek a report on the matter on Friday. The letter issued by UT adviser’s office reads, “The competent authority has considered the matter and recommended to take departmental action against the officials for acting beyond jurisdiction. You are, therefore, requested to take departmental action against two officials. An action taken report in this matter be furnished to this department.” The matter dates back to February 2016 when the UT vigilance sleuths had arrested two persons, including an excise and taxation officer (ETO) posted at Panchkula for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 30,000 for allowing trucks of a Chandigarh-based businessman to pass without any checks. The Haryana government had refused prosecution sanction in this case against the ETO, stating that Chandigarh has no jurisdiction either over private individuals or organisations of the state governments. Besides, they had also submitted that neither the UT vigilance department had sought permission from the district magistrate, Panchkula, nor there was any duty magistrate accompanying the raiding team. Accordingly, the Chandigarh CVO’s office had recommended action against the two senior cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/two-months-on-ut-cops-yet-to-act-on-advisers-directive/articleshow/77793114.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
August 28, 2020||Chennai||A firebrand freedom fighter who left an impression on screen too||By R RangarajOn August 9, 1942, when M K Gandhi created history with the launch of the Quit India movement, a 21-year-old Annamalai addressed a large gathering at the Devakottai Jawahar ground, urging them to follow the path of Gandhi and his satyagraha. As the crowd prevented police from arresting him, it was only around midnight that he was cornered and taken by a bus to Tiruvadanai. On hearing of his arrest, more than 20,000 people attacked the Tiruvadanai prison, the bus was set on fire, as also the court building, while the crowd overran the police force, broke open the prison gates and freed Annamalai. Some of his supporters carried him on their shoulders and the crowd left for Devakottai, raising slogans of Quit India. As the crowd neared Devakottai, police resorted to firing and at least 65 volunteers were said to have laid down their lives to protect Annamalai, who escaped with a bullet injury on his hand. It was one of the most poignant moments in the history of the Indian freedom struggle, worth remembering in the centenary year of the man who dedicated his youth to the Independence movement.Annamalai surrendered later when police picked up his father. He was beaten up while he continued to shout ‘Vande Mataram’ and hail Mahatma Gandhi. He was awarded a prison sentence of four-and-a-half years. Rajaji appeared as his counsel in court and got the sentence reduced to six months.Born on June 18, 1920 at Siruvayal, he was a rebel since his school days. He was attracted to the freedom movement at the age of 10 after he heard speeches of Karaikudi Sa Ganesan. In 1935, when Kamala Nehru died, he led a strike by school students to force closure of the Nagarathar high school in Devakottai. He began addressing meetings, inspiring locals to join the freedom movement when he was 14 years old. His frequent skirmishes with police led to his ouster from school. In his new school too he continued his campaign for freedom, inspired by the writings of Kalki Krishnamurthy. As secretary of the school students’ union, he invited Congress leader Dheeran Satyamurthy to deliver an address. Annamalai’s vote-of-thanks speech astounded Satyamurthy, and he invited Annamalai to speak at the public meeting that evening. Worried over his son’s future due to his agitations, Annamalai’s father sent him to Malaysia to work in an estate in Penang but there too he organised women to oppose liquor shops, and Malaysian authorities deported him to India.News of Annamalai’s agitations reached Gandhi, and he was selected as the lone satyagrahi for Devakottai. Later, Gandhi also permitted Annamalai to bring out the Tamil version of ‘Harijan’. The more literary side to him was known after the 1942 arrest episode when Annamalai moved to Chennai on Rajaji’s advice and took up his passions – Tamil literature and music. He launched ‘Tamil Pannai’, a publishing firm, to bring out books on Congress leaders and Tamil writers such as Rajaji, Kalki, T S Chokkalingam, T K Chidambaranatha Mudaliar, Namakkal Ramalingam Pillai, Kannadasan and Vali. Soon, his publishing house near Panagal Park in T Nagar became a meeting place for Tamil writers, scholars and nationalists. He inspired several publishing houses to come up there. He is therefore regarded as the ‘Father of Publishing’ in Tamil Nadu. Always there to help struggling writers, Annamalai organised a function in 1944 to felicitate Namakkal Kavignar (presided by Rajaji) who was struggling to make both ends meet, and presented him a purse of `20,000. Since there were several Annamalais, Rajaji decided to call him Chinna Annamalai from then on and the name stuck.Some of the books he published were made into films like ‘Kappalottiya Tamizhan’, a Sivaji Ganesan starrer that inspired nationalism was based on a book on freedom fighter V O Chidambaram by Ma Po Si. He also produced Tamil films including Sivaji Ganesan starrers, while writing stories and dialogue for some films. Politics, still, was never far away for him, in 1969 worried over the decline of the Congress in Tamil Nadu, he formed the All India Sivaji Ganesan Fans Association to attract youngsters to the Congress party. While his death came as a shock on his 60th birthday, he died in the midst of his admirers and family members remembered as the man who lived for his country, stood in the line of fire and also contributed to society through the written word and cinema.(The writer is president of Chennai 2000 Plus Trust)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/a-firebrand-freedom-fighter-who-left-an-impression-on-screen-too/articleshow/77794978.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Kolkata||JEE, NEET aspirants jittery over safety issues & reaching exam centres in time||Kolkata: Anxiety and panic has taken over several JEE and NEET aspirants as they scramble for last-minute preparations ahead of the crucial career-defining examinations. Several students said they were not sure whether they will be able to appear if the examinations were held.The complexities of problems range from reaching examination venues (mostly for candidates based out of Kolkata), the hygiene protocols at the cramped examination venues to the lack of clarity on external help called ‘scribes’ for physically disabled candidates.Gourab Mondal, one of the higher secondary toppers, said he was unsure if he would be able to make it to the exam centre in time on his father’s two-wheeler. Mondal, a Barjora High School student, must reach his JEE exam centre at Bengal Engineering College, Durgapur, on September 3. “This examination is very important, but is not worth more than my life,” he said.Anindya Banerjee, a NEET (UG) aspirant from Ghatal in West Midnapore, had the same concern. He will have to reach his examination centre, Indus Valley World School, off EM Bypass, on September 13. “I have been preparing hard for the past year. I do not know how I will manage to reach there in time.” With September 11 and 12 declared as total lockdown days, Banerjee says he would have to hire a car to reach Kolkata.There are other issues, in addition to the logistics challenges, that are making students anxious. For example, a NEET (UG) aspirant, who is being treated for a neurological problem and had applied under the persons with physical disability category. When he downloaded his admit card on September 26, he was shocked to see “No” written in the disability column. He called up the National Testing Agency (NTA) helpline number and was asked to download the admit card a second time. The error had been rectified, but the admit card said the candidate would have to bring their own scribe or external help. The student on August 27 wrote to NTA again stating that the nature of his disability was such that he wouldn’t need a scribe and would be able write on his own.“To get a scribe, one needs proper medical authorization. This will not be possible in this case. The admit card, however, made it mandatory. The student apprehends he may be turned away from the examination centre,” a person in the know said.Amiya Kumar Maity, director of the Kolkata-based Dr Maity Educational and Medical Research Institute, argued, “There is an online examination format for JEE (mains) for international students. So not having pen-and-paper formats is not affecting the quality of the assessment. Why can’t this be replicated for Indian students? And why the insistence on holding NEET (UG) on a single day? Last year and the year before, the examinations were held in two phases.”(With inputs from Debashis Konar & Saibal Gupta in Kolkata)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jee-neet-aspirants-jittery-over-safety-issues-reaching-exam-centres-in-time/articleshow/77791671.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Vadodara||Chemical waste dumping racket busted in Mehsana||Ahmedabad: The local crime branch (LCB) of Mehsana police unearthed a racket of disposing chemical waste in the ground on Thursday. According to police, they had received information during patrolling in Mehsana town that chemical waste from a tanker is being emptied in the ground on the road towards Shobhasan near ONGC well. On the basis of information, LCB sleuths raided the place and found a tanker registered in Gandhinagar. The tanker’s valve was connected to a pipe through which the chemical was being disposed off in a pit 100-feet away. Police said that the tanker with 15,000 litres of chemical waste was seized and a note regarding this was made at Mehsana City A Division police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/chemical-waste-dumping-racket-busted-in-mehsana/articleshow/77791642.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Dehradun||Manglaur MLA made Cong screening committee member for Bihar polls||Dehradun: Considering his key roles in driving the party to success in various state elections and even ironing out differences between lawmakers in the recent political upheaval in Rajasthan, the Congress has named party loyalist and Manglaur MLA Qazi Nizamuddin a member of the screening committee for the upcoming assembly polls in Bihar. While veteran Ajay Pandey has been made the three-member committee chairman, another functionary Devender Yadav is also part of the team. The ex-officio members are AICC in-charge for Bihar Shaktisinh Gohil, PCC president Madan Mohan Jha and CLP leader in the state assembly Sadanand Singh. The Bihar polls are slated for later this year.Insiders said that Nizamuddin’s new assignment is in line with his rising stature in the party ranks. Apart from his contributions to the party within the state, he was also part of the Congress poll success in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. He was then made an AICC secretary as a recognition for the efforts.On being contacted, Nizamuddin said, “My role as a screening committee member in Bihar will be to help the party identify the winnable and most suitable candidates.” “It is an elaborate exercise as many good candidates move their bio-data for a particular seat. The role of the screening committee is to shortlist them and suggest names to the Congress election committee which takes the final call,” he added.Another party source said that the Manglaur MLA has been successful in winning the confidence of the party’s national leadership in the last three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/manglaur-mla-made-cong-screening-committee-member-for-bihar-polls/articleshow/77790387.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 28, 2020||Dehradun||12-year-old killed in hit-and-run||Dehradun: A 12-year-old boy was killed after being hit by a speeding bike near Balliwala flyover in Vasant Vihar police station area of Dehradun on Thursday afternoon. The deceased has been identified as Karan Sahani, a resident of Kanwali Road. On receiving information about the accident, a police team reached the spot and took the injured boy to Coronation Hospital where he succumbed to the injuries during treatment. Meanwhile, police are trying to identify the bike and its owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/12-year-old-killed-in-hit-and-run/articleshow/77790391.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Pune||Dy CM, ex-CM to share stage||Pune: The inauguration of a 314-bed Covid-19 care centre in Baner will bring deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and former CM Devendra Fadnavis on a stage together for the first time on Friday after their joint appearance in November last year, when they had joined hands in their futile attempt to form the state government. The PMC has set up the centre with corporate social responsibilityfunds. Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said the facility would become operational next week. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dy-cm-ex-cm-to-share-stage/articleshow/77793180.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana at bottom in tests/million population among 10 states||HYDERABAD: Despite ramping up Covid-19 testing in recent times, Telangana continues to be in the bottom half of the states in conducting the lowest tests per million population in the country. While Delhi conducts 76,034 tests per million population (tpmp), neighbouring AP occupies the third position in the country with 65,168 tpmp after Jammu and Kashmir which has 66,865 tpmp. In fact, Telangana’s claims of doing 30,772 tpmp (as on August 27) is in conflict with the Centre’s data of 27,534 tpmp, which is the lowest among all the southern states. As per the ministry of health and family welfare (MHFW) records, Telangana’s tpmp is even less than Maharashtra and Gujarat, which have recorded a far higher number of Covid-19 positive cases. Even if going by the state government’s claim of 30,772 tpmp, nine states are still ahead of Telangana in tpmp, officials said. Till last month, the state was conducting 8,000 to 10,000 tests a day. Faced with criticism from various quarters, including the high court, the government started conducting more tests. Since last week, it was testing 40,000 samples which was further enhanced to 60,000 samples a day. As a result, the number of positive cases has also spiked. Giving reasons for Telangana’s low tpmp, health department officials said the state had tested less than 4,000 to 5,000 samples a day till June, which was scaled up to 10,000 in July. “Though the number of tests has gone up in the recent times, tpmp is low because of various reasons. The government has started allowing the private laboratories to conduct Covid-19 tests only from July. The other reason is that the health department preferred RT-PCR testing over rapid antigen tests,” a senior health official said. At one point of time, Telangana was in the bottom in conducting tests per million population trailing only Bihar. According to MHFW’s dashboard, Delhi, AP, Tamil Nadu, Jammu and Kashmir, Kerala, Karnataka, Kerala, Odisha and Punjab have conducted more than 31,000 tpmp. As far as the southern states are concerned, AP has conducted 35 lakh samples so far, Kerala 15 lakh tests (with 42,383 tpmp) and Karnataka tested 26 lakh samples with 38,517 tpmp. In the recovery rate, 75% of the people in Telangana who had tested positive have recoved from the infection, while the national average is 76.28%. But, the mortality rate is better than the national average, claim the officials. Public health director G Srinivasa Rao said not only the testing has been increased, but Telangana’s recovery rate has improved to 75% and mortality has come down to less than 1%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-lags-behind-other-states-in-tests-per-million/articleshow/77793216.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 28, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand records highest single-day spike of 728 Covid-19 cases||DEHRADUN: The number of Covid-19 cases continued to rise in Uttarakhand, with the state touching its highest single-day mark of 728 on Thursday. The overall cases now stand at 17, 277. The infection rate in the state is 5.31%, but on Thursday it soared to 8.52%. Nine people succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 228. All the patients died at AIIMS-Rishikesh and were in the age group of 50 to 70. Haridwar remained the worst-hit in the state, with the holy city reporting 175 new cases. It has now recorded 4, 173 cases. Maximum 44 patients were from SIDCUL industrial area of Haridwar while two were health staff and belonged from Ram Krishna Mission Seva Ashram hospital. After Haridwar, Dehradun recorded 150 new cases, with the total number of cases reaching 3,452. The other disitricts which registered an increase in the cases include, Nainital with 122 cases, as the total number of cases reached 2,458, followed by US Nagar which added 77 cases, taking the tally to 3310. While Tehri recorded 49 cases, Uttarkashi 45, Almora 44, Pithoragarh 38 and Bageshwar 14 new cases. Pauri and Champawat recorded 3 cases each while Rudraprayag registered seven cases, whereas Chamoli had just one case. As many as 251 people were recovered, taking the tally to 11,775 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-728-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77790380.cms||Shivani Azad
August 28, 2020||Kolkata||In 10 weeks, 65,000 have used GPS ambulances in Kolkata||KOLKATA: After Shikha Dasgupta (name changed) tested Covid-19 positive, her family was desperate to shift her to a private hospital, their panic intensifying with the rise in Shikha’s body temperature. A private ambulance asked for more than Rs 3,000 to take her to a private hospital less than four kilometres from her home. Amiya, her husband, called the centralized health portal number to lodge a complaint. At the end of the call, he was pleasantly surprised and relieved. Within 17 minutes of his call, an ambulance reached their Bansdroni home and his wife was picked up by attendants in PPE. They ferried the patient to the hospital at no cost. The smart ambulance management system for Covid-19 patients introduced by the health department has relieved patients and their families from the ordeal of not getting an ambulance on time. It also prevents fleecing by fly-by-night operators. The service is free of cost for all Covid patients. The GPS-fitted ambulances can be tracked 24×7 clock even by patient parties. “With numerous complaints pouring in against ambulance services, we decided to make it centralized so that it can be availed by all Covid patients. We have so far ferried 65,000 patients to hospitals and safe homes in nearly two and a half month in the city,” an officer said. At present, 110 ambulances are stationed at different strategic corners of the city. The moment a patient party calls, the nearest ambulance to the caller is dispatched. The ambulances are equipped with all necessary support systems for a critical Covid patient. The ambulances are managed in such a way that a patient reaches a hospital within two hours. For the rest of the state, 400 such dedicated ambulances have been stationed for ferrying Covid-19 patients. “Since admission is more urgent than releases, these ambulances are not being used for ferrying discharged patients,” an official said. Meanwhile, the transport department has started taking action against fly-by-night ambulance operators. “We shall cancel the permits of the erring ambulance. People can call us on 1800-3455-192 to register their complaints,” said a transport department officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-10-weeks-65k-have-used-gps-ambulances-in-kol/articleshow/77791666.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
August 28, 2020||Pune||Cong wants OTP-based alert system on patients||Pune: The Congress’s city unit has decided to approach chief minister Uddhav Thackeray with a proposal to set up a website and one-time password (OTP)- based system to link all government-run Covid-19 hospitals in Maharashtra to provide latest updates on the condition of patients to their relatives. Congress leaders said the West Bengal government has set up a similar system and it could be replicated in Maharashtra for better communication between the patients, their relatives and treating doctors. “The OTP-based system will be safe and ensure transfer of updates without glitches. The patients’ relatives will not have to visit the hospitals to get updates on their kin’s health,” a leader said, adding that they have approached the party’s state unit president, Balasaheb Thorat, to submit the proposal to the CM. City Congress president Ramesh Bagwe said there was a need to introduce systems that would ensure better coordination among hospitals, patients and their relatives. “The web-based system will be one such step towards this. The government should consider the proposal,” he said. City Congress spokesperson Ramesh Iyer said, “The government should link all Covid-19 hospitals in the state. A patient’s relative can on the website enter the cellphone number provided to the hospital. The relative will get an OTP after successful registration. Once the patient’s relative enters the OTP on the link, he or she can then get to know the health condition.” He added, “At present, there is no such facility available in the state and the patients’ relatives keep calling the doctors or hospitals for the updates. The patients’ relatives are not allowed to visit the Covid-19 hospitals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cong-wants-otp-based-alert-system-on-patients/articleshow/77793158.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Pune||Pune metropolitan region’s tally hits single-day high of 3,703, total tops 1.5 lakh||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added its single-day highest tally of 3,703 on Thursday, pushing its caseload to more than 1.56 lakh. Besides, 69 more patients succumbed to the infection in the region in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 3,873. Among the new cases, as many as 1,773 were recorded in the PMC limits, while 1,105 in the PCMC limits and 825 in the rural as well as the Cantonment areas together. While the new cases shot up by 459 on Thursday against the Wednesday’s case count, the recoveries slipped to 2,812 from 3,212 recorded on the previous day. Data released by the district health officer revealed that in last 10 days, PMR has reported more than 3,000 cases for five days. Health officials said that 13,707 samples were tested in PMR on Thursday. As far as the recoveries concerned, over 1.21 lakh people have been discharged in PMR so far after successful recovery. The tally of active cases increased to 31,698 on Thursday night, of whom 17,912 patients were undergoing treatment at various hospitals and Covid care centres. while 13,786 patients were in home isolation. A PMC report stated that the condition of 818 patients was critical, of whom 496 were on ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmrs-tally-hits-single-day-high-of-3703-total-tops-1-5l/articleshow/77793187.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 28, 2020||Nashik||Man held for issuing e-passes for Rs 2,000 each||NASHIK: A 32-year-old man has been arrested by Nashik police for issuing e-passes meant for inter-district travelling in exchange for money. The suspect, Krushna alias Rakesh Sadanand Surve, is a resident of Dombivali and native of Padve village in Ratnagiri taluka. According to police, the e-passes are issued by for free for people wanting to travel from one part of the state to another. “Recently, an audio clip of a conversation between two people regarding an e-pass for inter-district travel had gone viral on a social media platform,” a police officer said. “In the audio, one person was telling the other person that the cost of an e-pass would be Rs 2,000 and since the process of issuing e-passes for inter-district travel has been stopped in Mumbai and Thane, the e-pass would be issued through Nashik city police,” he added. Taking serious cognizance of the same, senior police officers had instructed the crime branch to immediately investigate the matter and arrest the person involved in issuing fake e-passes. Assistant police inspector Abhijeet Sonawane of the crime branch investigated the case and found that the person who was demanding the money was Surve. Accordingly, an FIR was registered at Sarkarwada police station on August 15 and the suspect was traced to Ratnagiri from where he was arrested. During interrogation, Surve told the police that he had issued 15 e-passes to people going from Mumbai to Ratnagiri and had taken Rs 2,000 from them. “We are investigating whether the e-passes given by Surve were genuine or fake,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-held-for-issuing-e-passes-for-rs2000-each/articleshow/77794177.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Chennai||Quality a concern for distance learning under new edu policy||By R MahendranThe National Education Policy 2020 aims to ensure access, equity and quality education from pre-primary to tertiary level. With regard to higher education, there are nine visions to deliver quality higher education. The ninth vision focuses on "increased access, equity and inclusion through a range of measures, including greater opportunities for outstanding public education… online education and Open and Distance Learning (ODL)". Indicating that ODL, after some key changes, can play an important role in enhancement of the total Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) in higher education. Despite the plans to utilise the ODL system, NEP 2020 has not considered the recommendations of the previous policies regarding establishment of open universities, nor has it taken lessons to plug the holes in the system. Part-time and correspondence courses were started in 1962 and the first National Policy on Education, 1968, stressed on the need to develop it on a large scale at the university stage, according it the same status as full-time education. Following this, while many universities began offering correspondence Courses through separate departments/ schools, with the Andhra Pradesh Open University (now Dr B R Ambedkar Open University), Hyderabad, becoming the first single mode open university in 1982. The Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) came into existence in 1985. The second National Policy on Education (NPE) 1986, amended in 1992, on ODL stated, "The open learning system has been initiated to augment opportunities for higher education, as an instrument of democratizing education and to make it a lifelong process". As per the programme of action (1992) of this policy, each state should establish an open university for which the IGNOU would provide technical and consultancy support. To this end, IGNOU set up a Distance Education Council (DEC) in 1991 to promote, coordinate and regulate the standards of education offered through the ODL system. One of the prime functions of the DEC was to advise state governments to create open universities. In 2012, the UGC withdrew the DEC and formulated an exclusive Distance Education Bureau (DEB). The question is whether the recommendations of the NPE and the DEC regarding the setting up open universities were implemented by the states in true spirit because in reality affiliating universities have been enormously encouraged to conduct ODL programmes. According to the All India Survey on Higher Education 2018-19, there are 16 open universities comprising 1 national, 14 state and one private open university, in contrast there are 110 dual mode universities/institutions offering distance education programmes. Finally, the NEP 2020 plans to overhaul the ODL system. Some of the imperative schemes are ensuring quality open and distance learning programmes equivalent to on campus programmes, encouraging accredited such institutions to develop quality online courses and framing guidelines for regulations and accreditation, besides exploring vocational courses through ODL. Even though it deals with the expansion of ODL, it does not have specific schemes and plans for open universities. Though the previous policies recommend setting up open universities in all states, the present one does not propose any such plans to increase the strength of OUs. Instead it allows higher educational institutions without experience to conduct ODL and online programmes. This may stall the existence of the existing open universities that are already suffering from the financial crisis. So when the NEP 2020 permits these institutions to conduct ODL programmes, quality will be a concern. Distance education programmes may be helpful to achieve 50% GER by 2035, but the sustainability of the promised "high quality higher education" may be uncertain.(The writer is an assistant professor of English, Tamil Nadu Open University)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/quality-a-concern-for-distance-learning-under-new-edu-policy/articleshow/77794982.cms||---
August 28, 2020||India||SC order could give a boost to introduction of ‘creamy layer’ among SCs/STs||NEW DELHI: The five-judge Supreme Court order upholding states' right to undertake sub-categorisation of SCs /STs is significant because it would now stand as a neutralising counterweight to the earlier 2004 EV Chinnaiah judgement that declared it as unconstitutional. The fresh examination by the larger bench would thus start on an even keel, which opens up the issue that was viewed as virtually settled, a boost for the group lobbying for it. What it means is that division of Dalits could be closer than before. The way Thursday’s judgement has argued the issue also raises the possibility of further strengthening introduction of “creamy layer” among SCs and STs. Recent court orders have upheld the still-to-be-implemented “creamy layer” among Dalits but it remains controversial and has been appealed against. The looming possibility of sub-categorisation of Dalits coupled with the concept of “creamy layer” has been the biggest bugbear of rights activists who believe these concepts will sow divisions in this social bloc and loosen their political consolidation – the biggest story of recent decades – exemplified by the emergence of BSP in UP and minor outfits in southern states, as well as a pan-India Dalit civil society. Sub-categorisation means division of SCs into sub-groups and apportioning of reservation quota among them based on their population. The idea is devised to address the complaint that some affluent sub-castes are cornering quota benefits at the cost of weaker ones. However, the judicial pronouncements are not passing muster with all. “Today’s judgement as also recent orders have treated the SC and ST issues very casually. They have repeatedly made generalised claims about inequitable distribution of reservation benefits without any empirical data. There have also been serious inconsistencies between different orders,” remarked Anurag Bhaskar, a law faculty and expert on reservation laws. Legalities apart, the crucial dimension of sub-classification is political. It is argued that the march of social justice has been possible because of the rallying of erstwhile untouchables as a homogenous group. The issue of benefits pits sub-groups against one another while that of emancipation and safety unites them. Sub-categorisation gives primacy to benefits, which would turn sub-castes into competitive blocs, thereby loosening their mobilisation as a social constituency. It may in the long run dismantle Dalit politics at the national and even state level. Community intelligentsia concedes the dilemma that the need for equitable sharing of quota benefits cannot be ignored but the solution offered may hurt the fight for social justice. “Social stigmatisation hurts as much one sub-group as it does another. But a rallying cry will not be possible once their interests are entrenched as mutually exclusive,” it is argued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-order-could-give-a-boost-to-introduction-of-creamy-layer-among-scs/sts/articleshow/77794980.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
August 28, 2020||Agra||Man who set his jeweller cousin afire in UP’s Firozabad found dead in prison||Agra: A 35-year-old man accused of killing his cousin, a jeweller, by setting him ablaze in busy Firozabad market last week, allegedly committed suicide in a temporary jail’s toilet on Thursday evening.Robin Verma (35) had allegedly poured highly-inflammable industrial thinner (methyl) on his cousin Rakesh Verma (40) and set him ablaze on Wednesday. With 75% burn injuries, Rakesh was rushed to several hospitals but couldn’t survive. The incident sent shockwaves across the region and, latching on to it, the opposition parties had slammed the UP government over the law and order situation.Firozabad’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sachindra Patel had said, “Initial investigation revealed that Puja Verma, the wife of Robin had committed suicide on August 12. There seems to be some dispute over it in the family. And it led to the attack.”Eight days after, as the sensational case slowly dissipated from the discourse, Rakesh allegedly hanged himself in the toilet of a temporary jail he was lodged in. He was to be shifted in the district jail after completion of the 14-day quarantine.On Thursday evening, Robin went to the toilet. When he didn’t return to his room after 30 minutes, security guards went inside and found him hanging.Jail superintendent Mohammad Akram Khan said, “Robin committed suicide by hanging himself with the string of his pyjama inside the toilet. His body has been sent for post-mortem examination. His family members have been informed about the incident.”His wife, Puja Verma, had committed suicide on August 12 by hanging herself.They are survived by four daughters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/man-who-set-his-jeweller-cousin-afire-in-ups-firozabad-found-dead-in-prison/articleshow/77790393.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 28, 2020||Dehradun||One product of each dist to be promoted for 'self-reliant India'||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government on the advice of Union commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal is going to select one product from each district and promote it at the state and national levels.Goyal held a video conference with state urban development minister Madan Kaushik on Thursday to discuss the issue. Besides, there will be a plan to increase Uttarakhand’s contribution to the country's economy and increase contribution to exports.Kaushik informed Goyal that mushroom, honey, pharma and herbal sectors have immense potential in the state and the government would work on promoting them. Goyal said that the Centre will give a special subsidy to the selected product from each district.Kaushik added that the state government was working on various service sectors such as Ayurveda, spa, wellness, eco-tourism and adventure. He maintained that these sectors could be picked up for promotion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/one-product-of-each-dist-to-be-promoted-for-self-reliant-india/articleshow/77790401.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 28, 2020||Pune||Pune municipal corporation keen on experiment that aims to detect Covid by sound||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation has expressed interest in a pilot experiment that hopes to detect Covid-19 via voice samples of people. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has already started a pilot which will analyse voice samples via an app that can be installed on phones or laptops. Officials said people will be first asked to read out numbers before a device. An algorithm will then attempt to match the sample with data inside the server of the service provider. Results can be produced within a claimed 30 seconds. Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said like Mumbai, screenings here will be first carried out as part of a pilot project limited to certain areas before being rolled out in the district. “It’s a non-invasive test, but we will have to determine its efficacy,” he said. BMC’s additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the project is part of options being explored to control Covid-19. “If Pune also starts it, we can have a comparative study. We are doing it at the Goregaon jumbo facility, where we will be assessing 2,000 samples using mobile phones,” he said. The samples will be analysed by an artificial intelligence programme. Those testing positive via the voice samples will also undergo an RT-PCR test to confirm infection. Neelam Andrade, dean of Nair Hospital in Mumbai, who is overseeing the jumbo facility and is also the principal investigator of the project, said patients will be tested three times — at the time of admission, after a week and during discharge. Andrade said, “A person will be asked to count up to 20 and cough five times before the device — similar to a breathalyser test. The voice sample will be synced with the main server of the provider. Then, through artificial intelligence, the result will be procured within 30 seconds." Officials said vocal biomarkers (VBs) will be studied to determine results. For example, if a person’s VB is below the standard 0.5, the probability of infection is low; up to 0.7 is moderate and above 0.7 is considered highly probable. Ravindra Sardesai, a consulting ENT surgeon and a member of the Association of Otolaryngologist and Indian Medical Association, told TOI that voice biomarkers are non-invasive techniques to determine presence of heart and lung disease. He said the project seems to be an attempt to develop correlation between voice biomarkers and symptoms of Covid-19. “Jumbo hospitals (with a large number of patients) allow us an opportunity to carry out such a study. And if an algorithm can be prepared, it will be very useful for screening a large population via a non-invasive method,” Sardesai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-keen-on-experiment-that-aims-to-detect-covid-by-sound/articleshow/77793217.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: CCTV images have attained status of fingerprints for cops||AHMEDABAD: In just a few years, CCTV images have attained the status of fingerprints and DNA samples from crime scenes, they save time and resources. Major cities have networks with numerous cameras and now, to make rural areas safer and to detect and prevent crime, the state police, under the ‘Viswas’ (Video Integration and State Wide Advanced Security) installed a total of 6,065 CCTV cameras in 41 police districts in the past eight months. In Kevadia alone, where the world’s tallest statue, the Statue of Unity (SOU) stands, 111 cameras have been installed at 42 junctions. From the final images of Vishwa leaving her home in February 2013, she is still missing, to the robbery in which bullion trader Hitesh Zaveri was killed at Shivranjini Crossroads in January 2014, police reliance on CCTV footage has been immense. The play a bigger role now with the Covid-19 pandemic, recording violations big and small. In the last eight months, of 4,799 offence and road accident cases, especially hit-and-run cases, have been detected with the help of cameras installed in district areas. Some 3,879 cases were lodged for violation of police notifications due to CCTV footage. More significantly 37 kidnappings and 227 incidents of robbery and chain snatching were solved using CCTV cameras. These cameras also play a major role in monitoring (for security purposes) VVIP movement in places such as Gandhinagar and Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cctv-images-have-attained-status-of-fingerprints-for-cops/articleshow/77793201.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
August 28, 2020||Mangaluru||Psychometric testing apps grow in demand||MANGALURU: The digitisation of education has resulted in students discovering apps that, in addition to providing education, help them discover more about their own personality. Consequently, thus has triggered an upsurge in the downloading of various education-based applications in the past five months. Interestingly enough, many parents are encouraging the download of apps that offer psychometric tests, and there has been a corresponding uptick in the number of students taking these tests. Anant Prabhu G, co-founder of Sure Pass, an education start-up that helps students who have failed clear their respective examinations, said that his team had noticed a rise in the number of apps offering psychometric tests to students and youth to help them decide their careers. . “The pricing for these tests was slashed by 30-40%. With a lot of uncertainty over the reopening of education institutions and those especially in the final year, wanting to take up jobs, there is greater interest in these tests,” said Prabhu. Psychometric assessment is a method that helps provide a comprehensive view of a student’s personality. It helps identify individual’s skills, personality traits and attitude. Prabhu said that, until recently, the tests were an integral part of the recruitment process, but they have been incorporated within the education system to help students be more discerning in deciding their careers. Mental health professional Dr Rameela Shekhar said that recognition of any problem or doubt should not be regarded as a weakness, but should be perceived as a strength. “Owing to the pandemic, anxiety and stress levels are high among students and youngsters. When the CET concluded, many students worried about when NEET will be held. In fact, more and more students are growing apprehensive about studying in colleges outside their cities and states,” she said. Dr Rameela said that persisting stigma about approaching a mental health professional meant that people preferred online consultations or using apps, some of which promise anonymity. “What we are concerned about is that these apps may turn into an escape mechanism. There are many psychological tests to assess the strengths and skills and it is always better to cross-check the app results with a professional. Even a 45-minute talk will make a student feel better and help make the right choice,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/psychometric-testing-apps-grow-in-demand/articleshow/77790411.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
August 28, 2020||Lucknow||Jitin Prasada faces flak on home turf for siding with ‘dissenters’||LUCKNOW: Days after the letter controversy erupted in the Congress, former Union minister and ex-MP Jitin Prasada is facing flak in his own backyard for siding with the 'dissenters' against the first family of the party. He, however, got support from senior party colleagues Kapil Sibal and Manish Sharma, the two who were also among 23 signatories of the letter demanding a churning in the party's leadership. The party unit in his home district Lakhimpur Kheri passed a resolution against Prasada which said: "Jitin Prasada is the only person from Uttar Pradesh to have signed the letter. His family history has been against the Gandhi family and his father Jitendra Prasad proved it by fighting elections against Sonia Gandhi. Despite this, Sonia Gandhi gave Jitin Prasada a Lok Sabha ticket and made him a minister. What he has done is gross indiscipline and the district Congress committee wants strict action against him and condemns his actions.” A video of party workers raising slogans against Prasada is also doing rounds on social media. Meanwhile, reacting to the resolution against Jitin, former minister Kapil Sibbal urged party workers not to shoot their own arm and target the BJP instead. Prasada represented Shahjahanpur Lok sabha seat in 2004 and Dhaurahra Lok Sabha seat, which is a part of the Lakhimpur Kheri district, in 2009. Recently he has been trying to cultivate an image of a Brahmin leader by raising the issues in favour of the caste. Prasada’s father, Jitendra Prasada, had challenged Sonia Gandhi’s in the elections for the party presidentship in the late 90s. Meanwhile, reacting to the resolution passed by the Kheri district unit of the party, Kapil Sibal said that it was unfortunate the party was targeting its own member Jitin Prasada when it needed to target the ruling BJP with “surgical strikes”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/jitin-faces-flak-on-home-turf-for-siding-with-dissenters/articleshow/77794183.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 28, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Contactless ticket machines to be set up at metro stations||KOCHI: As Kochi Metro gears up to resume services, Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) is taking measures to promote cashless transactions, besides setting up cash boxes and contact-less ticket machines at each station for preventing the spread of Covid-19. The cash boxes are aimed at checking the spread of virus through currency notes. The new system will enable commuters who don’t have Kochi1 cards to purchase tickets without touching anything other than the ticket. Metro authorities will encourage passengers to use Kochi1 card instead of cash and put in place strict measures to enforce social distancing of passengers. The Metro officials at ticket counters and passenger information counters will communicate to passengers only through mics and speakers. All the staff dealing with cash will wear hand gloves. The metro officials will also encourage passengers to use hand sanitizer at entry points of stations. Foot-operated sanitizer dispensers will be kept at all entry points of stations. Social distancing of passengers at stations will be monitored by station controllers and security personnel through CCTVs. Commuters will be screened for body temperature with an infrared thermometer by security staff. In addition, thermal cameras will be placed at stations having a high footfall. All public contact points like automatic fare collection gates, ticket counters, handrails of staircases and escalators, lift buttons and platform chairs will be cleaned with disinfectant every four hours. KMRL is awaiting Centre’s nod to restart Metro operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/contactless-ticket-machines-to-be-set-up-at-metro-stations/articleshow/77791659.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Nashik||Collector lauds bankers for distributing loans to farmers||Nashik: Collector of Nashik Suraj Mandhare has expressed happiness over the bankers distributing agricultural loans to farmers across the district. Reviewing the performance of banks, Mandhare said that the banks had achieved distribution of Rs 1,639 crore loan to the farmers under agricultural loan sector which was higher by at least Rs 156 crore as compared to the loan distributed during the same period last year. “The bankers, including nationalized, private and co-operatives, have put up good performance as far as the agricultural loan distribution programme for the farmers in Nashik district is concerned. The tally so far is higher as compared to that of the corresponding period last year which explains that the bankers have put in efforts to reach out to the farmers,” the collector said. Mandhare said that there is a rise of Rs 200 crore loan disbursement as compared to the figures of the meeting held on October August 12. “This is a good sign showing that the bankers are putting all possible efforts to ensure that there is an increase in the institutionalized loan system in Nashik district which will ultimately benefit the farmers,” the collector said Of the set target of Rs 3,303 crore loan to be disbursed among the farmers in Nashik district this year, 10 nationalised banks joined hands and shared loan amount of Rs 2,400 crore. Bank of Maharashtra distributed loan of Rs 318 crore, Nashik District Central Co-operative Bank distributed Rs 70 crore, Bank of Baroda gave Rs 263 crore, Bank of India distributed Rs 66 crore, UBI contributed Rs 112 crore and SBI distributed Rs 265 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/collector-lauds-bankers-for-distributing-loans-to-farmers/articleshow/77794181.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Congress leader storing ration bags in school: BJP||LUDHIANA: A high-level drama was witnessed at International Public School in Sandhu Nagar, Civil City, on Thursday when BJP supporters under the leadership of state vice-president Parveen Bansal alleged that Congress leader Baljinder Sandhu, whose wife represents ward number 91 as councillor, had stored ration bags in the school instead of distributing the same among the poor. The BJP leaders have raised this matter with food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu as well. The cabinet minister has marked an inquiry in the case. The BJP state vice-president alleged that through his reliable sources he had come to know that Baljinder Sandhu had stored huge quantity of ration bags in his school. He said they went for checking in the school on Thursday and when they reached the spot, even they were surprised to see that a room was full of at least 4,000 ration bags. He said they had been condemning the Congress government for the failure in distributing the ration among the needy and this was ample evidence. He said Baljinder Sandhu even sold the bags instead of giving it to the needy people. Bansal said he had brought the matter to the knowledge of cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu verbally and on Friday they would give a complaint in writing to the DC. Meanwhile, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said, “I have received a phone call from Parveen Bansal but I am not in the city, so I have asked the deputy commissioner to look into the matter. From the district food and civil supplies department ration goes to the DC office, from where it is distributed according to the demand.” He said they would check how he was given ration in this quantity and why he has stored it. “There will be action against the person who will be found guilty,” he added. However, on the other hand Congress leader Baljinder Sandhu refused these allegations and said, “We are distributing ration at regular intervals as even on Thursday morning we distributed some packets among the needy people . The BJP is trying to gain political mileage for their selfish means.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cong-leader-storing-ration-bags-in-school-bjp/articleshow/77791652.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Nashik||Rs 99,600 fine recovered from erring motorists||NASHIK: The traffic police slapped fines on 312 motorists for violating traffic rules in a single day on Wednesday and recovered close to Rs 99,600. Police said that it was important to slap fines on the erring motorists as the traffic flow was becoming similar to what was prevalent when Covid-19 had still not struck the city, though not many motorists ventured out in the evening or at night. Taking note of people who are into rash driving and not following traffic rules like wearing helmets, seat-belts, illegal parking, obstructing vehicular traffic, three people travelling on a two-wheeler, police came down heavily on erring motorists on Wednesday. The traffic police said that the action was important as neglecting traffic rules led to bottlenecks on the roads and, sometimes, also led to fatal accidents. There have been 228 road accidents which claimed 80 lives till July this year. Apart from this, a large number of people have sustained grievous injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/99600-fine-recovered-from-erring-motorists/articleshow/77794185.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Nagpur||‘I feel isolated, and not just because I am Covid +ve’||Outgoing municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe was transferred out of Nagpur just seven months into his tenure. In a telephonic chat, since he is in home isolation after testing Covid positive, Mundhe speaks about his sudden transfer, his plans when he had come here, and his achievements in Nagpur. Excerpts:Q. What is your reaction on your transfer?A. I don’t have any right to speak on transfer as power’s vested in the state government. I am disturbed and unhappy as I could have been given more time to make Nagpur liveable and economically vibrant, which was my goal when I assumed charge as municipal commissioner. I feel isolated in real sense of term, and not in terms of that I am Covid-19 positive.Q. Are you upset at being transferred amid the pandemic? Will there be an impact on the city as it heads towards Covid-19 peak?A. I don’t know whether there would be any impact or not. People have to judge my work in controlling Covid-19 in the city. I managed to set up a proper system, develop infrastructure for contact tracing, testing centres, hospitalization, dashboard etc. I was taking steps as per the situation. I wish I had got time to end the pandemic here. The new commissioner just needs to carry on the system, keep a close watch, and keep on taking steps as per the situation. More rigorous steps are required as city is inching towards peak. Utmost need is to control deaths.Q. Any IAS officer needs time to settle in. Is it going to be tough for the new commissioner with city heading towards peak of Covid-19?A. Any IAS officer is capable of handling the situation and carry on the existing system. But each and every person has his own style of functioning. Radhakrishnan B is a good officer and my best wishes to him.Q. Do you think there should be a rule that state government cannot transfer officials before a prescribed time period, and IAS Officers Association should take up this issue with the government?A. No comments.Q. Are you upset on being appointed member secretary of MJP, which is said to be a low-key posting?A. No comments.Q. Is it true Union minister Nitin Gadkari ensured your transfer, as CM Uddhav Thackeray and guardian minister Nitin Raut had appreciated your work and backed you?A. No comments.Q. What do you say to 15 transfers in 15 years? Do you think you are a victim of politics, so you are not able to complete full term of three years?A. Nobody would be happy with yearly transfer. All wish to have better tenure to implement plans, projects and execute the vision in betterment of people and city. Definitely, I feel I should have been given a stable tenure.Q. Three commissioners transferred within two years at NMC. Is it impacting the city and NMC?A. Everyone executes whatever schemes and projects are planned by the government. Besides, each and every officer has his own style of functioning and vision. The schemes will not completed if one does not get sufficient time, which will have effect somewhere. Minimum time should be given so as to take the vision forward and complete schemes. Q. Do you accept you have been transferred for being autocratic or any other reason?A. Show me a single case where I was autocratic. I did not comply with orders of some people, but that can’t be termed autocratic. I always work within the frame of law and within the Acts, is it autocratic? I was bringing transparency, improving governance, executing policies, is it autocratic?Q. Why were you not taking public representatives into confidence or replying to letters of office bearers, especially mayor?A. All will be shocked if I share letters written by the mayor. As soon as I assumed charge, I called the mayor very next day but he was not in city. I look upon the mayor as an institution and not as a person. But he has never respected the institution of commissioner. He thinks commissioner is subordinate to him. If anyone has such feelings, it has to done away. As per MMC Act, commissioner is an authority and not a meagre staffer of the corporation. The position of commissioner is defined in MMC Act. I took all measures to have better coordination in the interest of NMC and city.Q. What do you regret not being able to do at NMC and for city?A. I got just six months in which, I think, I have done much. I was working with a systematic plan but Covid-19 hit. We, as a team, were working in the right direction to end pandemic. Situation would have been better if misinformation had not been spread by some people. There was a deliberate attempt to malign me and my team. These persons also misled citizens. I regret not getting full term to tackle pandemic in the city. As far as other works of NMC are concerned, I was carrying forward all works with Covid-19. Drinking water supply has improved to a great extent. Red-tapism was reduced and people were getting response immediately and their problems were solved. There has been a drastic improvement in governance. But my vision was to make this city liveable and economically vibrant, which could not be completely implemented in six months.Q. What is your observation on financial condition of NMC and what needs to be done?A. NMC is a class-A corporation and it’s budget should not be around Rs2,800 crore per annum. When we are talking about a city with population of 2.5-3 million, 6 lakh structures, and an area of 227 sq km, existing budget is not proper by any yardstick. I happened to increase budget of class-C corporation — Navi Mumbai — from Rs1,800 crore to Rs2,900 in one year. Now, its budget has crossed Rs3,600 crore. I reformed tax system and started to identify new revenue sources. I managed to improve system of monthly salary of employees. Some proposals were tabled before the general body and could help improve things. But a lot is to be done for NMC.Q. Do you agree Nagpur as second capital has developed at a satisfactory level or is it lagging behind other cities?A. Any city if called a second capital needs a lot of better governance, infrastructure and should be liveable and economically vibrant. I feel the city is lagging behind that expectation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/i-feel-isolated-and-not-just-because-i-am-covid-ve/articleshow/77791674.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 28, 2020||Agra||Pokhriyal opens exam centre for AMU med college||Agra: Union minister of education Ramesh Pokhriyal on Thursday inaugurated the examination centre of AMU’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC) for 150 students via video-conferencing. The centre was built on a grant of Rs 2 crore. Speaking on the occasion, the minister said, "Government is committed to ensuring that our centres of learning and students do not suffer even as the world is facing unprecedented disruption due to Covid-19." JNMC and AMU have the potential to fulfil the vision of making India a global knowledge superpower in line with the New Education Policy, aimed at ensuring a world-class education in the country, said Pokhriyal. AMU vice-chancellor Tariq Mansoor said JNMC has emerged as the frontline hospital in the fight against the coronavirus outbreak with a high recovery rate of Covid patients. It is providing medical care to entire western Uttar Pradesh, he pointed out. "JNMC virology lab has tested over 75, 000 samples to detect Covid-19 infection. There is a facility of a 100-bed isolation ward and a dedicated operation theatre, labour room and a dialysis unit for Covid-19 patients. JNMC has also established a plasma therapy bank,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/pokhriyal-opens-exam-centre-for-amu-med-college/articleshow/77790418.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Cattle menace on rise as MC faces shortage of labour||LUDHIANA: Residents may have to live with the menace of stray cattle for the time being as even after the completion of an additional shed at Burj Pawat cow shed in Machhiwara the municipal corporation is unable to transport cattle due to lack of adequate staff. The officials also claim that they are yet to sign an agreement with the NGO, which is handling the maintenance of stray cattle at that cow shed. The transportation of stray cattle will also become the responsibility of the civic body for which they require staff. As of now the stray cattle lifting has been stopped in the city. For the transportation of stray cattle the civic body has its cattle lifting van but they will require staff to catch the cattle and then transport it there. Within the city the cow sheds do not have adequate space to keep the stray cattle and the one at Govind Godham, which was lifting stray cattle for the MC, has also stopped doing the same due to paucity of space. For this reason only the problem has increased. Meanwhile, the residents continue to face trouble due to stray cattle. Ramesh Kumar, a resident of Haibowal, complained that the stray cattle menace was not restricted to the roads only as now they had entered the residential colonies as well. He said the entry of stray cattle in residential colonies was very dangerous, especially for the children, whom they do not allow to move out. Another resident from Civil City Gurmeet Singh said the civic body had no solution to the menace of stray cattle with the civic body as despite collecting the cow cess from the public they are not doing anything to resolve this issue. He said action was required on the dairy unit owners who leave the cattle on roads. Senior veterinary officer Dr Y P Singh said, “The shed is ready but they are waiting for the agreement and after that they will arrange for the staff to lift the cattle from the city to be transported to Burj Pawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cattle-menace-on-rise-as-mc-faces-shortage-of-labour/articleshow/77791663.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||New washrooms in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation not open yet||HYDERABAD: Thousands of new washrooms installed in the city, ahead of Independence Day, are yet to operational. While Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), sources said, was given a deadline of August 15 to make them functional, most of them are far from ready. A quick scan by TOI, on Thursday, revealed that a majority if these are still either locked or just dumped on the pavements with no sewage connections. Among the areas surveyed were Banajara Hills Road No. 3, Jubilee Hills Road No. 72 (near Apollo Hospitals), the stretch connecting Film Nagar and Khajaguda and Gudimalkapur. According to GHMC records, there are 4,271 new public toilets built within its limits. “I travelled from Jubilee Hills Road No. 36 to Nanakramguda and saw not more than five washrooms. But not even one of them was operational. They were all locked. Now that things are getting back to normal, the washrooms should also be thrown open to people,” said Anumula Gaurav, an engineering student who rued how he had to finally use a washroom in a private hospital, despite the Covid-19 fear. Another resident, Major (retd) Shiv Kiran from United Federation of Resident Welfare Associations (UFERWAS) also aired a similar complaint and added how there are no proper public toilets in the entire Begumpet area. “Restaurants and petrol pumps should display a board and encourage people to use their washrooms. No one is following government instructions,” he said. Built by multiple agencies under various business models — build-operate-transfer (BOT), public-private partnership model (PPP) etc — the onus of maintaining these washrooms, in many cases, lies with the agency. When the issue of dysfunctional toilets was brought to their notice, a senior GHMC official said they would be ready to use by September. “The washrooms have been set up, but we are shortlisting agencies that will maintain them. We don’t want to rush and make them operational without a concrete maintenance plan,” said B Santosh, GHMC additional commissioner, health wing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-washrooms-in-ghmc-not-open-yet/articleshow/77793245.cms||Nabinder Bommala
August 28, 2020||Pune||With 284.1mm rain, this August one of the country’s wettest in 24 years||PUNE: India has seen one of its wettest August this year after 24 years. The country’s rainfall from August 1-27 is already 284.1mm. It is among the three highest August rain quantums after 1996, India Meteorological Department (IMD) data showed. The IMD has forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall in many parts of the country till the month-end. If the rainfall recorded till August 31 touches 300mm, this month could become the wettest August in over two decades. The last time August rain in India crossed 300mm was in 1996 when the month recorded 308.5mm. After 1996, the next wettest August was in 2019 with 299.9mm rain and before that in 2011 with 284.9mm rain. Pulak Guhathakurta, head of the climate research division, IMD, Pune told TOI that central and peninsular India which cover more than 50% of the country’s total area recorded significant rainfall this August. “From August 1-27, central India recorded 416.2mm rain against a normal of 271mm. The actual quantum is almost 54% more than normal. Similarly, south peninsular India received 245.1mm rain against a normal of 168.6mm this August, recording over 45% more rain than the normal,” he said. Conversely, east and northeast India, parts of which were battling floods in June and July, received less than the normal August rain. The quantum was 253.5mm against a normal of 307.4mm. August had various weather systems for good rainfall . It includes a current well-marked low over southwest Jharkhand and neighbourhood. The systems caused the monsoon trough to remain active throughout this period. The westerly activity and these weather systems dumped a lot of moisture up to northwest India, bringing rain to Jammu & Kashmir, and Himachal Pradesh  D S Pai, scientist and head of climate research and services, IMD Pune, told TOI, “East and northeast India received copious rain in July, but less in August. Central India received deficient rain in July but above normal rain in August. Since it is a big part of the country, its July rainfall deficiency affected the all-India quantum for the last month.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/with-284-1mm-rain-this-august-one-of-the-countrys-wettest-in-24-years/articleshow/77793243.cms||Neha Madaan
August 28, 2020||Kochi||HLL’s antibody test proposal gets a cold response from DMO||Kochi: A government of India enterprise has alleged that the district medical office has given a cold response to a proposal for a free Covid-19 screening through antibody testing for autorickshaw and taxi drivers in Kochi but health officials maintain that it is useless and should only be used for population surveys and not in individuals. HLL Lifecare Ltd had been successfully carrying out rapid antibody tests in all international airports and were also screening Kerala police personnel. Two weeks ago HLL officially wrote to the district medical office in Ernakulam with a copy to health minister K K Shailaja expressing their readiness to test auto/taxi workers based on a proposal by a private company which wanted to undertake it as part of their CSR activity. “Auto and taxi workers are in constant touch with the general population and are not in a position to undertake tests at their own expense. We had requested for permission but there had been no response from them. When we spoke to the DMO he said it would require government permission but we did not get any further response,” said an HLL official. Health officials said they had stopped antibody tests in airports because they were found to be useless. “An official sero-prevalence study by ICMR is being done in Ernakulam. There is no point in randomly testing some people,” said a health official. HLL said they undertake screening using a rapid antibody kit and in case the result is positive an antigen test will be carried out. “Many of these workers would not be able to do RT-PCR tests in labs because they cost Rs 2,750,” the official said. HLL Lifecare, an enterprise under the Union ministry of health and family welfare, has experience in such tests and also undertakes confidentiality of data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hlls-antibody-test-proposal-gets-a-cold-response-from-dmo/articleshow/77791728.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Covid +ve rape accused flees Civil, found in private hospital||AHMEDABAD: A real estate agent, who has been accused of rape, fled from Civil Hospital at 6.30am on Thursday, after his Covid test came positive. The accused, Sunil Bhanderi of Hirawadi, Bapunagar, was traced to a private hospital in late afternoon. It was learnt that Bhanderi, meanwhile, had submitted an application to the police commissioner through his advocate alleging that inspector J K Rathod and three others, including an ordinary individual not in police, had earlier demanded a bribe of Rs 1 crore from him. Bhanderi, a real estate agent, claimed the demand was made by the PI soon after the FIR against him was filed.  This was finalized at Rs 70 lakh. But since he didn’t pay the bribe to the cops, he was fixed in the case, Bhanderi has alleged. Top police officials said city police chief Sanjay Srivastava, has ordered an inquiry into the allegations made by the accused against Rathod, the inspector of Krishnanagar police station. Bhanderi’s brief disappearing act has also raised questions. DCP, Zone-4, Rajesh Gadhia said, “An inquiry will be launched against the two policemen deployed on Bhanderi’s guard duty.” Gahdia said after Bhanderi fled from Civil, cops contacted every private Covid-19 hospital in the city and also searched his house. “Later in the afternoon, a doctor confirmed that Bhanderi had got himself admitted. We have deployed another guard team at the private hospital,” Gadhia said. Krishnanagar police had on Wednesday held Bhanderi for allegedly raping a 38-year-old woman and subjecting her to unnatural sex, multiple times since 2017. He had allegedly forced the woman to comply with his demands by threatening to make her intimate video viral on social media. The woman is the wife of a builder. According to complaint lodged on August 19 the woman came into contact with the accused in 2017 as her husband is a builder. “In 2017, the accused came to her house and finding her alone, sedated her with chocolates and raped her. The woman has also alleged that the accused made her video and continued to rape her and subject her to unnatural sex at different place including some hotels in Naroda, threatening her that if she refused him or opened her mouth, he will make the video viral and also fix her husband in a false case,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-ve-rape-accused-flees-civil-found-in-pvt-hospital/articleshow/77793281.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Lucknow||Bureaucrats deployed to lend an ear to ‘sulking’ legislators||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has deployed several senior officers to look into grievances of MLAs. The arrangement, however, is yet to yield desired results as the legislators seek political channels to air their problems and find bureaucrats ‘insensitive’. MLA of Lambhua in Sultanpur, Devmani Dwivedi, had a meeting with a bureaucrat, considered to be close to the CM, but his grievances ‘are yet to be addressed’. Talking to TOI, the MLA confirmed that he had a meeting with the bureaucrat who also lent an ear to him. However, when asked whether he was satisfied with the meeting, the MLA declined to comment. Recently, Dwivedi had sought a white paper of sorts on the number of Brahmins killed in the last three-and-a-half-year period. When the party leadership had asked Dwivedi about his letter to Speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit, seeking reply from the government on the issue, he had stated that as an MLA it was his right to raise questions in the Assembly. Similarly, Radha Mohan Agarwal, BJP MLA from Gorakhpur Urban, has been raising the corruption issue for long. He is active on Facebook and has also raised voice against ‘dominance of Thakurs’ in the state. In the same line is Narendra Singh Gujjar of Ghaziabad who never hesitates in pulling up his own government on several issues. Then there is another BJP MLA Ram Pheran Pandey against whom an FIR was lodged recently. He is angry for not being heard properly by authorities concerned. It is at this background the Yogi government deployed bureaucrats to call on MLAs, note down their grievances and try to sort them out. However, the CM’s approach has not gone down well with MLAs who are interested in conveying their points only to the CM or to senior ministers and not officers.They have also dubbed the officers as ‘insensitive’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bureaucrats-deployed-to-lend-an-ear-to-sulking-legislators/articleshow/77794186.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Giaspura residents give memo to ADC on bad roads||LUDHIANA: Residents of Giaspura handed over a memorandum to the ADC Amarjit Singh Bains on Thursday against the indifferent attitude of the authorities concerned towards the condition of three main roads of the area, which are used by more than 50,000 people. The residents rued that they had even complained with regard to the bad condition of these roads to the CM office on August 10 but still no action had been taken. They demanded that at least the roads should be levelled so that they should not face jerks due to potholes. The residents claimed that the three main roads are full of big potholes and when it rains these potholes get filled with rainwater and are not noticed by commuters. They claimed that at least 1.25 lakh voters are living in south constituency and these many people are being ignored. They said potholes remain full of water where mosquitoes breed and in the coming days dengue, malaria and other diseases can also spread. They complained that there were potholes on all roads due to which they were facing tough time. The roads in Giaspura are actually a major issue for the residents who have been facing tough time while driving. Some 15 days back also the residents had staged a protest for these roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/giaspura-residents-give-memo-to-adc-on-bad-roads/articleshow/77791672.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Nagpur||‘Lack of practical approach earned Mundhe 15 transfers in 15 years’||Mumbai: Forty five-year-old Tukaram Mundhe’s 15 year journey in the bureaucracy has been marked by 15 transfers. For the controversial bureaucrat, his longest stay was when he completed a two-year tenure in the sales tax department as a joint commissioner. Elsewhere, he did not complete even one year.In corridors of power, assignment in sales tax department, particularly as joint commissioner, is considered most insignificant. Most officers posted as joint commissioner take it as stop gap assignment till they get a posting of their choice. “We call it a parking lot. Bureaucrats who do not secure plum assignment take the job in sales tax department for a brief period and then leave,” a senior bureaucrat said. An IAS officer of 2005 batch, Mundhe was Nagpur Municipal Commissioner and was abruptly shifted on Wednesday without assigning any reasons. He was in Nagpur for less than seven months. His batchmates described Mundhe as most honest and upright officer, but lacking in practical approach.“During our interaction with him, we always told him not to stretch certain issues too much. He did not heed our advice and now he is paying the price. We are in a democratic set up, we cannot ignore elected representatives. Transfer is part of the Indian bureaucracy but 15 transfers in 15 years of service appear bad,’’ one of them said. Mundhe’s first posting was as sub-divisional officer in Nanded, home town of former chief minister Ashok Chavan. He he worked for less than six months. Then he was chief executive officer, Zilla Parishad, Nagpur, a post he held for only 13 months. Another posting, where he completed a year and half, was as collector Solapur.For Mundhe, the most prime posting was when he was appointed commissioner of Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation. Again he was shunted in less than one year. From Nashik Municipal Corporation he was shifted in eight months.During the last 15 years, he held key posts, including tribal development commissioner, collector Jalna, project director in MS Aids Control Society, CEO of Washim zilla parishad, Pune Municipal Transport and State Khadi and Village Industries Board. When he was posted as municipal commissioner Nagpur on January 26, it was assumed in political circles that it was an attempt to take on former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Then it was found that not only Fadnavis, but Mundhe was unable to get along with Congress cabinet members Nitin Raut and Sunil Kedar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lack-of-practical-approach-earned-mundhe-15-transfers-in-15-years/articleshow/77791743.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
August 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Inmates booked for attacking jail staff move court against deputy superintendent||LUDHIANA: Following the Central Jail authorities here getting a case registered against certain inmates for allegedly attacking jail staff, the latter through their counsel have now moved court, alleging that the deputy superintendent, Central Jail, had beaten them. On Wednesday, Ludhiana police had registered an FIR against jail inmates Rishav Benipal, Nihal Sharma and Neeraj Sharma for allegedly attacking jail staff. Assistant jail superintendent Harminder Singh said that on August 26, when the jail warder was discharging his duty in jail, the accused, who were lodged there for committing some crime, attacked the warder. He added that jail staff intervened to save him. On the other hand, family members of the inmates alleged that jail officials had beaten them up. In the plea moved in the court of duty magistrate, Ludhiana, Kunal Vohra, Mannan Berry and Rajesh Sharma, the counsel for the accused, sought directions from the court to the superintendent, Central Jail, Ludhiana, or any authority concerned for taking necessary action again the deputy superintendent Iqbal Singh Dhaliwal, along with his gunman and other officials for “illegally” beating their applicants and for conducting immediate medical examination of applicants from the civil hospital, Ludhiana, on urgent basis. Besides, they also demanded that the status report with regard to the detention of the applicant in separate cells and their applicants’ involvement in some false criminal cases. Advocate Mannan Berry said apart from moving application before the court they had sent the same to jail minister, DGP Punjab, Punjab State Human Rights Commission, and jail superintendent about it. Meanwhile, Superintendent, Central Jail, Rajiv Arora refuted allegations made by the accused and said that they will send status report to the court in the matter. He added that the accused persons attacked their staff and later misbehaved with the deputy superintendent. The accused are lodged in the jail in an attempt to murder case on February 12, lodged against them at Moti Nagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/inmates-booked-for-attacking-jail-staff-move-court-against-dy-supdt/articleshow/77791693.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Business||Firm launches platform for e-commerce in small towns||Pune: City-based MudraKwik Fintech will launch CreditKart Fin-Com, a shopping platform, on Friday to cater to the loan needs of the underserved and unbanked citizens in tier-2 to tier-5 towns of the country. “CreditKart is the first online shopping portal in India, which assigns its users a direct credit line when they sign up, enabling shoppers to “buy now, pay later” at no rate of interest, no down payment and no processing fees,” the firm said.Swapnil Madiyar, founder and director of Mudrakwik Fintech, said the company gives out loans to over a 1,000 people daily with an average ticket size of Rs 3,000. “Our endeavour is to onboard manufacturers and not the resellers...Because we are curtailing the chain, here the margins that are kept by resellers are automatically deducted from the price and we get all the products at the base rate from the manufacturers and hence it will be cheaper to buy from Creditkart,” Madiyar told TOI.He said the company was banking on less than 10% penetration by the big players in small towns of the country to take his offerings to the masses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/firm-launches-platform-for-e-commerce-in-small-towns/articleshow/77793288.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Dehradun||RSS member beaten up, 3 BJP MLAs, right-wing members protest seeking justice||Haridwar: Three BJP legislators – Aadesh Chauhan, Sanjay Gupta and Swami Yatishwarand – members of Bajrang Dal and Vishwa Hindu Parishad held a protest against the personnel of Kankhal police station in Haridwar for allegedly showing ‘laxity’ in a case where a RSS member was thrashed by two local journalists after his car hit their motorbike. The lawmakers were demanding the suspension of the entire staff and the immediate arrest of the two scribes. During the demonstration, heated exchange was also reported between the two sides at the police station. But senior police officers, somehow, pacified the situation. Meanwhile, a case has been registered against journalists Ravidndra Pal and Varun Kumar under sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. SHO Kankhal police station Vikash Bhardwaj told TOI, “Police was taking action in this matter, but the BJP lawmakers and other right-wing leaders reached with their supporters in the police station. They made several allegations on the police for not taking action, but these all are baseless. We have registered a case on complaint of Buhpendra Kumar and arrested both the accused under section 151 (Arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences) of CrPC).” On the other hand, BJP lawmakers had given a 24-hour ultimatum to take action against SHO and other policemen posted. MLA from Haridwar rural constituency Swami Yatishwaranad said, “The crime rate has increased in Kankhal due to causal approach of Kankhal police. Instead of taking action against the accused, SHO Kankhal police station scolded the RSS members, which cannot be tolerated. He and other policemen posted in the Kankhal police station should be removed and an inquiry must be set up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rss-member-beaten-up-3-bjp-mlas-right-wing-members-protest-seeking-justice/articleshow/77790430.cms||MS Nawaz
August 28, 2020||Pune||Man arrested on charge of killing his second wife||PUNE: A small-time tourist booking agent (42) was arrested on Thursday after the police found his second wife (36) murdered at his second house in Phursungi on Wednesday night. The murder came to light after neighbours alerted the police about the couple quarrelling and the husband leaving the house hurriedly on Wednesday night. When the police reached the house, they found the woman lying motionless. They then rushed her to a nearby hospital where the doctors examined and pronounced her dead. Senior inspector Ramesh Sathe of the Hadapsar police identified the arrested as Suresh Prakash Salunkhe and said, “Salunkhe has admitted to having throttled his second wife to death in a fit of rage during the quarrel. He told us that he and his wife would frequently quarrel over various issues, including infidelity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-arrested-on-charge-of-killing-his-second-wife/articleshow/77793253.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Dehradun||Special Tiger Protection Task Force team attacked by tigress in Corbett, second attack this year in same area||Dehradun: The Corbett Tiger Reserve administration has swung into action as its Special Tiger Protection Task Force team has been attacked again by a tigress at Bijrani zone of the reserve. This is the second attack within three months. On Thursday, a patrolling team member, Gopal Singh was left severely injured when he along with six other team members had gone on patrolling to Bijrani’s compartment number 8. Singh received 65 stitches on his head as the tigress ripped off his skin. He is admitted to a private hospital in Ramnagar. After the incident, the area will be monitored via a non-intrusive mechanism using ‘drones and elephants.’ Foot patrolling, for now, has been suspended in that zone. "The field staff has claimed that the tigress has cubs and perhaps that’s why it has gone defensive. But we haven’t seen the cubs in the camera trap, though the pictures indicate that it is a lactating tigress. In order to ensure the tigress is not disturbed again, we are trying to implement a ‘non-intrusive’ mechanism of monitoring that zone,” said Corbett Tiger Reserve director Rahul (who goes by the first name). The officials have sensed that the tigress might turn into a bigger problem for its staff and even tourists. Therefore, it has been decided to monitor the behaviour of the tigress. The patch which had just a few cameras will now be fitted with 50 cameras. “In June, the same tigress had attacked our worker in compartment number 10. In order to ensure that it has not turned into a man-eater, we have decided to increase camera trapping in that area and record its movement,” said Rajkumar, forest range officer of Corbett’s Bijrani zone. In the past one decade, three tigers have been declared man-eaters in Corbett. “Even if our staff tries to catch or terminate the big cat, if at all it has cubs, they will in all likelihood die, which we don’t want. That’s why we have ordered zero human intrusion in that zone and constant monitoring of the tigress to analyse its aggressive behaviour to take the final call.” added Rahul. The CTR has a 50-member Special Tiger Protection Task Force which is constantly watching the movement of these big cats and other wild animals of the tiger reserve, but often they succumb to deadly attacks. Last year, the reserve lost three of its workers to tiger attacks, all while they were patrolling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/special-tiger-protection-task-force-team-attacked-by-tigress-in-corbett-second-attack-this-year-in-same-area/articleshow/77790437.cms||Shivani Azad
August 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Big potholes on Rahon road irk commuters||LUDHIANA: Big potholes on Rahon road after creation of an MC octroi post there have become a serious cause of concern for the commuters who take this route to reach their destinations. And despite several complaints the issue has not been resolved. The villagers had even attempted to construct the road at their expense as one NGO helped the residents in collecting the money and they even got constructed one stretch. But it could not survive for long because even the sewerage remained choked on this road. This is a almost a 3km-long stretch and many people who have to reach Nawanshahr also take this route while passing through Mattewara. There is huge traffic on this road and deep potholes lead to many accidents. Earlier, SAD MLA from Sahnewal constituency Sharanjit Singh Dhillon had taken up this issue several times and last year he took this issue with PWD minister Vijay Inder Singla, but to no avail. Now, Congress MLA Sanjay Talwar has taken up the responsibility to get approval for this stretch as well even when it does not fall in his constituency. A regular commuter, Harbans Singh, while describing the problem said, “This stretch is quite dangerous and it is advisable to take this route at one’s own risk as potholes sometimes get submerged under rainwater and in that case the situation turns worse. Right from the starting of Rahon road, there is a problem and after crossing the MC limits it reaches the extreme limits.” He said the authorities should pay attention towards this problem seriously. Meanwhile, another commuter Manohar Lal said there was no use of complaining time and again as nobody was going to listen to the public woes. He said when there would be some accident or serious issue on that road, only then the officials will act and get the road constructed. Congress MLA Sanjay Talwar said, “I will take up this issue with PWD minister Singla and will try to get approval for the road construction as this is not a big stretch and if it gets constructed people will get relief.” He said Rahon road within MC limits was to be constructed in the next two months, so even the stretch outside the MC limits will get constructed then it will be an easy drive for the commuters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/big-potholes-on-rahon-road-irk-commuters/articleshow/77791724.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Pune||Bank executive loses Rs 1.3 lakh to SIM swap trick||PUNE: An executive of a private bank has lodged a police complaint that she was duped of Rs1.3 lakh by a caller posing as a cellular service company employee. According to the complaint, the incident happened earlier this week. The woman lodged an FIR with the Airport police on Wednesday. The woman said a man, claiming to represent a cellular service provider, called her and offered to help her upgrade her SIM card from 2G to 4G, the police said. The man fooled the complainant into sharing her bank details and OTPs that he used to get her SIM card deactivated. He used a duplicate SIM to gain access to her bank account and transferred Rs1.3 lakh, senior inspector Gajanan Pawar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bank-executive-loses-rs-1-3l-to-sim-swap-trick/articleshow/77793284.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC to hear on October 1 plea of IPS officer alleging harassment||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Thursday listed a writ petition of IPS officer Barinderjit Singh for further hearing on October 1 after he sought time to respond to the affidavits filed by his senior officers as well as the state government. The case pertains to an alleged harassment case, wherein the 2008-batch IPS officer claimed that he was “unduly” transferred from the post of SSP Udham Singh (US) Nagar to the post of Commandant of Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) to Ramnagar on July 10. Singh, who had been holding the post of SSP of US Nagar for over a year, had alleged that his seniors —both serving and retired —were interfering with his investigations. His seniors, however, in their affidavits, have denied any interference. The bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice NS Dhanik heard the petition filed by Singh. While Singh appeared in person to argue his case, the state government, DGP, Police Establishment Committee and IG Police headquarters were represented by the advocate general (AG). Singh’s seniors —who have been made respondents in their personal capacity —were represented by senior advocate Rakesh Thapliyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-hc-to-hear-on-october-1-plea-of-ips-officer-alleging-harassment/articleshow/77790455.cms||Prashant Jha
August 28, 2020||Nagpur||Containing Covid-19 to be top priority: New civic chief||Nagpur: IAS officer Radhakrishnan B, who will take over as the new municipal commissioner on Friday, said containing Covid-19 tops his priority list. The new civic chief is presented with a host of challenges; delayed projects, poor roads, paucity of funds, poor account management, besides spiralling Covid-19.“With reports of a spike in Covid-19 cases in Nagpur, my first priority will be to oversee management and planning to control the infection,” Radhakrishnan told TOI. He will decide on other tasks once he acquaints himself with the situation after taking over as the civic chief. “I will review the situation and will work accordingly,” he said.Radhakrishnan has also convened a meeting of all heads of departments at 9.45 am on Friday.Radhakrishnan was named to replace Tukaram Mundhe on Wednesday. The grapevine has it that Mundhe was transferred at the insistence of city MP Nitin Gadkari and NCP chief Sharad Pawar.Sources said that the new civic chief will have to ensure quality services are provided by NMC, with stress on improving its financial condition, including refining property tax recovery, which is the major source of revenue for the civic body.Mundhe’s transfer did not evoke any protest from major political parties, as ruling BJP corporators in NMC wanted him out, while Congress-NCP-Shiv Sena government has taken the decision to shunt him. However, small political parties like Aam Aadmi Party came forward in support of Mundhe.On Thursday, office-bearers of AAP, which has very negligible presence in Nagpur city, staged a protest against the MVA government’s decision to transfer Mundhe.AAP city secretary Bhushan Dhakulkar said the episode shows how political parties, with different agendas, united to transfer Mundhe. Amid rain, not only AAP workers, but many citizens too participated in a protest appealing to the MVA government to cancel Mundhe’s transfer. To a query, Dhakulkar said AAP has not decided any future course of action if the government does not roll back Mundhe’s transfer.Similarly, in a letter to additional chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, Yuva Sena expressed anguish over Mundhe’s transfer. Its member Ganesh Solankhe said Mundhe stopped wastage of taxpayers money to a great extent. Citing an example, Solankhe said Mundhe had saved lakhs of rupees in annual river cleaning work. He had also contributed a lot in Covid-19 management. The Yuva Sena urged Kunte to let Mundhe stay in Nagpur until the Covid-19 situation eases, or else it will launch an agitation in support of Mundhe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/containing-covid-19-to-be-top-priority-new-civic-chief/articleshow/77791762.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Early closure of gyms leaves owners in lurch||LUDHIANA: The state government’s decision to close all gyms and training centres in the city after 6.30pm has left the gym owners in the lurch. The decision has forced the local gym owners to shut down their training centres for the next few days as they are unable to pay huge rents to land owners on which they have established their gyms to sustain their livelihood. It was after much protest and after about four months that the state government had given them permission to reopen the gyms. Amarjot Singh, a gym owner, said, “Earlier, we had been struggling with low turnout of people for admission to the gyms for training but after the recent decision our business has again hit the bottom. We will have to close the gyms in the evening when most of sports enthusiasts usually come for physical training.” In the wake of a large number of Covid-19 cases, already a large number of fitness enthusiasts have been staying away from the gym centres. Gurpreet Singh, another gym owner, said that the government should implement strict lockdown for the next 15 days to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the district. He rued that he had been running a gym on rent for the past several months but with the new restrictions he would have to pay the entire rent for using the space for limited hours, which was totally unfair “as we are facing huge financial losses with the implementation of curfew norms in early evening hours”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/early-closure-of-gyms-leaves-owners-in-lurch/articleshow/77791755.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Nashik||10-yr-old lad bags bronze at mental calculation championship||Nashik: 10-year-old Aaryan Shukla from Nashik recently brought laurels to the city by securing a bronze medal in the junior category (below 17 years) of participants at the Mind Sports Olympiad Mental Calculations World Championship 2020. Overall, he secured the fourth position in the championship. The Mind Sports Olympiad is an international event with over 60 different boards game competitions, mental calculation being one of them. Every year, the competition is organized in London. However, this year, in view of the Covid 19 pandemic, the competition was held online on August 15 with only 30 of the best mental calculators taking part in the event. Aaryan’s father Nitin Shukla said that getting selected among top 30 mental calculators in the world and representing India is in itself a commendable achievement. The competitors had to prove the mental prowess by solving difficult mathematical problems like cube roots of big digit numbers, square roots, multiplication, division, addition and subtraction of big numbers. “Aaryan topped his group in the first round with comfortable margin and sailed through the finals. The finals started at 12.30 am and lasted for two hours,” said Nitin Shukla. He is the youngest competitor to ever win a medal in this competition, Shukla added. Arayan has set two world records earlier by winning 10 medals at the Memorial Mental Maths competition held in Turkey in 2018. He was guided by Eusebius Noronha, head of Genius Kid India, Nitin Jagtap of Nashik and other coaches of Genius Kid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/10-yr-old-lad-bags-bronze-at-mental-calculation-championship/articleshow/77794190.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Kolhapur||Maha BJP chief objects to Almatti height increase plan||Kolhapur: State BJP has objected to the Karnataka government’s proposed move to increase the height of the Almatti dam built on the Krishna river.The party has also announced that it would not hesitate to launch an agitation if needed. BJP state president Chandrakant Patil, in a press statement, said any decision to increase the Almatti dam height should be taken by the Karnataka government only after considering the directives of the Supreme Court, the Krishna Water Tribunal and other technical issues.“We would take up the issue with the Union government,” Patil said in a statement, which was issued a day after Karnataka chief minister B S Yeddiyurappa’s statement in Belagavi. Yeddiyurappa had said that the dam’s height would be increased so that over 6 lakh hectare of land in the state could be irrigated. “The central government will have to intervene if the height of the dam is increased, which would cause damage to the lives and properties of people in Sangli, Kolhapur and Satara district.s Patil has said Krishna river water distribution involves four states — Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The stakeholders will have to protect the interests of every state. I would even talk to Karnataka chief minister if necessary,” Patil said.The height of Almatti has always been a matter of debate in western Maharashtra as a group of experts believes that the dam was causing floods in the Sangli and Kolhapur districts. The experts claim that backwaters of the dam cause huge increases in the water level of the Krishna river in Maharashtra. Built in 2005, the Almatti dam has a current height of 165m with 123 TMC capacity Though the distance between Sangli city and Almatti dam is around 200 km, the increase in the water storage of the dam has an impact on several villages in Sangli and Kolhapur districts. It also leads to increase in the water level of Krishna river and its tributaries at several places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/maha-bjp-chief-objects-to-almatti-height-increase-plan/articleshow/77790474.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Pune||Jarring commute on pothole-riddled Pune-Satara highway irks travellers||PUNE: Regular travellers on Pune-Satara highway are complaining of potholes, gravelly surface and waterlogging, and seeking permanent solutions to these problems. Officials in the know said no maintenance work was being done on the highway. In contrast, NHAI and the contractor, Reliance Infrastructure, stated maintenance work is done regularly. “The road condition is horrible with hundreds of potholes. No street lights or road markings and waterlogging haunt us,” Pavanjit Mane, a Satara resident who works in Pune, said. Jay Shedge, another Satara resident, said, “I once saw a sedan’s bumper come loose after it drove into a deep pothole. Even trucks find it difficult to navigate this highway.” Reliance Infra was appointed to convert this stretch into a six-lane thoroughfare by March 2013. In May this year, NHAI issued a termination notice to Reliance Infra, with 15 days to submit a response. A source said no fresh development work was being carried out and that even maintenance was poor. “The road condition is proof. At Varve, traffic is diverted onto the pothole-riddled service road as the bridge is incomplete. The road surface on Nasrapur bridge got washed away and is gravelly,” the official said. Reliance Infra officials said they had replied to the notice on time. “NHAI hasn’t reverted in the matter. Meanwhile, maintenance is going on,” an official said. “Reliance Infra submitted a reply to our Pune office. Maintenance is underway,” Ashish Asati, GM (technical), NHAI Maharashtra, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jarring-commute-on-pothole-riddled-pune-satara-highway-irks-travellers/articleshow/77793315.cms||Rujuta Parekh
August 28, 2020||Pune||Purandar investors bat for direct land purchase for airport||PUNE: The investors holding on to plots in Purandar batted for “direct purchase” on Thursday, a day before deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar’s scheduled meeting on land acquisition for the proposed airport on Friday. Most of the land investors want the administration to speed up the acquisition process. But the depleting exchequer of the state government amid the Covid-19 pandemic has sowed an element of uncertainty among them. They are apprehensive if the present regime would go for the direct land purchase amid the funds crunch, as proposed by the previous Devendra Fadnavis-led government. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao told TOI that deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had said the proposed Purandar airport would be a high priority project and the government was keen on fast-tracking it despite the state’s financial challenges. “Land acquisition officers are working on all options and we will table them before the deputy chief minister on Friday,” he said. A total of 2,832 hectares of land has to be acquired in seven villages — Pargaon, Khanwadi, Munjwadi, Ekhatpur, Kumbharvalan, Vanpur and Udachiwadi — in Purandar taluka for the airport. Land acquisition officers said it would be a difficult because many villagers were opposed to it. The initial attempts to acquire land had met stiff protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/purandar-investors-bat-for-direct-land-purchase-for-airport/articleshow/77793336.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 28, 2020||Agra||At least 15,000 ‘ghost beneficiaries’ of PM-KISAN scheme in Firozabad, probe on||Agra: The district administration in UP’s Firozabad has launched a probe after a survey done by the agriculture and revenue departments couldn’t find at least 15,000 farmers who have been availing benefits under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme. The Centre’s ambitious scheme provides farmers a financial assistance of Rs 6,000 per year in three equal installments. All those farmers whose total cultivable holding is up to two hectares are eligible. Recently, the Centre had decided to extend the benefit of this scheme to all 14.5 crore farmers, irrespective of the size of their landholding. During a routine checking of accounts of the beneficiaries, some government officials in Firozabad grew suspicious as a lot of the "farmers" hadn't given their Aadhaar card details. A probe followed and hundreds of employees of the agriculture and revenue departments hit the streets to meet these beneficiaries at the addresses given in the records. To their shock, the officials could not find 15,000 beneficiaries at their given addresses. And every one of them had already availed the three installments of Rs 2,000 each. According to agriculture department officials, there were 2 lakh beneficiaries of the PM Kisan scheme in Firozabad by the end of March 2020. To get the money, farmers were required to first make an online application. They also had to submit copies of land records, passbook and Aadhaar card. Farmers not having Aadhaar card were also allowed to apply for the scheme. District agriculture officer Ravikant said, “Around 15,000 beneficiaries of the PM Kisan scheme were found missing during the physical verification process. They have been blacklisted. Bank details of all these people are being investigated. Legal action will be taken against those found involved in malpractices.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/at-least-15000-ghost-beneficiaries-of-pm-kisan-scheme-in-firozabad-probe-on/articleshow/77790462.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 28, 2020||Business||Pune startup launches O2 support device for Covid-19||Pune: Technology startup Nocca Robotics has launched a high flow oxygen therapy (HFOT) device, which has a greater demand than invasive ventilators for treating fairly critical Covid-19 patients. Nocca Robotics has already deployed over 200 ventilators across the country, earning it about Rs 4.4 crore since its launch in July 2020. “We currently have a capacity of manufacturing 500 HFOT devices per month, which can be increased to 1,000 per month in a weeks’ time,” Nikhil Kurele, CEO, Nocca Robotics, said.The HFOT device is a non-invasive oxygen support unit that can be used on patients who don’t need a full-fledged ventilator to support breathing. “It provides humidified oxygen-rich air to the patients through nasal cannula, thus, increasing the oxygen level supplied to the blood. The heated and humidified oxygen also enhances epithelial mucociliary, lowering the risk of respiratory complications like pneumonia and delirium,” the company said.It said one of reasons for venturing into making HFOT was the falling demand for ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pune-startup-launches-o2-support-device-for-covid-19/articleshow/77793331.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
August 28, 2020||India||SC seeks responses from Centre and states on post-Covid school education||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday sought responses from the Union and state governments on a PIL seeking a shift in the education policy to focus on digitally empowering students, especially those in the 6-14 year category and from socially and economically backward classes, to ensure they had access to high-speed internet devices for learning through online classes. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde issued notice on a PIL filed by NGO 'Good Governance Chambers', which through advocate Deepak Prakash said during the pandemic, the fundamental right to education of students from economically and socially deprived sections, especially from migrant worker families, was violated as most of them could not join online classes. It said in India, only 45 crore of the 135 crore population had access to the internet. "Steps taken by the governments to regulate elementary education during the pandemic are not only grossly inadequate but are also creating inequality to put children from weaker sections of society under a perpetually disadvantaged position," the petition said. "Although some governments are organising programmes to continue imparting education to students through smartphones and televisions, lack of digitisation in India, and unavailability of digital devices and gadgets, pose a serious challenge for majority of students to receive the intended education, more so when the majority of children come from economically and socially weaker sections of society," it added. However, the NGO said no hurried step should be taken by governments to reopen schools as young students would not be able to observe social distancing. "There is an urgent need for governments to cautiously frame a policy prescribing uniform timelines for opening of schools and protective measures to be followed by school authorities," it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-seeks-responses-from-centre-and-states-on-post-covid-school-education/articleshow/77794983.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Nagpur||From today, +ves in home isolation to get oximeter free||Nagpur: The district administration will start free distribution of pulse oximeter to asymptomatic Covid patients who are under home isolation from Friday.Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar had proposed the idea to prevent home isolated Covid patients suffering from happy hypoxia — a condition in which the person fails to realize drop in blood oxygen level. TOI had on August 18 reported about Kumar’s plan to distribute the key apparatus to monitor blood oxygen level for effective Covid management.Initially, 600 oximeters have been procured which would be distributed with the help of corporators under a joint drive by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), district administration and city police. During the drive, oxygen level of citizens would be examined and they would be explained how to use the gadgets on their own. According to officials, the administration has tied up with NGOs and industry to procure oximeters in bulk quantity for around Rs600 a piece, while the actual cost of the gadget is around Rs1,200. Each oximeter has been tagged and would be given to asymptomatic Covid patient to use it for around 15 days. The administration won’t insist on financial background of the beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/from-today-ves-in-home-isolation-to-get-oximeter-free/articleshow/77791789.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Goa||Regulate pvt school fees, Sawant urged||Panaji: Delhi-based advocate Ashok Agarwal, who fought the famed Modern School case leading to capping of private school fees, has written to chief minister Pramod Sawant asking him to bring a check on commercialisation of education by unaided schools in the state. Agarwal, backing the All Goa Unaided Schools Parents’ Association (AGUSPA), has asked Sawant to scrap the fee structure committee for unaided schools in the state for irregularities. The AGUSPA is fighting a case in the high court to get Supreme Court directives on fees for private schools implemented in Goa. The high court had asked for the formation of a fee structure committee, but AGUSPA said that the parent representative put up in the committee was neither recommended by AGUSPA nor a member of the association.  Agarwal, president of the All India Parents’ Association (AIPA), has told Sawant that the impact of the pandemic has been financially devastating for households and there is little hope of normalcy returning during the current academic year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/regulate-pvt-school-fees-sawant-urged/articleshow/77793369.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Southern Naval Command to commission waste management system||KOCHI: Furthering its journey to attain the zero-waste goal, the Southern Naval Command (SNC) will commission a Plastic Waste Management System (PWMS) in Kochi naval base on Saturday. The Rs 46 lakh worth system, which comprises five machines including plastic waste shredder-cum-compressor, has been installed at Katari Bagh. The system will help process various kinds of plastic waste collected from all establishments under SNC in Kochi so that it could be either sent for recycling or road construction. In addition to this, the plastic waste from Vathuruthy Colony, which is situated near Katari Bagh, will also be processed here. The project is implemented in association with the district administration, Cochin Shipyard Ltd (CSL) and Steel Industries Ltd Kerala (SILK). CSL has fully funded the project as part of its corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities and SILK is the executing agency. SNC has provided the land for setting up the system and helped with civil works. SNC will manage the system with hired staffs. “The naval base has been working towards the goal of attaining zero waste status through various eco-friendly activities. Food waste are either being composted or sent to piggeries but managing plastic and thermocol waste was difficult. Around three-four tonnes of plastic waste is produced every week. PWMS will be an ideal solution for plastic waste management and once SNC proves its effectiveness, others could follow,” said Cmde Neriamparampil Anil Jose Joseph, commanding officer, INS Venduruthy. The system has a dust remover, washing machine-cum-basin, shredders for soft and hard plastics, and drying machine. The waste will be segregated, cleaned and dried before processing it. Hard plastics will be turned into plastic granules. The machines are manufactured by a Hyderabad-based company. “A trial run of PWMS was conducted on Thursday and the inauguration will be conducted on Saturday during a function to be attended by chief secretary, district collector S Suhas, vice admiral A K Chawla, the Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, SNC, along with the heads of CSL and SILK,” Joseph added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/snc-to-commission-waste-mgmt-system/articleshow/77791844.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
August 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Money matters: Casteist slurs hurled at SC man||AHMEDABAD: A man belonging to a Scheduled Caste (SC) has alleged he faced caste-based slurs by a man, who belongs to the general category, when he asked him to repay Rs 3 lakh which he had borrowed from him and other friends. The accused, Viral Shah, a resident of Casavyoma Apartment in Vastrapur, allegedly told the complainant that he had made his house impure and spoiled his day as he had come to his place during morning hours on Wednesday. Complainant Nilesh Parmar, 39, resident of Shahibaug, stated that he runs a cellphone shop on Ashram road where Shah used to come to either to buy or sell cellphones. Parmar stated in the FIR that some five months ago, Shah had bought a cellphone from Parmar’s shop for which he had not paid Rs 1 lakh. He had told Parmar that he would pay the money in couple of days. Parmar said that after that Shah had stopped coming to his shop and did not even meet his employee who went to Shah’s place to seek money from him. On Wednesday, Parmar came to know that three of his friends Sanjaykumar Rai, Mayursinh Jadeja and Jyoti Mashru had also given money to Shah and the total amount lent was an estimated Rs 3 lakh. Parmar went to Shah’s place along with other friends and knocked on the door. After a while, Shah opened the door and saw Parmar at his doorstep. This infuriated him and he allegedly began abusing Parmar. “He told me that I had made his house impure and I should not enter his house as I belong to an SC community. He also abused me saying that a person of my caste spoiled his day due to the bad omen I brought to his house,” said Parmar. Vastrapur police have registered a complaint under atrocity act and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/money-matters-casteist-slurs-hurled-at-sc-man/articleshow/77793347.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Ludhiana||PSPCL registers 47 FIRs for power theft||LUDHIANA: Acting tough against the power thieves in Khanna subdivision, the enforcement wing, along with senior officials of Punjab State Power Corporation limited (PSPCL) conducted an anti-power theft drive on Thursday and inspected as many as 2,713 power connections to verify the working of electricity meters. Officials of the power corporation had detected 95 cases of unauthorised extension in their meter load, along with three cases of using electricity by illegal means. DPS Grewal, director, distribution, PSPCL, said, “We detected 98 power theft cases (95 of unauthorised extension in load), which were involved in the violation of electricity department norms and consuming heavy amount of electricity by using electricity by using illegal means.” PSPCL officials has imposed the penalties of Rs 17 lakh on different violators and snapped their power supply as part of further course of action. “During the raid, PSPCL officials found that display screens of as many as 21 meters had been tampered with and not functioning properly. These were replaced on the spot and sent to ME lab for testing.” “The anti-power theft wing has registered 47 FIRs against the violators for indulging in activities of stealing huge amounts of electricity by using illegal means,” the official further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pspcl-registers-47-firs-for-power-theft/articleshow/77791776.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Goa||Goa: Unwanted cycles to get new lease of life, deserving owners||PANAJI: Post the Covid-19 lockdown, ease of mobility remains a concern for many. Worst affected are those dependant on public transportation as a means of daily travel. While public transport service is at its sketchy best, some are also hesitant to travel in buses. A group of young biking enthusiasts have now come up with a novel and sustainable initiative that aims at encouraging people to take up cycling as an alternative transportation mode. The group is collecting unused and unwanted bicycles with the aim of giving them a new lease of life. The initiative, currently on an experimental basis, will see the bicycles reconditioned or rebuilt and eventually handed over to a deserving owner, who may not be able to afford to purchase one at retail price. Volunteers have been tasked by Sensible Earth to reach out to people via social media and collect these bicycles. Once recycled, the bicycles will be handed over to students or daily wage workers on a low-cost or no-cost model, one volunteer said. In the first leg, two dozen bicycles will be handed over, some at a subsidized price and some free of cost, a representative of Sensible Earth said. The team has appealed to people to donate unwanted or unused bicycles by calling 8767612729.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/unwanted-cycles-to-get-new-lease-of-life-deserving-owners/articleshow/77793349.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Mangaluru||506 test Covid positive on coast, 8 fatalities||MANGALURU/UDUPI: Covid cases continued to yo-yo in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada (DK) with the districts recording 59 fewer cases on Thursday against 565 reported the day before. DK tallied 297 out of 506 new cases and Udupi the remaining cases. Coastal districts also reported eight Covid-19 related deaths including seven from DK. Five of these were from Mangaluru taluk, one from Udupi and one was from outside these districts. There was a minor increase in the number of active cases in the last 24 hours in DK at 2,372 despite the discharge of 257 patients on the day. Total positive case in DK is now 11,389 and overall Covid-19 deaths 337. Health authorities as on date have discharged 8,680 patients. The district has tested 89,937 samples for a total positivity rate of 12.6%. Discharge rate to total positive cases was also a high 76.2%, deputy commissioner Dr K V Rajendra said. In DK, health authorities had to figure out the source of infection in 123 out of 297 cases, 99 were diagnosed with influenza like illness (ILI), 61 were primary contacts and 14 were diagnosed with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). Fifty-eight per cent of new cases (174) were asymptomatic. Mangaluru taluk accounted for 160 of the new cases, Sullia 42, Bantwal 26, Belthangady 21, Puttur 14 and 24 were patients from outside DK. Primary contacts (78) drove Udupi’s numbers. Sixty-two of them were diagnosed with ILI, source of infection in 60 is being traced, 3 had SARI and six cases were reported among domestic travellers. Sixty-two per cent of the cases (130) were asymptomatic. Udupi taluk contributed to the bulk of the cases at 106. Discharge of 214 patients meant that the active cases is now 2,623 against total reported cases of 10,913 and 93 deaths overall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/506-test-ve-on-coast-8-fatalities/articleshow/77790480.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
August 28, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid cases in Kolhapur district double in 18 days||KOLHAPUR: It has taken just 18 days for the number of Covid-19 cases in the Kolhapur district to double — from about 10,000 cases on August 9 to more than 20,000 by August 26 (Wednesday). This sharp rise in the number of cases has sparked concern among the administrative officials. On Wednesday, the district reported 797 new Covid cases, taking the total number of cases to 20,438. In the first week of August, Solapur was the only district in western Maharashtra to have crossed the 10,000-mark in terms of Covid cases. By Wednesday, Solapur had 16,659 cases. According to the official data, Kolhapur district had 7,552 active cases on August 9. The number increased to 11,904 cases by Wednesday night. Kolhapur had also reported 605 deaths till Wednesday night while Solapur had recorded 698 deaths. The trend seen on August 9 continues till today as almost one-third patients in Kolhapur district are traced from Kolhapur city. The city had 6,398 cases on Wednesday night, while on August 9, there were 3067 cases. Ichalkaranji at present has 2,706 patients. The rural parts of the district have added 2,727 cases in the past 18 days. On August 9, Kolhapur rural had 5,018 Covid positive cases while till Wednesday night, it has 7,795 patients. Hatkanangale and Karveer tehsils continue to be a cause for worry. Hatkanangale tehsil has 2,298 patients. In a short span of time, cases rose in the tehsil by 1257. Karveer currently has 2274 cases while it had 1,110 cases on August 9. Official data show out of the 605 deaths in the district, 162 are from the city. Rural parts have registered 220 deaths while other urban pockets, mainly governed by municipal councils, had 199 deaths till Wednesday night. Five tehsils in the district— Bhudargad, Chandgad, Gadhinglaj, Kagal and Shahuwadi— have 400 to 500 cases at present. Gaganbawda has the lowest number of cases - 40. 735 cases on Thursday The district reported 735 new Covid patients on Thursday, including 216 in the city, taking the total number of cases to 21,083. A total of 29 patients have succumbed to the infection, including 12 from the city, on Thursday in the district. The death toll stands 634. As many as 12,277 have recovered so far. There are 8,172 active cases. Of the fresh cases, Hatkanangale reported 153 cases followed by Karveer tehsil with 81 cases among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/covid-cases-in-kolhapur-district-double-in-18-days/articleshow/77790498.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Protest against lathicharge on BJYM activists in Dhule||AURANGABAD: A day after the Dhule police lathicharged a few members of the BJP’s student wing, members of the outfit in Aurangabad staged a protest at the Kranti Chowk demanding action against the police officers involved in the lathicharge in Dhule on Wednesday. The activists said the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) members were staging a protest to seek clarification on many issues involving the student community from the Dhule guardian minister Abdul Sattar, when the police resorted to the lathicharge. The city unit president of BJP, Sanjay Kenekar, who led the agitation in Aurangabad, said the government has asked the guardians not to pay the fee, while schools seem to have a free hand to charge and seek exorbitant amounts from the students and guardians. "The government should clear its stand on this issue," he said. On Wednesday, when Sattar was in Dhule, members of BJYM and Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) tried to meet him to raise their demands. They were denied permission. Therefore, they later blocked Sattar’s vehicle when he was going to the district collectorate. “Since he was in Dhule, it was the best time for us to meet him and put forth our demands regarding fees of college students in view of Covid-19,” said Viraj Kishor Bhamre, senior office-bearer of ABVP. Bhamre added, “The action of the police in Dhule and the minister should be condemned. The ABVP will protest against the government throughout the state until the demand regarding the fees is met.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/protest-against-lathicharge-on-bjym-activists-in-dhule/articleshow/77794199.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Dehradun||DMC wards to get new drainage system after public uproar||DEHRADUN: A new drainage system is being laid in some of the Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) wards following a huge public uproar after heavy rainfall flooded several houses in parts of the city. The DMC has also started removing the encroachment for laying down the new drainage pipes. Teams from DMC are identifying the localities which have a faulty drainage system and where the locals face problems during monsoon, while the district administration and irrigation department have started removing encroachment from large drains in the old wards. The drains will be broadened which can carry increased volumes of water during the monsoon. DMC officials informed that the work of cleaning the large drains - underway in several parts of the city - is almost complete. The budgetary allocation for laying of the drainage system at the new wards will be made from the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) project. Mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama had visited areas such as Vijay colony, Mothrowala and Banjarwala on Wednesday to meet the people who had suffered losses during the rains. The mayor also asked the officials to remove the rain water from the area at the earliest. In several parts of the city, especially the new wards, the residents have staged protests against the government agencies for delay in the work. The mayor told TOI, “In the absence of a proper drainage system, residents of new wards like Jogiwala, Sarthi Vihar and Devnachal Vihar suffered losses during the rainy season. This will remain our focus area. A drainage master plan is being prepared for the new wards to avoid any damage to private properties during heavy rainfall. Once prepared, the plan will be sent for approval to AMRUT. The work will then be initiated." The mayor has also asked the officials to respond to the residents' calls on time and use water pumping machines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-wards-to-get-new-drainage-system-after-public-uproar/articleshow/77790477.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Bhopal||148 more test +ve, city’s Covid count breaches 10k mark||Bhopal: As many as 148 people tested positive for Covid-19 here on Thursday. For almost a week, the state capital has reported an average of 150 daily cases, taking the total to above 10,000 cases since the pandemic began. On Thursday, five members of a family were diagnosed with the infection in ‘Vatsalya’ (Kerwa dam road). Multiple infections in a household is turning into a common pattern — four people in the same family in Koh-e-Fiza testing positive for the infection. Gandhi Medical College (GMC) reported that two more of its medicos were diagnosed with Covid-19. One of them is from the nephrology department. The situation has raised alarm bells in the administration, as discounted dialysis in a government-run hospital is a lifeline for thousands of patients. Bank of Baroda, Habibganj, reported one positive case. Nearby, E-3 (Arera Colony) reported three positive cases in a family. E-4 (Arera Colony) reported one positive case. Danish Nagar, which has become a hotspot for the rise in infection cases, reported two more positive cases on Thursday. Arvind Vihar and Shalimar Lake apartment reported two cases each. SCC Military Camp and EME centre reported six cases of the infection. Mangalwara area, which was a hotspot early in the pandemic, reported three new cases. Rohit Nagar (Phase-1) reported four positives, all of them were in the same family. Indira Colony (Bagh Umrao Dullah) reported two positives. Barkhedi reported two positive cases too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/148-more-test-ve-citys-covid-count-breaches-10k-mark/articleshow/77791891.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Pune||MahaMetro begins work on pedestrian subway in Swargate||PUNE: Traffic diversions are on the cards on Satara Road in Swargate, with the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) initiated work on a pedestrian subway connecting the planned multimodal hub to the state transport bus terminus. MahaMetro said on Thursday that it has submitted a traffic diversion plan to the city traffic police. “We expect to get a reply in a day or two, after which we will implement the diversions,” a MahaMetro official said. Traffic coming from Katraj towards Swargate will be diverted to some extent. “Vehicular traffic is unlikely to be disrupted too much as the stretch of Satara Road outside the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) bus terminus is wide enough — vehicles will also be able to use the flyover going toward Laxminarayan Theatre Chowk. A final plan will be released soon,” the official said. The multimodal hub is coming up at Jedhe Chowk and will comprise the underground Metro station and a surface-level PMPML bus terminus. MahaMetro has started work on the underground station. “We are now beginning work on the pedestrian subway, which will be used by commuters to walk between the Metro station and the MSRTC terminus. With the subway, people will not be required to navigate traffic and cross the road,” another MahaMetro official said. The subway will be constructed in the “cut and cover” method, in which a large pit will be dug. The pit will be covered up after work on the subway is completed, MahaMetro said. As per the plan, MahaMetro said it would take up at the MSRTC terminus end of the subway, as the state transport bus service is not operating at full capacity due to the pandemic. “At a later stage, we will take up work on the Metro station side,” an official said. The MahaMetro has said that it was in the process of erecting barricades at the work site. “Signboards will be put up at strategic points proving directions to vehicle users,” the official said. The Swargate Metro station is the termination point on the underground stretch of the Pimpri-Swargate Metro corridor. This route is elevated from Pimpri to Range Hills, whereafter it goes underground — near the College of Agriculture in Shivajinagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mahametro-begins-work-on-pedestrian-subway-in-swargate/articleshow/77793300.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Civic sweepers found merely on paper||Hyderabad: Lack of regular cleaning has become a cause for concern with many residents complaining that their bylanes are being sweeped only once in four days. “The civic staff clean our lane once in a week,” said Ashok Singh, a resident of Banjara Hills Road No 5. A Narsimhan, president of Golf View Apartment, Nanakramguda, echoed the same grievance. “Especially since the lockdown started, the sanitation in our locality has gone for a toss.,” he said. In fact, locals allege how there are several areas where sweepers and sanitation staff exist merely on paper and the person responsible for monitoring them — sanitary field assistant (SFA) — simply mark their attendance “A foolproof plan will be implemented within a week to crub irregiularities,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/civic-sweepers-found-merely-on-paper/articleshow/77793393.cms||Nabinder Bommala
August 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Fear of Covid is decreasing as cases rise, says Bengaluru top cop||BENGALURU: Though the number of Covid cases is increasing in Bengaluru, people’s fear of the virus is decreasing drastically and this is quite evident from the way they wear masks while in public, said city police commissioner Kamal Pant on Thursday. Speaking during an online interaction organised by Namma Bengaluru Foundation, Pant pointed out that many people are either not wearing masks properly or, worse still, walk around without one. “These people do not realize that they are putting not only themselves, but others at risk by such an act,” Pant said. “There should be widespread awareness programmes on the importance of wearing masks and the correct way to use them. Unfortunately, the fear of Covid-19 is decreasing among public, despite a sharp increase in the number of cases. I see that around 80% of the people who visit my office do not wear masks properly.” Pant said another problem authorities are facing in the fight against Covid-19 is in creating awareness against spitting in public places. “This is a serious issue especially with a pandemic raging and we shall take the matter seriously. We shall strictly enforce action against people who spit in public spaces.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/fear-of-covid-is-decreasing-as-cases-rise-says-bluru-top-cop/articleshow/77791193.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Kanpur||UP weekend curbs will continue till September-end||LUCKNOW: As Covid-19 cases continue to rise in the state, the government has decided to extend weekend restrictions by a month and said that no religious or cultural events would be allowed in public places till the end of September. “Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that these measures have proved to be effective in breaking the chain of Covid-19. All markets will have to remain shut during the weekend during which time sanitation and sanitisation will take place in all areas. No social or cultural event will be permitted till September 30,” said Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary (home), days before another set of guidelines by the Centre on the Unlock phase are likely to be announced. The weekend restrictions will see closure of all markets, offices, restaurants etc though essential services, liquor shops, vegetable and fruit mandis will continue to operate. With the number of cases on Thursday touching 5,463, the number of containment zones in UP went up to 15,471 in which 37,914 persons with Covid-19 infection have been identified.To break the chain of infection, the CM said, testing, surveillance, contact tracing and door-to-door surveys need to be carried out rigorously. “The CM has directed officials to ensure adequate arrangements in Covid hospitals and has said that all equipment, including ventilators, is functional. He has said very strictly that two oxygen backup for 48-hours will have to be compulsorily maintained in Covid hospitals. He also said that the High Flow Nasal Cannula method of treatment should be continued as it has received good response in treatment of Covid patients,” Awasthi said. The CM also directed officials to give special attention to districts like Lucknow, Kanpur Nagar, Shahjahanpur and Gorakhpur and asked them to strengthen health services in these districts. On Thursday, Lucknow reported 792 cases, Kanpur 281, Shahjahanpur 67 and Gorakhpur 232. Lucknow and Kanpur have together accounted for more than 18% of the total Covid cases in UP till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/up-weekend-curbs-will-continue-till-sept-end/articleshow/77801017.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 28, 2020||Allahabad||UP weekend curbs will continue till September-end||LUCKNOW: As Covid-19 cases continue to rise in the state, the government has decided to extend weekend restrictions by a month and said that no religious or cultural events would be allowed in public places till the end of September. “Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that these measures have proved to be effective in breaking the chain of Covid-19. All markets will have to remain shut during the weekend during which time sanitation and sanitisation will take place in all areas. No social or cultural event will be permitted till September 30,” said Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary (home), days before another set of guidelines by the Centre on the Unlock phase are likely to be announced. The weekend restrictions will see closure of all markets, offices, restaurants etc though essential services, liquor shops, vegetable and fruit mandis will continue to operate. With the number of cases on Thursday touching 5,463, the number of containment zones in UP went up to 15,471 in which 37,914 persons with Covid-19 infection have been identified.To break the chain of infection, the CM said, testing, surveillance, contact tracing and door-to-door surveys need to be carried out rigorously. “The CM has directed officials to ensure adequate arrangements in Covid hospitals and has said that all equipment, including ventilators, is functional. He has said very strictly that two oxygen backup for 48-hours will have to be compulsorily maintained in Covid hospitals. He also said that the High Flow Nasal Cannula method of treatment should be continued as it has received good response in treatment of Covid patients,” Awasthi said. The CM also directed officials to give special attention to districts like Lucknow, Kanpur Nagar, Shahjahanpur and Gorakhpur and asked them to strengthen health services in these districts. On Thursday, Lucknow reported 792 cases, Kanpur 281, Shahjahanpur 67 and Gorakhpur 232. Lucknow and Kanpur have together accounted for more than 18% of the total Covid cases in UP till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/up-weekend-curbs-will-continue-till-sept-end/articleshow/77801018.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 28, 2020||Goa||Despite hurdles, IIT Goa’s first batch of 82 students graduate||PANAJI: In the midst of the pandemic, the first batch of 82 students graduated from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Goa. IIT Goa had become operational in 2016 and the pandemic brought with it many challenges to be overcome, just as the institution’s first BTech batch was nearing the completion of the programme. Director B K Mishra said that IIT Goa senate approved allotment of ‘P’ grade to low performing students during the 2019-20 academic year, so that they could improve their performance post pandemic. “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic IIT Goa completed its Spring 2020 semester in online mode. As a precautionary measure, all students were asked to vacate the hostel by March 19. By March 24, all classes started in online mode. Various modes of online teaching were used to conduct classes and majority of the students participated in all online classes,” Mishra said. Some of the institute’s students residing in remote areas, however, faced internet connectivity issues. “In order to help such students, IIT-Goa sent DVDs of teaching notes by post. Different modes of examinations such as open book examination, online viva, online tests, assignments were followed for evaluation purpose. Due to all these efforts, the first batch of IIT-Goa graduated on time in July 2020. These students are now able to join their jobs or postgraduate programmes,” the director said. He said that the special ‘P’ grade translates into ‘notionally pass’. Allotting this grade was felt necessary to help low performing students. “With this grade, students can improve their performance as well as the grade after the pandemic is over. Regular academic calendar was also modified in order to offer more time for teaching and to conduct online examinations,” Mishra said. The director said that IIT Goa is soon going to introduce a new course named LAMP—Learning to Achieve Multidisciplinary Perspectives. “It is a project-based course. It will encourage students, wherever opportunity exists, to interact more with the community around them to build the project. It will make them socially sensitive and adept at understanding and analysing contemporary issues of social relevance.” The broad themes for the projects in the course would be derived from the sustainability development goals outlined by the UN. “I personally believe that our students should take a holistic approach to learning engineering and science involving cooperation among fellow students rather than competition, and this course is a step toward inculcating this value,” Mishra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/despite-hurdles-iit-goas-first-batch-of-82-students-graduate/articleshow/77793389.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
August 28, 2020||Varanasi||UP weekend curbs will continue till September-end||LUCKNOW: As Covid-19 cases continue to rise in the state, the government has decided to extend weekend restrictions by a month and said that no religious or cultural events would be allowed in public places till the end of September. “Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that these measures have proved to be effective in breaking the chain of Covid-19. All markets will have to remain shut during the weekend during which time sanitation and sanitisation will take place in all areas. No social or cultural event will be permitted till September 30,” said Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary (home), days before another set of guidelines by the Centre on the Unlock phase are likely to be announced. The weekend restrictions will see closure of all markets, offices, restaurants etc though essential services, liquor shops, vegetable and fruit mandis will continue to operate. With the number of cases on Thursday touching 5,463, the number of containment zones in UP went up to 15,471 in which 37,914 persons with Covid-19 infection have been identified.To break the chain of infection, the CM said, testing, surveillance, contact tracing and door-to-door surveys need to be carried out rigorously. “The CM has directed officials to ensure adequate arrangements in Covid hospitals and has said that all equipment, including ventilators, is functional. He has said very strictly that two oxygen backup for 48-hours will have to be compulsorily maintained in Covid hospitals. He also said that the High Flow Nasal Cannula method of treatment should be continued as it has received good response in treatment of Covid patients,” Awasthi said. The CM also directed officials to give special attention to districts like Lucknow, Kanpur Nagar, Shahjahanpur and Gorakhpur and asked them to strengthen health services in these districts. On Thursday, Lucknow reported 792 cases, Kanpur 281, Shahjahanpur 67 and Gorakhpur 232. Lucknow and Kanpur have together accounted for more than 18% of the total Covid cases in UP till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/up-weekend-curbs-will-continue-till-sept-end/articleshow/77801012.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 28, 2020||Lucknow||UP weekend curbs will continue till September-end||LUCKNOW: As Covid-19 cases continue to rise in the state, the government has decided to extend weekend restrictions by a month and said that no religious or cultural events would be allowed in public places till the end of September. “Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that these measures have proved to be effective in breaking the chain of Covid-19. All markets will have to remain shut during the weekend during which time sanitation and sanitisation will take place in all areas. No social or cultural event will be permitted till September 30,” said Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary (home), days before another set of guidelines by the Centre on the Unlock phase are likely to be announced. The weekend restrictions will see closure of all markets, offices, restaurants etc though essential services, liquor shops, vegetable and fruit mandis will continue to operate. With the number of cases on Thursday touching 5,463, the number of containment zones in UP went up to 15,471 in which 37,914 persons with Covid-19 infection have been identified.To break the chain of infection, the CM said, testing, surveillance, contact tracing and door-to-door surveys need to be carried out rigorously. “The CM has directed officials to ensure adequate arrangements in Covid hospitals and has said that all equipment, including ventilators, is functional. He has said very strictly that two oxygen backup for 48-hours will have to be compulsorily maintained in Covid hospitals. He also said that the High Flow Nasal Cannula method of treatment should be continued as it has received good response in treatment of Covid patients,” Awasthi said. The CM also directed officials to give special attention to districts like Lucknow, Kanpur Nagar, Shahjahanpur and Gorakhpur and asked them to strengthen health services in these districts. On Thursday, Lucknow reported 792 cases, Kanpur 281, Shahjahanpur 67 and Gorakhpur 232. Lucknow and Kanpur have together accounted for more than 18% of the total Covid cases in UP till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-weekend-curbs-will-continue-till-sept-end/articleshow/77794226.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 28, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Satara, Sangli each get 500+ new cases in 24-hour period||KOLHAPUR: The Satara and Sangli districts in western Maharashtra have both registered the highest rise in the number of Covid-19 cases within a 24-hour period since the pandemic began. While Satara district identified 505 cases since late on Wednesday night, Sangli district added 527 new patients. Moreover, 12 have succumbed in the Satara district — four patients each in Satara and Karad tehsils, two in Phaltan and one each in Patan and Khatav tehsils. Sangli district, meanwhile, registered 29 deaths. In Satara district, Satara and Karad tehsils have been consistently recording a higher number of cases and Miraj and Walva tehsils in Sangli district have emerged as the new hotspots. Karad tehsil added 142 cases, including 64 in Karad town. As many as 19 cases were found in Shaniwarpeth alone. Malkapur identified 15 cases. Karad tehsil and town have now more than 3,000 and 800 positive cases respectively. Satara tehsil, meanwhile, found 94 cases and 56 of them were from Satara town. Patients were also identified at the office of superintendent of police when they underwent rapid antigen tests. As many as 20 police personnel tested positive. Patients were also identified in Lonand and Shirval (Khandala tehsil), Ozarde (Wai tehsil), Dhamner (Koregaon tehsil) and Mayni (Khatav tehsil). In Sangli district, 302 new patients were from the Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad municipal corporation. Sangli rural added 163 more patients while urban pockets added 62. Officials said that 15 of the deceased patients were above the age of 60 years. According to officials, 477 patients are critical. The district now has 3,481 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-sangli-each-get-500-new-cases-in-24-hr-period/articleshow/77790526.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Goa||7-member panel appointed to boost state coop bank’s fortunes||Panaji: To aid Goa State Co-operative Bank Ltd’s (GSCB) turnaround, the state government has appointed a high-level committee (HLC) to monitor the health of the bank. The 7-member committee, headed by chief secretary Parimal Rai, will prepare an action plan and ensure that the bank is financially sound. GSCB, the apex financing agency for Goa’s cooperative sector, has managed to wipe off Rs 100 crore of its Rs 113 crore of accumulated losses though its capital adequacy ratio is still below the Reserve Bank of India’s norms. “The government is pleased to constitute a high-level committee (HLC) to monitor the health of the bank and discuss other operational issues. The committee shall meet on a quarterly basis within 45 days from the end of the quarter,” said registrar of cooperative societies Vikas Gaunekar. Aside from ensuring that the bank meets norms pertaining to capital adequacy (CAR), asset quality and non-performing assets, margins, return on assets and profitability on a continuous basis, the committee will ensure that the bank upgrades its technology and improves customer services. It will also focus on capacity building and professionalizing of board members and improving management accountability to prevent irregularities. The government has felt the need to enhance the training and skills of board members and staff while also bringing in internal checks and risk management systems. The committee will oversee the preparation of Monitorable Action Plan (MAP) and the compliance with important statutory provisions of Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (AACS), RBI Act, 1934, and NABARD guidelines. One of the key objectives of the panel is to implement the Comprehensive Turnaround Project and review the top 10 NPA accounts. In 2018, the state had appointed a committee of administrators — V B Prabhu Verlekar, Mohandas Ramdas and Shailesh Usgaonkar — to revive the apex cooperative bank’s loss-riddled balance sheet. The administrators were in place for a period of one year after which a new board was elected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/7-member-panel-appointed-to-boost-state-coop-banks-fortunes/articleshow/77793441.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Mangaluru||Lotus blooms in new Kadaba taluk panchayat||KADABA: BJP gained control over the newly carved out Kadaba taluk panchayat in the maiden election to the posts of president and vice-president held here on Thursday. While Rajeshwari Kanyamangala was elected president, Jayanthi R Gowda was elected her deputy. The election was unanimous in that BJP has a majority in the 12 member taluk panchayat, with seven elected members, and the Congress with five members make up the elected body. The new Kadaba taluk panchayat was carved out initially from 42 villages making up 13 constituencies – two from Sullia and the rest from Puttur taluk panchayat. However, with the upgrading of Kadaba taluk panchayat constituency into a town panchayat, the taluk panchayat now has 12 constituencies with jurisdiction over 41 villages. Then revenue minister R V Deshpande on March 9, 2019, had declared open newly formed Kadaba and Moodbidri taluks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/lotus-blooms-in-new-kadaba-taluk-panchayat/articleshow/77790517.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Pune||Can’t relax rules further: Railways||PUNE: Pune rail division officials said that they have relaxed the railway board’s regulations to allow passengers to enter the platform three hours prior to the departure of train, but further concession to waiting passengers was not possible due to the Covid-19 pandemic. A rail division official said, “The regulations by the railway board state that passengers may be allowed to enter the platform 90 minutes before the departure of a train. However, we have extended the time to three hours. Considering the Covid-19 pandemic in Pune, we cannot do anything more to help commuters. There is no proposal to add or increase facilities on the premises for waiting passengers.” On Thursday, too, many passengers were seen waiting outside the station premises. Pankaj Kumar, who reached the city at 4.30am on the Danapur-Pune Express, had to wait for nearly 12 hours to catch the Hazrat Nizamuddin Express at 4pm. “The wait is long and frustrating as there are no facilities for passengers,” he said. The railway officials said that they needed to take precautions. “The waiting rooms and dormitories of the station are closed. Unless the situation improves, we cannot take any risk,” he said. Last week, at the meeting of the divisional railway users consultative committee (DRUCC), the members expressed concern over the long wait for passengers outside the station premises. “We were told that regulations prevented passengers to enter the platform early. But railways need to provide passengers with some basic facilities,” one of the members said. The district administration officials told TOI that they would soon discuss the issue with the railway authorities. “We will try to find a solution to the issue,” resident deputy collector Jayashree Katare said on Wednesday. In reply to a WhatsApp message on Thursday, she said that she has received information from the tehsildar that the station was being opened for passengers two hours before the departure time of train. Kasba Peth MLA Mukta Tilak told TOI that she would speak to the divisional railway manager (DRM) on the matter. “At least, basic facilities can be easily provided by the authorities to passengers,” she said. The Pune station falls in her constituency. Railway Pravasi Group chairperson Harsha Shah said, “No one is telling the railway authorities to bend rules, but at least some basic facilities can be provided to passengers facing hardships,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/railways-refuse-further-relaxation-in-platform-entry-timings-mla-to-take-up-the-matter-with-officials/articleshow/77793350.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 28, 2020||Agra||Car-lifter gang busted, 13 arrested & 17 vehicles recovered||Agra: Aligarh police busted a gang of car-lifters on Thursday and arrested 13 people and seized 17 vehicles including Honda City, Scorpio and Xylo from their possession. Out of 17, six cars had Delhi registration numbers. According to police, the accused used to steal cars from various districts of UP, Delhi and Haryana and then transport them to UP’s Badaun from where the cars were later sold by forging registration numbers of totally damaged vehicles. The mastermind of the gang, Parvesh Kumar, owned the godown where the stolen vehicles were kept and later sold out. SP (city) Abhishek Kumar said, “It’s an inter-state gang of car-lifters, scrap dealers. Thirteen of them have been arrested and three are still at large.” He further added that all members of the gang have a different role. Some of them were found involved in stealing vehicles while others were allotted the work of transporting the stolen vehicles to Badaun’s godown. Some others used to buy damaged vehicles along with papers from scrap dealers and change chassis and engine numbers. The arrested members belonged to various districts of UP including Mainpuri, Aligarh, Hathras, Sambhal, Bulandshahr and one each from Delhi and Haryana. All of them have been booked under various sections of IPC in Aligarh’s Kawarsi police station. Most of them have criminal background with cases registered at various police stations in UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/car-lifter-gang-busted-13-arrested-17-vehicles-recovered/articleshow/77790520.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Goa||2nd round of college admissions today||Panaji: The second round of online admissions to general stream degree programmes in the state will begin with the directorate of higher education (DHE) accepting applications online from August 28. In case of students who did not get admissions in the college of their choice during the first round, they need not apply afresh. A separate provision has been made for them to opt for change of college, DHE has said. “The second round of online admission in government and aided colleges under administrative control of DHE for courses such as BA, BCom, BSc, BCA, BBA, Music, Home Science, Agriculture, BSc BEd, BA BEd, etc, shall start from August 28,” the directorate said. Students who are applying for the first time on the online portal will have to do so through www.dhe.goa.gov.in, 12 noon onwards. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/2nd-round-of-college-admissions-today/articleshow/77793431.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Nashik||21-40 year age group most Covid affected in Nashik city||NASHIK: About 46% of the people infected with Covid-19 in Nashik city are those in the 21-40 years age group. Officials of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) said people in this age group are more vulnerable to the infection as they have to step out of their homes to go to work and spend long hours outside. A sizeable section of this age group has acted irresponsibly by not adhering to safety protocols like wearing masks and maintaining physical distancing, thereby compounding the problem further. Balram Bhargava, the director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said not youth or old, but irresponsible people are spreading Covid-19. According to NMC officials, 46% of the total 20,818 Covid-19 patients in the city are in the 21-40 years age group, while around 30% are in the 41-60 years bracket. Around 11% of the patients are above the age of 61 years while 8.5% of the patients are from the age group of 11 to 20 years and 4.5% of the patients are below the age of 10 years. The NMC officials said, “Youth are not taking the Covid-19 pandemic seriously. They are not maintaining the safety protocols like some are not wearing masks. This is the reason that more youth have been infected.” “We want people to adhere to the safety protocols to contain the spread of Covid-19. People should wear a mask and maintain physical distancing to curb the pandemic,” the officials added. The city had recorded the first patient on April 6 and by May 19, the city had only 48 patients Following the relaxation in the lockdown and the movement of people from the Covid affected cities like Mumbai and Malegaon, there was a spike in the number of Covid cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/21-40-year-age-group-most-ncov-affected-in-nashik-city/articleshow/77769691.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 28, 2020||Pune||Compliance with guidelines keeps this housing society safe||Pune: As Covid-19 started to spread across the country, members of the Ram Heera housing society in Bhosari quickly realised that like billions worldwide, they were faced with an unprecedented crisis. The residents, nearly 200 people spread across 48 flats, implemented various measures to keep the infection outside their gates. Society members implemented mandatory thermal screenings right from March; started to sanitize the premises every two days; and ensured high-contact spaces such as lifts and doorknobs were kept spotless. Shahajirao Nale, the chairman of the Ram Heera housing society, said residents have understood the value of these safety measures. So when the process to ease restrictions started, they were all prepared. “When the unlock started across the city, we adopted a flexible approach and allowed visitors. But the thermal screening and masks remained a must,” he said.Nale added that within the society premises too, residents have been asked to wear a mask at all times whenever they are outside their homes and people have obeyed.This compliance has allowed the housing society to keep up normal life. Nale said the society has been allowing delivery of essential and non-essential items, as long as mandatory checks are carried out.Their response has allowed sectors of the economy to resume activity. Earlier, extremely harsh restrictions had led to decay in local commerce and eventually, unemployment. “We have also allowed domestic helps and other staff to resume duties, but with prior checks. Compliance with rules helped us,” Nale said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/compliance-with-guidelines-keeps-this-housing-society-safe/articleshow/77793332.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Goa||Goa: Next semester via online mode, eye on campus return||PANAJI: The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Goa, will begin its next semester in the online mode from September 1. This arrangement will be reviewed mid-way into the autumn semester, IIT Goa director BK Mishra said. The institute is also keen for students to return to the campus in the near future because online classes are not as effective as classroom teaching, it was felt by the IIT Goa senate at its recent review. “IIT Goa senate observed that online teaching learning process is not as effective as classroom teaching. It is necessary to bring IIT-Goa students back on campus as early as possible. Recently, IIT-Goa has handed over its 640-bed capacity hostel to Goa government for its use as Covid care centre. Due to this reason and current pandemic situation, it is immediately not possible to bring IIT Goa students back on campus,” said Mishra. The senate had to therefore decide to start the autumn 2020 semester from September 1 in online mode, he said. “The situation will be reviewed during the mid-semester and if possible, students will be called back on campus,” Mishra said. During the next semester, IIT Goa will focus on Flip Class concept, he said. “Under this concept, students will be given lecture notes, recorded lecture audios/videos prior to the class. Students will be encouraged to discuss their understanding and doubts during the scheduled online class. Continuous evaluation will be carried out with the help of various class assignments, class/term projects, seminars, quizzes, mid semester and end semester examinations, and open book examinations,” Mishra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/next-semester-via-online-mode-eye-on-campus-return/articleshow/77793400.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Pune||Temples draw up SOPs to curb Covid-19 in Maharashtra||PUNE: Close to 40 prominent temples from across the state have drawn up standard operating procedures (SOP) for places of worship in the form of a book titled ‘Temple Management after Covid-19 Lockdown’ to prevent spread of the virus. The book, written and published by Ranjendrakumar Saraf, coordinator, temple management committee, was released outside Shrimant Dagdusheth Halwai Sarvajanik Ganapati Mandir recently. According to Saraf, the idea of coming up with SOPs or guidelines emerged after a meeting with Shivajirao More, trustee, Shri Rukhmini Vitthal Mandir Samiti, Pandharpur, and representatives of other temples in the state. “After the temples shut down during lockdown, I realised that livelihood of thousands of people depends on them. We thought of framing guidelines and submitting them to the government instead of waiting for them to re-open temples and issue SOPs. After a preliminary meeting on July 6, representatives of 40 temples and shrines met through a video call on July 19 to discuss problems and find solutions,” he said. Spread over 13 chapters, the book covers important information and multiple alternatives on how to re-open temples. “It has been decided that devotees will not be allowed inside the main sanctum, nor will they be allowed to bring any offerings. They will be checked at entry, while priests and temple staff will be tested routinely. We have also mooted setting up of a temple disaster management office at each temple,” he said. The new guidelines will be implemented on a pilot basis at the Swami Swarupanand Samadhi Mandir at Pavas and Laxmi Narsingh Mandir in Narsinghpur. “The entire ecosystem around temples has been studied and guidelines for functioning of shops selling offerings, eateries and other establishments have been provided in the book,” he said. Mahesh Jadhav, chairperson, Western Maharashtra Devasthan Trust, the apex body of 345 temples in western India, said, "The guidelines cover all aspects, from cleanliness and security to offerings and public darshan, making them useful in any future situation." Meanwhile, Mahesh Suryavanshi, treasurer, Shrimant Dagdusheth Halwai Sarvajanik Ganapati Mandir said, "The book will be a guiding light for temples when they reopen and allow devotees to return for worship." Jayant Desai, trustee of Swami Swarupanand Mandir, Pavas, said, "Several questions were raised and workable solutions found which were included in the list of protocols to be followed by temples to prevent the spread of Covid-19 among devotees.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/temples-draw-up-sops-to-curb-virus-spread/articleshow/77793390.cms||Rujuta Parekh
August 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Man booked for assaulting sister in Maharashtra||AURANGABAD: A 32-year-old man has been booked by Cidco police for assaulting his sister and threatening her of dire consequences if the latter tried to interfere in the former’s married life. According to police, the suspect often got drunk and beat his wife. “Disapproving of his behaviour, the suspect’s sister informed his father-in-law . This infuriated the suspect who then got drunk agains and picked up an altercation with his sister,” a police officer said. “The suspect picked up a copper utensil and started hitting his sister. He also threatened to kill her. Subsequently, she approached us and lodged a complaint. We have booked the man under sections 324, 323, 504, and 506 of the IPC,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-booked-for-assaulting-sister/articleshow/77790547.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Can’t waive property tax, government tells HC||BENGALURU: The state government on Thursday told the high court that it has rejected the representation seeking exemption/relaxation of payment of BBMP property tax for the year 2020-21. The representation was submitted on May 11 by the petitioner, K Gurudhatta, a Bengaluru-based advocate, citing the Covid pandemic. A copy of the August 24 endorsement/order issued by the urban development department (UDD) was also placed before the court. The UDD said that in view of the BBMP and other urban local bodies extending health and other services during the pandemic, funds are required. Property tax being the main source of income, it would not be possible to grant any kind of exemption or relaxation. The UDD also added that in case exemption is granted, the financial position of these local bodies would be dire. Taking the order on record, a division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka noted that no relief can be granted in the PIL and that the petitioner, will have to challenge the endorsement if he wants to. However, as the petitioner’s counsel sought time, the hearing was adjourned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cant-waive-property-tax-says-govt/articleshow/77791036.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Namma Metro services will resume soon: Karnataka CM||BENGALURU: After being suspended for over five months, Namma Metro may resume services from September 1. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday said Metro will restart soon as normalcy is being restored in public life step by step. “Metro services will be resumed in a phased manner with strict adherence to social distancing norms,’’ he added. On the sidelines of a public event, he said the government is positive the centre in its Unlock 4.0 guidelines (from September 1) will allow Metro services across the country. Both commuters as well as BMRCL, which suffered Rs 300 losses due to the shutdown, will be relieved. Officials have made all arrangements and drawn up a standard operating procedure. Earlier, Yediyurappa said his government is committed to all-round development of the state with special focus on Bengaluru. “We have drawn plans to improve basic infrastructure across Bengaluru and all measures are being taken,’’ he added Paying more attention to Bengaluru's development is necessary for the state and country's financial progress, he said. We’ll look into resolving traffic congestion in the city, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/namma-metro-services-will-resume-soon-says-cm-yediyurappa/articleshow/77791234.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Goa||Goa govt given 7 days to pick option for GST compensation||PANAJI: The Goods and Services Tax (GST) council met on Thursday for a crucial deliberation on the compensation owed to states for the shortfall in collections, where Goa asked for its due of Rs 1,018 crore to be paid from the Rs 11,000 crore that the Centre has its in kitty of GST cess. Panchayats minister Mauvin Godinho participated in the meeting where the Centre offered states two options to fill in the gap in state’s revenue due to the GST shortfall and delayed compensation. The GST council has given all states seven days to decide between borrowing less and getting the compensation later and borrowing more now and repaying the loans using cess collected after 2022, when compensation stops. “Our plea was simple. Bigger states like Maharashtra have pending dues of Rs 22,000 crore and more, but Goa’s dues are just 5% of this,” said Godinho. “The Centre has Rs 11,000 crore as compensation cess in its kitty and it can afford to compensate smaller states like Goa.” Godinho said that Goa is averse to higher market borrowings at high interest rates as it would put the state in a “debt trap”. The Centre has offered to help states borrow through the Reserve Bank of India to meet the deficit arising due to GST. “We will brief the chief minister and we will chose the option. Most of the states will opt for option 2 where centre will do the borrowing on behalf of the state and it will be repaid along with interest from the cess collected,” said Godinho. He said that the Centre has agreed to extend the GST transition period beyond five years for another three years. “The meeting will be held on September 8 to decide how to raise the amount to collect the shortfall in the compensation cess what was the rightful due of the states. It may necessitate a change in law,” said Godinho. While non-NDA ruled states are against the Centre’s move to ask states to borrow and meet the deficit, states like Goa were more muted in their criticism. “The revenue shortfall in GST collections has to be compensated by the Centre, this is the law. It is a constitutional provision. All states have made this demand that the Centre should release the compensation to those states that have not been paid,” said Godinho. The GST Council will meet on September 8 to note the decisions taken by various states. Subsequently, on September 19, the GST Council will meet once again to review other matters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-govt-given-7-days-to-pick-option-for-gst-compensation/articleshow/77793456.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Pune||Hoteliers’ body writes to finance ministry for relief||Pune: The Federation of Hotel and Restaurant Associations of India (FHRAI) has made written representation to the ministry of finance for extension of moratorium on all types of loans for an additional three months. It said that the hotel industry has made no progress in terms of bookings even after the unlock. The industry has registered average occupancy levels at 10-20 per cent, it said. With rental and salary bills, statutory payments and other establishment costs, hotels are finding it unviable and difficult to run their business. The FHRAI has informed the ministry that an extension of moratorium at this time could help hotels restructure existing loans since the process of restructuring is time consuming. Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, vice-president, FHRAI, and president, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), said, “The industry is going through its toughest time. There is no improvement in forward bookings and wherever hotels and restaurants have opened, the footfalls are negligible.” “In addition to the monthly outgoings and the statutory levies, we now have to spend more on employing hygiene and safety measures to follow the SOPs and guidelines issued by the central and state governments. On account of all this, the debt restructuring plan announced by the RBI for the stressed MSMEs is not going to help the hospitality sector. Therefore, we have urged that the moratorium be extended by a further three months,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hoteliers-body-writes-to-finance-ministry-for-relief/articleshow/77793358.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Kolhapur||Chain-snatch case: College student held||Kolhapur: Police arrested a third-year student of an agriculture college in connection with a chain-snatching case in Nagla park on Wednesday evening The youth, identified as Pankaj Babasaheb Patil, a resident of Wadnge Padli, allegedly has been involved in two similar cases in Kolhapur city. On Wednesday, Patil, snatched the chain of a woman who was walking to Nagla park. However, the woman raised an alarm. While trying to flee on his two-wheeler, Patil fell and was nabbed by passers-by. Thalathi caught in graft case In Sangli, the anti-corruption bureau arrested a talathi of Dudhgaon village while she was taking a bribe of Rs 9,000.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/chain-snatch-case-college-student-held/articleshow/77790534.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Pune||Two killed in separate road accidents||Pune: A woman (38) riding pillion was killed and her husband suffered injuries after their moped was hit by a dumper at Bhosarigaon on Pune-Nashik highway on Tuesday evening. The victim, Pallavi Kirve from Warje Malwadi, fell off the moped and died after being run over by the dumper, police said. The accident occurred around 4pm, when Kirve and her husband, Arun (48), were on their way back home from work. “Kirve had started working as an operator at a petrol pump in Bhosari on Monday. The fatal accident occurred on the second day of her new job,” sub-inspector NJ Talpade of the Bhosari police said, adding that the dumper driver, Birud Salunke (53), was arrested on the charge of negligent driving following an FIR lodged by Kirve’s husband on Wednesday. In the other accident, a 65-year-old motorcyclist lost his life because of the negligence of a truck driver on Chakan-Shikrapur Road on Monday night. “The driver had parked the truck along the Chakan-Shikrapur Road without keeping its parking indicators on. The victim, Dattatreya More of Khed taluka, did not notice the truck in the dark and crashed into the rear portion of the heavy vehicle. He succumbed to head injuries,” an officer from the Chakan police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-killed-in-separate-road-accidents/articleshow/77793422.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid test report, spreadsheet entry must for inter-state daily commuters||MANGALURU: After the Kerala high court ordered the state government to open inter-state borders with Dakshina Kannada, the Kasaragod district administration has withdrawn its rule that mandates regular passes for daily commuters. However, the Kasaragod administration has refused to lift the mandate regarding compulsory Covid-19 test report and online registration for daily commuters. All daily commuters will have to produce a Covid-19 negative test report and enter details on a Google Sheets spreadsheet during entry and exit every day. Kasaragod district collector D Sajith Babu said a decision to withdraw regular pass system for daily commuters travelling to Karnataka was taken at a district level core committee meeting. “Commuters must undergo antigen test and register on the Covid-19 Jagratha portal by submitting the Covid-19 negative report. A test centre will be opened at Talapady. All travellers must make an entry in the spreadsheet during their exit and entry into Kerala every day,” the DC said. As per the high court order, the Kasaragod district administration have also opened other borders at Perla, Jalsoor, Manimoole and Panathur. A negative report on the antigen test and making an entry on the Covid-19 Jagratha portal are mandatory on theses routes too. Meanwhile, residents of border villages may enter Kerala without restrictions, he said. However, opposition parties including the BJP in Kasaragod have opposed the decision, pointing out that the Kasaragod district administration has not made any changes to the conditions they stipulated regarding restrictions, even after the high court order. “The Kasaragod district administration has said that regular pass is not required for daily commuters to travel between Kasaragod and Dakshina Kannada, but there are no changes in the conditions. They have not addressed the problems of the commuters. Restrictions like a negative report on the antigen test and registration are still mandatory. They also said the test will be conducted for free, but it is only for BPL families. The Kasaragod District Disaster Management Committee has no idea about the real problems facing the people. The Kerala government should withdraw all restrictions at its borders,” said BJP Kasaragod district president K Shreekanth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-test-report-spreadsheet-entry-must-for-inter-state-daily-commuters/articleshow/77790556.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Wild animal, suspected to be a leopard, kills calf near ORR||Hyderabad: A wild animal, suspected to be a leopard, killed a calf behind Water and Land Management Training and Research Institute (WALAMTARI) in Rajendra Nagar mandal near Outer Ring Road on Wednesday morning. The incident came to light when the cattle owner found the dead calf near his cattle shed and informed the police. According to the police, the calf was kept in a cattle-shed on a private land behind WALAMTARI. The Rajendranagar police, who rushed to the spot, also alerted the forest department, after which a team of forest officials reached the spot in the morning. Shamshabad forest range officer Shyam Kumar said, “We examined the area after receiving information about the kill and found the carcass which was partially eaten by the animal. The animal killed the calf and had started eating it from behind. It looks like a leopard kill but we did not find any evidence such as pug marks, scat or eye-witnesses to prove the same,” said Kumar. To collect evidence of the leopard’s presence, forest officials set up ten camera traps, a trap cage with bait to lure the animal into it in case it comes back to the area to feed on the carcass of the calf. . Shivaiah, forest divisional officer, Rangareddy, said their teams were trying to identify the animal that attacked the calf. “Our team visited the spot and set up camera traps after being alerted by the police. We are monitoring the area and spoke to the locals to create awareness,” said Shivaiah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wild-animal-suspected-to-be-a-leopard-kills-calf-near-orr/articleshow/77793483.cms||Moulika.KV
August 28, 2020||Goa||Goa govt may challenge NGT order on private forests||Panaji: The state government is considering challenging the National Green Tribunal (NGT) order directing it to notify an area of 46.11sqkm as private forest. The forest department has sent a file to advocate general Devidas Pangam for his “opinion”. “We have not taken any decision in the matter, but may consider it,” Pangam told TOI. He said that the state is not affected much by the NGT order, but still will consider what is to be done. “NGT has basically accepted the criteria adopted by us to identify private forest and that is very good for the state,” Pangam said. After an exercise spanning 23 years for identifying private forest in Goa by four different government committees, the NGT observed that “41.20sqkm area demarcated by forest department and 4.91sqkm identified by the Sharma Committee totalling 46.11sqkm is confirmed and accepted as private forest.” Confirming the Sharma Committee report, the NGT judicial member Sheo Kumar Singh and expert member Satyawan Singh Garbyal observed that it was constituted in accordance with the tribunal’s direction and included senior forest officials. The D’Souza Committee was constituted by the government after rejecting the Sharma Committee report in July 2019. This fourth committee reduced 1.04sqkm of private forest from the area identified by the Sharma Committee on June 21, 2019. In 1997, the state government appointed Sawant Committee to identify the area as per the Supreme Court directives. The Sawant Committee identified 46.60sqkm as private forest, but the government appointed one more Karapurkar Committee as it felt that more areas could be identified. The Karapurkar Committee identified an additional area of 20.52sqkm in 2002 taking the total area to 67.12sqkm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-govt-may-challenge-ngt-order-on-private-forests/articleshow/77793475.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Nashik||‘Avoid crowding at immersion sites’||Nashik: The District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has appealed to the citizens to refrain from gathering near the immersion sites and immerse the idols of Lord Ganesha at home if possible. District collector of Nashik Suraj Mandhare said the local self governing bodies have been asked to prepare artificial ponds for immersion of idols. “If the idols are made of clay, people should try immersing the idols in their household. However, if that is not possible, people can help the local civic bodies in safely immersing the idols without crowding at the immersion points.” Resident deputy collector Bhagwat Doifode, who is also the chief officer of DDMA, said people would not be allowed to gather in large numbers at the immersion sites or even the public places. “Citizens should perform all the rituals before going to the immersion site so that they take as less time as possible to immerse the idols and clear the area to make way for the next set of people,” said Doifode. The authorities also have appealed to the people to donate the idols at various centres that will be raised by the local civic bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/avoid-crowding-at-immersion-sites/articleshow/77790605.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 28, 2020||Goa||Didn’t join BJP for Ponda chairman post: Ritesh||Ponda: Ponda MLA Ravi Naik’s son Ritesh Naik dismissed rumours that he was lured into BJP with the promise of the top position at the Ponda Municipal Council. On Thursday, he proposed the name of sitting vice-chairperson Vishwanath Dalvi for the post of chairperson. PMC councillor Ritesh along with his brother Roy and two other councillors, Anand Naik and William Aguiar had joined BJP in the first week of August. Ritesh, who is under house quarantine after testing positive for Covid-19, said there was no promise of any post to join BJP. “Dalvi’s name was decided by all eight councillors backed by BJP, and I personally have proposed his name on the nomination paper,” he told TOI. PMC chief officer Kedar Naik said he has received only one nomination for the post and the formal election will be done in a special meeting of the council on Friday. The post has been vacant after outgoing chairperson Venkatesh Naik tendered his resignation on August 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/didnt-join-bjp-for-ponda-chairman-post-ritesh/articleshow/77793468.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Two escapees were set to be released soon||Hyderabad: Two of the four prisoners who had escaped from the Gandhi Hospital had completed their treatment for personality disorders at the mental health hospital in Erragadda and would have been released soon. The health of these two had improved substantially during treatment at the Erragadda hospital. “Both of them were under treatment for more than a month and were psychologically stable,” said Dr M Umashankar, superintendent Institute for Mental Health Erragadda. “They had improved and were to be assessed by the discharge committee. In the meantime, we started screening patients at our hospital as occasionally we were getting one or two positive cases. The two patients were among 10 other patients in the Criminal Ward to have tested positive and were shifted to Gandhi hospital.” The 10 patients were shifted to the prison ward at Gandhi hospital. While the Gandhi hospital has a psychiatric department, two doctors from the Erragadda hospital were deputed to Gandhi hospital for attending to the patients according to the official. One of the two patients had reportedly swallowed a bulb while in prison. When asked about the illness these patients were suffering from, the superintendent said, “Usually these patients are referred from the prison for personality disorders and are very impulsive. They get into fights with other prisoners, suddenly break things or eat something too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-escapees-were-set-to-be-released-soon/articleshow/77791922.cms||Amrita Didyala
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||CBI books AP-based firm for Rs 51-crore bank fraud||HYDERABAD: The Central Bureau of Investigation has registered an FIR against Sri Krishna Agri Process India Limited in connection with a Rs 51-crore bank fraud. CBI charged the AP-based firm and its directors with taking loans from IDBI Bank and fraudulently diverting the funds. The charges were framed under criminal conspiracy, cheating and forgery sections of Prevention of Corruption Act against firm’s directors — Thota Kanna Rao, Thota Venkata Ramana and Thota Surendra — along with the company and unidentified official servants. CBI said in the FIR that involvement of some public servants and unknown private persons is also suspected in the case, which would be probed. The investigation agency filed the FIR based on a complaint from IDBI Bank, Chapel Road branch, Hyderabad. CBI said the accused placed 21 properties worth Rs 19.5 crore as collateral security for obtaining the loan. Over a period of time, Sri Krishna firm availed Rs 51 crore from IDBI Bank in a fraudulent manner by submitting fake audited balance sheets and stock statements. “The accused had diverted the money for other purposes and caused wrongful loss to the bank,” it said. The bank had auctioned two properties worth Rs 3.4 crore, but the debt recovery tribunal (DRT) has not issued a sale certificate to the successful buyer. A forensic audit of the account found several irregularities, including diversion of money, manipulation of balance sheets and fraudulent accounting, it said. In July 2017, Sri Krishna’s account has been declared as a non-performing asset by the bank. The accused — members of the same family — floated Sri Krishna Traders in 1999 and obtained credit facility of Rs 5 crore in 2008. The credit limit was increased to Rs 10 crore in 2009. The accused converted the proprietorship into a partnership firm and then into a private limited company by merging trading business with Lakshminarayana Traders and Kanna Rao Hindu undivided family firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbi-books-agri-firm-for-rs-51cr-bank-fraud/articleshow/77791926.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 28, 2020||Pune||Improvement tests by Savitribai Phule Pune University interest less than 4% pupils||PUNE: Only 4% students of the non-final year even semester, who were promoted to the next class, have applied for class-improvement facility made available by Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). As many as 4.36 lakh students were in their non-final even semester in various undergraduate, post-graduate and other courses in the university of which about 16,500 students have applied for the class improvement programme that gives them an opportunity to appear for a minimum one theory exam or maximum of all theory examinations in a course to improve their performance in the respective subjects, Mahesh Kakade, director board of examination and evaluation at SPPU, said. Kakade said the low percentage of students applying for class improvement shows that students have approved the formula employed by the university for calculating the semester marks without conducting the examination. “These students will appear for examinations along with the students who have backlogs. The examinations would be held as and when the situation normalises. We would take permission from the collector or relevant authority before going ahead with this examination. We would notify the students about the examination, at least a month in advance so that they are not caught by surprise and have enough time to prepare,” Kakade added. After widespread protests from students against conducting term-end examinations, the university had decided to promote all even semester students using a formula. Meanwhile, the fate of final semester students is still not clear, as the matter is pending in the apex court. Students who were given marks as per the formula decided by SPPU instead of taking an examination during the summer term were told to apply for performance improvement facility if they were not satisfied with the marks obtained. The marks which these students obtain in the performance improvement examination would be considered their final marks. These students would not be given the mark sheet along with other students, but after the results of performance improvement examination are declared. This would not be considered a special examination, the examination department circular on August 8 said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/improvement-tests-interest-less-than-4-students-in-sppu-colleges/articleshow/77793470.cms||Ardhra Nair
August 28, 2020||Pune||Four masked men strike at 3 shops in Hinjewadi, flee with valuables worth Rs 3.7 lakh||PUNE: A gang of four masked men broke into two shops and the office of a real estate firm, and made off with valuables worth Rs3.7 lakh early on Wednesday. Bagdaram Purohit (27), the owner of a cellphone handset shop, lodged an FIR with the Hinjewadi police. Assistant inspector Sagar Kate of the Hinjewadi police said, “The suspects broke into a gift and grocery shop on Marunji Road around 1.40am and stole products worth Rs50,000.” Shortly after, at 1.45am, the same suspects entered a real estate firm’s office by breaking the grille on the bathroom window. “They stole nine cellphones, four laptops, an LCD screen and silver coins, collectively worth Rs2.4 lakh,” Kate said. Around 3.15am, the gang entered Purohit’s mobile store by breaking the locks on the shutter and stole smartphones worth Rs81,500, police said. The police have obtained CCTV footage from all three spots. “The footage is not clear but we could make out that there were around four persons, all masked,” Kate said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-masked-men-strike-at-3-shops-in-hinjewadi-flee-with-valuables-worth-rs3-7-lakh/articleshow/77793435.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Goa||Taps to all homes this year: Sawant||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant has informed the Centre that the state government is committed to providing regular drinking water and 100% tap connections to all households this year. Sawant held a video conference meeting with Union minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and minister for state (Jal Shakti) Rattan Lal Kataria on Thursday. He said that under the ‘Har Ghar Jal’ scheme, Goa is presently at the second position, trailing Telangana.  “We have completed 89% of the work, and we will achieve 100% target under the scheme. Over 5,500 houses in both districts will be connected with tap water under the scheme,” the chief minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/taps-to-all-homes-this-year-sawant/articleshow/77793480.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Goa||Youth drowns near waterfall||Bicholim: Bhalchandra Patil, 24, a resident of Old Goa, drowned in the river near Arvalem waterfall, in Bicholim taluka, on Thursday afternoon. His body was later fished out by personnel of the Bicholim fire station. Patil visited the Arvalem waterfall area with three of his friends, when they decided to take a swim in the river. When his friends noticed him struggling, they raised an alarm. However, Patil drowned before help arrived. A team from the Bicholim fire stationrushed to the site and traced the body after a search operation of two hours. Bicholim PSI Prajit Mandrekar is investigating the matter. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/youth-drowns-near-waterfall/articleshow/77793486.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Goa||‘Crumbling’ water tank worries locals||Vasco: An overhead tank in ward 22 at New Vaddem has become a matter of concern as residents in the area allege that pieces of the tank’s slab have begun falling onto the roofs of their houses. They also claim that the tank, water from which is consumed by at least 5,000 people, has not been cleaned in the recent past. “Even the PWD will not know when the tank was last cleaned,” ward councillor Rajan Faldessai said. Rizwan Khan, a local, said there are about 25-30 houses located just beneath the tank. “Pieces of the slab and poles have been falling on their tiled roofs and damaging them. People are now living in fear,” he said. Assistant engineer of the PWD’s water section Eknath Paste, said his team would inspect the tank and assess its condition. “It is about 15-20 years old and has a capacity of 30 cubic metres. It supplies water to areas like Housing Board colony, Rashtroli temple area and Shantinagar,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/crumbling-water-tank-worries-locals/articleshow/77793503.cms||Ruvina Khan
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||School bldg roof collapses, heritage experts cry foul||Hyderabad: The roof of a government boy’s school, built in 1866 in Sultan Bazaar, Koti, collapsed overnight on Wednesday. There were no injuries reported but heritage experts said the damage was a dent in their efforts towards protecting heritage structures. Calling it an ‘assisted collapse’, Anuradha Reddy, convenor, Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), Hyderabad, slammed authorities for not having acted sooner to protect the structure. “On a visit to the school a year ago, we had warned the civic body to ensure the structure is maintained. The collapse is a result of pure neglect.” She said the rains over the past month may have added to the damage. Located near the Sultan Bazaar clock tower, the quaint school was earlier referred to as Chudderghat Anglo-Vernacular School. A plaque placed at the school says it was erected by “private subscription, AD 1866”. While it was constructed on land allotted by the Nizam, the plaque bears testimony to effort made by the Marwadi community in the area to pool in money and set up the school. The school falls under the Goshamahal assembly constituency of MLA Raja Singh. Addressing the media, he said: “We have been asking authorities to help protect the building. Luckily schools are closed and there were no children at the time of the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/school-bldg-roof-collapses-heritage-experts-cry-foul/articleshow/77791943.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Hubballi||US-based NRI chips in with Rs 10 lakh to treat patients in Dharwad||DHARWAD: The District Civil Hospital in Dharwad received a shot in the arm in its fight against Covid-19 with an NRI in the US donating Rs 10 lakh to increase the number of beds in the ICU unit to treat critical virus-infected patients. With his donation, New York-based Ravishankar Bhooplapur, president, Xavier University School of Medicine, Aruba, has inspired local organisations to loosen purse strings. Bhooplapur said, “I grew up in Dharwad and it’s my responsibility to do something for my home town. As soon as I learnt the civil hospital is facing a shortage of beds in ICU with ventilators to treat Covid patients, I have decided to contribute what I could. My wife Jaya has supported my stand.” Bhooplapur said he immediately called his friends at the Rotary Club in Dharwad and told them of his intention to make a donation. “My friends appreciated my gesture and they also decided to contribute funds for ICU infrastructure. I am thrilled that they joined me,” he said. Kiran Hiremath, and Dr Kavan Deshpande of Dharwad Rotary Club Central said they have also raised funds through Rotary Foundation, KVG Bank, and others. “Including Bhooplapur’s contribution, we have collected Rs 32.3 lakh for a special five-bed Covid ward at the hospital,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/us-based-nri-chips-in-with-rs-10-lakh-to-treat-patients-in-dharwad/articleshow/77796543.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
August 28, 2020||Bengaluru||US-based NRI chips in with Rs 10 lakh to treat patients in Dharwad||DHARWAD: The District Civil Hospital in Dharwad received a shot in the arm in its fight against Covid-19 with an NRI in the US donating Rs 10 lakh to increase the number of beds in the ICU unit to treat critical virus-infected patients. With his donation, New York-based Ravishankar Bhooplapur, president, Xavier University School of Medicine, Aruba, has inspired local organisations to loosen purse strings. Bhooplapur said, “I grew up in Dharwad and it’s my responsibility to do something for my home town. As soon as I learnt the civil hospital is facing a shortage of beds in ICU with ventilators to treat Covid patients, I have decided to contribute what I could. My wife Jaya has supported my stand.” Bhooplapur said he immediately called his friends at the Rotary Club in Dharwad and told them of his intention to make a donation. “My friends appreciated my gesture and they also decided to contribute funds for ICU infrastructure. I am thrilled that they joined me,” he said. Kiran Hiremath, and Dr Kavan Deshpande of Dharwad Rotary Club Central said they have also raised funds through Rotary Foundation, KVG Bank, and others. “Including Bhooplapur’s contribution, we have collected Rs 32.3 lakh for a special five-bed Covid ward at the hospital,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/us-based-nri-chips-in-with-rs-10-lakh-to-treat-patients-in-dharwad/articleshow/77791113.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
August 28, 2020||Pune||NEET aspirants can revise for retention, solve papers||By: Arun Jain With the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Undergraduate) just around the corner, the aspirants would be in the process of doing everything they can to better their scores. Keeping this in mind, I have devised a strategy for their sake — underscoring the significant focus areas for the aspirants to pursue in the remaining 15-20 days. Syllabus coverage plan The entire syllabus should be covered by September 9 in a calibrated manner. The aspirants should distribute the available study hours equally among subjects, further distribute it into chapters as per their difficulty level and volume. That way, the aspirants can prepare a time-based study plan, which is very important for the last time comprehensive revision of the syllabus. In terms of the daily schedule, the aspirants should touch upon every subject each day to achieve high retention. They should get habitual of test exam conditions and must attempt mock test papers or previous year papers within the prescribed time limit every alternate day. The aspirants should understand that attempting practice and previous year papers is very important to plan the distribution of time across different subjects. Even if the aspirants are not well-versed with the entire syllabus, they should attempt papers so as to get acquainted with questions on the unfamiliar topics. Moreover, they should also attempt one hour on analysis of each of the attempted paper, like topics of the attempted or wrong question, to stay prepared better henceforth. They should devote an hour per day to learn various important points. Their daily routine should be synchronized according to the day of the exam. Test paper solving strategy It is advisable to complete test papers in two rounds. In round -1, it should be done without filling OMR and the answers should be marked on the test papers only. The aspirants should attempt only those questions they are confident they know answers of, to avoid negative marking. After round-1, the aspirants should fill their OMR sheet very carefully, and avoid any mistake while marking your responses. After getting versed with the process followed previously, in round -2, the aspirants should fill OMR simultaneously, after solving each question to avoid last moment pressure. Subject planning For Physics, the majority of the questions are numerical, so after reading concepts & theory, learn all the formulas from one particular chapter first. Then, the aspirants should attempt previous year questions asked in NEET/AIPMT from that chapter. They should take care of units of quantities while solving numerical. Some questions can be solved directly by using dimensions, that the aspirants can analyse from options of the given question. In terms of ease of revision, the easiest portion is Modern Physics and should be covered first. The most time-efficient portion is heat & thermodynamics, and the biggest portion is electrodynamics. Aspirants should plan their sequence accordingly to score. For Chemistry, particularly physical chemistry, the aspirant’s focus should be equilibrium, thermodynamics, solution and electro-chemistry. In organic chemistry, focus on GOC, aldehyde and ketone. Focus on chemical bonding, coordination compounds, P and D block in inorganic chemistry. For Biology, the majority of questions are usually from NCERT, so that should be thoroughly prepared. Some tricky questions may be asked in topics like human reproduction, chemical coordination, neural control, evolution and biotechnology, genetics, plant physiology etc. In recent years, we have observed some questions being asked from topics like cell biology, ecology etc. Psychological preparationsThe aspirants must realize that they cannot be 100% prepared for any exam, so they should remain composed and calm. They should focus on positive thoughts to stay motivated. I would advise every aspirant to be in touch with their mentor for guidance and motivation. They should close their books at least a day before the exam to stabilize their mindset. Most importantly, give yourself a break. Try to get the best out of the assigned time to the chapter, don’t puzzle yourself with a vast portion of the syllabus. (The writer is the academic head of ALLEN Career Institute, Pune)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/last-minute-tips-and-tricks-to-score-better-in-neet-ug/articleshow/77793481.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Ex-TSPA chief gets offer from Punjab||Hyderabad: Senior IPS officer VK Singh, who had resigned from the post of director of Telangana State Police Academy (TSPA) in June, has been offered the post of government advisor on prison reform by the Punjab government. However, the officer is undecided on accepting the offer. Due to several instances of drug addiction and indiscipline among prisoners and prison-breaks being reported from Punjab, VK Singh was invited by the Punjab government a couple of months ago for a meeting on modernisation and security of prisons. Singh had earlier held the post of DG (prisons) for five years and had introduced several reforms. “The Punjab CM wanted me to act as an advisor to the government on prison reforms and it is an honour. However, I have not decided anything yet,” Singh told TOI. Asked if he intends to take up the offer, he said, “Yes, but not as a full-time advisor. I intend to refuse any monthly salary.” The IPS officer has worked for 33 years in Telangana and intends to continue his service in the state. “...For now, the Punjab government is yet to prepare the draft of terms and conditions. But due to the pandemic, everything has taken a backseat,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ex-tspa-chief-gets-offer-from-punjab/articleshow/77791960.cms||Aditi Mallick
August 28, 2020||Nagpur||Even after two cases, honeytrap mastermind remains free||Nagpur: Rajat Thakur, the alleged mastermind in at least two cases of honey-trapping, has managed to remain out of police dragnet even after second offence being registered against him this week for allegedly trying to extort Rs 8 lakh from a private pharmaceutical firm executive. Thakur was booked along with accomplice Rhea Rahangdale and three others by MIDC police following complaint of the pharma executive this week. He and Rahangdale were earlier booked by Sonegaon police for having extorted Rs 20,000 from son of a retired assistant commissioner of police. In both the cases, Thakur has remained free. Rahangdale was arrested by Sonegaon police but for reasons best known to them Thakur was not. Zonal DCP Vivek Masaal said instructions have been issued by him to get Thakur’s earlier bonds cancelled and bails challenged for violation of the conditions. “The offences of Sonegaon and MIDC were registered with the initiative of police. Thakur could not be arrested in the past but he will not be able to flee now for long,” he said. Masaal also said he was getting the call detail record of Thakur after being told by TOI about his close connection with the cops. Sources said Thakur was close to several cops from Social Service Branch (SSB). It is also learnt that Thakur was booked in a case for extorting money claiming to be on behalf of some cops from SSB last year at Sitabuldi police station. He had slipped away from the police station but later nabbed by the State Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). Thakur was shielded by Wadi police last year after senior officers refused to entertain a complaint against Thakur for having allegedly stolen DVR at a place at Kachimet where SSB had conducted a raid. Wadi police had even refused investigation into the complaint against Thakur despite CCTV footage being provided. The complainant was not entertained even as two cops from SSB were caught by the ACB for malpractices. DVR too had serious evidence against SSB cops, it is learnt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/even-after-two-cases-honeytrap-mastermind-remains-free/articleshow/77793573.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||In Cantt, portion of dilapidated 57-yr-old school’s roof caves in||Secunderabad: A portion of the roof of a 57-year-old building, which housed the Centenary Government Primary English medium school for boys, caved in at Tivoli junction in Secunderabad Cantonment on Thursday. Close to 300 students are enrolled in the school, which has been shut since March. The incident came to light after a few teachers visited the school at around 9 am on Thursday to attend training for online classes, which begins on September 1. Teachers were shocked to see that the rooftop had collapsed and returned home. According to a local resident, M Raju, the school building is in dilapidated condition and only minor repairs were made to the structure. “At around 7 am, I found that the roof of a big hall of the school had collapsed. The school is shut or else students and teachers may have been harmed,” Raju, who painted the school many times, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-cantt-portion-of-dilapidated-57-yr-old-schools-roof-caves-in/articleshow/77791951.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Nearly 50% Covid-19 patients in Bengaluru chose home isolation to hospital||BENGALURU: Almost one out of every two Covid-19 patients in Bengaluru Urban chose to stay in home isolation rather than get admitted to designated hospitals or Covid Care Centres (CCC), suggesting panic and fear over contracting the virus appears to have decreased drastically. From July 1, data accessed shows just under 44% (43.9%) patients opted to stay in home isolation. The capital city currently has approximately 36,000 active cases. However, as on Thursday, of 16,348 beds available in designated hospitals and CCCs, only 7,481 were filled while 3,679 patients were being treated in private hospitals. As many as 15,480 patients were in home isolation as per data shared by BBMP’s War Room, a pointer to the fact that many Covid-19 patients preferred the option. War Room officials attribute this to a number of reasons some of which are that they are mostly asymptomatic or have mild symptoms, have facilities to isolate at home, were not scared of the virus and feared hefty hospitals bills. Shyamsundar S, a home isolation volunteer in Kumaraswamy Layout, claimed citizens have come to understand that the virus is not lethal provided it is identified in the early stages of infections. Patients prefer home isolation as they are wary of pathetic conditions in government facilities and hefty bills in private facilities, he added. “Earlier, neighbours would stigmatize Covid patients and treat them as if they have committed a heinous crime, but now we find many of them helping out positive people. The awareness is much higher than before,” Shyamsundar said. Aishwarya K, an employee of a private firm who traveled from Delhi two months ago, tested positive on arrival. She said she was given a choice to isolate at home or could go to the CCC at GKVK. “I chose to stay at home as my mother was there to help me and I was not in a position to afford private hospital bills,” said Aishwarya. “I think the stigma over contracting the disease was still there at that time as my house was barricaded and some of the residents around refused to even interact with us even after my isolation period ended. But now, in the lane I live, another person has tested positive and is in home isolation. But people’s perception has changed.” Speaking to TOI, Randeep D, special commissioner, BBMP, said in the first few months when the pandemic hit, many people panicked over contracting the infection, but now they are more aware of the disease and what they need to do once are infected. “Some people who do not want to infect other members of their family — especially if there are children or aged people at home — opt to go to a private or government hospital or a Covid Care Centre,” Randeep said. “Others prefer to choose home isolation especially if they have someone to assist them during the isolation period. Most patients who choose to recover at home, are all asymptomatic,” he added. chennai Move to retain e-pass is well thought out: Tamil Nadu CM https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chennai/move-to-retain-e-pass-is-well-thought-out-tamil-nadu-cm/articleshow/77795134.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/nearly-50-patients-in-bluru-chose-home-isolation-to-ccc-or-hospital/articleshow/77791131.cms||Kiran Parashar
August 28, 2020||Lucknow||Chitrakoot, Shravasti, Bareilly to be on aviation map soon||LUCKNOW: You will soon be able to fly from Kanpur (Chakeri) to Moradabad, Aligarh, Chitrakoot, Shravasti and back. The ministry of civil aviation has approved 78 new routes under the fourth round of regional connectivity scheme 'Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik' (UDAN). The aim is to enhance connectivity to remote and regional areas of the country. Uttar Pradesh has got 18 new routes under the scheme. Apart from the flights from Kanpur, operations will also begin from Chitrakoot to Prayagraj and Varanasi and back. People will also be able to fly from Shravasti to Varanasi and Prayagraj and back. There will also be a return flight between Bareilly and Delhi. Joint secretary in the Union ministry of civil aviation, Usha Padhee said, “Following the three successful rounds of bidding, the ministry of civil aviation had launched the 4th round of UDAN in December 2019 with focus on northeastern regions, hilly states, and islands. The awarding of these 78 routes under UDAN 4 is in line with the Act East Policy of the central government. The airports that had already been developed by AAI are given higher priority for the award of viability gap funding (VGF) under the scheme. Under UDAN 4, the operation of helicopter and seaplanes has also been incorporated.” Overall, 766 routes have been sanctioned so far under the UDAN scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/chitrakoot-shravasti-bareilly-to-be-on-aviation-map-soon/articleshow/77794296.cms||Rashi Lal
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Nine hurt as mob attacks Covid patients’ kin in Telangana's Khammam||HYDERABAD: Over 100 people armed with sticks attacked extended families of some Covid positive patients in Narsimhapuram in Khammam district on Thursday. Nine people, including four women, suffered bleeding injuries on their heads and limbs in the attack. The injured were taken to Chintakani primary healthcare centre for treatment. The situation in the village continues to be tense. On August 17, five members of a family in Narsimhapuram of Chintakani mandal tested positive for Covid. The family was under home isolation. “People of the village became abusive towards us. They used filthy language and discriminated us. We, however, did not do anything to retaliate,” a family member, who tested positive for Covid, told TOI. He works in the HR wing of a multinational company at Shamshabad and had gone home due to the Covid situation. There are 10 families of the extended family of the MNC employee in the locality. As they were not afflicted by the virus, they went about doing their daily chores, but other villagers took objection to their moving around in the locality. Around 5pm on Thursday, the villagers armed with sticks rushed into their houses, pulled out the families and beat them up. The MNC employee’s brother suffered head injuries and received nine stitches on being taken to the hospital. Two others also suffered head injuries. Police, who were informed about the incident, went to the village. The affected families have also lodged a complaint with police. After completing their home isolation, they would again go for a test after three days, but the villagers have reportedly warned the families against venturing out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/9-hurt-as-mob-attacks-covid-patients-kin-in-khammam/articleshow/77793579.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 28, 2020||Pune||At home immersion of idols a big hit||PUNE: Devotees continued to prefer immersing Ganesh idols at home rather than at public places on Thursday. On the fifth day of the festival many household idols were immersed along with idols of goddess Gauri. On Thursday, only 1,877 idols were immersed at public places. Last year, around 25,976 idols were immersed at public immersion points along the river banks on the fifth day. Even on the second day, fewer than 10% idols were immersed at public places. According to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) data, until Thursday late evening, 191 collection centres were establishedacross the municipal areas. Citizens could hand over idols at these centres instead of immersing them and 926 idols were collected here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/at-home-immersion-of-idols-a-big-hit/articleshow/77793540.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Hyderabad||2 die as bike hits road divider||Hyderabad: Two persons died after the bike on which they were travelling hit a road divider at Durganagar crossroads in Mailardevpally. Police said that the deceased were friends and the bike rider was speeding and hit the divider while trying to negotiate a turn, which led to the accident. The deceased, Mohammed Sajid (28) and Kaja Nizamuddin (30), were residents of Bandlaguda and the accident occurred when they were returning home from Aramghar. The police on Thursday released the CCTV footage that was captured at Durganagar crossroads.Police said that the impact of the accident was such that both deceased flung into the air.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-die-as-bike-hits-road-divider/articleshow/77791964.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Pune||HR professional falls for overseas job bait, loses Rs 5.11 lakh in Pune||PUNE: A HR professional, who posted her resume on an online portal for an overseas job, was duped of Rs 5.11 lakh in June this year by a telecaller who promised her a job in a construction company in Australia. Based on the IP address, police traced the call to West Bengal but have not been able to identify the caller yet. Inspector Ajay Waghmare of Yerawada police told TOI “The woman works as a HR manager with a prominent IT company. She waited for a month after receiving the call and then approached us on realising that she had been cheated.” Waghmare said, “About eight months ago, she uploaded her resume on a job portal, seeking overseas opportunities. She started receiving calls from companies in Pune and from other cities.” He said, “One day, she received a call from an international number. The caller claimed that a construction company in Australia was looking for HR professionals. Following initial talks, he told her to appear for an online interview. After the interview, the man informed her that she has been selected for the post. He later shared a few bank account numbers with her and informed her that the accounts are with Indian banks.” She also received emails from the ‘company’ asking her to deposit money into the accounts towards insurance fees, processing charges, medical fees, travel visa fees, stay charges, job taxes and others, Waghmare said. “On receipt of the money, the caller asked her to visit company’s office in Mumbai. Last month, the woman visited the mentioned address, but did not find any office there. She then realised that she had been cheated,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hr-professional-falls-for-overseas-job-bait-loses-rs5-11l/articleshow/77793523.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Jamshedpur||With biggest 1-day spike, Jharkhand’s caseload set to cross 35k-mark||RANCHI: Exactly 150 days after the Covid-19 outbreak started in the state, Jharkhand recorded 15 casualties (including five on Wednesday night) and the single biggest one-day spike of 1,365 new infections in 24 hours until 10pm on Thursday. With 630 persons recovering, the state’s cumulative caseload stood at 34,676, of which 11,180 are active, 23,119 and 377 have died. East Singhbum continued to report the highest figure with seven casualties, followed by Ramgarh with two and Bokaro, Chatra, Koderma, Lohardaga, Latehar and Dhanbad with one each. State capital Ranchi reported a massive spike in new cases with 328 fresh infections, followed by East Singhbhum with 163. Rural districts also record high numbers with Garhwa, which has seen a surge in the last two days, again detecting 109 fresh infections, followed by Ramgarh (96), Sahebganj (88) and Koderma with 80 fresh infections. The positivity rate in the state, which had fallen to a 2.78% on Wednesday due to the high number of tests, rose to 5.43% of 25,123 samples testing positive. “The spike confirms that Jharkhand is yet to reach the peak of the infection. We need to be very careful and follow all preventive measures to contain the spread,” a senior health department official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/with-biggest-1-day-spike-jharkhands-caseload-set-to-cross-35k-mark/articleshow/77801417.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 28, 2020||Ranchi||Govt loses count as migrant exodus gathers pace||Ranchi: The state government has, till now, failed to develop a mechanism to track and record the outward movement of migrants. When migrants from other parts of the country were returning to their home state Jharkhand in Shramik Specials, among others, in May, Chief Minister Hemant Soren had declared that all outgoing workers would have to register themselves with the local authorities so that they can keep a tab on them and extend help in times of need. But the state’s labour department has failed to make any concrete provisions in this regard. With train services remaining suspended, Ranchi’s Birsa Munda International Airport is witnessing a surge in the count of migrant passengers who are flying out to the big cities. In most cases, their fares are being sponsored by their employees who are desperate to woo them back. Roughly, at least 200-400 migrants are flying out of Ranchi airport on a daily basis, said airport sources. Many are also returning by road. Talking to TOI, Jharkhand’s additional labour commissioner S S Pathak said that a full-fledged mechanism to register migrants is yet to be devised at the state-level. He said, “Work on developing a website for migrant registration is on. For the time being, we have directed all the districts to keep a tab and asked those who are leaving Jharkhand to take migrant certificates from either the panchayat, local block offices or district office. But many aren’t doing it.” He added, “We, however, have proper records of those who were sent by the state government. For example, we had sent hundreds of labourers for Border Road Organisation projects by formally signing a memorandum of understanding to ensure the well-being of our workers.” Social activists, however, asked the government to be more pro-active. Jamesh Herenj, a social worker-cum-noted MNREGA activist, said that migrants going back in search of work was expected as the state government failed to provide sufficient jobs to people who had returned. “You can’t stop people from going outside for work when there aren’t enough jobs. But it will be very unfortunate if the state government continues to remain ignorant about those who are going out. Without a tracking mechanism, labourers from our state will continue to get fleeced and exploited in big cities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/govt-loses-count-as-migrant-exodus-gathers-pace/articleshow/77793487.cms||ASRP Mukesh
August 28, 2020||Ranchi||Aspirants to wear masks, gloves; those with fever will write paper in isolation room||RANCHI: Even though chief minister Hemant Soren urged Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal to defer the NEET and JEE exams, the district administrations in Ranchi, Bokaro Dhanbad, Jamshedpur and Hazaribag are preparing their respective test centres in accordance with the guidelines issued by the National Testing Agency (NTA) to hold the exams from September 1 to 13. Ranchi DC Chhavi Ranjan said, “We have received an advisory from the National Testing Agency, asking us to ensure social distancing, sanitisation and crowd management protocols at all the test centres.” As many as 25 centres in Ranchi, nine in Bokaro and two each in Dhanbad and Jamshedpur will hold the exams next month. The number of test centres in Hazaribag was not available till the time this report was filed. According to the NTA advisory, all candidates will be thermally scanned before entering the examination hall and those with a high temperature (above 37.2 degree Celsius) will take the exam in an isolation room. The entire examination process has been divided into three parts — pre-examination control/measures, conduct and control during examination and post examination measures. Under the pre-examination measures, the advisory states that the placement seats must follow the social distancing norms and the staff must be trained on social distancing and sanitization norms and on inventory management. The conduct and control measures during examination include hygiene and implementation of social distancing norms and ensuring that everyone wears a mask and gloves at the examination centres. The post examination measures include the safe disposal of masks, gloves and other protective kits in a pedal push bin that must be placed outside the examination centres. The advisory has also asked all the centres to avoid overcrowding at all the entry and exit points and to maintain a separate register with contact details of all the other staff, including housekeeping and security guards, in a digital format that has been provided by the NTA to all the centre superintendents. The district authorities have asked the centre coordinators to make all the necessary arrangements as per the NTA advisory. The five district administrations are going to hold meetings in the next two days to finalise the modalities before holding the exam. Dhanbad DC Uma Shankar Singh said, “We are going to hold a meeting with the police and the civil administration for conducting the exam smoothly.” In Bokaro, a meeting had been convened by DC Rajesh Kumar Singh on Thursday to finalise the preparations. Chas SDO Shashi Prakash Singh, “The DC had called a meeting where we chalked out all the necessary arrangements for holding the exams.” Meanwhile, with public transport facilities not available and hotels shut, JEE aspirant from Garhwa, Harsh Tiwary, wonders how he can make it to his test centre in Ranchi. “Even if I hire a car to go to Ranchi, I do not have a place to stay there. If the state government isn’t going to open hotels and resume transportation facilities, how are aspirants going to appear for the exam,” Harsh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/aspirants-to-wear-masks-gloves-those-with-fever-will-write-paper-in-isolation-room/articleshow/77793899.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 28, 2020||Ranchi||Hemant asks Union edu min to defer NEET, JEE||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday evening urged Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal to defer the scheduled NEET and JEE exams. In a letter, Soren urged Pokhriyal to postpone the exams in public interest as holding these exams will require public transport and hotels, restaurants and lodges to function because of the movement of a large number of aspirants. “As a part of its strategy to combat Covid-19, the Jharkhand government has not commenced public transport and neither hotels, restaurants and lodges. The examinees and their parents will face logistical issues,” he wrote. Soren also pointed out that aspirants may hail from containment zones, which will make it difficult for them to reach exam centres. There may also be candidates who might be Covid-19 infected, which will put other aspirants and invigilators at risk, the chief minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hemant-asks-union-edu-min-to-defer-neet-jee/articleshow/77793352.cms||---
August 28, 2020||Ranchi||With biggest 1-day spike, Jharkhand’s caseload set to cross 35k-mark||RANCHI: Exactly 150 days after the Covid-19 outbreak started in the state, Jharkhand recorded 15 casualties (including five on Wednesday night) and the single biggest one-day spike of 1,365 new infections in 24 hours until 10pm on Thursday. With 630 persons recovering, the state’s cumulative caseload stood at 34,676, of which 11,180 are active, 23,119 and 377 have died. East Singhbum continued to report the highest figure with seven casualties, followed by Ramgarh with two and Bokaro, Chatra, Koderma, Lohardaga, Latehar and Dhanbad with one each. State capital Ranchi reported a massive spike in new cases with 328 fresh infections, followed by East Singhbhum with 163. Rural districts also record high numbers with Garhwa, which has seen a surge in the last two days, again detecting 109 fresh infections, followed by Ramgarh (96), Sahebganj (88) and Koderma with 80 fresh infections. The positivity rate in the state, which had fallen to a 2.78% on Wednesday due to the high number of tests, rose to 5.43% of 25,123 samples testing positive. “The spike confirms that Jharkhand is yet to reach the peak of the infection. We need to be very careful and follow all preventive measures to contain the spread,” a senior health department official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/with-biggest-1-day-spike-jharkhands-caseload-set-to-cross-35k-mark/articleshow/77793839.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 28, 2020||Ranchi||Bokaro admin puts up brave face after spike in Covid deaths||Bokaro: The sudden spike in Covid-19 deaths in Bokaro district has left residents worried. Till now, 14 people have died from the virus in the district, with eight of them dying in the last 12 days. Many locals have alleged that the treatment provided at the Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) has deteriorated, and patients are being referred outside the district. As a result, affluent patients are leaving for centres like Ranchi, Kolkata and Delhi for treatment. A health official said, “Six Covid-positive patients have died while undergoing treatment at BGH.” Deputy commissioner Rajesh Kumar Singh, however, said, “The death rate in the district is 1.1%, which is lower than the country’s average. And the recovery rate in Bokaro is a healthy 66%.” The number of positive cases in the district stood at 1,117 on Thursday afternoon, with 383 being active cases. The district administration has recently provided extra ventilators to the BGH and the Covid Care Centre in Camp-2. There were reports of BGH turning away serious patients by claiming that all their ventilators were occupied. A Truenat machine was also installed at BGH to increase the rate of testing. But despite having these facilities, many serious Covid patients are still being referred to other hospitals. A 40-year-old businessman, who was found Covid-positive and admitted to BGH’s Critical Care Unit after he developed breathing trouble, said: “No doctors came to see me for 24 hours after I was admitted. The oximeter and BP machines were also not working.” His chest X-Ray was conducted reportedly after a senior bureaucrat in Ranchi intervened on the patient’s behalf. The patient was then referred to Medanta Hospital in Ranchi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bokaro-admin-puts-up-brave-face-after-spike-in-covid-deaths/articleshow/77793719.cms||Divy Khare
August 28, 2020||Ranchi||River water gushes into Steel City houses, 50 evacuated||Jamshedpur: Water from two rivers — Subarnarekha and Kharkhai — entered into over 150 houses early on Thursday after intermittent rain coupled with releasing of water by four major dams, Bankbil, Subernarekha (at Mayurbhanj in Odisha), Chandil and Galudih barrage in Kolhan on Wednesday. While a child died during a wall collapse, as many as 50 people were shifted to safer places but some families refused to leave their houses, the district administration said. Till Thursday afternoon, Steel City recorded 88.8mm rainfall. The four dams released more than 1,100 cusecs of water on Wednesday, resulting in Kharkhai flowing 2m above the danger mark of 129m while Subarnarekha is flowing 2m below its danger mark of 121m till Thursday morning. Over 40 houses located in Naya Basti, Pradhan Tola and Sidho-Kanho in Bagbera, 35 in Garib Nawaz Colony and Shiv Ghat area in Jugsalai and more than 50 houses in Shastrinagar in Kadma are flooded as water from Kharkhai gushed into their homes. At Kumardungi panchayat in Baharagora block, rainwater inundated close to 30 houses. “We shifted 50 people to the rescue centres (community centres) overnight but some refused to vacate their house,” Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee city manager Ambuj Kumar Singh said. He added that schools located close to the affected areas have also been readied to shift more people if the situation worsens. The Mango Notified Area Committee (MNAC) city manager, Jeetender Singh, said they have not yet felt the need to shift the people to the rescue centres. He, however, said MNAC is monitoring the situation round-the-clock. Those living in the low-lying areas have urged the district administration to provide them with food packets. “The inundation has damaged the belongings of several poor families in Naya Basti and they are looking at the administration for help,” said Bagbera resident Subodh Jha. The weather situation is unlikely to improve in the next 48 hours as the meteorological department has forecast moderate to heavy rain in the region. “The effect of a low-pressure system, which is currently prevailing over the southern part of Jharkhand, will steadily move towards the western part of the country towards Chhattisgarh from Saturday. Till that time, moderate to heavy rainfalls will continue,” IMD (Ranchi) director S D Kotal said. Meanwhile, a six-year-old boy died after being trapped in the debris of a mud wall that collapsed following overnight rain in Kankushi village under Mufassil police station area in West Singhbhum. “The mishap occurred early on Thursday,” said Ashutosh Kumar, the officer-in-charge of Muffasil police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/river-water-gushes-into-steel-city-houses-50-evacuated/articleshow/77793660.cms||B Sridhar
August 28, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand govt plans to move court to defer exams, says JMM||Ranchi: The state government is considering moving the court seeking deferment of the NEET and JEE (Advanced) examinations scheduled next month citing the risks of Covid-19 transmission among the aspirants and their parents. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said, “Several states are going to court against the decision to hold NEET and JEE exams amid the pandemic. The Jharkhand government is also contemplating moving the court in this matter.” The Union HRD ministry’s decision to hold NEET exam on September 6 and JEE (Advanced) exams on September 27 has triggered a nationwide resentment. On Wednesday, chief minister Hemant Soren, while speaking at a virtual summit of six CMs called by AICC president Sonia Gandhi, had claimed that the exams are being held in a hurry. Echoing Hemant’s statement, JMM on Thursday urged the Centre to defer the exams by at least two months till the Covid-19 transmission slows down. “Earlier, the exams were scheduled twice in June. At that time, the country was reporting 10,000 cases daily. Now, the numbers have gone up to 75,000 cases a day. This is not the right time to hold the exams,” Bhattacharya said. Besides the risks of infection, JMM said the aspirants and their families will have to shell out hefty amounts to hire vehicles to reach the examination centres. “The centres have been planned in such a poor way that aspirants from Garhwa will have to come to Ranchi. With public transport remaining shut, the middle class and economically weaker families will have to shell out as high Rs 10,000 in transport,” he claimed. JMM also launched a verbal attack against Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank for being ignorant of the ground realities and putting the lives of thousands of students at risk. “If any of these aspirants get infected, a criminal case will be lodged against the HRD minister,” Bhattacharya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-govt-plans-to-move-court-to-defer-exams-says-jmm/articleshow/77793574.cms||Dhritiman Ray
August 28, 2020||Ranchi||Steel City doc on Covid duty is state’s 1st frontline casualty||Jamshedpur: As Jharkhand entered 150 days of Covid-19 pandemic, the state on Thursday recorded the death of a serving government doctor on Covid duty after contracting the virus in Jugsalai area of Jamshedpur. The death of J P Lal, a 53-year-old doctor posted at a community health centre (CHC) in Jugsalai, is arguably the first such instance in the state. Earlier, one retired government doctor had died of the virus in the Steel City while another doctor, who died while on Covid duty, tested negative after his death. Lal’s colleague, Dr Mrityunjay Singh, who is also the secretary of the local chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), said the deceased was admitted to Tata Main Hospital (TMH) a week ago after testing positive for the deadly virus. Dr Singh alleged that the government is not doing much for the doctors on Covid duty. “On Friday, an IMA delegation will meet the East Singhbhum DC to apprise him about the problems being faced by the doctors,” he said, adding that the wife of deceased doctor is also undergoing treatment for Covid-19 infection at TMH. East Singhbhum civil surgeon R N Jha said Lal was diabetic and was battling for life since the past seven days and succumbed to the disease on Thursday. On August 14, 71-year-old Dr Manish Murari Agarwal, who retired as civil surgeon of the district, died of Covid-19. On June 1, a 50-year-old government doctor, Virendra Seth, who was posted at the Cluster Health Center (CHC) in Dumaria, had died while treating suspected coronavirus patients. He, however, tested negative after his death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/steel-city-doc-on-covid-duty-is-states-1st-frontline-casualty/articleshow/77793473.cms||B Sridhar
