August 29, 2020||India||U K Bhattacharya is NTPC director projects||NEW DELHI: Ujjwal Kanti Bhattacharya on Friday took charge as director (projects) at NTPC, India's largest generation utility, the company said in a statement. An electrical engineering graduate from Jadavpur University, Kolkata, Bhattacharya joined NTPC's ninth batch of engineering executive trainees in 1984. He began his stint in the company at the Korba power station in Madhya Pradesh. He also has a PG diploma in management from MDI, Gurgaon. Before his elevation to the Board, he was the MD and CEO of Bangladesh India Friendship Power Company Ltd. He was also served as executive director for international business development and projects). Bhattacharya started his career in greenfield project construction. Subsequently, he worked in areas of power plant operation and maintenance, renovation and modernization, environment management and technical services at NTPC Farakka (1,600 MW) in West Bengal. Later he moved to NTPC Talcher thermal (450 MW) in Odisha, an old and underperforming asset, taken over from state electricity board. At Talcher he led the team that turned around the power station into a top-performer. He had a successful stint in business development function of NTPC in domestic as well as international arena. His special focus was on diversification into hydroelectricity with the acquisition of Koldam hydel project and setting up of subsidiary company, NESCL for electricity distribution business. He has been at the forefront of JV formulation and project conceptualisation for the 1,320 MW Maitree (friendship) power project in Bangladesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/u-k-bhattacharya-is-ntpc-director-projects/articleshow/77812091.cms||---
August 29, 2020||India||Barbed wire in Kashmir: Security cordon to powering rural homes||NEW DELHI: Barbed wire has become synonymous with images of security cordons, especially in the context of Kashmir. But for years the Valley has been putting it to an unusual use: supplying electricity to scattered households in rural and hilly areas, a recent survey of the union territory’s (UT) power distribution network by a Central team has found. In other instances, thin GI (galvanised iron) wire has been used to power homes. In most cases, the wires are strung across wooden poles or trees. All this resulted in line losses of 70%, financial stress for the power department and long blackouts for people. “A survey team with CEA (Central Electricity Authority) officers found barbed wires being used (for connections). We have started overhauling the infrastructure. We want to create an efficient, sustainable power system. There is enough power in the country. Our ultimate objective is to ensure 24X7 affordable supply to people of J&K,” power minister R. K. Singh told TOI. Read Also73 yrs on, 3 LoC villages frequently pounded by Pak to get electricityThree north Kashmir villages along the LoC in Kupwara district will light up for the first time. Last week, a two-year project to electrify the region drew to a close with the installation of a 33kV (kilovolt) line and a receiving station to carry electricity to the villages of Keran, Mundian andA senior J&K power department official said barbed wire “has been in use for LT (low-tension) connections for many years. “It is not everywhere. Houses are scattered in rural areas. In many such cases, for whatever reason, for example wires falling short or due to urgency of providing a connection, local staff/villagers use barbed wire or thin GI wires. Where poles are not available or possible to erect, trees are used as alternative,” a senior J&K power department official told TOI. All this is changing. Since October 2019, when J&K’s UT status was notified, the ministry has been working with the UT authorities to overhaul the distribution infrastructure with Central funding. It has asked REC (formerly Rural Electrification Corporation) to draft a village-wise replacement scheme for barbed wires and poles etc and sanctioned Rs 90 crore for starters. Since August 2019, when Article 370 was scrapped to end J&K’s special status, Centre has released Rs 275 crore grant for creation of infrastructure under two power reforms schemes, DDUGJY and IPDS. Moreover, 33 sub-stations have been added, 48km of feeder separation done, 2,020 km of distribution lines and 356 km of aerial bunched/underground cables were laid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/barbed-wire-in-kashmir-security-cordon-to-powering-rural-homes/articleshow/77812177.cms||Sanjay Dutta
August 29, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: For third day running, Maharashtra sees cases in excess of 14,000||MUMBAI: The state, for the third consecutive day, added over 14,000 Covid cases and 300-plus deaths, taking the tally to 7,47,995, close to 7.5 lakh. Given the steep increase in cases in August, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday announced that people over 55 years of age with comorbidity would be actively screened to check the virus’s spread across the state. The state public health department’s Covid update on Friday said 14,361 new cases were reported. With 331 deaths, the toll in Maharashtra rose to 23,775. There are 1,80,718 active Covid cases in the state. A cause for concern, said public health department officials, is an increase by 0.20% in the rate of positivity in a week as well as a dip in recovery rate in the last three days. The positivity rate, which was 18.8% on August 21, reached 19% on Friday. The recovery rate recorded a slight dip from 73.14% last Tuesday to 72.62% on Friday. The state update said 11,607 patients were discharged, taking the total recoveries to 5,43,170. In Mumbai, 1,217 new cases were registered, taking the total to 1,42,108. The city added 30 deaths, taking the toll to 7,565. The BMC update said 20 of the 30 victims on Friday had comorbidities and 23 were over 60 years old. The recovery rate in Mumbai is 81%, with infection growth rate around 0.81%. “The doubling rate for Mumbai is 86 days,” said BMC officials. On Friday, the Pune circle recorded 4,623 cases, while the Thane circle (which includes Mumbai) reported 3,296. Of the total 331 deaths on Friday, the two divisions contributed 150. The state has a 3.18% case fatality rate and Mumbai 5.32%. On Friday, CM Thackeray said the health department would implement the ‘chase the virus’ programme across the state in September focusing on 55-plus citizens. An official said the programme will be kickstarted in mid-September and implemented in all 36 districts. Stressing the need for a permanent solution to tackle epidemics, he said the state would build a communicable diseases control hospital in Kolhapur district. “To combat Covid-19, we have set up jumbo and field hospitals. We intend to expand the network of such facilities further to provide quality healthcare. Since essential facilities including oxygen, ventilator or ICU beds are available at these facilities, they could be transformed as permanent service providers,” he added. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 244 patients and 9 deaths, taking its tally to 27,327, with 601 deaths. In Thane, 197 new cases were reported, taking the tally there to 25,273, while 6 deaths took the toll to 819. In Navi Mumbai, there were 408 cases and 7 deaths, taking the caseload to 24,993 and toll to 571. The PCMC reported 246 positives and 3 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/for-third-day-running-state-sees-cases-in-excess-of-14k/articleshow/77812994.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
August 29, 2020||India||Tharoor panel meet on Wed likely to be stormy||NEW DELHI: The sitting of the standing committee on information technology scheduled on September 2 is expected to be a stormy affair and might see Facebook representatives caught in a crossfire with the rival sides preparing to grill them for allegedly favouring the other. While the meeting has been convened by the head of the panel, Congress’s Shashi Tharoor, in the light of a report in the Wall Street Journal based on purported emails by Facebook employees accusing one of their senior colleagues of partiality towards BJP, members of the saffron party are ready with their “dossier” of instances of Facebook employees’ bias against it. Sources said BJP members have also compiled a list of Facebook employees who worked for Congress before joining the social media giant where they handle crucial assignments such as “fact checking”. “They (Congress) have initiated the debate but it will boomerang on them. They will regret having raised the issue as we have umpteen instances to prove that the reverse is true,” a senior BJP leader said. The leader claimed that a senior Facebook employee worked in the constituency of a senior Congress leader for 10 years before joining the social media giant where he handles liaisons. Another person who worked with Congress is handling an important responsibility, said a BJP source who also claimed that another middle-level employee tasked with providing support for government clients worked for a senior leader of the principal opposition party for three years. The source also gave examples of other Facebook employees — a senior functionary who was engaged with the Planning Commission under UPA and a middle-level employee who worked for a former Congress MP — to say that the allegation of Facebook teeming with saffronites was false and had been concocted to keep Mark Zuckerberg’s office under pressure and to find alibis for the two consecutive Lok Sabha routs. Sources said Facebook officials have been summoned to appear before the panel on September 2, the second day of the two-day sitting. As committee head, Tharoor had summoned Facebook officials in the light of media reports that BJP and RSS controlled the social media site’s content policy. However, he was questioned by BJP lawmakers like Nishikant Dubey and Rajyavardhan Rathore, who are also members of the panel, saying Tharoor shouldn’t have spoken publicly and his decision was unilateral as it was not discussed in the committee. Soon after the controversy erupted, senior BJP leaders including IT and law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad launched a counter attack and said BJP had been a victim of “intolerance” shown by the social media site’s management. BJP’s social media head Amit Malviya cited several examples of individuals with a long Congress track record of working with Facebook. “The long and questionable list of such high-profile appointments starts with Ajit Mohan, MD of Facebook India, who used to work with the Planning Commission during the UPA days. It includes Sidharth Mazumdar, an employee in Facebook’s public policy team, who previously worked for Sonia Gandhi’s strategist and senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel, and is known to have uncharitable views about the prime minister and other senior ministers,” he said. Malviya claimed that in the run-up to the 2019 general elections, Facebook unilaterally took down over 700 pages, most of them sympathetic to a “nationalist narrative”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tharoor-panel-meet-on-wed-likely-to-be-stormy/articleshow/77812786.cms||Akhilesh Singh
August 29, 2020||India||IIT-Indore to teach ancient Indian sciences in Sanskrit||IIT-Indore has introduced a one-of-its-kind course to teach classical scientific texts to students in Sanskrit, starting with Bhaskaracharya’s mathematical treatise ‘Lilavati’ of almost a thousand years ago, reports Meenakshi Sharma. More than 750 people from across the globe have signed up for the course that started on August 22. The first edition will end on October 2, Gandhi Jayanti. The institute has lined up fortnightly programmes to teach metallurgy, astronomy, medicines and plant sciences in Sanskrit. Students can study classical Indian scientific texts in their original forms and converse about them in the ancient language. The officiating director of IIT-Indore, Professor Neelesh Kumar Jain, who inaugurated the course on Friday, said: “Sanskrit, an ancient language, is finding its place in artificial intelligence and will become the language of the future. I am very happy that we have taken this initiative to reconnect people with this language, not just as a hobby but as a necessity as it comes with a blend of technology.” Course coordinator Dr Ganti S Murthy, professor of biosciences and biomedical engineering at the institute, pointed out how discussions on ancient Indian scientific treatises earlier always needed to have a translator, and very often significant aspects or nuances were lost in translation. The IIT-Indore programme will first help students grasp enough Sanskrit to converse in the language, after which they will move to the second phase where they can discuss technical subjects in Sanskrit, facilitated by experts in the same language. A qualifying exam will be held to evaluate the preparedness of participants for level 2. Those already well versed in Sanskrit and with a technical background can go directly to the second stage. Participation in the discussions in Sanskrit is mandatory for all students, and those who falter will not get the course completion certificate. An impressive 30% of those who have enrolled are working professionals. About 50% are undergraduates and masters students, with PhD scholars and others making up the rest, say institute officials. “Most of the traditional Indic scientific treatises in sustainable water resource management, agriculture, mathematics, metallurgy, astronomy, medicine, plant sciences, economic and political texts, such as Artha Shastra, are in Sanskrit. Understanding Sanskrit with a view to studying these texts is extremely important to preserve and advance India's scientific heritage,” said Dr Murthy. IIT-Indore has roped in a panel of experts for the programme — Pramod Pandit, Mayuri Phadke and Pravesh Vaishnav from Samskrita Bharati, Madhya Kshetram. The technical experts on the team are Professor K Ramasubramanian and Dr K Mahesh from IIT-Bombay. Watch IIT-Indore to teach ancient Indian sciences in Sanskrit||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/iit-indore-to-teach-ancient-indian-science-in-sanskrit/articleshow/77813378.cms||---
August 29, 2020||India||BJP IT cell's Amit Malviya sought action on Facebook employee for ‘bias’||NEW DELHI: Two months before a Wall Street Journal report alleged that Facebook had turned a blind eye to hate speech by a BJP leader and right-wing groups, national convenor of BJP’s IT cell Amit Malviya had written two emails to the technology giant in June, calling for action against an employee for “anti-BJP bias”. Asked if his letters were written to influence and intimidate the Facebook manager and the social media giant’s employees, Malviya told TOI, “It is quite disconcerting to know that my privileged correspondence with Facebook has found its way to the media... details of several employees of the social media firm show they have been active anti-BJP campaigners. This nexus must be probed and exposed.” In emails to Facebook India Policy head Ankhi Das written on June 18 and 19 respectively, copies of which are with TOI, Malviya sought action against one of the company’s public policy managers, claiming that the employee’s “primary mandate is to interface with the government and the BJP”, but he was “misusing the information he may be privy to as a result of his role in the company” and leaking it on social media. The email also contained links to tweets that the employee was allegedly posting from a social media profile. Asking Facebook to give this the “highest priority” and “proceed as per ethics and standards that the company has set for itself”, Malviya said, “We have taken a very dim view of this but will wait for your revert before deciding on the next steps (sic).” He said in one of the mails: “We have observed the employee has been making some very vicious comments, using his social media profile, which besides being tasteless, undignified, abusive and misogynistic, also betrays his visceral hate for the prime minister, his cabinet colleagues and the party he is supposed to relationship-manage.” A senior Facebook employee familiar with the developments told TOI that both BJP and Congress have alleged that the company was biased against the other political party. “Doesn’t this prove we are not involved with either?” said the official, adding that the company would release an official statement on charges levelled by Malviya against its employee. Facebook has been summoned by a parliamentary panel headed by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor that will hear its representatives on September 2 on accusations levelled in the WSJ report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-it-cells-amit-malviya-sought-action-on-facebook-employee-for-bias/articleshow/77813486.cms||Rohan Dua
August 29, 2020||India||In death, man helped Covid patient get new lungs, arms for accident victim||CHENNAI/MUMBAI: When a 48-year-old man from Ghaziabad, whose lungs were totally damaged following Covid-19 infection, was wheeled into a Chennai-based hospital on Friday, he had just a thin hope of survival. About a few hours later, in faraway Mumbai, Monika More’s dream of having her hands, which had got severed in a train accident seven years ago, back came true with a double hand transplant. And, they both had one man and his family to thank — the organs came from a 34-year-old man, who was declared brain dead by doctors at the Gleneagles Global Hospital in Chennai after intracerebral haemorrhage on Thursday. His wife agreed to donate his organs and they were allotted to various hospitals. While Global Hospital’s Chennai branch, where he died, retained the liver, the heart and lungs went to two patients in MGM Healthcare, kidneys to two patients at Gem hospital, skin to SIMS and hands to Monika at the Global Hospital in Mumbai. A heart transplant surgery was also performed at the Chennai hospital, the donor being the same man. Monika’s transplant has been in planning stage for over eight months now, but forearm donations are rare. On Thursday, Monika’s family heard from the Chennai hospital about the donor. The cross-match between the donor and recipient came late in the evening, with the donated arms being flown to Mumbai in a special charter flight around 10.50pm. The organs were wheeled into the operation theatre around 2am on Friday and the transplant was declared complete around 5.30pm. Monika, a resident of Kurla in Mumbai, had lost her hands at the Ghatkopar station and on Friday, became the first in Mumbai to undergo a hand transplant. “Monika is stable and has been moved to the ICU,” said plastic surgeon Nilesh Satbhai, who led the 15-hour transplant operation at Global Hospital. Monika didn’t suffer hyperacute rejection as blood flowed through the transplanted arm. Monika, who had prosthetic arms and had joined a Kurla hospital as a social worker six months ago, intends to pursue a professional career. The family is now raising funds for the surgery and the long rehabilitation ahead. In Chennai, the eight-hour-long transplant surgery on the Covid patient with damaged lungs ended at 7am on Friday. The Ghaziabad businessman had suffered severe respiratory failure due to Covid-19, doctors at MGM healthcare said. He was tested positive for the virus in June. “The patient is on a ventilator, but is awake. He met his family members,” said Dr Suresh Rao, co-director, Institute of Heart and Lung Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support. He was a part of the transplant team. “After being rigid in bed for nearly two months, the patient moved his fingers and limbs,” he said. Minutes after they replaced his lung, doctors removed the extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) he was connected to for more than a month. The recovery, however, may take a long time. “Twelve hours after surgery, the patient is able to do well without ECMO. His new lungs are healthy. He has no other comorbid conditions or illness. But he is still on a ventilator because he is weak. Recovery will take time as his chest muscles are weak now,” said transplant pulmonologist Dr Apar Jindal. “The infection was severe, and the lung they removed did not look like anything doctors have seen before. A lung is spongy. The one we removed was as hard as a liver. It was inflamed and was plastered to the chest wall,” he said. The patient was tested positive for Covid-19 on June 8 and admitted to a hospital in Delhi in a critical condition. On June 20, doctors there put him on a ventilator. A month later, he was airlifted and brought to MGM healthcare. His oxygen saturation was just 60% (normal is above 95%). Five days later, on July 25, a day after he was put on the waitlist for lung transplant, doctors plugged him on to a veno-venous ECMO to support lung function. The machine then pumped blood out through one channel and back into the body through the other. On Thursday, when the hospital received a call from the state transplant authority about a possible donor, the team was prepared. The team carried out the two transplant surgeries — heart and lung — simultaneously on two patients. “Transplant was not an easy decision. We debated about it several times. But the patient was a healthy, young patient. If we could reverse the lung damage, we knew he had better chances to lead a long happy life,” said senior transplant surgeon Dr K R Balakrishnan. The Covid-affected lungs doctors have retrieved holds valuable information. “We are examining the diseased organ under an electron microscope. We want to study how and how much the novel virus has invaded the lungs,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-death-man-helped-covid-patient-get-new-lungs-arms-for-accident-victim/articleshow/77813661.cms||Pushpa Narayan
August 29, 2020||Business||World Bank to pause publication of Doing Business report||NEW DELHI: The World Bank has said that it is pausing the publication of the Doing Business report that ranks countries on the basis of their business competitiveness, pending investigation into a “number of irregularities” in its 2018 and 2020 surveys. Stating that the integrity and impartiality of its data and analysis is paramount, the World Bank announced a raft of measures and review of its processes. It also promised to act on the finding of the investigation and retrospectively correct the data of countries that were most affected by irregularities. According to the World Bank, the countries most affected appear to be Azerbaijan, China, Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates. India is not in the list of countries affected by the data irregularities. In India, government officials said, the move will not have any impact as reforms were being done autonomously – be it giving electricity connections quickly, or pushing reforms at the district level or setting up commercial courts. India has made remarkable progress on the Doing Business rankings since the Narendra Modi government came to power. PM Narendra Modi had made it clear that he wants the country among the top 50. From 142nd position among 190 countries, India now ranks 63rd on the Ease of Doing Business list, having undertaken a series of reform measures. The government has launched a string of indices and it has triggered a competition among states to improve business processes and approvals to improve rankings. Over 17 years of its existence, the Doing Business report has been a valued tool for countries seeking to measure costs of doing business. Doing Business indicators and methodology are designed with no single country in mind, but rather to help improve the overall business climate, the bank said. “A number of irregularities have been reported regarding changes to the data in the Doing Business 2018 and Doing Business 2020 reports, published in October 2017 and 2019. The changes in data were inconsistent with Doing Business methodology,” World Bank said in a statement. It said the board of executive directors of the World Bank has been briefed on the situation as have the authorities of the countries that were most affected by data irregularities. According to the Doing Business report 2020, China joined the ranks of the world’s top ten most improved economies for ‘Ease of Doing Business’ for the second year in a row, thanks to what the World Bank had then termed as a “robust reform agenda.” “China carried out a record eight business reforms during 12 months to May 1 and ranks 31st globally on the ‘Ease of Doing Business’ rankings with a score of 77.9 out of 100,” it had said while releasing the World Bank Group’s Doing Business 2020 study. This is not the first time that doubts have been raised about data and methodology of the rankings. Some former officials of the World Bank, including one of its former chief economists, have said that the Bank could do a better job of explaining what the numbers mean. Watch 'Number of irregularities': World Bank to pause publication of Doing Business report||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/world-bank-to-pause-publication-of-doing-business-report/articleshow/77813689.cms||Surojit Gupta
August 29, 2020||India||August set for highest rain surplus in 44 years||NEW DELHI: While the monsoon in July was 10% below normal in the country, August is set to be one of the wettest in decades. Rainfall during the month has been 25% surplus so far (till August 28), the highest deviation from normal in 44 years, with monsoon rains pounding central and south India in recent weeks. India last witnessed a higher monsoon surplus in the month of August in 1976, when 28.4% higher than normal rainfall was recorded, according to India Meteorological Department data. Met officials said active monsoon conditions are expected in the remaining three days of the month, which means the rain surplus of 25% may not change much. Across the country, an average of 296.2mm of rain has been recorded so far this month, against a normal of 237.1mm. In absolute terms, rainfall for the whole month could be the highest for August since 1988, when 329.6mm was recorded. Monsoon was most active over central India, which received relentless rains during the month, adding up to a huge surplus of 57% in August. South India too has had over 42% excess rains, on top of the 16% surplus it received in July. Between the two months, July and August, what made the difference in monsoon conditions were the number of low-pressure systems forming in the Bay of Bengal. While there were none in July, August has had five so far against a normal of three-four in each of the two months. “In July, one low-pressure system had formed in the first week but quickly dissipated. So it wouldn’t be counted as a proper system. In August, we had a number of low-pressure circulations that had long life periods, bringing copious rain, particularly over central India. The region had a 22% rain deficit in July, while in August it had a 57% surplus,” said D Sivananda Pai, IMD’s lead monsoon forecaster. The rain bounty in August has led to an overall monsoon surplus of 9% for the season (June 1-August 28) so far. If September turns out to be even slightly wetter than normal, the 2020 monsoon season could end with excess rainfall (over 10% above normal). However, IMD officials said September could see slightly below normal rainfall although La Nina conditions are developing in the Pacific Ocean which favour good monsoon rainfall over India. “We expect northwest India to get rain over the next week. After that, around September 5, monsoon activity is likely to shift to northeast India, which hasn’t had good rainfall in August. The risk of floods could increase in that region following this rain spell,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, head of IMD. While northwest India received normal rainfall in August, several parts of the region, particularly the subdivision of west Uttar Pradesh, have had deficient rains. For the season as a whole, northwest India has a rain deficit of 11%. Watch August set to be one of the wettest in decades||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/august-set-for-highest-rain-surplus-in-44-years/articleshow/77813821.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
August 29, 2020||India||87k health staff infected with Covid, 573 dead; 74% cases from six states||NEW DELHI: More than 87,000 healthcare workers have been infected with Covid-19, with just six states — Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, West Bengal and Gujarat — accounting for three-fourths (around 74%) of the case burden and over 86% of the 573 deaths due to the infection, official data showed. Maharashtra alone, with the highest number of over 7.3 lakh confirmed Covid-19 cases so far, accounts for around 28% of the infected healthcare workers and more than 50% of the total deaths, according to the data. While Maharashtra, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu had tested more than 1 lakh healthcare workers each till August 28, Karnataka reported only 12,260 infected healthcare workers — almost half the burden in Maharashtra. Tamil Nadu reported 11,169 cases that included doctors, nurses and Asha workers. The three states together accounted for 55% of the total cases among health workers. Read AlsoIndia now No.3 in Covid toll; 1,000+ deaths for 4 days runningIndia’s Covid-19 death toll surged to the third highest in the world after overtaking Mexico on Friday with the daily count of fresh cases staying above 76K for the third day and fatalities over 1K for the fourth day. Only the US (1,85,272 deaths) and Brazil (1,18,988) have a higher toll than India.The three states also reported the highest number of deaths in healthcare professionals, though with a wide gap between Maharashtra and the other two. While Maharashtra reported 292 deaths among healthcare workers, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu had 46 and 49 deaths, respectively. A large number of Covid-19 infections and even deaths of healthcare workers in particular states is being viewed with concern by officials and public health experts, who say risks to frontline workers can jeopardise India’s fight against the pandemic. The issue, discussed in a review meeting headed by the cabinet secretary on Thursday, saw the Centre cautioning states about the need to protect a crucial resource. The possible factors responsible for high infections, officials said, were lax infection control in hospitals and the need for stringent containment measures in areas where health professionals reside to safeguard them. Despite the high number of cases, the government has received only 143 claims since April under the Rs 50 lakh Covid-19 insurance scheme for healthcare workers engaged in Covid mitigation activities. Read AlsoPositivity rate down for three fortnights in a rowHolding out hope amid rising Covid-19 cases, the all-India positivity rate, total confirmed cases per 100 tests, measured over a 14-days, showed a declining trend for three consecutive fortnights — from a high of 11.23% between July 15-28 to 8.84% during Aug 1-14 and now at 7.87% (Aug 14-27) thoughOfficial sources said the wide gap between the number of deaths and claims could be because all the casualties may not be eligible under the scheme. Besides, the claims are a bit slow in coming as families of the dead take time to apply and do the required paperwork. “Solidarity with health workers cannot be met with mere words of encouragement but by concerted efforts to strengthen the health workforce. Safety net for their families should be provided including a term insurance cover of over Rs 2 crore, with the government as sole guarantee,” said Giridhar Babu, epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India. “Protecting healthcare workers is of paramount importance to make sure we have a large enough force to take care of patients who need their services,” said Dr H Sudarshan Ballal, chairman, Manipal Hospitals, who said such workers may be at risk because of a large number of asymptomatic patients and lack of proper use of PPEs. Watch Covid-19: 87k healthcare workers infected, 573 dead; 74% cases from six states||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/over-87k-health-workers-infected-with-covid-19-573-dead/articleshow/77814189.cms||Sushmi Dey
August 29, 2020||India||Good rainfall helps farm sector post record kharif crop acreage||NEW DELHI: In what should spell good news for the rural economy, India has reported an all-time record acreage of Kharif (summer sown) crops this year despite the Covid-19 pandemic and flood situation in many states. The development indicates that the farm sector, which remained largely free of restrictions during lockdown, may continue to register growth despite a shrinking GDP. As on Friday, the total acreage was reported at 1,082 lakh hectares against 1,010 lakh hectares during the corresponding period last year – an increase by over 7%. Sown areas of mainly paddy, oilseeds and pulses contributed to this increase. Barring damage due to inclement weather, several crops will benefit from the government’s procurement policies. During the lockdown period, the Food Corporation of India (FCI) had launched a massive operation to complete procurement and make payments to farmers. India had reported its previous record for Kharif crop sown area in 2016 when the acreage was 1,075 lakh hectares. The country’s average sown area in the past five years has been 1,066 lakh hectares. The higher acreage can be attributed to a good monsoon rainfall and proactive measures, taken by farmers and governments during the lockdown period, to beat the impact of Covid-19 on agriculture. “Exemptions given to the farm sector during the lockdown period helped farmers continue with their operations – first harvesting Rabi crops and then sowing Kharif crops – almost uninterrupted,” said Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. Noting that there is little impact of the pandemic on the farm sector, Tomar said the Kharif acreage would increase further as sowing of paddy was still continuing in a few states. “We are confident that the 2020-21 crop year would report an all-time record output of food grains and cross our target of 298 million tonnes,” he said. The sown area under paddy, which occupies the highest acreage among all Kharif crops every year, has so far recorded an increase of over 35 lakh hectares as compared to last year. Higher area is reported from Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal among others. Sowing operations of oilseeds, coarse grains and pulses have already been completed this season. Oilseeds (193 lakh hectares) and cotton (128 lakh hectares) have reported their highest acreage in the last five years. Watch India records highest acreage of Kharif crops||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farm-sector-beats-covid-gloom-with-record-sowing-of-kharif-crops/articleshow/77814381.cms||Vishwa Mohan
August 29, 2020||India||Six non-BJP state ministers move SC against JEE, NEET||NEW DELHI: Cabinet ministers from non-BJP-ruled states of Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand moved the Supreme Court on Friday seeking deferment of JEE (Main) and NEET-UG to protect over 25 lakh students from serious health risk, given the rising number of infections and deaths from Covid-19. The move followed Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s recent meeting with CMs of these states. The joint petition was filed by West Bengal law and labour minister Maloy Ghatak, Jharkhand finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma, Chhattisgarh food and civil supplies minister Amarjeet Bhagat, Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and Maharashtra higher education minister Uday R Samant. The ministers sought review of the August 17 order of a bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra, which had dismissed PILs seeking postponement/cancellation of JEE (Main) and NEET-UG due to the pandemic. With solicitor general Tushar Mehta assuring the court that the National Testing Agency (NTA) has taken all precautions to protect students from infection, the SC had said examinations could not be cancelled as “life must go on”. In the review petition, filed through advocate Sunil Fernandes, it was argued that the health risk to 25 lakh students, who would appear for both examinations, was more than real because of the rising number of daily Covid-19 cases, and that the SC could not have dismissed the petitions without hearing states through an order that was “cryptic, non-speaking, did not discuss, let alone enumerate, the various aspects and complexities involved in a matter of this magnitude and complex nature”. JEE (Main) will be held from September 1-6 in 660 centres and more than 9 lakh students are likely to sit for it. NEET-UG is scheduled for September 13 and more than 15 lakh students are expected to appear in 3,843 centres. The petitioners said this would require a large movement of people and would expose students to huge risk of infection. The ministers said when India was on course to become the worst affected nation globally, “the ‘life must go on’ advice may have very sound philosophical underpinnings but cannot be a substitute for valid legal reasoning and logical analysis of the various aspects involved in the conduct of JEE (Main) and NEET-UG”. “Large movement of people will prove to be a serious health hazard and will totally defeat the twin present-day solutions we have of combating the Covid-19 pandemic, ie social distancing and avoidance of large gatherings,” they said. Non-BJP-ruled states of Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu did not lend support to the petition, which cited the difficulties faced by both Odisha and Bihar. The petitioners said in Odisha, which had demanded postponement of the exams, there were over 50,000 aspirants for NEET-UG and JEE (Main) but the state had examination centres only in seven towns. Bihar, with 38 districts, has nearly a lakh aspirants but NTA has notified only seven centres for JEE (Main) and two for NEET-UG. The petitioners said, “The August 17 order fails to appreciate that safety of students and other stakeholders is not merely restricted to their physical safety but also pertains to psychological welfare of students, especially when they are going to appear in probably their most important and life defining examination.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/six-non-bjp-state-ministers-move-sc-against-jee-neet/articleshow/77814484.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 29, 2020||Business||Government set to overhaul PSU appointments||NEW DELHI: After the reforms at state-run banks, the government is set to overhaul the appointments of public sector chiefs and functional directors and is looking to expand the talent pool as part of fresh set of measures. The Public Enterprises Selection Board (PESB) has proposed to hold interviews for all jobs of chairman and managing directors of a group of PSUs or directors for human resources and finance at the start of the year, instead of looking for candidates for individual companies. Based on the interviews, the headhunter will make its recommendations to the government. On its part, the government will appoint the candidates based on their performances in the interview and those scoring highest will get the company of their choice. Typically, PSUs are divided into schedule A and schedule B companies, with top companies such as IndianOil, NTPC, ONGC and SAIL being part of the former group. From now on, all the posts will be advertised together and candidates for these companies will be recommended in one go. With the interviews clubbed together, PESB has proposed to interview at least 16 candidates for a job, instead of 12 at present, and this number could rise to five times the number of jobs on offer. So, if five jobs of director-finance in oil companies are falling vacant in a year, up to 25 candidates can be interviewed. In addition, the eligibility norms for candidates from state PSUs and the private sector have also been eased. It also suggested that advertisements are issued for vacancies falling during July 1 to June 30, one year prior to date of vacancies. The reforms follow an analysis of PESB selection process where the board could not find suitable candidates for nearly a fourth or 52 of the 218 interviews conducted between April 2017 and August 2018. Of the 1,162 candidates appeared for these interviews, 65% were internal. PESB chairman Rajiv Kumar, who will take over as election commissioner next week, was also responsible for the appointment reforms in the government in his capacity as the establishment officer as well as in public sector banks and insurance companies. As part of the revamp, the age limit for candidates, both internal and outside, is proposed to be fixed at 55 for companies with a retirement age of 58 years and 57 where the board member retires at 60. Those applying for the top jobs will need to have a minimum one-year experience in the eligible grade. As part of the revamp, a candidate can appear for four interviews in a year. Watch Government set to overhaul PSU appointments||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-set-to-overhaul-psu-appointments/articleshow/77814499.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Business||Rupee rises to 6-month high||MUMBAI: Record foreign fund buying in the stock market with the RBI now remaining on the sidelines in the foreign exchange market, the rupee on Friday rose to a six-month high against the dollar and also recorded its biggest gain in about 20 months. During the day, the Indian currency strengthened 38 paise against the green back to close at 73.40 to a dollar with a weekly gain at 2%, its biggest since December 2018. According to Abhishek Goenka, founder & CEO, IFA Global, a foreign exchange advisory firm, for weeks rupee was artificially kept week as RBI continued to buy dollar from the market and helped banks use that money to buy bonds, which saw increased supply. “Now since the central bank has let it go, government banks are not buying dollar at important levels and there is month-end dollar selling by exporters, we expect weakness of the dollar (so strength of the rupee) to remain for a while,” Goenka said. He expects the rupee to strengthen till about 72.50 level. Economists also expect that the current trend of rupee appreciation may not continue. “With persisting large global liquidity and low interest rates, flows into Indian markets got a boost. Against the backdrop of reduced imports and potentially a current account surplus during the current fiscal, weaker dollar and strong equity market flows have led to notable uptick in rupee of late,” said Siddhartha Sanyal, chief economist, Bandhan Bank. So far in August, foreign funds have net pumped in about Rs 50,000 crore into the Indian stock market, official data showed. This is the biggest net monthly inflow in over a decade, official data showed. Consistent dollar buying by RBI, along with strong FPI flows in recent months, has helped India’s forex reserve to a record level near $540 billion, which is also helping the strength of the rupee. Economists now expect the RBI to continue to buy forex in the coming months, “especially given the heightened macroeconomic uncertainty. On balance, scope for further appreciation in rupee looks limited despite surplus on both current and capital accounts.” Sanyal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rupee-rises-to-6-month-high/articleshow/77814528.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Patna||CBI books suspended AIIMS-Patna dentistry HoD, begins investigation||PATNA: The CBI has begun an investigation against Dr Sailesh Kumar Mukul, the suspended AIIMS-Patna head of the dentistry department, after booking him and some others in an implants scam. He has been booked for allegedly illegally overcharging patients for providing dental implants and getting the extra money routed to himself in cash through two private firms based in Bengaluru and Patna. The anti-corruption branch of the federal agency in Patna registered the FIR on August 25. As per the CBI FIR, Mukul along with other unknown persons, committed the crime between January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2019. AIIMS-Patna director Prabhat Kumar Singh on Friday told TOI over the phone that Mukul was placed under suspension more than seven months ago after the matter came to light. The FIR under Section 120 B of IPC and Section 7 of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, amended in 2018, was lodged after getting sanction for registering of the case against Mukul on August 5 this year As per details mentioned in the sanction letter annexed with CBI FIR, Mukul while being posted as an associate professor and head of the department of dentistry in AIIMS-Patna, had adopted unlawful means in connivance with others by instructing patients to pay huge sums in cash to laboratory assistants in the department for dental implants instead of just prescribing them. Mukul used to overcharge patients for those implants and used to tell them to directly pay to M/s Osteo3D located at HSR Layout in Bengaluru. The Patna firm used for routing cash is JJ Prabhukripa, which was also used to supply dental implants to AIIMS-Patna. The surplus money provided to Bengaluru firm for implants was re-routed to Patna firm named JJ Prabhukripa, which was also a supplier of implant plates to the department of dentistry of AIIMS-Patna. The surplus money charged from patients was then handed over in cash to Dr Mukul by the Patna firm after receiving it from the Bengaluru firm. The FIR also mentioned that the Patna firm also used to over-invoice the cost of implants supplied by it to the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cbi-books-suspended-aiims-patna-dentistry-hod-begins-investigation/articleshow/77810845.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 29, 2020||Patna||Congress protests against holding JEE and NEET||PATNA: The state Congress workers on Friday protested near the Income-Tax roundabout against the Centre’s decision to conduct JEE and NEET next month. It was a part of the party’s nationwide protest on this issue. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi tweeted Friday morning asking his party workers to support the “suffering students”. Leading the protest at Patna, Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee working president Shyam Sunder Singh Dheeraj said they were demanding for extension of the examination schedule and not the cancellation. “In this pandemic, safety of students is very important. In fact, many students, especially girls, have to be accompanied by guardians to the Centre. It will be difficult to move in this pandemic,” he said. Dheeraj alleged that the central government was trying to earn money through admission fees, which has been multiplied five to six times. “They are also trying to help private engineering and medical colleges,” he alleged. Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said their motive was to support the students and raise their voice so that Prime Minister Narendra Modi could hear them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-protests-against-holding-jee-and-neet/articleshow/77811018.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Business||As new norms kick in, tractor trailer set to see an uptick||Chennai: With the government finally clearing the niggles regarding interchangeability of tractor trailers — allowing transporters to swap a fully loaded trailer on the return trip instead of waiting for the cargo to unload before they return — truck marketers expect some uptick in the sale of new generation tractor trailers. “Heavy duty trucks are moving towards multi-axles and with better roads and the interchangeability norms tractor trailers will be next because they can run for 20 hours a day, are comfortable for drivers, can cover 1,000 km per day and the volume of cargo is almost double. Earlier the queries over different registration for tractors and trailers were a problem which has just now been sorted out,” said Vinod Aggarwal, managing director & chief executive officer, Volvo Eicher Commercial Vehicles (VECV). Big ticket transporters too are rooting for this in time for the festival season cargo movement.  “By October we hope to transfer to interchangeable trailers so we will need additional trailers,” said Sahil Barua, CEO & co-founder of Delhivery which operates a fleet network that covers over 5,00,000 Km daily. Truck financiers too say this segment will revive. “The crash in new truck sales will help the existing pool get more cargo. Tractor trailers are already used for bulk 40-50 tonne cargo like cement and steel. Last year this segment was worst hit so it will revive now,” said Umesh Revankar, MD & CEO, Shriram Transport Finance. Smaller fleet owners however feel the move towards tractor trailers and interchangeability will take time to become popular at the lower end of the transportation food chain, said Ramesh Aggarwal, chairman, All India Transporters Welfare Association and chairman of Delhi-based Aggarwal Packers and Movers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/as-new-norms-kick-in-tractor-trailer-set-to-see-an-uptick/articleshow/77811582.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
August 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Auto driver dies in accident||Ahmedabad: In a freak accident on Vatva GIDC Road late on Friday night, a speeding bus rammed into an auto from behind. The impact of the accident was so hard that the auto driver was crushed to death in the auto. Few commuters chased down the bus driver who was trying to flee from the bus. A local source said that fire department was called by the local Vatva GIDC police to pull out the dead body of the auto driver from the auto. Police sources said the auto driver could not be identified but the locals have caught the bus driver and handed him over to the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/auto-driver-dies-in-accident/articleshow/77812581.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Pandemic did not stop this govt school from growing vegetables||MANGALURU: The pandemic did not prevent the staff and School Development and Monitoring Committee (SDMC) members of the Government Upgraded Model Higher Primary School, Suribail, in Kolnad of Bantwal taluk in Dakshina Kannada from developing and growing vegetables in the kitchen garden on campus. S M Abubacker, president, (SDMC) told TOI that the purpose of developing a kitchen garden was to encourage students and help them understand the importance of agriculture, as well as to support the school’s Mid-day Meal scheme. The pandemic did not prevent us from growing vegetables, he said. “Once the monsoon entered the region, we appointed a gardener. Along with the teachers, I visit the school every day and from the past month, we have been harvesting at least 15 varieties of vegetables. The vegetables are handed over to a local vendor for sale. He has promised to supply the same quantity of vegetables to the school, once regular classes resume,” he said. Gopala S, headmaster of the school, said, “This year we decided to extend the kitchen garden on 25 cents. Every day, we are harvesting an average of 10 kg of vegetables. The school has classes from LKG to class X, and has nearly 600 students enrolled as well as nine teachers. The teachers take a special interest in maintaining and looking after the kitchen garden. The school also has a dedicated pineapple garden, banana plantation, and other fruit-bearing trees. Bananas and pineapples are distributed among the students.” “The areca plantation with 450 trees is a good source of income for the school. This year from the areca plantation, the school earned about Rs 1.9 lakh that is being used for the development of the school. They have successfully implemented rainwater harvesting that has helped increase the groundwater table. During summer, through the panchayat, water is supplied to about 40 houses in the neighbourhood,” said Abubacker The school was established in 1960 with classes from I to IV. In the year 1990-91, class five was introduced, and in the year 2017, a high school section was established.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pandemic-did-not-stop-this-govt-school-from-growing-vegetables/articleshow/77811148.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
August 29, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Covid positive man drives 15km to isolate himself||KOLKATA: Traffic cops found themselves in a Catch-22 situation during the complete lockdown on Thursday when a Covid-positive but asymptomatic patient approached them on social media with a strange request. He wanted to drive from Sinthee to Tollygunge to isolate himself in an apartment away from his family. Police tried to organize an ambulance through Swasthya Bhawan but when they called to discuss the issue, he said he had already left and would reach his destination soon. His action would normally have attracted punishment. But they realized that since he was a Covid patient, stopping him would run the risk of being exposed to the virus. Also, on a total lockdown day when roads are empty, it wouldn’t take long for him to reach Tollygunge from Sinthee. There was another consideration. The man wanted to protect his family. Since he was asymptomatic and couldn’t go to hospital, he was driving to an empty apartment they owned. “Since his reason for travel was valid, we decided against any action and asked our men to let him complete the journey,” explained an officer. Police said there were several things to learn from the incident. “He had informed police in advance. He knew all necessary precautions he had to take. Anyone else breaking home isolation rules will face legal action,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-ve-man-drives-15km-to-isolate-himself/articleshow/77811995.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 29, 2020||Patna||Nitish to inspect Ganga water storage project in Gaya today||GAYA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar will visit the water storage site near Manpur on the eastern outskirts of Gaya on Saturday to monitor the progress of work on the project to bring the Ganga water to Gaya. The project to meet the drinking water requirement of the twin cities of Gaya and Bodh Gaya is estimated to be worth over Rs2,800 crore. Confirming the CM’s programme, Gaya Town MLA and agriculture minister Prem Kumar on Friday said it is the CM’s pet project. District magistrate Abhishek Singh and other senior officials visited the site to accelerate the pace of work. The proposal for the Ganga Water Lift Scheme, part of the Jal Jeevan Hariyali campaign, was approved by Bihar cabinet on December 18, 2019. As per the scheme details, Ganga water would be brought to Gaya through an elevated pipeline to be stored in a water reservoir spread over 23 acres in the Manpur locality of Gaya Municipal Corporation area. After being treated at the reservoir, the water would be linked with the municipal water supply system of the town to reach more than one lakh registered holdings of the Gaya Municipal Corporation and Bodh Gaya Nagar Panchayat. The project is estimated to cost about Rs2,836 crore and if things go as per the plan, it will become operational by June, 2021. Surplus water of the Ganga would be pumped out in the July-October months and stored near Manpur for distribution all through the year. The water requirement of Gaya is estimated to be 43 million cubic meter. The Ganga water would be pumped out from Hathidah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-to-inspect-ganga-water-storage-project-at-gaya-today/articleshow/77811773.cms||Abdul Qadir
August 29, 2020||Business||Biggest gilt devolvement shows RBI’s intent on rate||MUMBAI: The RBI on Friday stepped in to stem the spike in benchmark yields on 10-year government bonds as rising yields recently have been threatening the central bank’s efforts to lower interest rate for buyers of home, car and consumer goods, etc, and also for India Inc. Higher yields, to a large extent, have an impact on interest rates in the market. As a result, the central bank is trying to keep the benchmark yield from rising so that the interest rates in the economy also remain lower, market players said. On Friday, the RBI refused to sell government bonds worth almost Rs 18,000 crore at higher yields and sent a strong signal to the bond market that it would not want this benchmark to cross the 6.2% level, bond dealers said. Because of this, almost 60% of the government’s Rs 30,000-crore weekly borrowing remained unsold (devolved). This is the biggest G-sec devolvement ever and all of it was in the benchmark 10-year paper. It’s also the second devolvement in three weeks. This clearly indicates a tug of war between the RBI, which wants to hold yields at current levels, and traders who want to push it up, dealers said. In two weeks, the benchmark yield had hardened to a six-month high of 6.22% from 5.8% but cooled to 6.10-6.15% level after the RBI on Monday announced two open market operations (OMOs). “Devolvement of almost entire primary auction quantity of 10-year benchmark at a yield lower than the market is very strong yield-signalling by the RBI,” said Ram Kamal Samanta, VP (investment), Star Union Dai-ichi Life Insurance. “This action followed by the aggressive OMO purchase in operation twist (last week) indicates the RBI’s lower tolerance for spike in 10-year yield beyond 6.2% amid muted economic activity.” On Dalal Street, however, strong foreign fund buying pushed the sensex to a new 6-month closing high at 39,467 on Friday as banks and financials rallied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/biggest-gilt-devolvement-shows-rbis-intent-on-rate/articleshow/77813356.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Business||Paytm seeks in-principle nod on small bank licence||MUMBAI: Paytm Payments Bank has written to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), seeking an in-principle approval for becoming a small finance bank (SFB) that will enable it to extend loans. The bank has said that the approval will help the lender prepare the groundwork so that it would not have to spend time when it completes the five-year waiting period in a couple of years. Speaking to TOI, Paytm Payments Bank CEO Satish Kumar Gupta said that his organisation is the only profitable payments bank and has been in operations since May 2017. “One of the conditions for granting licence as a payments bank was that we have five years experience in the payments space. I have written to the RBI, asking for an in-principle approval so that we will be prepared to apply for the final licence when we are eligible,” Gupta said. Last year, the RBI had said that payments banks could seek a conversion to SFBs. This conversion option was also made available to cooperative banks. Unlike payments banks, SFBs can grant loans. Gupta said that the Paytm Payments Bank licence was cleared after granting a fit and proper due diligence. “Neither Ant Financial nor SoftBank have any interest or representation in Paytm Payments Bank,” he said. Vijay Shekhar Sharma currently holds 51% in the entity with One97 Communications (OCL) holding 39%, and the remaining 10% held by a joint venture between Sharma and OCL. In a filing for its initial public offering, Ant Financial had described OCL as a major associate in which it holds 30.33% equity interest. Ant Group’s stake in Paytm’s parent has been valued at $5 billion, based on the $16-billion valuation ascribed to the business. According to Gupta, the e-wallet and UPI business are fully in Paytm Payments Bank and the Paytm Payments Gateway, which facilitates customers to do e-commerce transactions at merchant portals, is the only payments related business outside the bank. Gupta said that the bank has seen a big jump in business in August as more and more customers preferred the contactless QR method for doing transactions during the Covid-19 pandemic. “The RBI had allowed us to convert the minimum KYC account to a merchant account with the consent of the user. This was a big relief as these accounts had to be suspended if full KYC was not done after a year,” said Gupta. The bank’s transaction volumes had taken a 30% hit immediately after the lockdown, recovered to pre-Covid levels last month and is expected to be 30% above pre-Covid levels in August. According to Gupta, the bank processes over Rs 55,000 crore of transactions a month. “Our business model is completely different from other payment banks. We are not interested in deposit and our revenue is mostly from transactions,” said Gupta. He said that the bank has not been hit hard by the ban on merchant discount rate (MDR) on RuPay as most of the transactions were on the bank’s own network and it therefore did not incur fees. “We have made a representation to the National Payments Corporation of India to waive their switching fee where there is no MDR as these transactions would become a loss-making proposition for us,” said Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/paytm-seeks-in-principle-nod-on-small-bank-licence/articleshow/77813377.cms||Mayur Shetty
August 29, 2020||Business||Sebi to meet brokers over margin norms||MUMBAI: Top Sebi officials will meet office-bearers of brokers’ associations and officials of clearing houses on Monday before the new margining system in the stock market comes into effect on Tuesday. According to brokers’ association members, the new system involves a process of pledging of shares, which is completely different from the current one in place, but the back-end system needed to seamlessly execute that is not yet ready. If the proposed system, which is pro-investor from every point, is implemented without putting in place the required technology, trading in the stock market may be affected severely, a brokers’ representative said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-to-meet-brokers-over-margin-norms/articleshow/77812681.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||At least 22,000 engineering seats vacant after registration process||AHMEDABAD: The online registration process for admission to engineering degree courses by Admission Committee for Professional Courses (ACPC) saw the participation of 28,200 students. The admissions committee has been given the task to fill some 50,000 seats. This leaves at least 22,000 seats empty in engineering degree courses in Gujarat, sources in ACPC said.There are currently 66,128 seats available in degree engineering colleges. Of these, 9,010 seats are at 16 government-run colleges, 1,076 at four grant-in aid colleges and 55,838 at 114 self-financed institutions. The remaining 204 seats are of an autonomous college. The task of filling 50% of the total seats of self-financed colleges has been entrusted to their respective managements. The mock round of the admissions process is likely to begin soon once the results of GujCET are announced. Admissions for undergraduate engineering and medical programmes are likely to be behind schedule by at least one semester in the new academic year. After the results of the recent GujCET exam, a detailed programme for admission to engineering colleges will be announced. With entrance tests like the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) yet to be held, the admission process for engineering and medical courses is expected to be completed only by November after which students will start attending college in December, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/at-least-22000-engg-seats-vacant-after-registration-process/articleshow/77812646.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Business||E-shoppers double amid pandemic to 42% of urban active internet users||BENGALURU: The consumer base of e-commerce shoppers has doubled to 42% of urban active internet users in India over the last three months (amid the Covid-19 pandemic), according to a study by consulting firm Kantar. Nearly 50% of these are new users of e-commerce coming from tier-1 and -2 cities. For new shoppers, Amazon and Google have emerged as the preferred discovery platforms before making purchases. In contrast, before the virus outbreak in India, just 22% of the urban active internet users had shopped online. In 2019, India had 309 million urban active internet users, the report said. This would translate to about 130 million users having shopped online. While e-commerce sales have surpassed pre-Covid levels due to the pandemic leading people to order their requirements online from their homes, the lockdown has also resulted in fewer avenues for consumers to spend money on. This, according to e-commerce executives and third-party brands, is also aiding online sales. The report by the online insight measurement firm is based on the shopping patterns of close to 6,000 people in the last three months, surveyed in July. This is encouraging for e-tailers who have started preparations for the Diwali festive sale. “If you look at the budgeting of a common man in India, we splurge probably on restaurants, travel and have a fashion budget and entertainment budget (movie, malls, etc). Now, with salaries coming back, what are the avenues left for spending? Not many. That’s why people are spending on themselves in segments like grooming devices and electronics,” said Aman Gupta, co-founder and CMO of boAt Lifestyle, an online-focused consumer brand which sells earphones and speakers. Gupta said this played a role in the 30% higher business for him during the recently concluded online sales in the beginning of the month — the first major such sale since the virus outbreak here. Among existing online shoppers, both Amazon India and Flipkart are neck-and-neck in sales for segments like consumer electronics, fashion and apparel, but Amazon India has the lead in grocery, household items and smartphones, according to the report. TOI in its August 14 report, quoting data from market research firm Counterpoint, said for the first time Amazon India had sold more smartphones than Flipkart for the quarter ending June 2020.“It is unlikely that people will have to budget for holidays later this year. We could see some of that getting spent during the festive sales. Our initial estimates show the festive season sale this year would see 20% growth compared to last year,” said Satish Meena, senior forecast analyst at Forrester, a market research firm. Last year, during the festive month, e-tailers clocked almost $5 billion in gross sales, of which close to $4 billion happened during the five-day flagship sale events of Amazon India and Flipkart. “We are focused on building access for customers and sellers across the country, including remote locations in India’s hinterlands. We will continue working with sellers and partners to offer customers a vast selection, a convenient seamless buying experience and a safe delivery experience on Amazon.in,” a spokesperson of Amazon India said. Flipkart declined to comment on TOI’s query.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/e-shoppers-double-amid-pandemic-to-42-of-urban-active-internet-users/articleshow/77812286.cms||Digbijay Mishra
August 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Teen raped by tantrik for 8 months||YAMUNANAGAR: A 17-year-old girl of a village was allegedly handed over to a tantrik (occultist) by her mother and maternal aunt as they believed he could cure a disease in her stomach, but he allegedly raped her several times since December 21, 2019. The matter came to light after the girl narrated her ordeal to her father, who took her to police to lodge a complaint. The rape survivor was a Class XII student in a government school. She even told her mother about the assault by the man after she sent her to him. But the mother allegedly told her it was part of treatment. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/17-year-old-raped-by-tantrik-for-8-months-mother-ignored-pleas-for-help/articleshow/77813457.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Patna||Setback for opposition as SC OKs EC plan to hold Bihar polls on schedule||PATNA: The Supreme Court’s observation not to interfere into the Election Commission’s decision to conduct the Bihar assembly polls on schedule has come as a setback for the main opposition parties, who have been demanding to defer it citing the Covid-19 pandemic. “We were more concerned about the safety of the people rather than fighting the election amid the Covid-19 outbreak. But the RJD accepts the SC order and would abide by it in toto ,” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said. The RJD spokesperson said that preparations for the coming election have started and his party would participate in the democratic process with full sincerity and vigour. Tiwari further said RJD would request the EC to ensure proper safety norms at the polling booths and more and more participation of people in the electoral process. “We had made the EC aware of our concerns by writing letters to it earlier. If the EC finds the situation favourable, the RJD is ready to fight the election,” he said. The Congress, which is a part of the Mahagathbandhan in Bihar, also welcomed the SC’s order and said it would urge the EC to assess the situation in Bihar before announcing the poll schedule. “Everybody knows that it’s EC’s prerogative to conduct elections. At the same time, it has to see whether the conditions are favourable for the same or not,” Congress MLC Prem Chand Mishra said. Mishra further said that the state is grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic as well as floods. “The situation is critical and would aggravate in days to come as community spread has started in rural areas. Yet the EC considers it fit for election, the Congress, as a political party, will certainly fight the election. But holding elections at the risk of people’s lives is not advisable,” the Congress lawmaker said. Mishra wondered how the Covid-19 cases have drastically fallen in the state after a senior IAS officer Pratyaya Amrit was shifted to the health department as its principal secretary. “Going by the official figures of the health department, days are not far off when the state will be declared ‘corona free’ before the election,” he quipped. The Upendra Kushwaha-led RLSP and Mukesh Sahni’s VIP were also of the same view. “The SC’s observation that election can't be stopped due to Covid-19 outbreak has made it clear that the election is on schedule. Earlier, we were hopeful of 'something positive' from the apex court after a petition seeking deferment of polls in Bihar was filed,” VIP’s national vice-president Dr Raj Bhushan Nishad said. The JD(U) welcomed the SC’s order and said it was a befitting reply to political parties advocating deferment of the election. “I think these parties will henceforth stop making comments on the issue of deferring elections and engage in preparations,” JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said. The BJP too hailed the SC’s order and said the EC would take all precautionary measures to ensure free and fair elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/setback-for-opposition-as-sc-oks-ec-plan-to-hold-bihar-polls-on-schedule/articleshow/77810981.cms||Ramashankar
August 29, 2020||Patna||Daily Covid positivity rate in Patna declines to 6.4% in 14 days||PATNA: Even though the number of Covid-19 cases in Patna has crossed the 20,000-mark, in a silver lining for the state capital, the positivity rate and the number of daily cases are showing a declining trend. The positivity rate is the number of positive cases detected out of the total number of samples tested. The percentage of positive cases was as high as 28.6% in the first two weeks of July. It has since drastically fallen to 6.4% in the past 14 days. Also, official data suggests that most cases are in town areas of Patna district, which have higher economic activities. As per data provided by the district administration, the positivity rate between July 15 to July 31 was 22.8%, which dropped to 10.8% between August 1 and August 14 and then to 6.4% between August 15 and August 26. The fall in the number of daily Covid-19 cases in Patna of late has been substantial. While the last ten days of July had registered an average of 477 new cases daily, in the past week the average cases have come down to 269 daily. According to Patna DM Kumar Ravi, the timely lockdown and precautionary measures helped in containing the virus. “You can see that the positivity rate was higher either before the lockdown or in its initial period. Now people are consciously putting on masks. Also, the increase in the number of tests has brought down the positive cases,” Ravi said. Ravi added that if people continue to be cautious and take precautions, cases will dip further. The caseload across 23 blocks of Patna shows that most of the cases are in Patna Sadar and its adjoining blocks. Data till August 26 shows 15,051 Covid-19 cases in the capital area, which is 76% of the total cases across the district, followed by 930 registered cases in Danapur. Other blocks with higher cases are Barh (617), Phulwarisharif (475) and Masaurhi (405). The DM said town areas are reporting more cases compared to the rural parts because these places have commercial activities, which can’t be stopped. “Essential services cannot be stopped. For instance, these places have hospitals and health workers have more threats, and again there are chances of them passing the virus to their family members. People involved in essential services like home guards, district administration and policing have threats and they are mostly in town areas,” Ravi added. Even though Patna Sadar had reported a large number of cases with over 15,000 people infected, with 87.4% recovery rate, it has now 1,840 active cases. Pandarak has the highest recovery rate of 97%, followed by Ghsowari with 94.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/daily-covid-positivity-rate-in-patna-declines-to-6-4-in-14-days/articleshow/77810775.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 29, 2020||Patna||Covid has increased vulnerability of small farmers, say experts||PATNA: Experts at a webinar on ‘The impact of Covid-19 on small-holder farmers in India and the way forward’, organised by the Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI) and International Growth Centre (IGC) here on Friday, said the pandemic had increased the vulnerability of small farmers in Bihar even more. “Small farmers in Bihar who were producing tomatoes could not market their perishable product as the demand had come down. On the other hand, states like Tamil Nadu had a marketing wing and could help their small farmers find markets,” said Bihar agriculture department secretary N Saravana Kumar. He added farmer producer companies would play a bigger role as they managed to market state’s mangoes and litchis successfully during the pandemic period. “The government has to get small farmers to tackle climate change successfully by extending climate resilient programmes to all the districts. Also, technologies like CBT will also be used more often. Government initiatives like climate resilient programme, which had initially been launched in 8 districts, are being extended to all the 38 districts,” he added. Other panelists included J V Meenakshi, professor of economics at Delhi School of Economics and S Mahendra Dev, director and vice-chancellor, Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research. The webinar was moderated by Anjani Kumar, senior research fellow, IFPRI. Meenakshi said adoption of market reforms matters more for perishable products than staples. Mahendra opined that small farmers need a level-playing field with big farmers. “They need aggregation of their output so that they can get the right prices,” he added. Anjani said the vulnerabilities in agricultural supply chains and depleted workforces caused by Covid-19 have hurt farms of all sizes in India, especially the marginal and smallholder farmers. ADRI director Prabhat P Ghosh said Covid-19 has affected each and every one. “In this pandemic, protecting people’s lives and frontline facilities is the priority for both the central as well as state governments,” he added.  Kumar Das and Bijeta Mohanty of IGC also participated in the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-has-increased-vulnerability-of-small-farmers-say-experts/articleshow/77810893.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Business||NCLAT rejects appeal against Rs 475 Cr takeover of Empee Distilleries by SNJ||Chennai: The national company law appellate tribunal (NCLAT) has rejected an appeal moved by Empee Distilleries challenging its takeover by SNJ Distilleries.Dismissing the appeal moved by Shaji Purushothaman, promoter of Empee Distilleries, the bench comprising acting chairperson Justice Bansi Lal Bhat, technical members VP Singh and Alok Srivastava said, “It is manifestly clear that the commercial wisdom of the committee of creditors in regard to viability and feasibility of the resolution plan is final and this appellate tribunal cannot substitute its view for the commercial wisdom of the committee of creditors.”Evaluation of the financial matrix, feasibility of the plan and its viability are areas falling within the ambit of business decision based on commercial wisdom of the committee of creditors and inquiry in appeal before this Alappellate tribunal is limited to the grounds under Section 61(3) of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, the NCLAT said.The issue pertains to an order passed by the national company law tribunal (NCLT) dated January 20, clearing the Rs 475 crore takeover deal of Empee by SNJ.Due to financial burdens incurred by Empee, Union Bank of India dragged the company to NCLT under corporate insolvency resolution process to come out with a restructuring package.In the process, SNJ emerged as a successful bidder for Empee which was approved by the NCLT.Aggrieved, Purusothaman moved the appellate tribunal contending that his Rs 513 crore settlement proposal to lenders was arbitrarily rejected by the NCLT.Refusing to concur, the appellate tribunal observed that the petitioner’s settlement plan was rejected by lenders due to its structural layout and inability to satisfy them with regards to generation of funds. “Ambiguity in regard to generation of funds for translating the settlement plan into action as also in regard to specific schedule of payment to various stakeholders being writ large on the face of the proposed settlement plan, it has met the inevitable fate of rejection at the hands of committee of creditors,” NCLAT said.However, a cursory look at the resolution plan of committee of creditors reveals that apart from being viable it also takes care of the various stakeholders with financial creditors, workmen and employees and the statutory dues having their debt settled at 100% and operational creditors intended to be settled at 100% being currently paid 59% of their debts. That apart, Rs 7 crore over and above the payout has been set aside as contingent liability fund. This would, therefore, clearly indicate that the successful resolution plan maximises the assets of the corporate debtor and balances the interest of all stakeholders, the appellate tribunal concluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nclat-rejects-appeal-against-rs-475-cr-takeover-of-empee-distilleries-by-snj/articleshow/77811539.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Business||Yoga studio Sarva looks to go digital with new funding||Chennai: Looking to pivot into a digital yoga and mindfulness enterprise, yoga studio Sarva has raised an undisclosed amount in funding from the Cutting Edge Group, a global full-service provider of music for film, advertising and television industries. Patni Family office and existing investor Fireside Ventures also participated in this round. The funding gives Sarva access to 20,000 minutes of music and meditation content, thus accelerating the yoga chain’s inroads into digital wellness and mindfulness- a concept that has picked up in the lockdown. Sarva will get access to mindfulness music library part of Cutting Edge’s record label Myndstream for its Sarva app. “The Sarva app is going to be our one-stop, holistic yoga and mindfulness ecosystem, and we’re 100% focused on strengthening the digital business in India and globally,” Sarvesh Shashi, founder & CEO, Sarva, said. The yoga studio is backed by celebrities including Jennifer Lopez, Mark Mastrov, Shikhar Dhawan, Malaika Arora, and Aishwaryaa R Dhanush, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/yoga-studio-sarva-looks-to-go-digital-with-new-funding/articleshow/77811569.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Patna||Nadda to hold meet with BJP MPs from Bihar today||PATNA: BJP national president J P Nadda will hold a meeting with all party MPs from Bihar, including five Union ministers, in New Delhi on Saturday to chalk out strategies for the upcoming assembly polls in the state. Rajya Sabha MPs, members of party’s core committee and other senior functionaries will also attend the meeting. This will be Nadda’s first meeting with MPs, ministers and core committee members after the state executive committee meeting held in Patna on August 22 and 23. Former Union minister and BJP MP from Patliputra Lok Sabha constituency Ram Kripal Yadav said though the agenda of the meeting had not been made clear, issues related to Bihar elections would be discussed. “The meeting will be held between 4pm and 6pm at the party’s headquarters in New Delhi,” he added. Yadav said he was also informed about the meeting. “All MPs of the party from Bihar, including ministers, have been asked to attend the meeting,’ the BJP MP said. Five Union ministers — Nityanand Rai, Ashwini Kumar Choubey, Giriraj Singh, R K Singh and Ravi Shankar Prasad — are likely to attend the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nadda-to-hold-meet-with-bjp-mps-from-bihar-today/articleshow/77811031.cms||Ramashankar
August 29, 2020||Kolkata||Leaders urge flock to be responsible on Muharram||Kolkata: Community leaders have urged people to obey the Supreme Court order and refrain from bringing out any Muharram procession. They have also urged people to observe Muharram in enclosed spaces, abiding by all the social distancing guidelines. The Supreme Court on Thursday declined permission for bringing out Muharram processions across the country. “We will follow the SC order. We have to keep in mind that the virus is still a threat,” said Syed Meher Abbas Rizvi, Shia cleric and imam-e-jumma, Cossipore. He also urged the government to provide some relief to devotees who want to bring out the tazia with a limited number of people. The police said there has been no application submitted so far to hold a Muharram procession. In certain divisions, like Port and central, several akharas have given in writing that no part of the religious process will be carried out on the road, senior officers told TOI. The cops said the community and religious leaders have been taking help of WhatsApp and Facebook to urge the people to stay indoors. “We are keeping watch on the ground situation. Every division has made an arrangement and the local police stations are keeping in touch with the akharas. But the arrangements made by Lalbazar are meant only for those who might have a sudden change of heart. The traffic police has no role in the arrangement,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/leaders-urge-flock-to-be-responsible-on-muharram/articleshow/77812000.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bodakdev man looted in Satellite||Ahmedabad: An accountant from the Bodakdev on Thursday filed a complaint of loot against two unknown men who had first picked up a fight with him over driving and later snatched away his cellphone worth Rs 11,000. Rajiv Mehta, 55, resident of Chitrakut Apartment who works at Dev Aurum corporate building in Anandnagar, states in his FIR with Satellite police that he was riding his scooter on Wednesday afternoon. At that time, an auto rickshaw driver overtook him and shouted “Kaka” (uncle). To this, Mehta responded and asked them what he wanted. The autorickshaw driver then drove parallel to him, forced him to park his scooter, beat him and then snatched away his cellphone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bodakdev-man-looted-in-satellite/articleshow/77813467.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||GU Round 3 merit list on Sept 8||Ahmedabad: The admission committee for undergraduate commerce courses at Gujarat University on Friday said it will declare the final merit list and college allotments for round three of admissions on September 8. The number of vacant seats will be declared on September 15, it said. The online payment of tuition fees can be done between September 10 and September 13.In the third round, the admission process will be carried out for students of the state board as well as of other boards including the CBSE. The second round for commerce courses at Gujarat University saw 34,873 being allotted colleges of the 36,526 who had registered.In all, 1,653 students did not get admission in any college in the second round. Against this, 5,871 seats have remained vacant in various colleges. The admissions were given based on the choice-filling process for five courses including BCom, BBA, and BCA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-round-3-merit-list-on-sept-8/articleshow/77812573.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Business||Cyberattacks get more nuanced as Covid drags on||Chennai: As millions of people work-from-home logging on to company networks from devices and internet connections not fully secure, cyber attacks are increasing and getting more nuanced. While phishing scams and malwares playing on people’s vulnerability towards Covid-19 dominated the initial leg of the pandemic induced lockdown, the April-June quarter saw almost doubling of ransomware attacks.Ransomware attack is where the hackers capture access to the enterprise’s data or network and hold it to ransom, in return for money. Seqrite, the cybersecurity brand of Quick Heal Technologies, has detected a 2X surge in ransomware attacks in the June quarter compared to January-March. There were 4 lakh ransomware attacks in April-June 2020 compared to 2 lakh in January-March and 2.3 lakh in the quarter ended June 2019. While the popular Maze ransomware — that impacted operations at IT firm Cognizant — continues to be a top threat, the period also saw emergence of new ransomware families including Ryuk, Mailto, and HorseDeal & Gigabyte, among others. Industry trackers said these attacks are also getting more multi-phased compared to their hitherto ‘hit-and-run’ nature. Himanshu Dubey, director, Quick Heal Security Labs, said the quarter saw increased attacks as companies were forced to speed up their digital transformation efforts and security became a casualty in the process. “We anticipate similar or higher number of attacks in the next couple of quarters. Globally, the pandemic has increased unemployment rate, and we feel this may increase attacks as cyber attacks have now become attacks-as-a-service,” he added.Seqrite also observed increased instances of state-sponsored attacks from neighboring countries like Pakistan and China, he added. The company did not provide details of such attacks. Cybersecurity firm Trend Micro said it blocked 27.8 billion cyber threats in the first half of 2020. “Within Asia, India ranked third for encountering the highest number of email threats with 438 million,” the company said. Trend Micro saw a 36% increase in new ransomware families compared to the same time last year. Barracuda Networks notes increased instances of business email compromise. Around 6,170 malicious accounts that use Gmail, AOL, and other email services have been responsible for over 1,00,000 Business Email Compromise (BEC) attacks in 2020 on nearly 6,600 organisations, a company spokesperson said. In a BEC attack, hackers register email accounts with legitimate email services and use these to impersonate people. As the pandemic accelerated app installs, mobile ad frauds have also seen a spike. App intelligence firm Appsflyer, in its annual mobile ad fraud report, says fraudsters are primarily relying on Bots to fake app installs. “India ranks number one in app install fraud rate in the entertainment vertical, indicating a more targeted and sophisticated approach from fraudsters,” Sanjay Trisal, country manager, AppsFlyer India, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cyberattacks-get-more-nuanced-as-covid-drags-on/articleshow/77811487.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
August 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Give all blood banks in district collection permit, says administration||PUNE: Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao on Friday said the administration had told the Food and Drug Administration to provide licence to all the blood banks in the district to collect blood plasma by September 2. Rao said many recovered patients preferred not to return to the hospital for plasma donation fearing re-infection. They could be directed to the nearest blood bank for plasma donation after new facilities started operating, he said. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on Thursday told the blood banks in the division to apply for approval for collecting plasma. An FDA official said there were 96 blood banks, including 10 government-run facilities, in the division. Of them, a total of 11 had the permission to collect plasma at present. Suresh Patil, joint commissioner, FDA, Pune division, told TOI that by Friday, they had received 10 applications for licence of plasmapheresis. A letter from the FDA, Pune, to all the licence holder blood banks on August 27 stated, “The Pune divisional commissioner has directed to start plasmapheresis in most of the blood banks in the division. Accordingly, the blood banks having proof of the plasmapheresis machine, consent form for aphaeresis, details of technical staffers and supervisor, and standard operating procedure (SOP) for aphaeresis among others should apply for the licence.” Atul Kulkarni, the director of Jankalyan Blood Bank in Pune, said this initiative would surely help increase plasma donation, but there were many challenges in terms of machine availability, skilled manpower and the availability of the separate space for it. Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner, Shravan Hardikar, said the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital was receiving a good response in terms of plasma donation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/give-all-blood-banks-in-dist-collection-permit-admin/articleshow/77813434.cms||Piyush Bhusari
August 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid-19: 38 new cases take Nilgiris’ tally to 1,536||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris district recorded 38 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the tally to 1,536. The number of active cases in district now stands 306. Among the new cases were 14 women. The cases were reported from Ooty, Coonoor, Gudalur, Devala and villages such as Ketti, Kappachi, Dhavane, Halatti, Bilkicombai and Nanjanadu. Three of the positive cases had visited Coimbatore and another two had travelled to Tirupur. The remaining 33 cases were secondary and tertiary contacts of the earlier cases with travel history, said a health department official. At least 1,220 patients have recovered from the virus attack in the district so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/38-new-cases-take-nilgiris-tally-to-1536/articleshow/77813466.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||In Vizianagaram, Covid-19 positive cops bond on WhatsApp||VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizianagaram district police has created an exclusive WhatsApp Group for police personnel infected with Covid-19. The group is named ‘Covid Warriors VZM’. Nearly 400 police personnel infected by the virus have joined the group while those who have recovered have been removed from the group. Since its inception in July, the group has set an example for other government departments such as public health and sanitation, which also have workers at the frontline of the pandemic. District superintendent of police B Raja Kumari, who conducts Zoom meetings with Covid-19 patients in the presence of doctors, said the group was formed to give Covid-19 patients the strength to fight the disease. “I added all police personnel right from the home guard to senior rank officers infected with Covid-19, to the group. I also added doctors, counsellors and other specialists. We interact with the patients everyday and try our best for their early recovery,” Raja Kumari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/in-vzm-covid-19-positive-cops-bond-on-whatsapp/articleshow/77810905.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
August 29, 2020||Business||Indiabulls Ventures raises Rs 588 crore from US||MUMBAI: Ribbit Capital, the San Francisco-based technology investor that funded Robinhood, whose lockdown-induced online stock trading clients are now famously nicknamed ‘Robinhood traders’, is leading a Rs 588-crore stake buy in Indiabulls Ventures. In India, Ribbit already has stakes in online investment platform Groww and payment solutions company BharatPe. Indiabulls Ventures is the listed fintech company on which the erstwhile promoters of Indiabulls Housing Finance are now focusing on to grow their businesses. Along with Ribbit, which is investing Rs 184 crore in Indiabulls Ventures, other investors buying stakes include New York-based NWI Emerging Market Fixed Income Master Fund (Rs 147 crore), NYSE-listed Inteligo Bank (Rs 73.5 crore), US-based First Royalty Ventures (Rs 73.5 crore) and two funds from Think Investments group (Rs 110 crore together), also based in San Francisco. Indiabulls Ventures is issuing 3.36 crore shares on a preferential basis to these funds, at a price of Rs 175 per share. This will lead to 5.5% dilution in equity capital, it said in a stock exchange disclosure. The company also announced that Sameer Gehlaut, who recently stepped down as the chairman of Indiabulls Housing Finance, has been re-designated as chairman & CEO of the company. Divyesh Shah, who was till recently the CEO, has been re-designated as COO of the company, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indiabulls-ventures-raises-rs-588cr-from-us/articleshow/77812571.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Goa||Goa: In times of pandemic, private shack owners prepare for new season||COLVA: Despite the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and the tourism season looking bleak, those operating shacks from privately owned land along the beaches have commenced erecting structures. Raj Naik, who runs a guest house and restaurant at the Benaulim beach, has begun strengthening the structures of his seasonal ‘Coco Huts’ venture. Speaking to TOI, he confirmed that he already has two bookings for September from domestic tourists. “Before that, I have to cross a lot of hurdles like obtaining all the permissions, besides making the place look presentable.” It may be recalled that tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar has demanded a compensation package from the central government for shack owners in view of the total slump in tourism during the 2019-2020 season. President of the Shack Owners Welfare Society (SOWS) Cruz Cardozo informed that they have a meeting with chief minister Pramod Sawant next week, along with the tourism minister and other officials. “The 2019-20 tourist season was the worst. First, the shacks were delayed by almost two months and then had to close operations by March due to the pandemic,” Cardozo said. A shack owner said the government’s decision not to allow alcohol to be sold in restaurants should not be made applicable for shacks as it would affect whatever little business they would make. Cardozo said that restriction on international travel for senior citizens is another factor that the government has to take into consideration. “Major quantum of our business is from senior citizens from UK, Canada and Russia who travel to Goa to escape extreme winters in their countries. But if they are not allowed to travel, then our business will hugely suffer,” he said. A private shack operator said that the tourism department should immediately set the guidelines for them to function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-times-of-pandemic-private-shack-owners-prepare-for-new-season/articleshow/77813517.cms||Nisser Dias
August 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Work on new bridge parallel to Mahatma Gandhi Setu to begin next month||PATNA: The construction on a new four-lane bridge parallel to Mahatma Gandhi Setu (MGS) on the Ganga will start within a month as the bidding process for the project worth Rs1794.37 crore completed on Friday, state road construction department minister Nand Kishore Yadav told TOI. Once completed, this bridge will ease the pressure on existing Mahatma Gandhi Setu, which is known as the lifeline between north and south Bihar. Since the SP Singla Constructions Pvt Limited emerged the lowest bidder, it would now be awarded the work order, the minister said and added that the construction work would begin after mobilization work gets over. Additional chief secretary (RCD) Amrit Lal Meena said the target is to complete the construction process in 48 months. Meena said the total length of the new bridge would be around 14km-long — from Zero Mile in Patna up to Ramashish Chowk at Hajipur. The length of its superstructure, excluding its approach road, is 5.63km. It is a part of PM Narendra Modi’s special package for Bihar which he had announced before the 2015 assembly polls. Fresh tenders were floated for the construction of this bridge in June this year and seven firms had qualified for the financial bid. The SP Singla Construction Pvt Limited quoted Rs1,794.37 crore as the bid amount. Officials had cited technical errors for the cancellation of previous tender. However, sources said the reason for cancellation of previous tender was the partnership of Chinese firms in several of the companies which had participated in the earlier bid. Bid process initiated for Ara-Mohania road: Altogether 25 firms have participated in the bidding process initiated by the RCD for widening of Ara-Mohania road. It will be a four-lane road as the existing one has only two lanes. The entire stretch has been divided into two packages. The Ara-Parariya stretch is 54.53km-long and has to be widened with an estimated cost of Rs797.4 crore. The widening of 60.80km-long Parariya-Mohania stretch will cost Rs860.91 crore. RCD minister Nand Kishore Yadav said 13 bidders have participated for the work on the first stretch and 12 for the second. “Land acquisition has already been done. Once the bidding process is completed, construction work will begin,” said Yadav, adding that the bidding process will be completed in three months and construction work will be done in 30 months. He further said once this project is completed, Ara will also get four-lane connectivity with the Grand Trunk Road and that will help in the development of the entire region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/work-on-new-bridge-parallel-to-gandhi-setu-to-begin-next-mth/articleshow/77811688.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Mukhiya held for swindling over Rs 46 lakh||PATNA: Police on Friday arrested Ritu Kumari, mukhiya of Naubatpur’s Ajwan panchayat, for her alleged involvement in illegal withdrawal of Rs 46.19 lakh meant for expenditure on development projects under CM’s ‘Saat Nishchay’ scheme. Kumari had been evading arrest for nearly two months. SHO of Nabautpur police station Samrat Deepak Kumar said the mukhiya had surprisingly come to attend the meeting of the panchayat samiti at Naubatpur block office where she was arrested. Meanwhile, Patna district panchayati raj officer Sushma Kumari said due process would be followed to recover Rs 46.19 lakh from the mukhiya. Rs 2 lakh looted: Motorcycle-borne criminals looted Rs 2 lakh in cash from one Premchand Rai at Azadagar under the Maner police station area in western Patna on Friday. SHO Madhusudan Kumar said Rai had withdrawn the money from a State Bank of India branch at Danapur. He said Rai, a resident of Rambad village under the Maner police station area, and had withdrawn the money for house construction. “He works at a Food Corporation of India godown in Phulwarisharif,” the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mukhiya-held-for-swindling-over-rs-46-lakh/articleshow/77811861.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Pre-April bed charges for non-insurance patients||KOLKATA: Private hospitals will now go back to their pre-April bed charges for non-insurance patients seeking admission for Covid treatment. The unanimous decision to comply with the advisory from West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) was taken after representatives of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI) met the commission officials on Friday. The commission also clarified that the advisory on allowing patients a discount of 10% and 20% on medicines and consumables, respectively, is reserved only for those who will pay in cash and that it will not be applicable for patients admitted under insurance schemes and corporate tie-ups. “Hospitals, however, have said that it would be difficult to offer rebates on some medicines. We have asked them to let us know the names of those medicines on a case-to-case basis. The commission will speak to pharmaceutical companies manufacturing these medicines to explore the possibility of discounts,” said WBCERC chairman Justice Ashim Kumar Banerjee. Earlier, hospitals had pointed it out to the commission that they have a margin of less than 10% on some high-end medicines. After the clarification from the commission, hospitals have started working on reverting to bed charges that prevailed on March 31, 2020. “Our IT people are working on feeding the previous bed rates into the system. We will implement the commission’s advisory at the earliest,” said Sudipto Mitra, spokesperson of Peerless Hospital. Most hospitals had revised their bed charges for the current financial year that went up by 5% to 10% from April 1, 2020. Hospitals said that it could take about a couple of days more to upload old bed charges in its system. “We somehow had not revised our bed charges for this financial year. For medicine and consumables, we are working out a discount for non-insurance patients,” said Alok Roy, chairman of the Medica Group of Hospitals. Representatives of 13 hospitals from Kolkata, including AMRI, RN Tagore, Belle Vue, Medica, Apollo, Charnock, Fortis, Peerless, Ruby and Kothari, and Sanaka Hospital and IQ City Hospital from the districts attended the meeting. “We presented our concerns before Justice Banerjee who gave us a patient hearing. He also assured us that he will look into the prices of some of the medicines, which are not easily available or have high demand. With regard to bed charges, he urged us to continue with it till December 31, after which the commission will reconsider. We pledged our total support to the commission and the state government,” said AHEI president Rupak Barua. In addition to Banerjee, WBCERC member secretary and deputy secretary Arshad Hasan Warsi and Sibaji Adak attended the meeting from the commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pre-april-bed-charges-for-non-insurance-patients/articleshow/77811857.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 29, 2020||Business||Tata Consumer appoints TaMo CFO Balaji as director||MUMBAI: Tata Consumer Products has appointed P B Balaji, chief financial officer (CFO) of Tata Motors, as its director, expanding his role within the conglomerate’s consumer-facing businesses. Balaji, who was handpicked by Tata Group chairman N Chandrasekaran in 2017 to drive the financial performance of the automobile company, was inducted into the board of Tata Consumer following the exit of Tata Sons executive Harish Bhat. Balaji is perhaps the first Tata Motors executive to be inducted into the board of Tata Consumer, which was established in 1964 to create value-added tea in alliance with James Finlay of UK. Typically, representatives of Tata Sons, the conglomerate’s holding company, are nominated to the board of key operating companies. A source said as Balaji comes from FMCG giant Unilever, his global experience and knowledge in all areas of finance and investments will be valuable to Tata Consumer, which is in the middle of becoming a broad-based FMCG company. Tata Consumer plans to go beyond non-alcoholic beverages and packaged foods and enter personal and homecare categories — areas where Unilever is a formidable player. Harish, 58, a Tata Group executive since 1987, was inducted into the board of Tata Consumer in 2014 when Cyrus Mistry was the chairman of Tata Sons. Harish was also part of Mistry’s advisory team at Tata Sons. In November 2016, Harish replaced Mistry as the chairman of Tata Consumer after the latter was removed from the helm of Tata Sons. A few months later in July 2017, Harish stepped down from the chairman’s position at Tata Consumer, making way for Chandrasekaran to take charge. In an August 7 regulatory filing, Tata Consumer said Harish has resigned as a non-executive director but it didn’t spell out the reason for his exit. The following day, Tata Consumer said that it has appointed Balaji as a non-executive director. Tata Consumer did not respond to an e-mail seeking comment. Tata Consumer is the second Tata company from where Harish has resigned in the past year. Last September, he stepped down from the board of Titan, a joint venture between Tata Sons and Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation. In a September 28, 2019 regulatory filing, Titan said that Harish has resigned as non-executive director and Bhaskar Bhat will be re-designated as non-executive director after his retirement from the company’s executive position as managing director. Bhaskar, another old Tata hand, is also a director of Tata Sons. The board restructuring at Titan was triggered by the joint venture agreement that caps the number of representatives each partner can have in the company. Explaining the reason for the changes, Titan had said Tata Sons, in accordance with the joint venture agreement, withdrew the nomination of Harish as its nominee director and named Bhaskar as its representative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-consumer-appoints-tamo-cfo-balaji-as-director/articleshow/77812612.cms||Reeba Zachariah
August 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Light at end of metro tunnel, digging work over in 3 years||AHMEDABAD: The GMRC (Gujarat Metro Rail Corporation) on Friday completed the tunnel-boring work and two machines finally surfaced at the Shahpur end of the 6.5km tunnel from Shahpur to Apparel Park. When the three-year toil of the two tunnel-boring machines (TBMs) ended, workers chanted celebratory slogans and waved the tricolour. In February 2019, two TBMs had emerged near the Kalupur station. Eighteen months later, the other two pushed themselves out in Shahpur near the riverfront. On Friday, a ceremony was held at the Kalupur metre gauge railway station at which the GMRC announced the completion of the tunnel. The Apparel Park to Shahpur stretch has four stations: Kankaria East, Kalupur, Gheekanta, and Shahpur. Amit Gupta, the chief general manager of the GMRC, said that the tunnelling work was completed in three years and four TBMs were deployed. In all, 52,000 cubic metres of concrete was used for the construction of the tunnel. GMRC officials said that tenders were issued for the project in March 2017, and the first machine was lowered in April 2018. The second was pressed into service in June 2018. Officials said that the second machine completed the work in time as it had data collected by the first machine, which was moving 100 metres ahead. An official said that along the entire project stretch, four incidents were reported — foam had gushed into some houses and a portion of a building had collapsed in Maninagar. The officials said that the work to install signalling systems, tracks, and power lines will take about 18 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/light-at-end-of-metro-tunnel-digging-work-over-in-3-years/articleshow/77812505.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: One dead, 2 injured in building collapse||AHMEDABAD: One person died and two others were rescued from the debris of Prem Complex, a commercial complex that collapsed in Kubernagar at about 1.30am on Friday. The deceased was identified as one Prem Charan. Fire brigade officials rushed to the G+2 building for the rescue. The firemen said they had initial information that three persons had been buried under the debris. They were able to rescue two persons early in the morning. Civic body officials said the building was 35 years old and nine of its units of the building had collapsed in the incident. Sardarnagar police registered a case of accidental death on Friday. Inspector of Sardarnagar police station, H B Patel, said cops have also made an entry in the station diary about the building collapse. Police said Prem Charan, Vijay Charan, and Kunal Udani, were working overnight on an embroidery order at Prem’s hosiery shop on the third floor, when at about 1.30am the building collapsed and they were buried under the debris. “Fire department rushed in and rescued Vijay and Kunal but Prem could not be saved,” Patel said. “The entire incident happened due to negligence of the builder who had first removed the pillar from the ground floor to make a big showroom for a television and refrigerator shop. Recently, when the showroom closed, he made plywood partitions and rented out the space to three shops. The removal of the pillars had reduced the strength of the structure and cracks had developed in the building for the last two years. Shopkeepers had flagged the cracks but the builder did not listen to them. Prem was 24 years old and was not married.” said Santosh, father of Charan. “On Thursday there was an embroidery order of 500 pieces and so Vijay, Kunal (another person) and Prem had decided to work overnight and complete the order. Vijay, 21, has received severe leg injuries. We were told that at about 1.30am, while the three were busy working, there was a huge sound and they were buried in debris. They were finally brought out at 6am. Kunal and Vijay were discharged after brief treatment, but later in the night Kunal had severe pain and was again rushed to Civil Hospital,” said Kunal, cousin of Vijay Charan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1-dead-2-injured-in-building-collapse/articleshow/77812458.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: Congress to launch poll campaign on September 1||PATNA: State Congress will begin its virtual rally from September 1 and hold 100 public meetings through digital platforms across Bihar to launch its campaign for the assembly election due in October-November. Addressing a press conference here on Friday, All India Congress Committee secretary Ajay Kapoor, who is the party’s incharge of Bihar, said Rahul Gandhi would also address a virtual rally in the state. But the date of Rahul’s rally was yet to be finalized, he said. Kapoor said virtual rallies will continue till September 21 two to four such rallies will be held in each district. These rallies have been christened ‘Bihar Kranti Mahasabha’. The rallies will be addressed by senior as well as local leaders. Sources said once these rallies get over, RaGa will address a pan Bihar rally. Kapoor later hit out at the NDA government in the state and said the ruling party had failed to tackle Covid-19 pandemic and floods. He said people wanted a change and were looking up to the Congress. “They want such government which works for them,” said Kapoor, adding, “On behalf of our leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, I can assure people that Congress will emerge victorious and will revive its glorious past in the state.” However, when asked about the issue of seat distribution in the Mahagathbandhan which has yet not been sorted out, he replied, “That will be nicely done by our party high command and Congress will contest on respectful number of seats.” Kapoor reached Patna on Thursday evening to look after the preparations for the upcoming virtual rallies. Before interacting with the media on Friday, he held a meeting with 19 district presidents of north Bihar and assigned them the responsibility in their respective areas. He asked them to ensure the participation of at least 8,000 to 10,000 people in each virtual rally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-to-launch-poll-campaign-on-september-1/articleshow/77810999.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Nawada man returns home after 18 years in Pak jail||PATNA: Ramchandra Yadav, who returned home to his family after 18 years in a Pakistani jail, couldn't recognize his youngest son Rakesh Kumar when he saw him on Wednesday. Rakesh was barely a year old when his mentally ill father went missing from their Nawada village in 2002. Yadav, now 55, arrived from Gurdaspur in Punjab at his Bhawani Bigha village home under Kashichak police station in Nawada around 11 pm on Wednesday. Yadav was handed over to the Border Security Force (BSF) by Pakistan Rangers at Wagha border on August 19 from where he was brought to Nawada by his family members. TOI managed to talk to Yadav over the phone, but he could only say that he was lodged in a Pakistani jail and tortured. He was unable to recall the place where he was but said he was kept in a cell all alone. His wife, Shakunti Devi, told TOI that she always believed her husband will return. “That’s why I continued to put vermillion on my head for him. It feels great now,” she added. One of his nephews Sanjay Yadav (45) said, “Uncle told us that he was in a Pakistani jail and cops used to beat him. He shares snippets whenever he recalls anything.” Sanjay added, “He went missing in 2002 after losing his mental balance. We had taken him to Ranchi for treatment and he was under medication.” Sanjay further said his uncle now prefers living a secluded life. “Uncle told us that he spent some time in Prayagraj and Punjab sometime before walking into Pakistan,” he said. The family had searched for Yadav for nearly two years but failed. “We used to alert those going Delhi, Punjab, Haryana to keep an eye but afterwards we gave up,” he said. Yadav has three sons – Mithilesh (26), Akhilesh (23), Rakesh (19) and two daughters – Baby (28) and Gauri (24). “Baby, Gauri and Mithilesh are married now. We kept his family together all this while in the hope that uncle was alive somewhere even when some villagers used to say that he won’t return ever again,” he said, adding, they are now planning to get him treated properly once again. Kashichak SHO Raj Kumar said on August 8, BSF sent a photo of Yadav with his name as ‘Chandra Ram’ and fathers name as ‘Gangu’ which turned out to be Gogu Yadav. “For five days, we were unable to track him as none including even village chowkidar was able to recognise his photograph. Incidentally, one Ram Vilas Yadav from the same village recognised Yadav’s photograph,” he said. The SHO said afterwards they contacted Yadav’s family and communicated to BSF. “We cross-verified his name from voters’ list and ration card with family too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nawada-man-returns-home-after-18-years-in-pak-jail/articleshow/77811081.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 29, 2020||Patna||Muharram: Bihar gets three companies of CAPF||PATNA:The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has allotted three companies of central armed police force (CAPF) to Bihar for deployment on Muharram, which will be observed on Sunday. The government has already banned religious gatherings and processions on Muharram keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic. As per a letter issued by ADG (law and order) Amit Kumar, the MHA has allotted two companies of Rapid Action Force (RAF) and one company of Sashatra Seema Bal (SSB) to the state. The RAF personnel will be deployed in Patna and Bhagalpur and the SSB personnel in Muzaffarpur. The paramilitary forces will conduct flag march in sensitive areas. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said the RAF personnel would conduct flag march in Phulwarisharif and Patna City on Saturday and Sunday as part of confidence building measure and to deter anti-social elements from committing any mischief. “Magistrates and other police officers have also been deployed, but not on a scale like previous years as Muharram will be a low-key affair this time due to Covid-19 pandemic,” the SSP said. He added ‘tazias’ are not being made this year and procession is also not allowed. “There is no question of taking out procession as no licence has been issued for it,” he added. SHO of Pirbahore police station Rizwan Ahmed Khan said a peace committee meeting was organised in the area on August 23 and the people concerned assured them that they would adhere to the restrictions imposed by the state government. SHO of Phulwarisharif police station Rafique-ur-Rahman also held a peace committee meeting in his jurisdiction and informed people about the dos and don’ts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/muharram-state-gets-3-companies-of-capf/articleshow/77811746.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Patliputra University to accept online forms till August 31||PATNA: Patliputra University (PPU), which has 25 constituent and affiliated colleges under its jurisdiction in Patna and Nalanda, will accept online applications for admission of students to Degree Part I courses in three different streams till August 31. According to a recent notification issued by PPU, the first merit list will be published on the university’s website on September 5. The selected candidates will be admitted to the colleges of their choice till September 14 and the testimonials verified by September 17. The second list will be announced on September 20 and students allowed to take admission till September 28. Verification of the testimonials will be done by October 1. The third merit list will be out on October 4 and the admission process completed by October 12. Validation of the testimonials will be done by October 15. The university will also conduct an on-the-spot admission on October 18 and announce the merit list on October 21, after which the admission process will be completed by October 26. PPU is charging Rs 300 for each online application form from the students of all categories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ppu-to-accept-online-forms-till-august-31/articleshow/77810814.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Every varsity to form committee for implementation of new education policy||AHMEDABAD: State education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama has directed all universities to constitute a committee for the implementation of the Centre’s new education policy. The minister has also asked the varsities to form a separate committee to study various aspects of the new policy. In an online meeting with the vice-chancellors of the state varsities, the minister said that Gujarat universities should take a lead in implementing the new national education policy. The minister called upon the vice-chancellors of the universities to formulate a clear work for the implementation of this education policy. For this purpose, universities should prepare a roadmap for the implementation of the new National Education Policy by setting up a new Education Policy Implementation Committee. Chudasama also asked the members to organize an online workshop to make the implementation of the new national education policy a result-oriented one. While higher education has been considered along with primary education, plans are on to study this education policy and provide quality education to the students. Minister of state for education (higher and primary) Vibhavari Dave said that knowledge could be global, but education must be national and education policy had been formulated keeping this in mind. “The new policy also shows how today’s student can become an ideal citizen of the country. We must now move forward in order to ensure that it is implemented with a clear plan,” she said at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/every-varsity-to-form-committee-for-implementation-of-new-education-policy/articleshow/77812610.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Nashik||Two highway robbers arrested||NASHIK: The Nashik rural police have arrested two people on the charges of allegedly manhandling a truck driver and robbing him of his cellphone and cash on the Mumbai-Agra highway in Talegaon near Igatpuri. According to rural police, Firoz Rasul Khan was cleaning his truck parked on a road near Talegaon on Tuesday when three people riding a motorcycle approached him. The men then robbed Khan of his three cellphones and cash after assaulting him and threatening him with a sharp weapon. Subsequently, Khan approached the Igatpuri police and registered a complaint. Thereafter, the sleuths of the crime branch stepped up their intelligence and arrested two suspects from Igatpuri and Kasara. The suspects have been identified as Kishor Sanjay Manohar (21) and Deepak Jadhav, both residents of the Talegaon. Officials of the local crime branch said that Jadhav is a history-sheeter on police records and that they are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-highway-robbers-arrested/articleshow/77810903.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Mysuru||Record rise in number of people obtaining false caste certificates to bag govt jobs||Mysuru: Directorate of Civil Right Enforcement Cell (DCRE) has received highest ever complaints of job aspirants obtaining false caste certificates to bag government jobs this year. According to officials, an exponential rise in people seeking Scheduled Caste certificate under the Beda Jangama category has been observed in the first eight months of 2020. Recently more than 25 people were issued SC certificate under the Beda Jangama category of Belagavi’s Gokak taluk despite them being Lingayath Jangama. As many as 26 false Beda Jangama claims were reported from Belagavi, followed by Kalaburagi (21), Ballari (18), Bengaluru (4) and Tumakuru (1). Acting on the complaints, two government employees have been dismissed, five are facing dismissal and about 25 cases are pending before district level committees since years. Permission has been given to look into 52 petitions received from KR Nagar in Mysuru and 42 from Ballari. According to sources, some of the members belonging to Lingayat Jangama, Veerashaiva Jangama, Lingayat/ Lingavantha, in connivance with some officials, obtained SC certificate after altering school records and ensuring records of their ancestors go missing. During inquiry, officials concerned claimed they don’t have previous records of persons in question. According to DCRE officials, even Kurubas are claiming to be ‘Kadu Kuruba’ and seeking Scheduled Tribe certificates in Mysuru, Kalaburagi, Bengaluru, Bidar, Yadgir, Raichur, Koppal, Chitradurga and Tumakuru. Members from Parivara community are also obtaining ST certificates claiming to be Nayaka/Talawara in Bengaluru, Mysuru and Chamarajanagar areas, they added. Speaking to TOI, DCRE additional director general of police K Ramachandra Rao said people are obtaining SC certificate claiming as Beda Jangama to reap benefits from government, including jobs. “An investigation has been ordered,” he said. The recent incident in Belagavi was brought to notice of DC and government officials, suspected to be in connivance with some offenders, were placed under suspension, Rao added. “Records are being systematically destroyed at the school level. This has prevented genuine candidates from getting government benefits. Social welfare authorities, education officers and revenue officials must work together to resolve this problem,” suggested the ADGP. The cell has received 908 complaints, including 247 this year. Of them, 702 petitions have been disposed of and 573 cases are recommended to DLCVC for action. Despite the allegations, accused employees continue to remain in service and receive salaries due to the alarming delay in investigation. “We haven’t held a meeting after the nationwide lockdown. Majority of the cases in Mysuru here is of Nayaka /Talawar,” said Mysuru DC Abhiram G Sankar who heads DLCVC in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/record-rise-in-number-of-people-obtaining-false-caste-certificates-to-bag-govt-jobs/articleshow/77810821.cms||Lawrence Milton
August 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Biofuel records growing demand in rural areas of DK||Mangaluru: There is a growing demand for renewable automotive fuel in Puttur and Bantwal taluks of Dakshina Kannada district. Recently, Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari called for switching to bio-fuels, CNG, and electricity as a transportation fuel not only to save on fuel bills, but also to contribute to the economy and reduce pollution. JCB operators, especially in rural areas of Puttur, Bantwal, and Vittal, are gradually switching to biofuel. Keshava Moorthy C, proprietor, Jayachandra Biofuel Station in Bantwal, told TOI, “We are noticing a growing demand for biofuel. However, post lockdown the demand fell. We were selling nearly 3,500 litres per day before the lockdown. Currently, the station manages to sell about 2,500 litres/ day and the demand is mostly from JCB owners followed by private vehicles, who are finding the cost reasonable along with pleasure of driving and increased mileage,” he said. Biofuel costs a rupee less than diesel. Biofuel is prepared from extracts of corn and soya in Gujarat and transported on road to Bantwal. In the US, soybean oil is the most commonly used vegetable oil for biodiesel production and smaller amounts of vegetable oil for biodiesel production include distiller’s corn oil, a byproduct of the corn ethanol production process. The company is expected to launch bioethanol from sugarcane bagasse in the next six months as an alternative to petrol, said Keshava Moorthy who is helping in setting up a biofuel bunk in Hagaribommanahalli in Ballari district and is donning the role of a consultant for nine other such bunks across Karnataka. Moorthy who worked as an IT consultant in the UK for 16 years took this up as a pilot project when he returned to India. "After a lot of trials, we launched the fuel station last year. The product has been working fine for all diesel vehicles. We expect more support from the government as there is a strong lobby working against the use of biofuels," he said CAPTIOn Biofuel station in Bantwal taluk||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/biofuel-records-growing-demand-in-rural-areas-of-dk/articleshow/77810976.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
August 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Students take up baking amidst pandemic||Mangaluru: During the pandemic induced lockdown, more people have taken to baking, which is evident from a spike in demand for baking ingredients, that reportedly saw a 60% increase in sales. An aggressive baking trend is supported by several social media posts. Interestingly, for many students, baking has turned out to be a business venture. Many are self-taught bakers who rely on online content. They accept pre-booked orders through pages on Instagram. Students are confident of continuing their business once regular classes resume. Aina Zahid, a second year hotel management student at Sarosh Institute of Hotel Administration decided to follow in her mother Aneesa Hasna’s footsteps. While her mother sells biryani and related items through Annu’s Kitchen, Aina has taken up baking. “During the lockdown, I focused only on baking and fine-tuned my skills. Now I can take any challenge from a customer, and sell at least two customized cakes every day,” she said. Samah Maryam Hashim Khatri, a third year BBA student from St Aloysius College started baking at the age of 14. However, it was the lockdown that forced her to convert her passion into a business, through her Instagram page, thesilverstove. “I tried out my mother’s biryani recipe and it clicked. Along with vanilla and red velvet cakes, I sell chicken biryani, butter chicken, and chicken kebabs. Ever since the commercial launch, I get at least three orders per day,” she said. If not for the plenty of time at her disposal due to the pandemic, Suman S Attavar, a second year BA student from the School of Social Work Roshni Nilaya and her cousin Rithika Rajeev, a I PU student from St Aloysius College may not have taken up baking. “Things changed when my uncle Ranjith and aunt Sunita bought an oven. Our first experiment was with pizzas and it was a disaster. We then experimented with mug cakes and for my uncle’s birthday, we successfully baked a cake. Baking is therapeutic and we gradually started distributing cakes among friends and family. We soon launched Sugar Relish, a page on Instagram, and started receiving orders. Our biggest order has been a two-tier cake. Our friend Aina supported us,” said Suman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/students-take-up-baking-amidst-pandemic/articleshow/77810855.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
August 29, 2020||Business||FPI flows, passive RBI lift rupee to 6-mth high of 73.4 vs $||TNN Mumbai: Record foreign fund buying in equities, with the RBI now remaining on the sidelines in the foreign exchange market, boosted the rupee on Friday to a six-month high against the dollar. The Indian currency also recorded its biggest weekly gain in about 20 months. During the day, it strengthened 42 paise against the green back to close at 73.40 to a dollar with the weekly gain at 2% — its biggest since December 2018. According to foreign exchange advisory firm IFA Global founder & CEO Abhishek Goenka, for weeks the rupee was artificially kept weak as the RBI continued to buy dollars from the market and helped banks use that money to buy bonds, which saw increased supply. “Now since the central bank has let it go, government banks are not buying dollars at important levels and there is month-end dollar selling by exporters. We expect weakness of the dollar (so, a stronger rupee) to remain for a while,” Goenka said. He expects the rupee to strengthen till about 72.50 levels. But some economists expect the current trend of rupee appreciation may not continue. “With persisting large global liquidity levels and low interest rates, flows into Indian markets got a boost. Against the backdrop of reduced imports and potentially a current account surplus during the current fiscal, weaker dollar and strong equity market flows have led to notable uptick in rupee of late,” said Bandhan Bank chief economist Siddhartha Sanyal. So far in August, foreign funds have net pumped about Rs 50,000 crore into the Indian stock market, official data showed. This is the biggest net monthly inflow in over a decade, official data showed. Consistent dollar buying by the RBI, along with strong FPI flows in recent months, has helped India’s forex reserve to a record level near $540 billion (about $538 billion for the week ended August 21), which is also helping the strength of the rupee. Economists now expect the central bank to continue to buy forex in the coming months, “especially given the heightened macroeconomic uncertainty”. “On balance, scope for further appreciation in rupee looks limited despite surplus on both current and capital accounts,” Sanyal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fpi-flows-passive-rbi-lift-rupee-to-6-mth-high-of-73-4-vs-/articleshow/77812434.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Kolkata||IIEST helps students with devices, fee concessions||Kolkata: The Indian Institute of Engineering, Science and Technology (IIEST) is buying laptops and tablets and giving fee concessions to help over 700 students who had pleaded inability to attend virtual classes due to lack of devices or proper internet connections. Online classes have started this week for the fresh semester. The institute could not conduct classes after the campus shut down towards the end of March. Some lectures were uploaded and recorded versions were e-mailed to students, but after more than 20% students expressed their inability to be online, exams could not be held and results were declared on the basis of online viva-voce, class performances and previous years’ scores. IIEST conducted a survey among the 3,500 students and found that slightly over 700 needed to be hand-held with devices and net connections to bridge the gap. “A recent grant of Rs 50 lakh we have received as the first instalment from alumnus Sunandan Narayan Basu for a digital hub will be used to fund these devices,” said Arindam Biswas, dean (alumni) of IIEST and a faculty of the IT department. To help students get net connection, the institute has declared a waiver of Rs 2,500-Rs 3,000 from the past semester’s fees and has asked students to use this money to buy high-speed net connections. As of now, the system is likely to continue till the Pujas. The institute is now finalizing the modalities of how to dispatch the devices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iiest-helps-students-with-devices-fee-concessions/articleshow/77811945.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 29, 2020||Vadodara||Notorious criminal Bodiyo nabbed after 100 km chase||Vadodara: Notorious criminal Aslam Haidarmiyan Sheikh alias Aslam Bodiya was nabbed after one of the longest police-criminal chase witnessed in Vadodara in the recent years.A team of seven crime branch sleuths in two vehicles pursued Bodiyo for nearly 100 km in the chase that began near Savli and ended near Golden Chowkdi on the national highway-48. The chase lasted for nearly an hour and 45 minutes before an exasperated Bodiyo, who first drove at breakneck speed, finally abandoned his car on being cornered and tried to flee on foot.he cops began chasing Aslam from Savli on the outskirts of the city. He spotted the police near Golden Chowkdi on national highway 48 following which he sped towards Halol Road and then headed towards Jarod village. Aslam took the internal roads of the village but couldn’t pursue further as the railway crossing was closed. He turned back towards Halol Road and reached Golden Chowkdi again where the cops had already picketed the road. Police had received a tip-off that Bodiyo will be passing through Golden Chowkdi on Friday night and a team of cops was keeping a watch.Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime) said Bodiyo sped away when the cops tried to stop him. “He first sped towards Halol Road and then headed towards Jarod village. The cops had already picketed the roads in the area, so he turned back towards Golden Chowkdi where the police were already waiting for him. It was a nearly 100 km long chase.” Though overweight, Bodiyo got down from the car and tried to escape on foot but the cops nabbed him. He will now be booked under Prevention of Anti-Social Act (PASA). The last such chase by local cops was in February this year when they pursued ‘Tadpatri gang’ for about 15 km near Jambua on the highway. The accused got away but were be arrested 15 days later.Bodiyo has been arrested by the police several times and the cops had even once made him sing like a rooster in the police station to embarrass him. He has even been paraded twice in public to ensure that people don’t get scared of him. He was last arrested in September 2019 for threatening and extorting money from the manager of a finance firm.According to the police, Bodiyo was wanted in three different offences registered at Navapura and Raopura police station. He was booked for criminal intimidation, causing hurt to government servant and under Disaster Management Act for flouting police notification during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/notorious-criminal-bodiyo-nabbed-after-100-km-chase/articleshow/77810214.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC orders FIR, departmental action against PSI for kidnapping ex-wife||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has ordered Dahod superintendent of police to lodge an FIR against a traffic cop serving in Vadodara for abducting his ex-wife, detaining her at a farmhouse and committing illegality with her.The case involved a police sub-inspector working with Vadodara’s traffic branch, Umesh Nalwaya. The HC has also ordered the Vadodara police commissioner to initiate departmental proceedings against Nalwaya for the trouble he allegedly caused to the woman after their divorce.The case came before the HC after Nalwaya abducted his ex-wife with help of his contacts in Dahod district and confined her at his friend’s farmhouse. The woman’s mother approached police, but nothing happened. She filed a habeas corpus petition in the HC. The cops got into action, released the woman and produced her before the court on Wednesday through video conference from a court in Dahod.When the judges inquired, she narrated that she is a pharmacist and was married to Nalwaya earlier. Realizing that she would not be happy with him, she decided to get divorce. However, even after legal divorce and though she did not want to maintain any relationship with him, the cop continued to interfere in her and her parents’ lives. His high-handedness continued. “The woman was begging for her own life and her parents’ safety and for permitting her to continue with her livelihood,” the HC noted in its order.The woman also described how her former husband had her abducted and detained at the farmhouse with local anti-social elements in Dahod district. She complained that even after divorce, the PSI continued to dominate her life.The high court ordered the Dahod SP to register an FIR against the PSI and get the case investigated by a senior officer. The court also asked the Dahod principal district judge to coordinate with the SP to ensure requisite protection for a substantial period to the woman and her family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-orders-fir-departmental-action-against-psi-for-kidnapping-ex-wife/articleshow/77812554.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Delhi||In Unlock 4, Delhi government for resuming all business activities; gym owners hopeful||NEW DELHI: Under Unlock 4, Delhi government wants to open all economic activities with strict social distancing and preventive measures to give the moribund economy a boost and create more livelihood options. The government has been demanding the central government to resume metro transport services, gyms, yoga centres. In the three previous rounds of unlocking process, almost all economic activities have been allowed in the city, except some for which the central government has not given permission. According to an analysis done by TOI, Delhi is the second most open city after Bengaluru in terms of coronavirus-related restrictions. Delhi government is in favour of liquor getting served in hotels and restaurants, running buses with full capacity and reopening weekly markets besides allowing other economic activities. The liquor is sold at premium cost in hotels and restaurants and bring more tax revenue to the government. Meanwhile, members of Indian Gym Welfare Federation gathered in central Delhi on Friday to protest the closure of the gyms. “I know some gym owners who are forced to sell the jewelleries of their wives and mothers for feeding their family members. It is difficult for us to survive,” said a gym owner. Delhi Gym Association’s Chirag Sethi said that the gym owners were hopeful that under the fourth phase of unlock, the gyms would be allowed to open. Many states where Covid situation continues to be grim have permitted gyms. “Yoga is a powerful immunity booster and all yoga centres must be permitted in Delhi,” said Deepak Dadwal of Delhi Yoga Association. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia had recently directed the excise department to issue necessary permission for service of liquor in the restaurants and clubs by licences at the table and in the hotel rooms so that the excise revenue can increase. Several state governments, including Assam, Punjab and Rajasthan, have permitted serving of liquor by licence holders. The excise department, however, did not issue any such order saying that the permission of Delhi Disaster Management Authority was required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-unlock-4-govt-for-resuming-all-biz-activities-gym-owners-hopeful/articleshow/77813462.cms||AlokKNMishra
August 29, 2020||Kolkata||Flexi-schedule for flights to and from six cities||KOLKATA: With the state government deciding to allow three times-a-week operation from the Covid-hotlisted cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Pune, Nagpur and Ahmedabad, the civil aviation ministry has decided to create a flexi-schedule with flight operations from these cities to Kolkata on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays in the first and second week and Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays in the third and fourth week. There will be no flight operations on days Bengal observes a complete lockdown. Till now, September 7, 11 and 12 have been announced as complete lockdown days. Starting September 1, the daily flight count at Kolkata airport will shoot up to 85 from 60 on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays. This though will be for a fortnight. From the third week, the flight count on these three days will again slip to 60 while Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays will see 85 flights operate from Kolkata airport. Announcing the flight schedule from the ‘banned’ cities, Kolkata airport’s official twitter handle requested passengers to check further schedule with concerned airlines. Though there was no restriction on flight operations from Kolkata to these cities, airlines had till last month opted against one-way flights, citing feasibility and logistic issues. IndiGo has this month started evening fights to Mumbai, Delhi and Chennai after the airline realized those needing to travel to these airports were flying via other cities. IndiGo Airlines, which operates the maximum number of flights in Kolkata, said the airline would continue with the one-way daily flights as per the current schedule until further order while increasing frequency on days two-way flight movement has been permitted. As per booking dates available online, the airline plans to operate five daily flights from Delhi to Kolkata, three from Chennai, two each from Pune and Ahmedabad and one each from Mumbai and Nagpur. Officials of other airlines said they were in the process of filing applications for slots to initiate two-way services from next week. “It means that more flights can be operated now than what used to be two months ago but it will depend on the policies taken by respective airlines,” said an airport official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/flexi-schedule-for-flights-to-and-from-six-cities/articleshow/77811937.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: 3 labourers killed in lorry accident||COIMBATORE: Three people who worked for a fence company at Neelambur here were killed after the lorry they were travelling in toppled on the Salem-Kochi national highway on Friday. The Thirumuruganpoondi police identified the deceased as Suresh Kumar, 21, from Dindigul, Manikandan, 47 and Sathish, 21. “The company had received an order to build a fence around a plot at Parangal in Avinashi and sent 10 labourers in a lorry to the spot. While three of them were sitting with the driver, the rest were sitting on the back of the vehicle, which was carrying concrete blocks and fencing equipment. The vehicle toppled when a tyre burst. Those sitting on the back of the lorry were buried under the concrete blocks,” a police officer said. Police have registered a case against driver Venkatesh and owner of the company under sections 279, 337, 338 and 304 A.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-labourers-killed-in-lorry-accident/articleshow/77813456.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi records 1,808 fresh cases, tally touches 1.69 lakh||NEW DELHI: Delhi saw 1,808 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, a day after it recorded August’s highest single-day spike of 1,840 cases. The total number of positive cases touched 1.69 lakh and the death toll increased to 4,389 on Friday. The active cases in Delhi now stand at 13,550, up from 13,208 on Thursday. The positivity rate on Friday stood at 7.8% while the recovery rate was over 89%, stated the Delhi government’s health bulletin. The number of containment zones increased to 763 from Thursday’s 734, with the highest number of red zones in the South-West district – 152. The other districts with more than 100 containment zones are West (106) and North (102) districts, followed by South (95) and Central (72) districts. Since August 1, 228 new containment zones have been added in Delhi and 109 of these have been added in the last three days. The West district has seen the largest number of new zones being added in the last few days, including 13 in the last two days. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said that the number of red zones will go up as testing is also increasing and in many cases, a large number of members of the same family being found Covid-19 positive due to late testing. “We are ready for containment zones to go up but these are very small clusters now,” he said. The total number of containment zones in Delhi till date is 1,644, out of which 881 have been de-contained and 763 remain. The number of Rapid Antigen Tests conducted on Friday stood at 16,013, while the RT-PCR, CBNAAT and True NAAT tests’ figures were 6,920, according to the bulletin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/slight-dip-1808-fresh-cases/articleshow/77813501.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 29, 2020||Pune||Donation by ex-corporator inspires wife & son as well||PUNE: Beating the Covid-19 infection last month, former city corporator Pradip Dhumal (55) recently donated plasma to ensure recovery of critical patients down with the contagion. The other family members of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s ex-corporator, including his wife and son, had also tested positive for the infection. After recovering, Dhumal said, his son and wife had also registered for plasma donation and would do so as and when required. “We were sure of recovering from the infection. During our quarantine period, we decided to go ahead with the plasma donation after recovery — the next step in the ongoing fight against Covid-19. After the mandatory quarantine period, we approached the authorities for plasma donation,” said Dhumal, now busy in helping residents of his locality for Covid-19 treatment. Dhumal’s wife Deepali, an NCP corporator and the leader of opposition in the PMC, said it was her duty to respond to the situation. “It’s not only about individuals. The entire society is facing a challenge. Everyone involved in Covid-19 treatment has appealed for plasma donation because it would prove crucial in the treatment of critical patients. A similar appeal has also been made by the administration. We all felt that we should respond to the situation positively,” she said. Former corporator Dhumal said there was a lot of apprehension about Covid-19 among people. He said he had been holding dialogues with residents about not getting scared about the virus and facing it without any fears. “I am narrating my family’s experience to convenience people,” he said. Dhumal said, “We are appealing to those showing symptoms to come forward and get tested at the earliest. There is also a need to clear misconceptions about plasma donation and reach out to people with a message that it is completely safe.” The former corporator’s better-half echoed him. “Recovered patients should donate plasma considering it as a social responsibility,” Deepali said before signing off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/donation-by-ex-corporator-inspires-wife-son-as-well/articleshow/77813440.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Subsidy to boost green fodder cultivation||Udhagamandalam: In a fillip for the dairy sector in the Nilgiris, the district administration has asked dairy farmers to cultivate green fodder by availing subsidised fodder seeds from the government under the state fodder development scheme 2020-21. Preferences would be given to tribal farmers and women in dairy business, an official said. Dr Neelakannan, deputy director, animal husbandry department, said green fodder plays a major role in the feed of milch animals. “Hence, fodder seeds such as African Sal maize, grass crops, and cereal crops, among others, will be supplied to eligible farmers and owners of milch animals with 100% subsidy,” he said. The eligibility criterion is that farmers should have at least 25 cents of land to apply for the subsidy of fodder seeds. The district is planning to encourage up to 35 acres of land for fodder cultivation. About 30% of the fodder development scheme is allotted for SC/ST categories, and in the remaining 70%, priority will be given to women cultivators, small farmers and milk suppliers to Aavin. In the 30% quota, scheduled caste farmers will be allotted 29% while scheduled tribe farmers will get the remaining 1%. Farmers can approach the assistant veterinarian, animal husbandry department, in their locality for application and further details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/subsidy-to-boost-green-fodder-cultivation/articleshow/77813485.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Govt hospital with ICU, built in July, stays underutilised||PUNE: A 110-bed state-of-the-art government hospital, built in July this year at Bibvewadi, is yet to fully deployed by authorities to treat Covid-19. The hospital, constructed on land reserved for the Employee State Insurance Corporation, has an intensive care unit (ICU), but is still limited to treating mild to moderately ill patients. Health activists TOI spoke to criticised the government for underutilising this new unit. They said patients from Bibvewadi and nearby neighbourhoods, in the absence of a government facility that can treat critical cases, were being forced to pay high charges at private hospitals. “The ESIC hospital has a 11-bed ICU and a 20-bed neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) for critically ill babies. But these facilities have not been made functional for Covid-19. There is an urgent need to make the hospitals' ICU and NICU functional so that patients can get free care,” medical practitioner and health activist Sanjay Dabhade said. When asked for comments, Aayush Prasad, the chief executive officer of Pune Zilla Parishad said, “This healthcare facility is being used as a secondary care unit for Covid-19. The district administration is supporting the hospital. There is a requirement of specialist doctors who can run the ICU and NICU at the hospital.” The ESIC's executive engineer Ashwini Yadav said, “There are ICU and NICU beds at the hospital, but there are no ventilators or other emergency medical equipment. Efforts are on to recruit specialists and procure infrastructure to start tertiary care services.” The hospital also has the potential to serve as a 400-bed unit. “Construction is currently underway to upgrade the facility. It will add another 300 beds,” Yadav said. Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Indian Medical Association's Hospital Board of India said, “We are ready to run the facility including its ICU with our allied body, the Association of Physicians of India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-hospital-with-icu-built-in-july-stays-underutilised/articleshow/77813450.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 29, 2020||Goa||Secretariat to work at 50% strength from Mon to Sep 11||Panaji: The state government has decided that not more than 50% staff at the state Secretariat in Porvorim would attend office on any day from August 31 to September 11 in view of spike in Covid cases. Last week, secretariat government employees had registered a protest over their demands seeking better safety measures against Covid-19 infections and had submitted a representation to the government. Sources said that last couple of days, more staff members have been infected with the virus. Considering the situation, a circular was issued saying:“On account of the increase in Covid cases in secretariat departments/offices, it is hereby directed that not more than 50% strength of the secretariat employees shall attend the office on a particular day.” The circular also said that “the remaining employees shall work from home on alternate day basis (absolutely essential staff may attend on a daily basis)” All the additional/joint/under secretaries at the secretariat in consultation with the secretaries concerned shall ensure that the employees are called to office accordingly. This shall also be followed by the offices of secretaries/additional/joint secretaries, states Gouresh Kurtikar, joint secretary, general administration in the office memorandum. Officials who are working from home in pursuance to the memorandum should be available on telephone and electronic means of communication at all times. “They should attend office, if called for and if any exigency of work demands,” Kurtikar said. “The order will be applicable with effect from August 31 and will remain in force up to September 11,” he stated. On August 19, in the morning session, employees came out in large numbers in a common area of the complex, stating that they will not carry on work for fear of contracting Covid-19 as they deal with files that change many hands. A female employee had said that if the infection spreads in the complex, the administration will come to a standstill. “The government has to bring out some guidelines. We do not have the amenities to work from home, but at least we can work at 50% of the strength. Public are also being allowed to enter the secretariat offices. How do we work under such stress? Many of our staff have young children and senior citizens at home. Many staffers also have comorbidities,” another employee had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/secretariat-to-work-at-50-strength-from-mon-to-sep-11/articleshow/77813861.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Dummy student caught taking maths exam for friend||AHMEDABAD: A dummy student, 24, was caught taking supplementary exam of mathematics of Class-10 at a school at Bhuyangdev Crossroads in Ghatlodia area of city on Thursday. The dummy student tried to take the exam on behalf of his juvenile friend as the latter was unable to clear the mathematics exam for two years.  According to the FIR filed with Ghatlodia police on Thursday, a classroom observer. Pratik Lalani. was checking hall tickets of students when he found the picture of a student in the students’ sheet given to him by GSHSEB didn’t match the picture in the hall ticket showed by a particular student. Lalani approached his superiors who found that the student who was taking the exam was different from the student who was meant to appear in the exam. On questioning the examinee confessed that he was a dummy student. The accused was identified as Ranjitsinh Jhala, 24, a resident of Kointiya village of Detroj taluka of Ahmedabad. He had appeared in the exam on insistence of his friend, 17, who hails from the same village. Board officers informed police who apprehended the accused and booked him under charges of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dummy-student-caught-taking-maths-exam-for-friend/articleshow/77813499.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Fear of Covid continues to deter fliers||AHMEDABAD: Even as Unlock 4.0 is soon to begin, apprehensions about travelling during the time of pandemic seem to be widely prevalent. The domestic passenger footfall at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport this July was 84% lower than in July 2019. Against a movement of 7.52 lakh passengers from the city airport in July 2019, barely 1.18 lakh passengers travelled from the city airport this July, according to data by Airports Authority of India (AAI). Estimates by travel operators suggest that passenger footfall declined as leisure travel has taken a full blow. “The cases of Covid-19 infections have still not declined, and as a consequence, people are extremely apprehensive of travelling unless absolutely necessary. Moreover, till July, different states had non-uniform quarantine rules and there were lockdowns imposed in some parts of the country, further deterring travellers,” said Manish Sharma, secretary, Travel Agents’ Federation of India (TAFI) – Gujarat chapter. Sharma also said that corporates and industries too have imposed travel restrictions for their employees, which also has a telling effect on travel. One of the major reasons for a drastic fall in domestic passenger movement is also the limited frequency of flights operating out of the city airport, ever since it resumed on May 25. Only about one-third of the routine flights are operating. Sources in the airlines have also confirmed that flights are operating at 50-60% capacity on an average and some are forced to be cancelled due to inadequate passenger loads. Travel agents stated that lack of refunds provided by the airlines is also proving a huge deterrent for bookings. “People have been burnt bad for not receiving refunds but only credit notes for future travel for bookings made during the lockdown period. The uncertainty of the situation coupled with no guarantee on refunds on cancelled tickets is also making travellers apprehensive of future bookings,” said Anuj Pathak, secretary, Travel agents’ and tour operators’ Association of Gujarat (TAG). Pathak said that leisure travel is being preferred to destinations that are at a drivable distance avoiding the need to travel by air.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/virus-hits-travel-bug-fear-of-covid-continues-to-deter-fliers/articleshow/77812098.cms||Niyati Parikh
August 29, 2020||Nashik||Congress stir against conduct of exams||NASHIK: The city unit of Congress party on Friday opposed the central government’s decision to go ahead with JEE and NIIT examinations by agitating in front of divisional commissionerate at Nashik Road. The functionaries of the party demanded that the examinations should be postponed at the earliest because the students will not be able to go to the examination centres for various reasons owing to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Led by Congress unit president Sharad Aher, regional spokesperson Dr Hemlata Patil, women’s city unit Vatsala Khaire and Youth Congress president Swapnil Patil, the party demanded that the decision to hold examination should be put off and reviewed only after the situation becomes normal. A memorandum of demand was also submitted to the divisional commissioner in an attempt to draw the attention of the central government towards the prevailing condition across the country. “It will be an injustice towards the students when they will be asked to attend the examinations at the time when the travel restrictions are still in place and they would require to travel long distance for attending the examinations,” Aher said. “At the time when movement of people has been restricted in public places, we wonder how will the students travel to such long distances during the current abnormal period. It is unsafe to travel in the public transportation. It seems that the central government has not given a thought to the possibility of spread of Covid-19,” the Congress leaders said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cong-stir-against-conduct-of-exams/articleshow/77810928.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Vijayawada||CM Jagan lays foundation stone for Vedadri project||Vijayawada: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy laid the foundation stone for the YSR Vedadri lift irrigation project, virtually, from his camp office here on Friday. The project will provide irrigation water to 38,627 acres in areas under Nandigama, Jaggaiahpet, Vatsavai and Penuganchiprolu mandals of Krishna district. The chief minister said the project has begun within 14 months of the YSRC coming into power. He said that the project would be completed by February 2021. The chief minister said that drinking water will be supplied to 30 villages under DBR Branch Canal, including Jaggaiahapet municipality through the project. The government has set a target of supplying 2.7 tmcft of water to this area and is spending Rs 490 crore for the project, he said. Though the Krishna river is nearby, the previous government could not take up the project, the chief minister said. The chief minister reiterated that his government was committed to provide water for irrigation and drinking purposes on a priority basis. He said that the government has launched several irrigation projects in the state’s 13 districts during the last 14 months and will start more projects. The chief minister assured that the government would help farmers by providing irrigation facilities for cultivation and marketing facilities for their yield. He said that Rythu Bharosa Kendras have been opened in every village, which will help the farmers in finding quality seeds, fertiliszrs and pesticides, besides marketing their produce. The chief minister wanted the farmers to make use of these facilities. Various ministers and MLAs hailed the chief minister for laying the foundation stone for the YSR Vedadri irrigation project. Jaggaiahpet MLA Samineni Udayabhanu praised the chief minister as farmers’ saviour (rythu bandavudu).s Ministers Anil Kumar Yadav, Perni Venkatramaiah, Kodali Venkateswara Rao, MLAs Samineni Udayabhanu, Mondithoka Jaganmohan Rao, Kayle Anil Kumar, Women’s Commission chairperson Vasireddy Padma, district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz and others were present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-jagan-lays-foundation-stone-for-vedadri-project/articleshow/77810961.cms||Gopi Dara
August 29, 2020||Allahabad||Plea for Muharram procession: Allahabad high court reserves its verdict||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Friday reserved the judgement in a petition seeking permission to take out ‘tazia’ procession during Muharram. Hearing a writ petition filed by Roshan Khan and several others seeking permission to carry out tazia procession during upcoming Muharram, a division bench comprising Justice Shashi Kant Gupta and Justice Shamim Ahmed reserved its judgment after hearing both the sides. The court is likely to deliver this verdict on Saturday. The petitioners’ plea was that any restriction on carrying out the procession during Muharram is in violation of their fundamental right of freedom to practice religion. “Also, other religious festivals were allowed by the state government during the same period but only procession of Muharram is not being allowed, which is discriminatory action on the part of the state government,” said the petitioners’ counsel. However, the state government counsel opposed the said plea, saying that freedom to practice religion is not an absolute right and the same is subject to public order, morality and health. Since Covid-19 is a pandemic, hence, the state government can restrict religious activities keeping in mind the issue of public health. “State action is not discriminatory rather during the month of August, the processions were not allowed even during the festivals of Ganesh Chaturthi and Krishna Janamasthmi as well. Public is allowed to practice religion inside their house but no public gathering is permitted during such events to check the spread of deadly corona virus,” added the state government counsel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/plea-for-muharram-procession-court-reserves-its-verdict/articleshow/77810188.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
August 29, 2020||Pune||64 more die in Pune metropolitan region, toll inches closer to 4,000||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added 3,611 cases on Friday, marginally lower than the single-day highest tally of 3,703 recorded the previous day. With this, the total caseload in the region has increased to more than 1.60 lakh. Besides, 64 more patients succumbed to the infection in PMR in the last 24 hours, taking the region’s total toll to 3,937. Most of the deceased suffered from comorbid conditions, a health official said. Among the new cases, as many as 1,781 were recorded in the PMC limits, while 1,006 were recorded in the PCMC limits and 824 in the rural as well as Cantonment areas. As per the district health office report, the case burden in the PMC areas now stands at 90,871 (see box). With the recoveries (2,193) staying on the lower side as compared to the new cases, the active case count in the increased to 33,048, including 19,130 undergoing treatment at various hospitals and Covid care centres, while 13,918 staying in home isolation. On Thursday, the region had 31,698 active cases. PMR has reported over 3,000 cases for the third straight day. The district health office report revealed that 1,578 patients recovered in the PMC limits in the last 24 hours, while the cured count stood at 262 in the PCMC areas. The total recoveries in the region stand at over 1.23 lakh. The report stated that 13,037 samples were tested on Friday, pushing the testing tally to over 6.96 lakh. Testing per million population in the district has gone up to 68,163, the report added. According to a PMC report, a total of 827 patients were at critical stage on Friday night, of whom 498 were on ventilator support and 2,414 patients on oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/64-more-die-in-pmr-toll-inches-closer-to-4000/articleshow/77813459.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 29, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad HC tells Prayagraj DM to look into involving corporators||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Friday directed the district magistrate of Prayagraj to look into the feasibility of involving the corporators and various voluntary organizations which might be ready to render their services in enforcing the Covid-19 guidelines. Hearing a PIL seeking better condition of quarantine centres, a division bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar further directed the DM of Prayagraj to produce before the court the manner in which he would direct the corporators in actively seeing that people wear masks and maintain social distancing. “On the next date, we would also see to the viability of implementing this modus operandi of including the corporators in other cities as well,” the court added. The court fixed August 31 as the next date of hearing and said, “The involvement of voluntary organizations would be in addition to the work the district administration is already doing.” The court directed the Nagar Nigam of Prayagraj to take all possible actions to remove all stray cattle and stray dogs from the city. Stray cattle which are a great cause for accident and stray dogs which are on many an occasion carry rabid are of a great concern to the city. “In this time of pandemic when people are worried about their safety, stray cattle and stray dogs must compulsorily be removed to avoid any nuisance,” the court further added. During the course of hearing, while taking cognizance of a letter petition, the court directed the district magistrate of Kanpur Nagar to get an enquiry done in the matter alleging that the body of a person, who had died of Covid-19, was not being handed over to his relatives because the hospital was demanding Rs. 14.50 lakhs even though they had already paid Rs. 11 lakhs to the hospital. The court directed the registrar general of the high court to provide this order to the district magistrate of Kanpur Nagar, along with a copy of the letter petition. Today (on Friday), the chief secretary of the state sought extension of time granted to him to comply with the order of the court dated August 25. While granting further time to the chief secretary, the court observed, “We hope and trust that valuable steps would be taken by the next date fixed and a complete road map would be there by which public movement could be minimized. We expect stricter time schedules for shops would be there and also every effort would be made to minimize conglomeration of people in public places and in public vehicles. Here it may be mentioned that even though timings of various commercial activities may be substantially reduced but medical shops and dispensaries might be an exception.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-tells-prayagraj-dm-to-look-into-involving-corporators/articleshow/77810326.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Hubballi||Keshwapur cops solve double murder case in 10 hours||Hubballi: Keshwapur police have solved the double murder case within 10 hours after the happening of the incident. Manjunath Kabbin and Niyaz Jorammanavar were brutally killed by four people near Gopankoppa bus stand here late on Wednesday night. The accused are Srinivas Hirekumbai, 26, Avinash Nargund, Sanjeev Vaddar, 28, Madhu Hadimani, 25, all residents of Siddarameshwar Nagar in Gopankoppa area, said police inspector Suresh Kumbar. The inspector said old rivalry between the victims and the assailants was the reason behind the crime. The accused were arrested within 10 hours after the incident, and when they were about to leave the city, Kumbar added. Initially, it was believed that the victims had died after clashing with each other. But the case took a twist when the police team investigating the case established that they were killed by a gang of four.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/keshwapur-cops-solve-double-murder-case-in-10-hours/articleshow/77810965.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Varanasi||UP: After Lucknow, Mukhtar Ansari’s properties razed in Mau||VARANASI: A day after two houses built illegally by jailed mafia don-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari’s family were razed in Lucknow, properties worth several crores of rupees of the don and his henchmen were bulldozed in Mau Kotwali area on Friday. Mau district magistrate Gyan Prakash Tripathi told TOI that besides a four-storeyed building where an illegal slaughterhouse was being run and three godowns were demolished. The slaughterhouse was closed for the past one year. On Thursday, two multi-storey houses of Mukhtar’s family were razed in Lucknow. Earlier on August 20, the police confiscated properties worth over Rs. 26 lakh of Mukhtar’s aide and gangster Mohammad Salim in Varanasi and Chandauli districts. Besides, the Mau district administration and police ensured cancellation of five arms licenses of Mukhtar’s henchmen while order for jilabadar (externment) of three was also issued on August 17. Later, 12 more aides were issued orders of ‘jilabadar’ on August 26. Major crackdown on the economic empire of Mukhtar gang had started from Mau district after May 31 costing over Rs 100 crores as the police tightened noose also in many districts including Ghazipur, Jaunpur, Azamgarh and Varanasi. As per police records, value of movable and immovable properties of Mukhtar’s henchmen seized, government land freed from their possessions and constructions destroyed estimated above Rs 66 crores. The income of Rs 41 crores per annum through illegal activities like extortion, monopoly in fish, coal and other traders had also been hit by police. Also 72 arms licenses were cancelled or suspended while 71 arms were surrendered. As many as 96 members of the gang have been arrested while 75 of them were booked under Gangster Act. Seven persons involved in grabbing contracts in PWD, coal depots also fell in the police net.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/after-lucknow-mukhtarsproperties-razed-in-mau/articleshow/77811329.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Popular builders’ Raman Patel and Monang Patel finally held in domestic violence case||AHMEDABAD: The promoters of city-based Popular Builders, Raman Patel and his son Monang Patel, were held by police on Friday over the domestic violence complaint filed against them by Monang’s wife Fizu Patel 12 days. Deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1, Ravindra Patel, said Raman and Monang surrendered to Vastrapur police and were sent for Covid-19 tests according to current medico-legal protocols. Their arrest procedures will be done after the test result comes.  “They have surrendered and we have not yet questioned them about where they were hiding after the complaint was filed against them. They will be questioned on all the aspects after their test results come,” said Patel. The father-son duo surrendered after Raman’s brother and nephew, Dashrath and Virendra, were detained by police under charges of illegal confinement. Patel said, “Dashrath and Virendra had confined complainant Fizu Patel and her mother, to pressure them to strike a compromise in the case. However, we are yet to know other details like when and where she and her mother were confined.” Sources in Vastrapur police said the father son duo went to Udaipur after the complaint was filed. However, as police tightened the noose around other family members who were involved in the offence, they came to Ahmedabad and surrendered. An officer of Vastrapur police said Dashrath and Virendra were nabbed from SG Road when they were in their car. “They had tried to negotiate with the complainant so that the case of domestic violence and assault can be settled. However, police found out about this and exposed their attempts to thwart the probe in the case,” said a police officer. Fizu had on August 12 filed a complaint of domestic violence and assault with Vastrapur police, alleging that Monang, who she married in 2011, his father Raman Patel and mother Mayurika harassed her and beat her very frequently. She also alleged that Monang had attacked her and her mother, Janki Patel, on August 1, after being provoked by her father, Mukesh Patel, who is a co-accused in the case. After the complaint was filed, Raman Patel’s entire family absconded and four teams of city police were searching for them. Meanwhile, the accused in this case approached the city sessions court for anticipatory bail where Mayurika and Mukesh obtained bail, while the bail pleas of Raman and Monang were rejected last week. Raman and Monang had approached high court to get pre-arrest bail. Dashrath, Virendra confined Fizu, mother to give them cash Ahmedabad: As Raman Patel’s daughter-in-law filed a complaint of domestic violence with Vastrapur police, on one hand the accused went underground and on the other attempts were initiated by their family members to reach a compromise by offering cash. Sources in the police said that Fizu and her mother were offered around Rs 5 crore cash, of which Rs 2.50 crore was given to them when they were allegedly confined by Raman’s brother, Dashrath Patel and his son Virendra. “Dashrath and Virendra kept her under confinement and gave her the cash so she would not pursue the case and the accused could be acquitted. For this, they took her and her mother to a bungalow in Bodakdev where they kept them in confinement,” said an officer of Vastrapur police. Inspector Y B Jadeja of Vastrapur police said that they will add charges of illegal confinement in the FIR filed by Fizu and investigate this aspect further. On Wednesday, a team of crime branch personnel, who were roped into the investigation, found Rs 2.50 crore cash at Fizu’s aunt’s house in Navrangpura. They learned the cash had come from Dashrath and Virendra to suppress the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/popular-builders-raman-and-monang-patel-finally-held-in-dv-case/articleshow/77813520.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Business||Dinesh Kumar Khara is top pick for SBI chairman||NEW DELHI: State Bank of India (SBI) managing director Dinesh Kumar Khara could not have asked for a better birthday gift. On the day he turned 59, the Bank Board Bureau, the selection panel for top jobs at state-run lenders, recommended Khara as its first choice candidate to succeed Rajnish Kumar as the bank’s chairman. Kumar is due to retire in October and was tipped to be getting an extension, although the possibility is not completely ruled out. Following interviews, BBB headed by former union personnel secretary Bhanu Pratap Sharma, has also said that C S Setty, another MD at the country’s largest bank, is the second option. Setty will have a second shot at the top job after Khara retires. A final decision on Khara’s candidature will be taken by the appointments committee of cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. SBI chairman’s post is the most coveted job in the financial services sector, given that the bank controls around a quarter of lending and deposits business in the country. Unlike the other state-run lenders, the job is the monopoly of SBI employees who join as a probationary officer and rise through the ranks. In 1984, Khara too started out as a probationary officer after graduating in commerce. He also holds an MBA degree from Delhi University’s Faculty of Management Studies. An officer of the Delhi circle, he has held various posts and also headed the Bhopal circle. He has also had a stint in Chicago and oversaw the merger of five associates and Bhartiya Mahila Bank with SBI. He was also the head of SBI Mutual Fund and SBI General. At SBI MF, Khara is credited with ramping up the business and helping scale up the asset management business, which had been stagnating for close to a decade. He took over as an MD of SBI in August 2016 and was given a two-year extended term. He is currently the senior most MD. Khara has his task cut out as banks will have to grapple with a massive pile of bad debt in the coming months and yet ensure that businesses are not starved of credit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/dinesh-kumar-khara-is-top-pick-for-sbi-chairman/articleshow/77814537.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Man sans underlying medical conditions retests Covid positive within 60 days||PUNE: A case of Covid-19 re-infection has now been reported in Pune, after Ahmedabad and Hyderabad. A physician at city-based private hospital Ruby Hall Clinic said a man (36), who had tested negative twice after a tryst with Covid-19 in June, tested positive once again on August 26. On the first occasion, he was screened as a close contact of an infected person and was found positive on the RT-PCR test on June 28 without any symptom. He tested negative through the repeat swab on the RT-PCR method on July 8.On August 20, he was screened as a pre-travel protocol and again found negative on the RT-PCR test. The man was planning to go to Dubai on August 26. However, he started complaining of sore throat, fever, and body ache from August 24 and tested positive for Covid-19 on August 26. The authorized private laboratory has notified the case to the Indian Council of Medical Research. Unlike Hong Kong, where scientists have confirmed the case of re-infection by virus sequencing, the cases in India could not be ascertained as “re-infection” with research as the patients’ earlier swab samples were not preserved. “In Hong Kong the man was asymptomatic when tested positive for the second time. Our patient was asymptomatic when he tested positive on June 28. He had flu-like symptoms when he tested positive for the second time,” Ruby Hall Clinic physician Abhijit Lodha said.  “To ascertain clinical implications of re-infection, the phenomenon needs to be studied at the population level rather than in such sporadic cases,” he said. “Re-infection with Sars-CoV-2 appears to be a possibility, but so far does not appear to be a common phenomenon,” said senior virologist Deepak Gadkari, former director of National Institute of Virology (NIV).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-sans-underlying-med-conditions-retests-ncov-positive-within-60-days/articleshow/77813472.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Teachers’ body greets NEP with reservations||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh Primary Teachers’ Association, affiliated to All India Primary Teachers’ Federation, has expressed reservations over the National Education Policy-2020. APPTA state general secretary K Prakasa Rao said that president, All India Primary Teachers’ Federation, Ram Pal Singh, has highlighted that the policy looks appealing at first glance but as one goes into detail, it presents a completely different scenario. “The proposed entry and exit policy in different courses in higher education will lead to substandard workforce in the future, which will become harmful for the country’s growth. The shortage of skilled workforce will have an adverse impact on India’s economy and development. According to Dr Ram Pal Singh, education will not remain a fundamental right and rather it will be a justiciable right. Our association demands that the foundation or pre-primary education should be separated from primary education. Recruiting trained teachers for pre-primary education can only help raise the standards of education,” said Prakasa Rao. Rao added that sharing of teachers and resources is a premature concept and will lead to deterioration in quality of education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/teachers-body-greets-nep-with-reservations/articleshow/77810972.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Indian Sikh faces trial in Germany for spying on Sikhs, Kashmiris||Jalandhar: In the third case of its kind in Germany, a 54-year-old Indian Sikh is being tried in a Frankfurt court for allegedly spying on Sikhs and Kashmiris for external intelligence agency, Research and Analysis Wing (RAW). News agency AFP reported that the Frankfurt court started the trial of Balvir Singh on Tuesday. Balvir has been accused of spying on the expatriate communities for RAW since January 2015. He has been accused of providing information about figures in the Sikh opposition scene, the Kashmiri movement and their relatives in Germany to his handlers, apparently working at the Indian consulate general in Frankfurt.  “A total of 10 hearings before the regional superior court are scheduled, with the trial due to conclude on October 29,” the report said. The same Frankfurt court had convicted an Indian couple of spying in December last year. “The husband was handed a suspended prison sentence of 18 months for acting as a foreign intelligence agent and his wife fined 180 days' wages for aiding him,” AFP reported. In this case of spying by the Sikh couple, federal prosecutors in Germany had said that Manmohan Singh, 51, had been providing information to RAW from January 2015 onward and in July 2017, his wife Kanwaljit Kaur, 51, also started working for the agency. They were accused of receiving Euros 7,200 from RAW for the information they provided to their handler, who was stationed in Germany. In 2014, a Sikh man was convicted and sentenced to nine-month jail by a German court for spying on Sikhs there. It was found that Manmohan Singh worked as a journalist for a Sikh channel in Germany. Before that, he allegedly had proximity with Sikh radicals. After the couple’s indictment in April, Mamohan’s photographs with a few prominent political leaders of Punjab were also circulated on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/indian-sikh-faces-trial-in-germany-for-spying-on-sikhs-kashmiris/articleshow/77813512.cms||IP Singh
August 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman kills self fearing coronavirus in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 50-year-old woman committed suicide on Friday by consuming poison. Fearing that she would contract coronavirus after her tenant was positive for Covid-19, the woman took this extreme step. The victim, Aaradhana Vijayvargiya, a housewife from Shalivahana Nagar, Malakpet was residing in the first floor, while her tenant stayed on the ground floor. Aradhana went into depression as she was worried that she and her husband would also be infected. On August 26, while her husband was asleep, she consumed a cockroach-killing insecticide at around 2am. She was rushed to Omini Hospital and died on Friday while undergoing treatment. Though the police did not find any suicide note, a case of suspicious death was registered in Malakpet police station. Similar incidents occurred in the city in the last few weeks. On August 11, a 60-year-old man undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at a private hospital hanged himself to death inside the hospital bathroom. In July, a goldsmith from West Bengal jumped into Hussainsagar, suspecting that he might be positive for Covid-19. The 34-year-old was suffering from cold and fever for almost a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-kills-self-fearing-coronavirus/articleshow/77813511.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Hubballi||Efforts on to open ESIs for all : Minister||Hubballi: Efforts are being made to clear all legal hurdles to ensure that even those without ESI cards can seek treatment at the healthcare institutions, said Karnataka labour minister A Shivaram Hebbar, who was in Hubballi on Friday. He said that discussions were under way with the officials concerned to resolve legal issues so that ESI hospitals can open their doors to all. “ESI hospitals were set up to provide treatment to labourers. But why should that stop these institutions from offering treatment to others? It is not correct to restrict services of ESI hospitals only to card holders,” the minister said. Hebbar said that the government had appointed 150 doctors to ESI hospitals, in addition to ensuring adequate supply of medicines, worth Rs 450 crore, to the institutions. “But those in need of medical attention are not able to get it,” he rued. Disappointed with the infrastructure at the Hubballi ESI hospital, Hebbar assured people of improving the facilities there. The minister warned doctors against being negligent lest they invite disciplinary action. ‘Accept ideology of party you join’ Upset with MLC and former minister Adagooru H Vishwanath’s remarks, wherein he valorised Mysuru ruler Tipu Sultan, Hebbar said, “Vishwanath must not make such unnecessary remarks that embarrass the party and the government. When one joins a party, one must accept its ideology. I am not aware of the context in which Vishwanath issued these statements, but my stand on the issue is that of the BJP’s,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/efforts-on-to-open-esis-for-all-minister/articleshow/77810988.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Vijayawada||As revenue dips, TTD mulls options||Tirupati: With dip in revenue since March with the onset of Covid-19, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams is now looking at other revenue options. The Tirumala temple was closed for pilgrims on March 20 and reopened on June 11. Even after reopening, owing to restrictions, pilgrim footfalls have been low. On the other hand, TTD has fixed expenditure that it incurs on human resources payments, for carrying out its religious and social obligations and various development works. The temple administration has not used its fixed deposits at banks but is now considering various options to increase revenue. On Friday, TTD chairman YV Subba Reddy said, “Some of our trustees are in touch with various banks including RBI to scout for options in terms of increasing our earnings from interests on FDs. We are also exploring options to earn a higher interest rate on our gold deposits too. Donations have also been sought from philanthropist devotees towards meeting certain religious obligations of the TTD like construction of temples across the country etc.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/as-revenue-dips-ttd-mulls-options/articleshow/77810991.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
August 29, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra mulling fine hike for going maskless: Ajit Pawar||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Friday the state government was contemplating increasing the fine for not wearing mask from Rs500 to Rs 1,000 in Pune district. He was speaking at the inauguration of the jumbo Covid care facility at Autocluster in Pimpri, where leader of the opposition Devendra Fadnavis and state BJP president Chandrakant Patil were also present. Pawar said that there had been speculations about him sharing the dais with Fadnavis. There is no bitterness, and the ruling and opposition parties are working together in the fight against the contagion, he said. Pawar said that to curb overcharging of patients by private hospitals, audits were being carried across Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits. He said in both the civic areas bills worth Rs74 lakh were found to be inflated. Fadnavis, in his address, said, “Facilities, such as jumbo hospital, play a pivotal role in the fight against coronavirus. Around 20% of patients need critical care, so these will prove to be helpful. The main goal is to reduce the case fatality rate to less than 1%.” Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao on Friday ordered officials in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad to collect fine of Rs500 for not wearing mask and Rs1,000 for spitting in public places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-mulling-fine-hike-for-going-maskless-pawar/articleshow/77813496.cms||Piyush Bhusari
August 29, 2020||Varanasi||Illegal arms dealer, one other killed in shootout||Varanasi: In a broad daylight shootout by some miscreants, two persons including an illegal arms dealer were killed, while one person was seriously injured in Chowkaghat locality in Jaitpura police station area on Friday morning. The miscreants fled from the scene after committing the crime. The deceased were identified as a history sheeter of Cantt police station and a resident of Khajuri locality Abhishek Singh Prince (36) and a local trolley man Balmiki Gautam (52). The injured person was identified as Deepak Gaud of Shivpur area. According to reports, Abhishek and Deepak were coming from Mughalsarai area on a motorcycle when the miscreants opened indiscriminate firing on them near Kali Temple. Abhishek sustained three bullet injuries, while Deepak received one gunshot. They fell on the road. The trolley man, who was passing through area, also sustained bullet injuries. The injured persons were rushed to the hospital, where Abhishek and Balmiki were declared dead. Deepak, who sustained bullet injury on his spine, was admitted to a private hospital in Maldahiya area, where his condition was stated to be serious. Senior police officials including SSP Amit Pathak and SP (city) Vikash Chandra Tripathi reached the shootout site after getting information. The police said that the matter is being investigated, and a manhunt has been launched to nab the miscreants. The footage of CCTV cameras in the localities are being examined to identify the miscreants. According to police, prima facie it seems to be the fall out of some dispute in the trade of illegal arms. Abhishek was wanted in 10 cases of crime. In July 2018 he was arrested by a joint team of Cantt police and crime branch. He was wanted in a murder case occurred in August 2017. Meanwhile, the family members of the trolley man and local residents staged a dharna on the road demanding immediate arrest of the killers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/illegal-arms-dealer-one-other-killed-in-shootout/articleshow/77811387.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Delhi||Rain forecasts: Orange is the new black mark||NEW DELHI: On Tuesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had issued an orange alert for moderate to heavy rain in the capital for three days from Wednesday to Friday. Delhi, however, recorded showers neither on Wednesday nor Thursday. You are not the only one wondering about the anomaly. Even IMD was taken by surprise. According to the met officials, the monsoon trough, which was supposed to move through Delhi-NCR on the two days, moved ‘faster’ than expected and ended up bringing rain instead to the foothills. IMD’s rain forecasts have generally been accurate, but there have been times when the forecast was off-target, forcing the agency to downgrade warnings from orange to yellow or green in a matter of hours. Officials say a combination of radar, satellite and forecasting models are employed, but human inference — an experienced team sits each morning to assess the weather patterns to arrive at the following day’s forecast — can account for up to 60% of the prediction. “A combination of machinery and human experience is put to use,” explained an IMD official. “While the forecasting is generally accurate, a sharp change in the weather pattern or direction may cause rains to skip a city.” He said there were always variables in forecasts in the tropical belt, 30 degrees either side of the equator, because of rapid changes in weather patterns. “Countries that use the same technologies might get more accurate results if they are further away from the equator,” added the official. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD, said Wednesday’s alert was changed after the monsoon trough moved quickly crossed Delhi. “Instead of bringing rain to the region, it brought moderate to heavy precipitation in the foothills. It is moving south again and, therefore, bringing rain back to Delhi,” Srivastava said on Friday. “During the monsoon season, a sudden change in the weather pattern or a change in the direction or speed of wind can occur, creating a dynamic system.” A scientist who works on forecasting told TOI that relying solely on satellite imagery could provide accurate predictions in the very short term, a forecast period of 2-3 hours. A 24-hour forecast might not turn out as accurate. Forecasting models are more accurate over the long term. To this, an IMD official added, “Outside of the monsoon season, you can study the satellite imagery to make forecasts because it is easier to predict the conditions since there isn’t much deviation in the weather system. During the monsoon, the clouds can change direction all of a sudden, move faster than normal and showers can develop in a matter of hours.” Forecasts over the long term specify the percentage chances of a weather event taking place and this can help indicate the likelihood of precipitation. “Reducing human effort and relying more on the forecasting models can bring clearer outcomes,” the scientist suggested. For ‘soft’ indicators, IMD uses terms like ‘unlikely’ (less than 25% chance of a particular weather event occurring), likely (25-50%), very likely (75%) and most likely (higher than 75% chance) in its daily forecast. An official said, “This indicates roughly that if rain is forecast, it may not always occur. Much depends on the category of likelihood the rain forecast has been placed in.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rain-forecasts-orange-is-the-new-black-mark/articleshow/77813528.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 29, 2020||Vadodara||Six Congress workers detained||Vadodara: The police detained six Congress workers on Friday for staging protests and trying to disrupt the traffic near Dandia Bazaar. The workers were protesting against the government’s decision of organizing NEET and JEE despite Covid-19 pandemic. Congress leaders across the country have been opposing organizing the exams fearing that the students may get infected. The National Students Union of India (NSUI) too had organized the protests along with Congress leaders.  Meanwhile in Rajkot, at least 27 members of Rajkot Congress and of National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) were detained on Friday after they held a protest demanding the postponement of JEE-NEET examinations at Rajkot district collectorate. Those detained included Rajkot city Congress president Ashok Dangar and Gujarat Mahila Congress chief Gayatriba Vaghela.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/six-congress-workers-detained/articleshow/77810240.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Surat||Eminent Surat doctor loses coronavirus battle, dies at 75||SURAT: A 75-year-old family physician and known personality in the Parsi community, Dr Khushroo Laskari, succumbed to the novel coronavirus late on Thursday night. Dr Laskari was fighting a battle against Covid-19 for the past six weeks at the Seventh Day Adventist hospital. He is survived by his wife and two daughters Also known as a doctor of the poor, Dr Laskari was operating his family clinic at Machlipith near Saibaba temple at Chauta Bazaar. The clinic was started by his grandfather and later his father took over to serve the underprivileged. Dr Laskari was the third generation of family physicians who has served people in the walled city area for the past 45 years. Dr Laskari was so popular that the street on which his clinic is located in Machlipith is named Dr Laskari Marg. Dr Jayendra Kapadia, family physician at Mughalsarai, who was close to Dr Laskari told TOI, “We have lost the last shining star of the Laskari family and the last senior family physician from the Parsi community. He was the third generation of the Parsi family dedicated to medical service. He was very soft-spoken and down-to-earth personality. It is a big loss to the family physicians fraternity in the city.” Dr Kapadia added, “Dr Laskari had cars at his disposal, but would prefer travelling on the moped. For the last 150 years, the Laskari family have served the people of the walled city through their medical expertise.” Jamshed Dotiwala, president of Surat Parsi Panchayat told TOI, “Dr Laskari’s demise is a big loss to the Parsi community. He was the trustee of the Parsi panchayat for many years and belonged to a family who donated their properties for the development of the city. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) hall in Mughalsarai is donated by Dr Laskari.” Yezdi Ichhaporewala, a Parsi lawyer told TOI, “We have lost a doctor of poor patients. Dr Laskari was always there to help the community members in difficult times. He was born with the silver spoon, but he was very humble and down to earth person.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/eminent-surat-doctor-loses-coronavirus-battle-dies-at-75/articleshow/77810797.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Now, farmer groups to offer holistic support||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state government plans to form farmer groups that can extend support to the community, by providing seeds, fertilizers and pesticides through Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) as well as technical support for farm machinery. The government also plans to construct godowns at RBKs to store farm produce. Each godown will be spread over an acre and be near an RBK. According to sources, each group will have six to seven farmers. The groups will decide the kind of machinery it needs, based on local conditions. The groups will also be linked to banks in order to avail loans, district joint collector M Venugopal Reddy told TOI. The joint collector added that crops for which there is no support price will be procured by the government and stored in the godowns till it can fetch a good price. The RBKs will also function as a one-stop centre that can meet the immediate requirements of farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/now-farmer-groups-to-offer-holistic-support/articleshow/77811013.cms||Siva G
August 29, 2020||Nagpur||‘Complete work on climate resilient agriculture project in 2 months’||Yavatmal: Expressing displeasure over slow pace of implementing the ‘Maharashtra Project on Climate Resilient Agriculture’ (POCRA), state agriculture minister Dadaji Fusey asked officials to expedite the work and complete it in two months time, else get ready to face stringent action. Fusey held a review meeting on Saturday at the District Planning Conference Hall. “The government has brought the project under the aegis of ‘Nanaji Deshmukh Krishi Sanjeevani Yojana’ with an aim to take benefits of government schemes to small and medium level farmers. The government proposes to spend Rs4,000 crore in 5,142 villages of 15 districts,” said the minister. According to Fusey, 10 out of 15 districts have done satisfactory works while the remaining five including Yavatmal are lagging far behind. He directed the officials to approach the farmers and get the application form duly filled in. He has said that under the scheme, the farmers have to fill the forms for the period November 2018 to May 2020. Due to lockdown the collection of forms was suspended. He has extended the date for two more months for Yavatmal. The minister also promised adequate supply of urea to farmers. “The farmers should be encouraged to cultivate crops that are in demand. They should also adopt group farming and farm producers companies should be given incentives for good works,” said Fusey. He asked the officials to carry out panchnama for crop damage done due to excessive rain. The minister appreciated the work done in the district under the PM Crops Insurance Scheme and said it would be a role model for other districts. District guardian minister Sanjay Rathod and officials of various departments were present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/complete-work-on-climate-resilient-agriculture-project-in-2-months/articleshow/77825952.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Varanasi||Ballia journo killing: Accused arrested, NSA to be slapped||Varanasi: The police arrested the main accused of journalist Ratan Singh murder case Hira Singh in Ballia on Thursday late night. Eight out of 10 accused have been arrested so far. Azamgarh DIG Subhash Chandra Dubey, who reached Ballia on Thursday night, said that all the accused would be booked under NSA and Gangster Act. He said that six accused were arrested on the day of the incident, while two others were arrested later. The absconding two accused would be in police net very soon, he said adding that the old case history of five accused also be opened. He said that the properties of the accused would be confiscated under the Gangster Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ballia-journo-killing-accused-arrested-nsa-to-be-slapped/articleshow/77811362.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Now, farmer groups to offer holistic support||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state government plans to form farmer groups that can extend support to the community, by providing seeds, fertilizers and pesticides through Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) as well as technical support for farm machinery. The government also plans to construct godowns at RBKs to store farm produce. Each godown will be spread over an acre and be near an RBK. According to sources, each group will have six to seven farmers. The groups will decide the kind of machinery it needs, based on local conditions. The groups will also be linked to banks in order to avail loans, district joint collector M Venugopal Reddy told TOI. The joint collector added that crops for which there is no support price will be procured by the government and stored in the godowns till it can fetch a good price. The RBKs will also function as a one-stop centre that can meet the immediate requirements of farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/now-farmer-groups-to-offer-holistic-support/articleshow/77817900.cms||Siva G
August 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Plasma donors hard to come by, kin of patients struggle||PUNE: The plasma banks set up in the district to treat critical Covid-19 patients are struggling to get donors despite a high recovery rate of above 70%, prompting their relatives run around for help. From tapping all social media groups to reaching out to friends, a patient’s relative had a stressful experience to get a plasma donor for her ailing father-in-law admitted to a leading city hospital. “Both my in-laws contracted the contagion. We tried to reach out to recovered patients through social media because no data was available and blood banks cited shortage of donors,” she said. According to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) data, the eight designated blood banks providing plasma to Covid patients in Pune district barely had a stock of 148 units of 200ml each as on August 26. The stock in the entire Pune division was 177 units. The total blood plasma collection was 1,047 units. Of them, a total of 870 units were distributed and 177 units were available, as per the FDA data on Wednesday. The district administration’s data showed about two lakh Covid-19 patients had recovered so far, but the available units of convalescent blood plasma was far less in comparison to the number of active cases of a little above 30,000. Atul Kulkarni, the director of Jankalyan Blood Bank, providing plasma to Covid patients, said they were trying their best to meet the requirement but still demands from the patients’ relatives were pending. “Recovered patients should come and donate plasma proactively. We have done 90 plasma donation procedures till now and none of them has encountered any side-effects,” he said. Kulkarni said the admission of non-Covid patients to hospitals was increasing now as the state was in the phase of unlocking and the need of blood had increased, too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/plasma-donors-hard-to-come-by-kin-of-patients-struggle/articleshow/77813509.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 29, 2020||Pune||Death, positivity rates a worry in rural Pune||PUNE: The Covid-19 fatality rate at 3.2% and an average positivity rate at 25% in rural Pune have emerged as a concern for the district and the zilla parishad authorities, who have managed to improve the case doubling and recovery rates to 22 days and 70.29%, respectively. This was revealed in a rural Pune report, which district collector Rajesh Deshmukh and ZP CEO Ayush Prasad jointly presented to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar at a weekly review meeting on Friday. As per the Indian Council of Medical Research’s benchmark, the fatality and positivity rates should be less than 1% and 10%, respectively. Rural Pune includes 13 tehsils and 14 municipal council towns. As on Friday, its Covid-19 case tally stood at 18,164, including 12,768 recoveries, 590 deaths and 4,806 active cases. ZP CEO Prasad told TOI, “We are working towards achieving the ICMR benchmark by taking various steps like analysing class and age group of deaths among patients. At present, we are focusing on senior citizens and patients with comorbiditied. High positivity rate is a worry for us. We are creating micro-containment zones and telling people to follow social distancing norms.” District civil surgeon Ashok Nandapurkar referred to the improved doubling rate and said, “It is a very positive indication for us as it shows that we have contained the spread to some extent in the last few weeks.” “The current doubling rate is the highest in the rural Pune since the outbreak of the pandemic,” a ZP health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/death-positivity-rates-a-worry-in-rural-pune/articleshow/77813504.cms||Sandip Dighe
August 29, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Now, farmer groups to offer holistic support||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state government plans to form farmer groups that can extend support to the community, by providing seeds, fertilizers and pesticides through Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) as well as technical support for farm machinery. The government also plans to construct godowns at RBKs to store farm produce. Each godown will be spread over an acre and be near an RBK. According to sources, each group will have six to seven farmers. The groups will decide the kind of machinery it needs, based on local conditions. The groups will also be linked to banks in order to avail loans, district joint collector M Venugopal Reddy told TOI. The joint collector added that crops for which there is no support price will be procured by the government and stored in the godowns till it can fetch a good price. The RBKs will also function as a one-stop centre that can meet the immediate requirements of farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/now-farmer-groups-to-offer-holistic-support/articleshow/77817899.cms||Siva G
August 29, 2020||Varanasi||BJP MLA says he has 100% faith in party leadership||Gorakhpur: A day after he was served a show-cause notice by the state BJP on charges of maligning the image of party through his social media posts, the Gorakhpur Sadar MLA, Radha Mohan Das Agarwal on Friday said he had full faith in the party organisation which has its internal democracy alive. Das said that he spent his entire life in the BJP and would continue to do so. Speaking to TOI, Das said: “Disciplinary action is very important for strengthening the party and to improve its image and it is a part of the internal democracy of our party which is still alive. I have got a notice from the party and I will give a reply based on facts. I have 100% faith in the impartial actions of our party leadership.” Earlier in the day, however, Das took to Facebook while terming himself 'Arjun’ who knew the art of shattering any sort of `chakravyuh’. “Hum Abhimanyu Nahi…Arjun hain..Chakravyuh mein ghusna jante hain toh todna bhi jaante hain (I am not Abhimanyu but Arjuna who knows how to enter a maze and break it),” he wrote. Das, a four time MLA, further wrote on the social media that he would stand as a rock and those hit him would die. “Prabal Virodh ke sagar mein hum sudrahd chhattan banenge..Jo aakey takrayenge aapni apni maut marenge,” he wrote, adding that he was a MLA of the party and a swayamsewak of RSS. “I am not against BJP and BJP is not against me,” he said. Making an indirect reference to election of Ravi Kishan from Gorakhpur in 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Das wrote: “Ravi Kishan ji ki murti gadhne mein Gilhari ki tarah humari bhi bhumika hai…Murtikar kabhi apni sthapit Murti nahi todta.” Kishan has reportedly been against Das who has been in the eye of storm after he raked up the issue of an unplanned construction of road in his assembly constituency by a PWD engineer KK Singh leading to water logging in parts of residential colonies. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh refused to comment on the fresh social media post of Das. He, however, maintained that the party has given a week's time to the MLA to respond. “We hope he comes up with a suitable explanation,” he told TOI. On Thursday a telephonic conversation of the MLA with a BJP worker had also gone viral in which the worker was asking him to help a family as their daughters were harassed by a neighbour. He also made a complaint about the police station in-charge who was taking side of the neighbour of a certain caste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bjp-mla-says-he-has-100-faith-in-party-leadership/articleshow/77811461.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Kanpur||Inter-faith couple elope, youth booked||Kanpur: Police on Thursday registered a case against one Asif Shah of Jajmau, who contracted love marriage with a Hindu girl. The girl (19) had married Asif as per Muslim rituals. On coming to know about the girl’s whereabouts on Thursday, her parents approached right-wing activists, and later at Govindnagar police station lodged an FIR against Asif, accusing him of abducting their daughter and that she had been forced to marry. The girl had allegedly fled her home and married Asif Shah about one-and-a-half month ago, said police sources. “She was in a relationship with Asif, who worked in a transport agency. Later, the two eloped,” said sources. A case has been registered against the accused under Section 366 of the Indian Penal Code at the Govindnagar police station. “Medical test of the girl will be done,” said SSP Preetinder Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/inter-faith-couple-elope-youth-booked/articleshow/77811543.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat government promotes industrial parks with incentive push||GANDHINAGAR: The recently announced new industrial policy aims at promoting construction of industrial parks by offering huge incentives to developers. Developers of new industrial parks in the state can now avail up to 70 per cent of their total project cost in the form of financial incentives. If these parks are set up in tribal areas, developers can get financial incentives of up to 90%  The scheme is primarily aimed at promoting industrial parks for small and medium industries, in which the government will provide financial incentives of up to a maximum of Rs 30 crore. Parks which are under development and have not obtained any benefits under the 2015 industrial policy, can also avail benefits of the new policy. Small and medium scale industries provide the highest employment in the state. A government resolution of the industries and mines department – “Gujarat Industrial Policy 2020 Scheme For Assistance To Industrial Parks,” has been approved by the state government. The government expects a much better response from developers to the newly announced scheme, as compared to the earlier one. Under another scheme that has been announced in the new policy for industrial infrastructure, the government has promised assistance of up to 80% of the infrastructure cost to industries, with a maximum assistance of Rs 25 crore per project. Costs incurred for setting up infrastructure like road, water, drainage, water desalination, primary health services, etc., will be covered under the assistance. In the earlier industrial policy, restrictions related to revenue laws were an impediment to the success of industrial parks. However, the government, through an ordinance issued recently, has lifted restrictions under section 63 AA of the tenancy act. Developers are hopeful to get flexibility in developing industrial parks and that the government will promptly transfer financial benefits to them. Developers say financial benefits in the earlier policy were not transferred to beneficiaries on time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-promotes-industrial-parks-with-incentive-push/articleshow/77813578.cms||Kapil Dave
August 29, 2020||Delhi||Why Delhi’s weather logsare skewed southward||NEW DELHI: Delhi may require a denser network of weather stations sited across the city to correctly gauge the rainfall. The five main stations, including those at Safdarjung — the logs of which are taken as the base for Delhi’s weather record — Palam, Lodhi Road and Aya Nagar are all centred on the south and southwest Delhi. The Ridge station is the only one representing the northern part of the capital, while no main station represents northwest or east Delhi. IMD officials disclosed that the Met department was in the process of setting up more automatic stations to help collect data from variable places to accurately determine the levels of precipitation in different parts of Delhi. For instance, The Aya Nagar station has recorded the most rainfall this season, but it lies closer to Gurugram than the heart of the capital. To determine rainfall in certain parts of the city, met officials currently rely on a network of scientists and teams. While Delhi does have more stations (automatic weather stations at Delhi University, Narela Najafgarh, Pusa and the sports complex in east Delhi), met officials are unable to get daily readings from there every day. The readings logged in these stations are inputted into the city figures only when they are able to ‘capture’ data there. “At present, the five main stations are considered while calculating weather data for Delhi,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD. “If the readings from the rest of the stations are received, they are included in the overall update.” The district-wise data of rainfall received each year is calculated by IMD not through weather stations readings, but the Automatic Rain Gauge Systems (ARGS) installed on the top of buildings. Srivastava revealed, “Rashtrapati Bhavan has one, and we have several ARGS in each district. They provide readings once a day for long-term data collection.” The seasonal data shows the Aya Nagar station recording the most rainfall so far (580.5mm), followed by Lodhi Road (552.2mm) and the Ridge (551.2mm). Safdarjung has recorded the least rainfall so far this season at 531.9mm. However, this figure is still 4% in excess of the ‘normal’ for the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-delhis-weather-logsare-skewed-southward/articleshow/77813594.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Coronavirus testing halted at some centres in Sec’bad||Secunderabad: Amid a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases, testing has come to an abrupt halt at some centres in Secunderbad Cantonment. While the government had set up free rapid antigen test facilities at various government schools there, with the new academic year slated to begin from September 1, these centres stopped functioning four days ago. The five testing centres were set up at Bowenpally, Rasoolpura, Bollarum, Tirmulgherry and Picket, where close 800 to 1,000 tests were conducted. Except for Rasoolpura, all the others were within government schools, put up by the Telangana medical and health department in the first week of August. The closure has left Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) authorities in a fix who say they are finding it difficult to relocate the testing centres. “Following government instructions we vacated centres located at government schools and sanitized them as per norms. Now, we are in the process of setting up testing centres at other locations. But scared of Covid-19, many property owners are refusing to lend their property,” an SCB official said.. Meanwhile, to avoid inconvenience to people, SCB opened temporary testing centres at Picket Garden, and Teachers Colony. Long queues were seen at the Teachers’ Colony testing centre. The medical staff are forced to work in an open area as there is no shelter at this testing centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/coronavirus-testing-halted-at-some-centres-in-secbad/articleshow/77813613.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 29, 2020||Pune||E-passes for travel from Pune to 8 districts on hold for now||PUNE: People from Pune wanting to visit Satara, Sangli, Ahmednagar, Kolhapur, Beed, Bhandara, Gadchiroli and Amravati for personal and business reasons are in a fix with the authorities not issuing e-passes for such travel. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Bachchan Singh told TOI on Friday that e-pass requests for travel to these eight districts are on hold as per guidelines received from the collector offices concerned. “Only in the case of death or severe medical emergencies are the passes being given consent without waiting for approval from the district collectorates concerned,” he said. Asked if the police were facing any problems while issuing the documents, Singh said, “One issue was that e-pass requests for the eight districts were taking time to get approved as the Pune police also have to wait for consent from the authorities in those districts.” When the lockdown was at its peak, around 17,000-18,000 e-pass requests were coming to the Pune police each day, which have now come down to 2,000 per day (in case of both inter-state and inter-district travel). On Friday, the Pune police’s Twitter account received several tweets of travellers awaiting e-pass approval for commute to these districts but were told that their requests were on hold. These people were travelling for personal reasons, including visiting parents and attending business meets. A cab service provider told TOI on condition of anonymity, “The Union government recently issued a notification reiterating that no restrictions should be imposed on inter-district travel. But if a collector feels that the situation in the district concerned is not suitable for people to travel freely, then such restrictions can be imposed. Districts such as Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur have highways passing through them and see a rush of travellers from Pune and Mumbai. Since Pune and Mumbai are Covid-19 hotspots, the administration in those districts may have decided to temporarily put some restrictions on incoming travel.” A cab service provider said on Friday that he cancelled a client’s trip request to Kolhapur after he could not get an e-pass for him. Another city-based working professional, who wanted to visit Satara on Thursday, put his trip on hold as he could not get a pass. “I had to visit my manufacturing unit in Satara, but my e-pass was not approved,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/e-passes-for-travel-from-pune-to-8-districts-on-hold-for-now/articleshow/77813518.cms||Neha Madaan
August 29, 2020||Madurai||HC summons police officer in land encroachment case||Madurai: Taking a serious view over the delay in removing an encroachment on a land near Sivaganga Bypass Road junction in Madurai district, the Madras high court has directed the city deputy commissioner of police (law and order), to appear before it through video conferencing, for failing to provide police protection despite a requisition made in 2018. A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and B Pugalendhi passed the order while hearing a petition filed by Dr V N Veera Rajkumar, trustee of Vikram Trust, which runs a nursing school and college within the campus of Vikram Multispeciality Hospital situated at Sivaganga Ring Road junction at Melamadai. Rajkumar stated that there are certain private lands on the western side of the hospital and certain portions of the lands were acquired by the national highways department. He stated that he had constructed a compound wall on the western side with a separate gate for entry to the nursing college and hostel. Two people have put up asbestos sheets and set up a tea stall at the land blocking access to the college. He stated that he submitted a representation to the authorities seeking to remove the encroachment. Following the representation, authorities conducted a survey and found that the land owned by National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) was encroached. He stated that the concessionaire had sent a representation to the Madurai city commissioner of police seeking police protection for removal of encroachment in 2018, but there was no response. Since no steps were taken so far to remove the encroachments, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-summons-police-officer-in-land-encroachment-case/articleshow/77813522.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Rajkot||Missing test report leads to ruckus||Rajkot: A missing test report of suspected Covid-19 patient led to ruckus in the Rajkot civil hospital on Friday. A video of the incident too went viral on the social media. In the video made by relatives of a suspected patient are heard arguing with a doctor who is heard saying that the report may have been misplaced. The relatives alleged that they have been waiting for the report for past three days. The doctor, who identifies himself as Dr Mishra, expresses sympathy with the relatives and is heard asking them to approach Dr Mahesh Rathod. But when they fail to contact Dr Rathod, they vent their anger on Dr Mishra. “It’s my assumption that the report may have been misplaced,” Dr Mishra is heard saying. Civil hospital superintendent Dr Pankaj Buch and Dr Mahesh Rathod could not be contacted despite attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/missing-test-report-leads-to-ruckus/articleshow/77811068.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Goa||Mormugao civic body to set up waste transfer stations||VASCO: The Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC) is in the process of constructing 34 waste transfer stations in all its 25 wards to curb the menace of cattle and dogs spilling garbage from the bins kept at dumping points. Once the garbage is collected in the bins, they will be kept locked in tin sheds till the waste is cleared the next day. On August 18, TOI had highlighted how stray cattle were knocking over the bins and creating a mess at different dumping points in Baina. The project of setting up transfer stations was hampered as the contractor had left halfway. He restarted the work only after a show cause notice was served to him. MMC councillor Deepak Naik, who is a former MMC chairperson, said, “The garbage menace has become a major issue. In my ward, especially in front of the Baina fish market, the waste lies strewn all over the road.” “The project is to build 34 transfer stations, each costing Rs 1.24 lakh. The construction has already begun. But at a few places, people are objecting. Each waste transfer station will have a concrete floor, poles of iron and the structure and roof of tin sheets,” MMC chief Nandadeep Raut said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mormugao-civic-body-to-set-up-waste-transfer-stations/articleshow/77813667.cms||Ruvina Khan
August 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Factories must comply with safety standards’||Gandhinagar: Taking serious note of recent industrial accidents in the state, the state government on Friday directed officials to ensure that factories comply with safety requirements. Chief secretary Anil Mukim chaired a meeting of the labour and employment department in this regard, and took stock of safety requirements in factories. Safety requirements for on-site and off-site emergency plans for manufacturing, storing and importing hazardous chemicals, measures for emergency planning, preparedness and response in the case of chemical accidents, and provisions of the Factories Act were reviewed. Compliance with provisions relating to site approval by Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organization (PESO), and safety requirements during appraisal of projects at the time of granting environmental clearance were also reviewed. “The chief secretary took stock of the safety requirements in factories. He was apprised about various steps taken by the department for compliance with safety rules and to create awareness about them. He directed officials to ensure all factories comply with safety requirements,” said P M Shah, director, industrial safety and health. “Industrial accidents can be avoided if all safety measures are followed. We are making efforts in this direction,” said Vipul Mitra, additional chief secretary, labour and employment department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/factories-must-comply-with-safety-standards/articleshow/77813597.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Madurai||Exercise caution while preparing answer keys: HC||Madurai: The Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board (TNUSRB) has been asked by the Madras high court to exercise caution on getting an expert opinion while deciding on answer keys for examination after a wrong answer was given in the answer key. Granting relief to two candidates - T S Abinesh and K Rajukumar - who had marked the correct answers in the written examination conducted on January 12, justice R Suresh Kumar said that the experts are not in a position to differentiate the two aspects of Economics - ‘Devaluation’ and ‘Demonetization’ of currency, due to which the wrong answer appeared. The judge observed that the question in controversy was - ‘Indian rupee was devalued ------- times since 1947? and the options given were ‘(A) 3 (B) 4 (C) 2 (D) 1’. The judge noted that in the preliminary answer key published by the board was ‘A - three times’ was declared as the correct answer and subsequently in the final answer key ‘B - four times’ was mentioned as the correct answer. Though the economics text book referred by the petitioners as well as the three experts reveals that the currency was devalued only thrice, the additional advocate general K Chellapandian submitted that the experts had arrived at the correct answer as four times by taking in to account the demonetization done by the central government in 2016. Observing that there is a huge difference between ‘Devaluation’ and ‘Demonetization’, the judge explained that devaluation is a deliberate reduction of the official rate at which domestic currency is exchanged for another currency while demonetisation is the act of stripping a currency unit of its status as legal tender. Expressing displeasure over the way in which the experts had acted recklessly, the judge held that the correct answer was ‘A - three times’. Though the mistake appears to be small, it will have a wider ramification and create a cascading effect in the selection process as the candidates who have written the right answer would be denied marks and those who have written the wrong answer would have been given marks. The judge observed that since the petitioners had secured 48 marks and the cut off marks for the zone of consideration of BC category is 48.5 marks, petitioners are entitled for award of 0.5 marks. Hence, the judge directed TNUSRB to award 0.5 marks to both the petitioners and to consider the candidatures for the next stage of the selection process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/exercise-caution-while-preparing-answer-keys-hc/articleshow/77813555.cms||Kaushik Kannan
August 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC stays telecast of ‘big expose’ on TV channel, Centre sends notice||NEW DELHI: Hours before it was scheduled to go on air, Delhi high court stayed the telecast of Bindas Bol on Sudarshan TV on Friday. In a promo, the TV channel had described the programme as “a big expose on the conspiracy to infiltrate Muslims into government service”. The central government, through the ministry of information and broadcasting, informed the high court that it had received numerous complaints against the show scheduled to air at 8pm on Friday and had issued a notice to the channel. The interim stay came when the high court heard a petition filed by Jamia Millia Islamia students seeking the urgent intervention of the court, contending that the programme sought to defame, attack and incite hatred against the university, its alumni and the Muslim community at large. Justice Navin Chawla, while staying the broadcast, issued notices to the Centre, Sudarshan TV and its editor-in-chief Suresh Chavhanke and posted the matter for further hearing on September 7. In their plea, current and former Jamia students argued that the proposed broadcast presented a clear danger to the security of the petitioners as well as that of other students and alumni of the institution. Since the show targeted students from Jamia who had cleared the civil services exam in 2020, the plea said, it left them and the Muslim community open to the threat of violence, including the possibility of lynching. Justice Chawla saw a video clip of the promo and noted in the order that “having considered the submission made, till the next hearing, respondents nos. 3 and 4 (Sudarshan TV and Chavhanke) are restrained from telecasting the programme titled ‘Bindas Bol’ scheduled to be telecast at 8pm today”. The high court said the I&B ministry should, in the meantime, decide on the notice issued to the TV channel and place its decision before the court. Meanwhile, a Supreme Court bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and K M Joseph “desisted” from imposing a pre-broadcast injunction on Sudarshan TV from telecasting the programme, saying that it couldn’t pass such an order on the basis of an unverified transcript of a forty-nine second clip. Unlike in the high court, where the Centre’s lawyer was present to inform the court bout the notice the I&B ministry had issued to the news channel, there was no lawyer representing the government in the Supreme Court. The bench, however, said the petition raised significant issues that had a bearing on the protection of constitutional rights. The bench said there should be a debate on self-regulation in the Indian media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-stays-telecast-of-big-expose-on-tv-channel-centre-sends-notice/articleshow/77813639.cms||Abhinav Garg
August 29, 2020||Madurai||Madurai corpn to retain 1,400 field staff despite drop in Covid cases||MADURAI: Madurai Corporation does not have any immediate plans to reduce the workforce to control the spread of Covid-19, even as the number of positive cases has come down considerably in the city. The civic body had appointed 1,400 people on consolidated pay, specially for this purpose. At present, two streets are under containment and 600 active cases in the city limits. “We began work on June 23 and received Rs 8,000 in a month, but now as cases are coming down, our jobs are at stake,” said R Balamurugan, who was appointed after losing his job as an office assistant due to the Covid-19 crisis. The workers were given thermal scanners and protective gear for house surveys. “If we came across anyone with fever or comorbid conditions, we had to record it and also refer them to fever clinics and follow up regularly,” said Balamurugan. Gobi Kannan, a polytechnic student, said that he began door-to-door surveys at 8.30am every day that went on till afternoon. M Leo Alexander, a engineering graduate, shifted to Madurai with his wife during the lockdown seeking greener pastures after working in a car company in Dindigul. “This job was a blessing and I enjoyed it very much. Our superiors told us that the work would continue for the next one month. This job has provided us with our succour during this crisis,” he said. City health officer, Dr P Kumaragurubaran, said they are not reducing this workforce in the near future. “We have 30,000 e-pass applications from people wanting to come into Madurai and we would need these workers to keep track of these people and monitor them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-corpn-to-retain-1400-field-staff-despite-drop-in-cases/articleshow/77813581.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Pune||Bike knocks down man||Pune: A 58-year-old pedestrian, Mantu Puranik from a labour camp in Vimannagar, was knocked down by a rashly driven motorcycle near Lohegaon airport on August 23. Police said Puranik was walking back to the camp from a bus stop near the airport when the motorcycle hit him from the rear, killing him on the spot. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bike-knocks-down-man/articleshow/77813569.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Pune||4 killed on spot in road accident||Pune: Four persons travelling in a pickup van were killed on the spot after their vehicle collided head-on with a truck around 5.15am on Friday at Vadgaon Anand village in Junnar taluka, about 95km from the city, on Kalyan-Ahmednagar highway. Victims Akash Rokade (24), Suresh Karandikar (44), Siddharth Karandikar (23) and Sunil Ughade (21) were all from Karandi village in Parner taluka of Ahmednagar district. The Ale Phata police have registered an offence against the truck driver for negligent driving. Sub-inspector S A Daule of the Ale Phata police told TOI that the victims were transporters. On Thursday evening they had gone to Mumbai to deliver a consignment of vegetables. “The accident occurred around 5.15am when they were returning after the delivery,” Daule said. The truck, carrying poultry feed, was coming from the opposite direction when the pickup van crashed into it. “The impact was such that the van got stuck along the front side of the truck, killing all four passengers of the pickup van on spot,” Daule said. The accident disrupted traffic on the highway for some time, Daule added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-killed-on-spot-in-road-accident/articleshow/77813556.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 72 gold & diamond lockets, 1 million in cash found in red buses in 2019-20||MUMBAI: BEST conductors have found 72 gold and diamond lockets and rings, currency notes worth a million and nearly 5,000 umbrellas left behind by passengers in 2019-20, statistics released by the undertaking revealed on Friday. The statistics showed that among lost and found items were 1,358 mobile phones and watches, 1,687 clothes, slippers, boots and plastic items. “Most cash was left behind in August and September,” said BEST spokesperson Manoj Varade, while most umbrellas were found in July-August, most gold and diamond jewellery in January, and most personal items in July-August. In the past nine years, records show that more than Rs 1.3 crore was left behind by passengers in red buses. Most notes were of Rs100 denomination, sources said. While cash is still the top missing item, others included mobile phones, jewellery, sunglasses, books, medicines, umbrellas, TV and laptops. People have even left behind bags of rice and sugar, oil and many have forgotten their chocolates. BEST staff found few home-cooked food/tiffins. Many times, when tiffins are left behind, conductors have called up police to ensure they were not “bombs”. While BEST depot has storage space for missing items, it cannot keep perishable items for long, sources said. Valuables and other items are kept at bus stations or depot for few days before being shifted to ‘Lost & Found’ department at Wadala. Lost items can be claimed within 30 days. After that they are auctioned at the Oshiwara depot. How to claim a lost item?* If you remember within few hours you have lost something on a bus, try your luck at the last bus-stop chowkie. If it has been deposited by a conductor, you can apply to a traffic officer and claim the article after paying a nominal charge * If your article has been transferred to Wadala depot, you have to visit the office (between 9.30am-1pm and 1.45pm-4.30pm, Monday-Friday), make an application along with bus ticket. You have to provide proof of identity and residence, such as PAN card, driving licence, ration card, passport or voter’s ID card * In case of a big amount of cash or valuables, you also need a police NOC||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/72-gold-diamond-lockets-1mn-in-cash-found-in-red-buses-in-2019-20/articleshow/77812296.cms||Somit Sen
August 29, 2020||Hubballi||Police nab gang preying on those shopping alone; advise people to stay vigilant||Hubballi: Solitary shoppers at markets in Hubballi-Dharwad appear to have become soft targets for a group of unarmed thieves, who are overpowering such people by dint of their numerical superiority. Multiple incidents have been reported within the jurisdiction of the suburban police station in recent times. However, the thieves’ luck appears to have run out with Hubballi-Dharwad suburban police having nabbed three of them believed to be habitual offenders. The modus operandi of these gangs is simple: They lure lone shoppers to a secluded spot at marketplaces by claiming to have knowledge of wholesale outlets wherein they can acquire quality produce at throwaway prices, and once in a slightly secluded spot, the victims are robbed of money and other valuables. In one such incident reported , a 30-year-old man from Jogyellapur in Dharwad taluk who visited Janata Bazaar alone to stock up on groceries was approached by a 21-year-old man, who informed the former of knowing a shop that was offering provisions at wholesale prices. The shopper followed the younger man, but on spotting no sign of a store even after walking some distance, he grew suspicious, and decided to retrace his steps. But on turning back he was overpowered by two other thieves, one of whom held him tight, while the other covered the shopper’s mouth. The trio proceeded to rob the shopper of Rs 11,000, which he had with him, confirmed Hubballi-Dharwad suburban police. In yet another incident, a driver from Hangal who was at Janata Bazaar to make a delivery, was robbed by a trio of thieves a week ago. The driver, lured into an open space by a man who informed the former that he had poultry that needed to be ferried to Hangal, was ambushed by two other thieves, who proceeded to rob him of Rs 17,500 and his phone. Suburban police station inspector SK Holeyannavar confirmed that the thieves had been arrested. Theft of mobile phones In the meanwhile, bike-borne miscreants are preying on people who are in the habit of speaking on their mobile phones while walking on the streets in the twin cities. A resident recently lost his mobile phone to these thieves who whisked his handset away near Sri Krishna Kalyan Mantap. In the wake of two other incidents being reported wherein mobile phones were stolen within the jurisdiction of Navanagar and APMC police stations, cops intensified their search for the miscreants and managed to nabbed the thieves. Mobile phones that were stolen and a bike they used for the crimes have been seized from the thieves. However, police urged people to be careful as in future other gangs may get activated .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/police-nab-gang-preying-on-those-shopping-alone-advise-people-to-stay-vigilant/articleshow/77811090.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
August 29, 2020||Madurai||Notice to Centre on plea against amendment to EIA notification||MADURAI: The Madras high court on Friday ordered notice to the central government on a plea which challenged an amendment dated August 22, 2013 in the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification, 2006. A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and B Pugalendhi passed the order while hearing a public interest litigation filed by Fatima, a resident of Tuticorin district. The petitioner stated that the EIA Notification was issued in 2006 mandating prior environmental clearance for activities listed in the schedule to the notification. She stated that highway projects are covered under item 7 (f) of the schedule. By way of the amendment, the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change had granted exemption from obtaining environmental clearance for highway projects up to 100km involving additional land acquisition of 40m width on existing alignment and 60m on new alignment. She stated that taking advantage of the amendment, two-lane highways are being converted to four and six-lane. She stated that tree felling, conversion of agricultural lands, alteration of hydrology are irreversible. The purpose of the EIA Notification is to ensure that development is sustainable, however, by granting exemption, the ministry has destroyed the only tool that ensured sustainable development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/notice-to-centre-on-plea-against-amendment-to-eia-notification/articleshow/77813558.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Pune||Four held on murder charge||Pune: Four persons were arrested on Friday on the suspicion of murdering Ambegaon Pathar resident Keshav Kamble (22) at Annabhau Sathenagar on Thursday night over a previous dispute. The Bibvewadi police have fanned teams to arrest another suspect, who is on the run.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-held-on-murder-charge/articleshow/77813582.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Change in selection list for PSI promotion||Ahmedabad: In a re-evaluation of the examination for promotion to the posts of police-sub inspector, the Gujarat Subordinate Services Selection Board (GSSSB) has declared as successful 32 candidates who were declared failed in 2017. The re-evaluation was ordered by the Gujarat high court in January 2020 after those police constables, who were not declared successful, complained about improper evaluation by examiners without following instructions as mentioned in question papers. Twenty candidates, all from the Scheduled Tribe category, have been held ineligible in the re-evaluation which was done after adjustment of cut-off marks. They were declared unsuccessful for not securing minimum eligible marks, 40%, the Board has declared this on an affidavit on Wednesday. Against 407 posts, 376 candidates were selected in 2017. In all, 52 candidates have been placed in the category of unsuccessful candidates, including 20 ST category candidates. Among 32 who were earlier declared unsuccessful but now declared successful, there are eight candidates who are the petitioners before the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/change-in-selection-list-for-psi-promotion/articleshow/77813632.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Madurai||MP H Vasanthakumar spent money from his pocket for people’s welfare||KANYAKUMARI: Agastheeswaram in Kanyakumari district, the native village of Congress MP H Vasanthakumar, sunk in grief as news about his death came out on Friday evening. Candles were lit to the portraits of the MP and banners condoling his death were also erected at many villages. People of his constituency recall him as an easily accessible representative, who spent heavily from his pockets for their welfare. His close associates in the Congress said he showed the same dedication he showed to build his empire ‘Vasantha and Co’ for the betterment of his constituency. “He spent at least Rs 1.5 crore to provide rice free of cost to the poor in his constituency during the Covid-19 pandemic. Even as he was battling for his life in the hospital, the jeep he dedicated to distribute kabasura kudineer to the people continued to render the free service and it continued till Friday,” said activist and Congress member K R Dison. Vasanthakumar did not rely on his MPLADS fund to respond to representations brought to him. He also provided wedding assistance of Rs 10,000 each to girls from the economically weaker section, which was distributed on Wednesday. As Nanguneri MLA from 2006 to 2011, he started evening schools to provide free special coaching for school children in more than 100 villages in the assembly segment. This also turned into a job opportunity for unemployed young graduates, for whom he paid salaries from his pockets. Most of these beneficiary teachers were women. The scheme that was defunct from 2011-16 when he lost the election resumed functioning in 2016. Despite him resigning as MLA after winning the Lok Sabha elections in Kanyakumari, the evening schools continued to function. He also introduced it in Kanyakumari district and gave teaching jobs there to many widows who approached him for a job. He sponsored an earthmover at Rs 29 lakh to clear prosopis juliflora and desilt waterbodies at Nanguneri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mp-spent-money-from-his-pocket-for-peoples-welfare/articleshow/77813602.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Kanpur||Probe panel visits Kanshiram Newada||Kanpur:A three-member inquiry commission headed by former Supreme Court judge, Justice B S Chauhan, set up by the apex court to probe Vikas Dubey encounter and the circumstances that led to it, visited the gangster’s native village Bikru in Chaubeypur on Friday. Sources informed TOI that the commission, headed by Justice (retd) Chauhan, former DGP KL Gupta and Justice (retd) Shashikant Agarwal, accompanied by district officials reached Bikru amid tight security and began investigations. The Commission had earlier visited Bikru village on August 4. After holding a meeting with senior police officials at the Circuit house on Friday morning, they visited Kanshiram Newada village encounter site where Prem Prakash Pandey and Atul Dubey, aides of Vikas Dubey, were gunned down soon after the Bikru ambush on July 3. “The Commission minutely observed the encounter site close to a temple at Kanshiram Newada village where Prem Prakash Pandey and Atul Dubey were gunned down soon after the Bikru ambush on July 3 morning. They cross-examined the encounter theory, questioned IG range Mohit Agarwal like from where did the police receive tip-off about the hideout of the two. What type of firearms the two had possessed, besides how did the police corner them and what type of weapons were used by the police in the encounter,” police sources informed TOI. The Commission thereafter left for Sachendi to study the scene of the encounter of Vikas Dubey. To recall, the state government had first set up a one-member commission under former Allahabad HC judge Justice (retired) Shashi Kant Agarwal to probe Dubey’s killing. However, later the Supreme Court asked it to expand the panel by including a former SC judge and an ex-police officer. On July 22, the court approved the new commission headed by former SC judge Justice (retd) Chauhan, former DGP Gupta and Justice (retd) Agarwal. The Commission had inspected on August 4 the scene of crime where eight policemen including a Dy SP were trapped and shot dead allegedly by Vikas Dubey and his aides on July 2 & 3. Eight policemen, including DSP Devendra Mishra, were ambushed in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur when they were going to arrest Dubey and fell to bullets fired from rooftops shortly after midnight on July 2 & 3. Dubey was killed in an encounter in the morning of July 10 when a police vehicle carrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur met with an accident and he tried to escape from the spot in Bhauti area in Sachendi, the police had said. Earlier, five of his alleged associates were killed in separate encounters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/probe-panel-visits-kanshiram-newada/articleshow/77811478.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
August 29, 2020||Vadodara||New peak: 122 more test positive||VADODARA: Covid-19 cases made yet another peak in the city with 122 persons testing positive for the novel coronavirus since Thursday night. The number of fresh cases has been making new peaks everyday since Monday barring Thursday. With the new cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the city and district went up to 7,698. The number of tests being conducted in the city and district has been on a rise consistently and reached 2,376 on Friday. The positivity rate continued to remain around five per cent with 5.13 per cent samples turning out to be positive since Thursday evening. The highest number of positive cases were reported from the western parts of the city where 34 persons tested positive. This was followed by the south zone where 20 cases came to light and the north zone that recorded 19 new cases. The rural areas of the Vadodara district outside Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) saw 35 new cases. These were from Padra, Dabhoi, Karjan, Shinor, Bil, Nandesari, Khatamba, Kelanpur, Dhaniyavi and Savli. A patient from Panchmahal district also tested positive at a hospital in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/new-peak-122-more-test-positive/articleshow/77810476.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Hyderabad||SC order rekindles hope of Madigas||Hyderabad: Hopes of Madigas, who have been demanding to be categorised as SC for the past 26 years, were rekindled with a five-judge bench of the Supreme Court on Thursday ruling that states can sub-classify SC and ST. Though the issue has been referred to a seven-judge bench of the apex court with two contradicting views, Madiga Reservation Porata Samithi (MRPS), which has been in the forefront on the categorisation issue, is hopeful of a solution. MRPS founder-president Manda Krishna Madiga said several commissions, including Justice P Ramachandra Raju commission appointed by the TDP government in united AP and Usha Mehra commission by the UPA-1 government, had recommended sub-categorisation of SCs. “Now, the five-judge bench also said states can sub-classify SCs/STs. Since the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre is in favour of categorisation of SCs, we are hopeful of a positive solution in next six months with the introduction of a bill in parliament,” he told TOI on Friday. The MRPS leader said of the 59 sub-castes in SCs in both Telugu states, only two to three sub-castes were benefited in employment, education and political fields. “If the sub-categorisation is done, sub-castes in Malas such as ‘Relly Paidi Paki’ (scavenger community) in AP will also be benefited,” Krishna pointed out. While Madigas’ population is high in Telangana, Malas are the dominant group in AP. The demand for categorisation of SCs originated 26 years ago with several sub-castes (in Madigas) claiming that they were deprived of the benefits despite being backward, while Malas reaping all the sops in eemployment and education despite being affluent. Mala Mahanadu, which came into being in protest against the categorisation of SCs, said political parties were trying to divide SCs to pursue votebank politics. “If the states are given powers to include or exclude sub-castes of SCs, parties will use it for their own political gains. This goes against the very spirit of the Constitution,” Addanki Dayakar, Mala Mahanadu national president, told TOI. He charged governments with trying to divide Madigas and Malas with the categorisation issue. However, Krishna said time has come for CMs — K Chandrasekhar Rao and YS Jaganmohan Reddy — to ensure that the sub-classification was done smoothly. The MRPS chief also hoped that the Centre, which had appointed Justice Rohini commission for sub-categorisation of BCs, would not go ahead without first addressing the SCs’ categorisation issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sc-order-rekindles-hope-of-madigas/articleshow/77812339.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 29, 2020||Kanpur||New building at Bhalla Hosp to house district admin offices||Kanpur: A new administrative building will be built at VN Bhalla Hospital premises to house several offices of the district administrative officials. The Kanpur Municipal Corporation will prepare a resolution while the Kanpur Development Authority (KDA) will erect the structure. This decision was taken at a meeting held under the chairmanship of divisional commissioner Dr Sudhir M Bobde on Friday to discuss the pending development programmes of the city. It was also decided that besides SP (South), additional district magistrate (South), additional municipal commissioner (South), joint secretary (South) KDA and executive engineer Kesco’s office would be housed in the administrative building. During the discussion of Metro project, it was decided that Crystal Plaza parking at and Naveen Market, Phoolbagh would be linked with Metro station. The Metro officials have been directed to give underground connectivity to the Crystal Plaza parking and links at both the ends. The divisional commissioner asked the officials to give him a report in this regard in three weeks. They have also been asked to gear up the first phase of Metro work which should meet all standards. For this, a committee has been constituted. The committee will consist of executive engineer Kesco, DGM Technical, ADM (LA), SP traffic and Neeraj Srivastava, coordinator of the high-level joint development committee. The proposed Lucknow-Kanpur rapid rail transit system was also discussed and it was observed that a state-level meeting should be convened for study of the proposal. The divisional commissioner also asked Jal Nigam, Kesco, PWD, Kanpur Municipal Corporation and Kanpur Development Authority to coordinate with Metro officials and inform them about any work which comes under the limit of Metro project. He also instructed KDA and KMC officials about proper sanitation of Naveen market. Jhakarkati inter-state bus terminal was also discussed and it was decided to reduce the load from the terminal another inter-state bus terminal should be established. A committee was constituted to identify the land for the said purpose. IIT had conducted a study to develop the road from Ganga barrage to Jajmau under River front project. The study was conducted in 2013. The divisional commissioner asked the IIT to conduct study once again and submit a report. The irrigation department was granted one more month’s time to purchase equipment for the Boat club.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/new-building-at-bhalla-hosp-to-house-district-admin-offices/articleshow/77811488.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Trichy||Covid-19: 25 die in south Tamil Nadu, 9 in central districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: The southern districts continued to record less than 1,000 cases a day for the third straight day when they recorded 922 fresh cases together including three imported ones. In all, 25 more deaths resulted in the death rate of the 10 districts climbing to 1.8% against the state’s average of 1.7%. Meanwhile, the central region continued with its recent trend of cases rising and falling every alternate day by recording 601 fresh cases on Friday, 81 less than Thursday’s cases when the region also breached the 29,000 mark in total cases. A 33-year-old woman from Madurai with comorbidities was the youngest to die in the southern region at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) on Wednesday. On the other hand, the recovery rate of the central region has climbed to 87.8% against the state average of 85.4%. With the day’s tally, the regional tally touched 29,984 cases out of which 5,275 were active ones. In terms of death toll, the region recorded nine with a 36-year-old man from Nagappattinam being the youngest victim. The man got admitted to district headquarters hospital in Nagappattinam on August 21. He tested positive on August 23. He already had complaints of fever, cough for four days and breathing difficulty for a day before his admission to the hospital. He died of Covid-19 pneumonia on August 26 despite treatment. The other patients had any one of the comorbid conditions such as diabetes mellitus, hypertension and chronic kidney disorder (CKD) etc. Two patients died at private hospitals and others at government hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/25-die-of-covid-19-in-south-tn-9-in-central-districts/articleshow/77817424.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Madurai||Covid-19: 25 die in south Tamil Nadu, 9 in central districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: The southern districts continued to record less than 1,000 cases a day for the third straight day when they recorded 922 fresh cases together including three imported ones. In all, 25 more deaths resulted in the death rate of the 10 districts climbing to 1.8% against the state’s average of 1.7%. Meanwhile, the central region continued with its recent trend of cases rising and falling every alternate day by recording 601 fresh cases on Friday, 81 less than Thursday’s cases when the region also breached the 29,000 mark in total cases. A 33-year-old woman from Madurai with comorbidities was the youngest to die in the southern region at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) on Wednesday. On the other hand, the recovery rate of the central region has climbed to 87.8% against the state average of 85.4%. With the day’s tally, the regional tally touched 29,984 cases out of which 5,275 were active ones. In terms of death toll, the region recorded nine with a 36-year-old man from Nagappattinam being the youngest victim. The man got admitted to district headquarters hospital in Nagappattinam on August 21. He tested positive on August 23. He already had complaints of fever, cough for four days and breathing difficulty for a day before his admission to the hospital. He died of Covid-19 pneumonia on August 26 despite treatment. The other patients had any one of the comorbid conditions such as diabetes mellitus, hypertension and chronic kidney disorder (CKD) etc. Two patients died at private hospitals and others at government hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/25-die-of-covid-19-in-south-tn-9-in-central-districts/articleshow/77813590.cms||---
August 29, 2020||India||SC to study if population can be basis of minority tag||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to examine whether a community could be declared as a religious or linguistic minority on the basis of its population in a state to allow it to run institutions of its choice. A bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul sought response from the Centre on a PIL filed by BJP functionary Ashwini Upadhyay challenging the validity of Section 2(f) of National Commission for Minority Education Institution Act for giving power to the Centre to declare a community as minority for the purpose. The Supreme Court had earlier in February refused to entertain his similar plea to define the word “minority” and laying of guidelines to accord minority status based on state-wise population of a particular community. The court had asked him to approach appropriate forum for relief. In his new petition, Upadhyay has challenged the validity of Section 2(f) of the Act pertaining to setting up and managing minority institutions. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for the petitioner, told the bench that Hindus are in minority in 10 states while Muslim and Christians, which have been declared minority community, are in majority in many states. “Followers of Judaism, Bahaism & Hinduism are being deprived of their basic rights to establish & administer educational institutions of their choice. On the other hand, Muslims are in majority in Lakshdweep (96.58%) & Kashmir (96%). Christians are majority in Nagaland (88.10%), Mizoram (87.16%) and Meghalaya (74.59%),” the petition said. “Hindus are merely 1% in Laddakh, 2.75% in Mizoram, 2.77% in Lakshdweep, 4% in Kashmir, 8.74% in Nagaland, 11.52% in Meghalaya, 29% in Arunachal Pradesh, 38.49% in Punjab, 41.29% in Manipur but the Centre has not declared them minority. Thus Hindus are not protected under Articles 29-30 and cannot establish & administer educational institution of their choice," it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-to-study-if-population-can-be-basis-of-minority-tag/articleshow/77814560.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Interim bail plea of activist Sudha Bhardwaj rejected||MUMBAI: Exactly two years after her arrest, Bombay high court on Friday rejected a plea for interim bail filed by activist Sudha Bhardwaj (58), accused of Maoist links in the Elgar Parishad case from Pune. She had sought bail on health grounds during Covid-19, citing co-morbidities and risk she would face if she continued in a crowded jail, given her age. HC observed that jail authorities were taking care of her and would continue to as medical facilities were available. Bhardwaj, vice-president of Indian Association of People’s Lawyers, was arrested on August 28, 2018. National Investigation Agency (NIA) had opposed her bail plea, saying she was trying to get an order which she would otherwise not be entitled to on merits in the case as serious terror-related offences under Unlawful Activity (Prevention) Act (UAPA) were invoked against her. UAPA provisions for bail are stringent. Additional solicitor-general Anil Singh, appearing for NIA, argued against relief for her. The HC in its order said, “...there is no inconsistency in the August 21 and 28 reports placed on record.” It accepted the August 21 report submitted by medical officer, Mumbai District Women Prison, Byculla, which “indicates that her general health condition is stable and satisfactory” and that medicines are being provided to her on regular basis at government cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/interim-bail-plea-of-elgar-accused-rejected/articleshow/77812688.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Rajkot||Dhaman-3 has passed all tests, say makers||Rajkot: City-based engineering company Jyoti CNC automation Ltd claimed on Friday that their indigenous ventilator Dhaman-3 has passed all tests and parameters set by Union health ministry’s technical committee. The promoters have also claimed that the firm has also secured an order for 5,000 such ventilators from the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS). Dhaman-3, the advanced version of the ventilator, which has just completed the testing stage is ready to hit the market. The company said that it fulfil the DGHS order in the next two and half months. Addressing the media in Rajkot on Friday, the chairman and managing director of the company, Prakramsinh Jadeja alleged that the recent controversy surrounding their product was a deliberate attempt to malign by some parties with vested interest. “There are some lobbies of imported ventilators who were trying to secure maximum orders during the pandemic. However, as they are now not getting orders, they started the smear campaign to malign our ‘Made in India’ product by creating the controversy for their own benefit,” asserted Jadeja. India, which was totally dependent on imported ventilators, still has nearly 65 percent imported ventilators under use in various hospitals of the country. Jadeja further claimed that their ventilators are available at 25 percent of the price paid for imported ventilators. The ventilator business is $8 billion globally, while India annually spent around Rs 400 crore till last year in importing these machines. Jadeja also said that the firm will very soon send its ventilator to the US for regulatory certification of USFDA, while a subsidiary company of Jyoti CNC in Europe is pursuing for a European regulatory certificate. If these pursuits are successful, in the near future the firm can export machines to European countries, he added. Last week, an RTI application reply revealed that Jyoti CNC had not received the recommendations of the DGHS’s technical committee till July 20 though the Union health ministry had placed orders for 5,000 ventilators from the Rajkot-based company. The fund for the purchase of the ventilators is allotted from the PM-CARES (Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situation) fund. On Friday, Jadeja refuted the allegations and said that the committee had given green signal to the firm’s latest Dhaman-3 model on August 8. “The RTI was not regarding Jyoti CNC but it was about the use of PM-CARES. The ventilator was only a part of that fund. There are other Indian companies supplying ventilators to the government and we have secured the lowest order,” Jadeja added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dhaman-3-has-passed-all-tests-say-makers/articleshow/77811155.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Kanpur||Admin makes kit mandatory for patients in home isolation||Kanpur: The district administration on Friday made home isolation kits mandatory for home isolation of Covid-19 patients. The patients have to record their pulse from pulse-oximeter and temperature from the thermometer at regular intervals. They have to inform the control room if their pulse rate becomes low and they would be admitted thereafter in a hospital. The home isolation kit would cost around Rs 1,000. The Drug and Chemist Association assured the district magistrate in a meeting that they would provide a home isolation kit in Rs 1,000. Earlier, district magistrate Alok Tewari had asked the officials to provide home isolation kits at lowest rates. He asked the office-bearers of the association to sell the kit through medical stores of the city so that patients in home isolation could get it within a radius of 500 to 1000 metres. He asked them that in Agra, drugs and chemists had provided home isolation kit for home isolation patients at cheap rates. The rates for kit should be under Rs 1,100. Members of the association said they would provide the kit at the rate of Rs 1,000 and it would contain 25 pieces of three-layer masks, one pulse meter, one pulse-oximeter, one litre sodium hypochlorite, 30 tablets of Vitamin C, 3 sachets of Vitamin D and also a digital thermometer. The district magistrate thereafter directed them that this home isolation kit must be available at prescribed medical stores in the next two days. The medical stores should also display that home delivery of kit was there. He specifically said that without a home isolation kit, no one should be sent for home isolation. Chief development officer Dr Mahendra Kumar, city magistrate Himanshu Gupta and drug inspector Sandesh Maurya were present in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/admin-makes-kit-mandatory-for-patients-in-home-isolation/articleshow/77811523.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
August 29, 2020||Madurai||Govt school to build classrooms to meet demand||MADURAI: The Sivaganga district administration has decided to construct more classrooms in a municipal school at Karaikudi due to the high demand for seats. Many students had to be turned away after seats filled up as soon as admissions opened on August 17 and hence another round of admissions is to be conducted on September 1. This time, many parents have been opting to enrol their children in government schools because of the economic impact of Covid-19 and lockdowns, unlike in previous years when there were no takers for these seats. Ramanathan Chettiar municipal high school in Karaikudi has not been seeing an influx over the past five years, but this year the 200 seats for class VI got filled up as soon as enrolment started. Headmaster Peter Raja said the school strength had been 218 in 2013-2014 which gradually increased to 1,325. After he assumed charge, many changes were brought in, including roping in parents for most of the school’s developmental activities. They contributed with infrastructure worth Rs 1.7 lakh in the first year which went up to Rs 7 lakh in the last academic year. Raja said he had asked the parents what they wished for their children. They said they wanted their children to wear uniforms, shoes, belts, ties and badges like those in private schools. This year, they received 700 applications for admissions to 200 class VI seats. Many students from CBSE schools as well as those who had migrated to their roots were eager to get a seat. Sivaganga sistrict collector J Jayakanthan has asked the school to conduct another round of admission for another 200 students on September 1, and also asked the municipal administration to explore the possibilities of constructing additional classes for the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-school-to-build-classrooms-to-meet-demand/articleshow/77813616.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Madurai||Get back to normal lives with caution: Sellur Raju||MADURAI: We should learn to live with Covid-19 and get back to our normal activities with caution, said minister for co-operatives, Sellur K Raju who inspected the smart city works in Madurai on Friday. Inspecting the beautification works of pavements and roads around Thirumalai Naicker Palace, the minister said that The guest workers are not allowed for these works due to the lockdown, and added that we should learn to live with it. The youth should be more cautious and wear masks in public. Almost 95% of the facelift work at a cost of Rs 3 crore is completed and is expected to be completely done by October. On DMK president M K Stalin’s allegations that the government is failing to act on important issues like the NEET examination, he said many of the things that Stalin is opposing were actually initiated during the DMK regime. “We were those who opposed NEET then, but now it has gone beyond our control,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/get-back-to-normal-lives-with-caution-sellur-raju/articleshow/77813629.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Noida||Noida: Over Rs 250 crore sops offered to 16 builders of incomplete projects||NOIDA: As many as 16 real estate developers in the city who have failed to finish projects in time due to the Covid pandemic will be offered sops worth over Rs 250 crore, officials said on Friday. While the Noida Authority will forgo penalty from these delayed projects under the time-extension policy, the move will benefit more than 22,000 buyers who have been waiting to get possession of their dream homes. Of those who had applied for exemption under the policy, officials said, 16 developers , including the Supertech group have been found eligible, and the Authority will dole out benefits to the tune of Rs 263.36 crore for them. On an average, a developer will get a rebate of Rs 16.46 crore over their dues and should be in a position to pass on the benefits to 22,064 buyers who have been waiting for the past eight to nine years in the hope of getting possession. The benefits come with a rider though. “Builders will need to complete these projects and hand over flats latest by December 31, 2021. In case they are unable to finish the project by then, the exemption will be rolled back and we will recover the amount,” said Rajesh Kumar, OSD to Noida Authority. The UP government had floated the zero-period policy in December last year and asked the Noida Authority to identify projects that got stuck due to regulatory roadblocks. Some 39 developers applied for it ,out of which pleas of 16 developers were found genuine. The Authority will not levy time-extension charges for a period of 18 months to 24 months on these developers. Finance controller at Noida Authority, Sudhir Singh, said that the said amount will be adjusted in the books. However, realtors’ body Naredco’s UP unit president RK Arora, also the chairman of Supertech Group, said, “Our project in Sector 74, Capetown, has been selected. Some 70% of the entire project is complete at the moment. But the Authority has calculated time extension due on the entire project instead of considering only the incomplete portion.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/over-rs-250cr-sops-offered-to-16-builders-of-incomplete-projects/articleshow/77813675.cms||Shalabh
August 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: BJP kicks off ‘Halla Bol’ against government||JAIPUR: In a first coordinated attack, the state BJP has launched a campaign ‘Halla Bol’ against the Congress government from Friday. The party has come together to raise issues like high power tariff, mismanagement of Covid-19, farmers loan waiver and rising unemployment. The first day of the campaign was meant to build an audience on social media by uploading messages and videos hashtag #BJPkaHallaBol. Leading the campaign, state BJP president Satish Poonia addressed the party workers via live stream at 9.30am. In a 24-minute address, Poonia set the tone for messages and videos for its MLAs, MPs, office-bearers and party workers. “The Congress government is a hallmark of failure. Right from the promise of farmers loan waivers to unemployment allowance announced during the polls and from corruption in Covid-19 to management to poor relief work, the government has abused the mandate,” said Poonia. Deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Singh Rathore, in a video message, attacked the government for staging a political drama to hide their failures. “The pandemic like situation has forced us to follow the protocol of social distancing. The people of the state are so angry with the present dispensation that they would have hit the streets had there was no such situation,” said Rathore. BJP MPs who have either shared a video or uploaded a message on social media. Arjun Ram Meghwal, Union minister of heavy industries and public enterprises in a tweet says that “state is suffering from power tariff while the government is in deep slumber. We are raising our voice against the dictatorial regime.” Rajsamand MP Diya Kumari, said that the Congress government is the first such insensitive government in the history of Rajasthan which has continuously hurt the sentiments of the people. Jhalawar MP Dushyant has called the biggest success of the chief minister Ashok Gehlot is saving his government else everything was a failure. After a buzz on the social media, the party has planned a press conference on all seven divisions by their office bearers and senior party leaders. Hoping the two events will build momentum for their campaign, the party on August 30 staged a protest at Grid Service Station at every district to highlight the power tariff issue and waiver for the last three to four months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-kicks-off-halla-bol-against-govt/articleshow/77812363.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Hubballi||Recommencement of classes for degree students evokes mixed reactions||Dharwad: The state government’s decision to start the new academic year with online classes for degree colleges from September 1, and commence conventional classes from October 1 has evoked a wide variety of reactions from across the spectrum: Teachers, students and parents. Director of the Karnataka State Human Resource Development Centre Prof Harish Ramaswamy said that the pandemic would remain part of the equation for the foreseeable future and called for accepting it as part of one’s life henceforth. “It’s time we put the hard reality of Covid-19 behind us and move forward with a novel way. In the case of education, we must look forward, and the government’s decision to hold classes on campuses by adhering to the safety guidelines is a step in that direction,” he said. Calling on students to acknowledge and accept the altered reality, Prof Ramaswamy said that it would only be in their best interest to do so. In the same vein, he called on the government to equip underprivileged students with smartphones. He said that the safety norms, which entailed maintaining of safe distance between students, needed innovative management in the running of classes. “All stakeholders must work in tandem henceforth. I appreciate the decision of the government, which has been taken with the larger interests of the students at heart,” Prof Ramaswamy added. On the other hand, the All India Democratic Students’ Organisation (AIDSO) has expressed its opposition to the government’s decision to start classes, both online and on the campuses. Members of the outfit pointed out that students from economically weaker sections could not afford smartphones, thereby putting them at a disadvantage. They pointed to the spike in Covid-19 cases across the state to justify their stance against the idea of returning to campuses for classes. Most lecturers at degree colleges in Dharwad, however, want to return to the traditional mode of teaching at the earliest. “Owing to the lockdown, syllabus for the last year has not been completed. Holding online classes has its own set of problems so returning to the classrooms is the only solution,” Prof Vidya Kulkarni, a Dharwad-based lecturer, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/recommencement-of-classes-for-degree-students-evokes-mixed-reactions/articleshow/77811138.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Madurai||Online process for admission under RTE Act begins in Madurai||MADURAI: The online application process for admission under the Right to Education Act (RTE) in private schools began on Thursday. In Madurai district, 5,715 seats have been reserved under RTE in 443 private schools. Of the 443 private schools, 96 are in Madurai educational district, 179 are in Melur educational district, 138 in Thirumangalam educational district and 30 in Usilampatti educational district. Madurai district chief educational officer (CEO) R Swaminathan said that online applications will be open from August 27 to September 25. “Parents can apply online through the official website which is easy to access. In case of any difficulty, parents can approach the nearest chief education office, district education office or block education office,” he said. Social welfare organisations are also helping parents apply online. Under RTE, 25% of seats in private schools are reserved for students from underprivileged families earning less than Rs 2 lakh per annum. “This year, with Covid-19 pandemic affecting their earnings, we saw some parents preferring to opt for government and corporation schools over private schools due to cost concerns,” said the principal of a private matriculation school. The website https://rte.tnschools.gov.in/home can be accessed to apply for RTE seats. As per guidelines, students are eligible to apply for private schools within 1km of the home address. Parents can select up to five schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/online-process-for-admission-under-rte-act-begins/articleshow/77813637.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Madurai||‘Covid-19 should be treated early even in younger patients’||MADURAI: Since July, though only 8% of Covid-19 deaths in south Tamil Nadu are patients without co-morbid conditions, doctors have stressed that even patients without co-morbid conditions require early and prompt treatment to make full recovery, warning against taking the disease lightly and ignoring early symptoms, especially among working population aged between 30-50 years. In south Tamil Nadu, 1,548 Covid-19 deaths have been recorded till now, of which 1,478 deaths were recorded between July and August. Out of 1,478 deaths, 115 did not have any co-morbid conditions. Age too plays a role as 69% of deaths without comorbidity in south TN are those aged between 50-65 years. On the other hand, around 31% of Covid-19 deaths without comorbidties in south TN are patients aged between 0-50 years. “Those who are elderly and with comorbid conditions are of course at higher risk of mortality. However, due to the unpredictability of this deadly disease, the public must understand that it is a fact that some of the younger Covid-19 patients without co-morbid conditions can also worsen over time. Lung damage can happen in any patient,” said Dr Prem Ananth P, interventional pulmonologist. In some patients, cytokine storm, an immune response that can cause lung damage and silent hypoxia, can also lead to mortality. In most of the deaths of patients without co-morbid conditions, often the deaths are within a few days or hours after admission to a hospital. “There are people who are walking in to a hospital only after suffering severe breathlessness. In such cases, even with best efforts of doctors, the chance of mortality is high. The symptoms are also presenting in a varied manner so it is easy for patients to underestimate the disease and not consult a doctor early,” said a senior doctor at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). Health officials and doctors have urged the public to not let their guard down and consult a doctor in case of any symptoms. “Some patients show Covid-19 symptoms and take a CT scan but are not ready to undergo a swab test due to fear. Patients must come forward to take a test on recommendation of their doctor to ensure early identification and treatment of the disease,” added Dr Prem Ananth. Wearing of masks, hand sanitisation and social distancing has also been stressed as the most important preventive measures even in healthy and young individuals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-19-should-be-treated-early-even-in-younger-patients/articleshow/77813636.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
August 29, 2020||Kanpur||Newly married woman ends life||Kanpur: A 24-year-old newly married woman allegedly committed suicide at Keshavpuram area under the limits of Kalyanpur police station in the city on Thursday night. The police said the woman, Kamalpreet, was found hanging from the ceiling in her room on Friday morning and apparently a suicide note was recovered saying that her in-laws were innocent and not responsible for her death with “I Love you Babu...,” written on it. Her body has been sent for post-mortem examination and investigation in the matter is going on, a police official said. Kamalpreet had love marriage with Avinash Sharma, a coaching institute owner, on January 27, 2020. The incident came to light on Friday morning when she did not come out of her room and when her in-laws went to check on her she was found hanging from the ceiling, the police said. “According to the preliminary investigation, she was under depression. The immediate reason for the extreme step is not known yet. However, we have recovered a suicide note saying that her husband and in-laws were innocent and not responsible for her death and “I Love you Babu..........” written on it. The body has been sent for postmortem and investigations are on,” said Inspector Kalyanpur Ajay Seth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/newly-married-woman-ends-life/articleshow/77811535.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Chennai||Chennai likely to get light rain over 24 hours, forecast weathermen||CHENNAI: The city was treated to some surprise showers in the last couple of days and weathermen have forecast more spells for the next 24 hours due to a prevailing trough and a generally overcast sky the day later. So far in this season from June 1, the city has a rain deficit of 12% with 272.2mm rain recorded against an average 307.7mm. The regional meteorological centre, Chennai has forecast, “The sky condition is likely to be partly cloudy. Light rain may occur in some areas. Maximum and minimum temperatures may be around 36°C and 27°C in the city for the next 24 hours.” N Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, IMD said, “Light to moderate rain is likely to occur over some areas along coastal Tamil Nadu due to the presence of a trough and convection over southern parts of the state.” “Some parts of the city are likely to get light rain in the next 24 hours and on August 30, sky condition is likely to continue to be generally cloudy,” he added. According to IMD’s regional weather inference on Friday, “Yesterday’s north-south trough extending up to .9km above mean sea level from Rayalaseema to south Tamilnadu now runs from north coastal Tamil Nadu to Comorin area.” In the last two days, several areas, particularly in the west and south of the city, saw sharp spells. This, officials said, was due to the prevailing trough closer to the coast since the beginning of the week. The evening showers in the city on Thursday left 3.2mm in Nungambakkam station and only traces in Meenambakkam. The rain gauge at Mahabalipuram recorded 8mm rainfall, while those in Anna University, Taramani, Chembarambakkam, MGR Nagar and Kanchipuram recorded 1mm. Weather bloggers said models show chances of rain again in the city by the second week of September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-likely-to-get-light-rain-over-24-hours-forecast-weathermen/articleshow/77812369.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Hyderabad||CDFD concerned after Andaman tribes test positive||Hyderabad: Alarm bells have started to ring as 19 people of Great Andamanese tribe have tested positive for Covid-19. Kumarasamy Thangaraj, a Hyderabad-based scientist, who has been associated with the study of particularly vulnerable tribal groups (PVTGs) in the Andaman and Nicobar islands, has said that all possible measures should be taken to protect these tribes. “It is a matter of concern that some of the small population of the Great Andamanese have tested positive for Covid-19,” Thangaraj, director of Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics (CDFD). “But it should be ensured that the Covid-19 patients are in isolation,” he added. There are five primitive tribes in the islands. As a scientist in the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), he had published research in international journals on them. “Covid-19 should not be allowed to spread to the other tribes. However, it is unlikely that it would because the tribes are spread out on different islands and are isolated,” the scientist said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cdfd-concerned-after-andaman-tribes-test-positive/articleshow/77812427.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 29, 2020||Jaipur||State may ask Centre to consider 1% NREGA cess for building workers||JAIPUR: The state government may recommend the Centre to consider making changes in the MGNREGA rules so that 1% cess could be contributed to building and other construction workers (BOCW) board from the employment guarantee scheme for the welfare of the construction workers, labourers and daily wage earners. “There is a proposal of 1% cess contribution to the building and other construction workers board from MGNREGA since the workers under the scheme are engaged in construction work and are enrolled in the board. However, for Rajasthan or any state to implement this proposal, an amendment to the MGNREGA rules has to be made by the Centre,” said an official. The chief secretary has asked the labour and rural development departments to explore options for the same by seeking information and taking feedback from other states. “Ultimately, the decision in this case has to be taken by the government of India and will be implemented in all states, not just Rajasthan. The suggestion is good and if it gets implemented, it will help the cause of labour welfare and ensure financial security for their families. It will be a big policy intervention. Also, the Centre will have to decide the budget to be allocated for the BOCW board. The state can’t decide whether it should be 1% or more (or less than that),” added the official. “After seeking information from other states, the state government may write to the Centre recommending 1% cess from MGNREGA for BOCW board,” said the official. “There was a preliminary meeting on the issue at the level of chief secretary. But, nothing has been decided. Everyone was of the opinion that it is desirable. Seeking feedback from the states, the suggestions will be examined and a recommendation is likely to be sent to the Centre.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-may-ask-centre-to-consider-1-nrega-cess-for-bldg-workers/articleshow/77812383.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Mumbai||Madrassas go online to teach those memorizing entire Quran||Mumbai: For long stereotyped as being out of tune with modern times, many madrassas have started teaching students online during the lockdown. Among those learning are hafizs, or those memorizing the entire Quran. Madrassa Jamia Tajwidul Quran, which shares space with Noor Meher School, both run under Noor Meher Charitable Trust at Malad (W), introduced online teaching soon after the madrassa reopened after Ramzan vacations in June. “Students left for home due to the vacations and could not return due to lockdown and closure of educational institutions. We decided students should not suffer and told teachers to guide them online,” said the madrassa-school founder Syed Ali, fondly called Ali Bhai. Keeping its past records, this year too 10 hafizs from here cleared SSC exams and will soon join mainstream educational institutions. Here, students become a hafiz and study modern subjects too, to be able to sit for SSC exams. Students of hafiz course recite the portion given as homework on WhatsApp video, and teachers correct them if they mispronounce a word or forget something during recitation. “We have given one hour for a class to each student. They are ready at homes in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Bengal, and even Mumbai, when we video call them,” said Hafiz Aijaz, a teacher. Since most madrassa students come from very poor families, they find it difficult to afford smart phones or recharge SIM cards. This is why the over half-a-century-old Madrassa Darul Uloom Mohammadiya, near the iconic Minara Masjid at Mohammed Ali Road, has not resumed online classes since the Bakrid vacations ended in the first week of this month. “We conducted online classes in June-July. The first week of August was a vacation for Bakrid, but online classes have not resumed as some students complained of poor connectivity in rural areas, and not having money to recharge SIMs. We are trying to sort it out,” said Darul Uloon Mohammadiya general secretary Maulana Hafiz Athar Ali. Markazul Maarif at Jogeshwari teaches English to madrassa graduates. Its 69 students, across the country are learning online. Director Maulana Burhanuddin Qasmi recalled a story of a student from Araria in Bihar, which shows the zeal and enthusiasm of madrassa students to get empowered with the knowledge of English. Qasmi said the student lives 18km from Araria. Since there is poor internet connectivity, the student travels to the town every morning, sits near a room allotted by a mobile shop-owner and learns English online. He goes back in the evening. “We are amazed by his dedication to learn English. This will help change the perception of madrassas,” said Qasmi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/madrassas-go-online-to-teach-those-memorizing-entire-quran/articleshow/77812693.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
August 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Social gatherings lead to Covid spike in Telangana villages||HYDERABAD: The spread of Covid-19 in villages across the state is reflecting initial scenario of virus spread in Hyderabad where functions and social gatherings led to more positive cases. Dozens of such instances have been reported in the state where social gatherings such as marriages, funerals and other occasions have led to positive cases in the villages. Apart from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), five districts have reported 5,000 and above cases. These districts include Rangareddy, Medchal-Malkajgiri (more than 20,000 cases), Karim Nagar (around 6,000) and Khammam (around 5,000 cases) while Nizmzabad is set to touch the 5,000 mark soon. “During the lockdown period, there was strict implementation of measures, but there is mobility within villages because of social occasions and asymptomatic people travel in buses, so almost all villages have cases now. Some villages have more cases due to social gatherings,” Dr Harsha, district medical health officer (DMHO), Suryapet district said. In Mahbubnagar’s Gopanpally village, 17 people were infected after attending a local wedding. Though all are recovering, the residents of the village are panicked. In Jangaon district’s Chagal village, 53 people were infected after attending weddings in last 10 days. In Govindapur village, 73 people got infected. After attending the ceremony related to death of Dubbak MLA Ramalinga Reddy in Chittapur village in Siddipet district, 72 people were infected. At another village in Balvanthpur in Jagtial district, 62 people were infected after attending a wedding. In Vanpatri district’s Kottapllai village, people had lunch after a local event and 52 people were infected. In Pangidipally village, Warangal Urban district, 42 people tested positive. “Initially there was much awareness on social distance and wearing masks, but in cases of infection spread in villages, masks and social distance are not being maintained. This has to come from the public only because we are already six months in since the pandemic began,” Dr Kiran Madala, associate professor, Government General Hospital of Nizamabad said. District officials say that the social stigma is very high in villages with more cases, leading to more panic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/social-gatherings-lead-to-covid-spike-in-villages/articleshow/77813685.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 29, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: 3 suburban local bodies turn temple land into dumping yard||CHENNAI: Three local bodies have turned a vacant plot of land owned by a temple near Golden Industrial Estate, Palani Nagar, Moulivakkam into a dumping ground, allege people working and residing nearby. While officials of Gerugambakkam and Periyapanicheri panchayats were unavailable for comments one official from Moulivakkam panchayat said they have no other place to dispose of waste. “The temple authorities had allowed us to use this land to dispose of wastes because there is no other place available in and around the locality. And we have been doing so since the last 15 years,” said B Ilango, an office-bearer at Moulivakkam panchayat, Kundrathur Taluk. He said the other vacant land allocated to them is 50km away from the area, beyond Kolathur. “And it is not possible to collect garbage from all households and travel all the way there to dispose of. But we do collect all the wastes and take them there at regular intervals or twice a year. It’s tough to do it every day,” he said. “More than us, it’s the people in the industrial area that use this land to dump waste. We are doing it because we have no option, but they can find other places, but instead they blame us,” said another local body official from the panchayat.  “But the amount of garbage has increased a lot compared to previous years, and it’s been leading to health issues. By this time the authorities should have found another place,” said T Kumar, one of the entrepreneurs in the industrial area. He said the garbage is burned every ten days causing breathing problems and other issues amongst people living nearby. “It has also become a den of anti-social activities,” he said. “We have now requested our higher officials to help us set up a godown on this land, so we could use it and have recycling plants. But in the meantime we have no other way but to use this plot unless we get another one,” said Ilango.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/3-suburban-local-bodies-turn-temple-land-into-dumping-yard/articleshow/77812404.cms||Aditi R
August 29, 2020||Madurai||Stop sealing Covid patients’ houses with tin sheets: IMA||MADURAI: Reiterating that blocking the entrance of houses of Covid-19 patients with tin sheets was only serving to create fear and stigma, the Madurai branch of Indian Medical Association (IMA) has demanded that the practice be stopped forthwith. IMA doctors said that this practice would discourage the public from even coming forward to get themselves tested. According to the current norm, the houses of Covid-19 patients are being blocked by Madurai corporation officials with tin sheets for 14 days. This, they say, helps prevent unnecessary movement of possible carriers of the disease. “This kind of practice only perpetuates stigma and fear. Sealing up houses, especially with elderly persons and children is highly condemnable,” said Dr V N Alagavenkatesan, president, IMA Madurai. Last week, after a doctor tested positive, officials sealed the house where his elderly mother and two children were left alone with tin sheets. “No person wants his house to be labelled ‘Corona’. It greatly affects the mental health of Covid-19 patients and their families as often they are looked down with contempt and fear. Those in the locality might ostracise patients even after recovery. Many healthcare providers who risk their lives to serve the public are also being stigmatised,” said a doctor. There are also fears that the practice would discourage the public from coming forward to get themselves tested for Covid-19. Dr Alagavenkatesan said that because of this, there was a danger of delayed identification and treatment of the disease which would turn fatal. However, a senior city health official said such sealing of houses was necessary as many were found flouting home quarantine norms. “Only such strict action is helping to curb unnecessary movement of people and prevent Covid-19 spread. If we are lenient, many will not comply,” he added. It may be noted that the state human rights commission had issued notice to authorities for sealing the house of a recovered patient with tin sheets in Chennai recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/stop-sealing-covid-patients-houses-with-tin-sheets-ima/articleshow/77813640.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: 18 revellers, manager arrested for party at hotel||GHAZIABAD: As many as 18 people have been arrested for allegedly flouting social distancing and Covid-19 norms after they were found partying in a hotel in Sahibabad in the early hours of Friday. The hotel manager was also arrested for supplying liquor to the group. According to police, most of the people arrested are from Delhi. The party was organised by a Delhi-based businessman. Ghaziabad SP (City) Abhishek Verma said police had received information that a party was going in an OYO hotel with over 20 people gathered there. “Police conducted a raid around 2.30am on Friday and arrested 18 people,” he said. Meanwhile, OYO said the hotel is no longer part of its network.“We would like to clarify that the hotel is not a part of OYO’s chain anymore and we haven’t worked with the management and staff in the last several months. Our contract expired in March. We have nothing to do with this hotel or the described incident,” an OYO spokesperson said. Police seized hookah, tobacco products and a large number of liquor bottles from the hotel. “The arrested people said they had bought liquor from Haider Chaudhary, the hotel manager. Chaudhary was running a liquor supply business without a licence. He was arrested and booked under relevant sections of the Excise Act,” Verma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/18-revellers-manager-arrested-for-party-at-hotel/articleshow/77813679.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
August 29, 2020||Indore||NHAI plans Rs 190cr bypass to fix ‘deadly’ Khalghat road||Indore: National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) will spend around Rs 190 crore to develop an alternative 7km-long three-lane stretch on Indore-Khalghat highway to remove a ‘black spot’ on Ganesh Ghat in Dhar, which has claimed 175 lives in last 10 years. In most of the road accidents reported at Ganesh Ghat, vehicle drivers travelling from Indore to Mumbai complained of brake fail or losing control over the steering while driving on a steep slope at the hilly terrain. This leads to head-on collision with the vehicles coming from opposite directions. Finding a technical solution to remove this ‘black spot’ has always been a challenge for NHAI’s engineers. Now, they have planned to convert the four-lane road on this section to six-lane and divide the upward and downward lanes by constructing around 7km-long three-lane route for the vehicles travelling to Mumbai. The planned C-shape three-lane route will have two bridges while construction cost is estimated at around Rs 190 crore. Before finalizing the C-shape bypass, NHAI officials had designed around 2km-long and 23meter high loop costing around Rs 100 crore but a hillock before Ganesh Ghat posed a hurdle in implementation of the plan. Senior NHAI officials said that the existing four-lane highway at the accident-prone Ganesh Ghat will later be used only for traffic moving from Mumbai towards Indore. Till the planned separate route is completed, NHAI has marked one of the two-lanes leading from Indore to Mumbai for all vehicles except heavy ones while the remaining route on left-side of the highway is for trucks and other loading vehicles. As per official data compiled by Dhamnod police, 419 accidents had been reported at Ganesh Ghat between 2009 and 2018 while 157 people had lost their lives. It’s after NHAI and local administration has fixed separate lane for the heavy and remaining vehicles travelling from Indore to Mumbai and left some empty space next to it to remove damaged or brake-down vehicles, the number of accidents and mortality has reduced to single digit in last around one year. NHAI officials said that the slope on Ganesh Ghat is around 400m long while it has a gradient of 6 per cent. The authority has planned to reduce it to 3.3 per cent and therefore, has decided to increase the length of the road to around a km. Besides, the proposed C-shape three-lane road will have reverse gradient to reduce speed of the vehicles travelling on it. The officials are expecting to bring it down further after developing the proposed C-Shape three-lane separate highway on this stretch. Meanwhile, NHAI officials have received the required section to convert the four-lane Indore-Khalghat road to a six-lane highway while the work is expected to start soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/nhai-plans-rs-190cr-bypass-to-fix-deadly-khalghat-road/articleshow/77805438.cms||Sagar Choukse
August 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rs 19 crore spent over 11 years but super-specialty hospital under RUHS remains incomplete||JAIPUR: The super-specialty hospital under Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS) has remained incomplete even after lapse of 11 years and incurring an unfruitful expenditure of Rs 19.30 crore, denying the health facility to the people, said the latest CAG report. The state government sanctioned Rs 10 crore in September 2007 for the construction of a 100-bed super-specialty research hospital under RUHS to be completed by 2009. But the hospital building remained incomplete after incurring an expenditure of Rs 7.38 crore. The Public Accounts Committee examined the issue in 2012 and it was decided that the expenditure on equipment, furniture, and appliances was to be borne by the non-recurring expenditure to be met by the state government. The audit report in 2018 revealed that the state government revised the budget for the hospital to Rs 24.65 crore and released additional funds of Rs 11.65 crore. The Rajasthan State Road Development Corporation (RSRDC), the construction company, in turn incurred an expenditure of Rs 21.15 crore on construction of the hospital. But a joint inspection by the audit team and department officials in June 2019 found that the construction is still incomplete as outer civil work, development work, electric work, lift installation etc were still pending. The work was at a standstill from July 2014 due to paucity of funds. The transformer and cooling plant installed in the incomplete structures were lying unutilized and had deteriorated with passage of time. Also, there was water logging/seepage in basement, severe cracks in the walls and damage to windows and doors of the existing structure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-19cr-spent-over-11-yrs-but-super-specialty-hosp-under-ruhs-remains-incomplete/articleshow/77812436.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Mumbai||With 95% lake levels BMC withdraws its 10% water cut||Mumbai: BMC on Friday announced withdrawal of a 10% water cut from Saturday as stock in the seven lakes supplying potable water to Mumbai increased to 95.2% of their total capacity. The civic body is expecting a further increase in water level due to the ongoing rain spell in catchment areas. BMC had imposed the cut from August 5 due to poor rainfall in June-July. But catchment areas received good rainfall in the last four weeks. BMC recently reduced the cut from 20% to 10%. Five of the lakes Bhatsa, Tansa, Upper Vaitarna, Middle Vaitarna and Lower Vaitarna (Modak Sagar) are in Thane, Palghar and Nashik districts. These lakes supply 97% of nearly 14.5 lakh million litres the city needs every year. The remaining 3% is supplied by Vihar and Tulsi, within city limits, at Sanjay Gandhi National Park. The stock in the seven lakes till Friday morning was 13.8 lakh million litres. Tulsi, Vihar, Tansa and Modak Sagar have been overflowing for many days. The lakes supply 3,850 million litres to the city daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/with-95-lake-levels-bmc-withdraws-its-10-water-cut/articleshow/77812694.cms||Vijay V Singh
August 29, 2020||Chennai||Slain historysheeter’s mother moves court||Chennai: A week after historysheeter S Shankar was killed in a police encounter at Ayanavaram, his mother has moved the Madras high court seeking a CB-CID probe into the incident and a re-post mortem of his body. Admitting the plea, Justice GK Ilanthiraiyan on Friday directed the commissioner of police to file his reply by September 1. S Govindammal claimed that her second son Shankar was ‘murdered’ by police while he was in their ‘illegal’ custody, on August 21. She further alleged that the metropolitan magistrate-V showed no interest in unearthing the truth. “Even the post-mortem was conducted in a hurried manner. The family of the deceased were also prevented from taking legal steps,” the petitioner said. “Torturing the accused and killing him is the worst form of human rights violation. Therefore, to secure the ends of justice, it is just and necessary to order a repost mortem examination,” she said. Relying on the Supreme Court order in the PUCL case, the petitioner contended that such cases of custodial tortures and deaths should be investigated only by the CB-CID to imbibe confidence in the minds of the victim’s family. Therefore, it is just and necessary that the investigation must be transferred to CB-CID, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/slain-historysheeters-mother-moves-court/articleshow/77812446.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Hyderabad||IIM-A suggests AP to install CCTVs in revenue dept to control corruption||Amaravati: With the department of revenue being infamous for the officials demanding huge bribes, the Indian Institute of Management-Ahmedabad (IIM-A) has suggested to the Andhra Pradesh government to install CC surveillance cameras in all tehsildar offices to prevent corruption. The department has long been considered as the most corrupt government wing due to the complex process involved in land administration. “The main reason for corruption among government officials is the discretionary powers vested with them. The corruption can be brought down only when their wings are clipped,” said IIM-A in its report on good governance practices to the government. It also felt vigilance raids are required to contain corrupt practices in revenue offices. The committee of IIM-A carried out a detailed study of the revenue administration in the state. —Samdani MN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iim-a-suggests-ap-to-install-cctvs-in-revenue-dept-to-control-corruption/articleshow/77812465.cms||Samdani MN
August 29, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad Covid patient gets lungs, Mumbai girl arms from dead man in Chennai||CHENNAI/MUMBAI: When a 48-year-old man from Ghaziabad, whose lungs had been damaged due to Covid-19, was wheeled into a Chennai hospital on Friday, he had a slim chance of survival. About a few hours later, in faraway Mumbai, Monika More’s dream of regaining her hands, severed in a train accident six years ago, came true with a double hand transplant. And, they both had one man and his family to thank—the organs came from a 34-year-old man who was declared brain dead by doctors at Gleneagles Global Hospital in Chennai after intracerebral haemorrhage on Thursday. His wife agreed to donate his organs and they were allotted to various hospitals. While Global Hospital’s Chennai branch, where he died, retained the liver, the heart and lungs went to two patients in a different hospital, kidneys to two patients at Gem hospital, skin to SIMS and hands to Monika at Global Hospital in Mumbai. The heart transplant surgery was performed at MGM Healthcare in Tamil Nadu’s capital. Monika’s transplant has been in planning stage for over eight months now, but forearm donations are rare. On Thursday, Monika’s family heard from the Chennai hospital about the donor. The cross-match between the donor and recipient came late in the evening, with the donated arms being flown to Mumbai in a special charter flight around 10.50pm. The organs were wheeled into the operation theatre around 2am on Friday and the transplant was declared complete around 5.30pm. Monika, a resident of Kurla in Mumbai, had lost her hands at the Ghatkopar station and on Friday, became the first in Mumbai to undergo a hand transplant. “Monika is stable and has been moved to the ICU,” said plastic surgeon Nilesh Satbhai, who led the 15-hour transplant operation at Global Hospital. Monika didn’t suffer hyperacute rejection as blood flowed through the transplanted arm. Monika, who had prosthetic arms and had joined a Kurla hospital as a social worker six months ago, intends to pursue a professional career. The family is now raising funds for the surgery and the long rehabilitation ahead. In Chennai, the eight-hour-long transplant surgery on the Covid patient with damaged lungs ended at 7am on Friday. The Ghaziabad businessman had suffered severe respiratory failure due to Covid-19, doctors at MGM healthcare said. He was tested positive for the virus in June. “The patient is on a ventilator, but is awake. He met his family members,” said Dr Suresh Rao, co-director, Institute of Heart and Lung Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support. He was a part of the transplant team. “After being rigid in bed for nearly two months, the patient moved his fingers and limbs,” he said. Minutes after they replaced his lung, doctors removed the extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) he was connected to for more than a month. The recovery, however, may take a long time. “Twelve hours after surgery, the patient is able to do well without ECMO. His new lungs are healthy. He has no other comorbid conditions or illness. But he is still on a ventilator because he is weak. Recovery will take time as his chest muscles are weak now,” said transplant pulmonologist Dr Apar Jindal. “The infection was severe, and the lung they removed did not look like anything doctors have seen before. A lung is spongy. The one we removed was as hard as a liver. It was inflamed and was plastered to the chest wall,” he said. The patient was tested positive for Covid-19 on June 8 and admitted to a hospital in Delhi in a critical condition. On June 20, doctors there put him on a ventilator. A month later, he was airlifted and brought to MGM healthcare. His oxygen saturation was just 60% (normal is above 95%). Five days later, on July 25, a day after he was put on the waitlist for lung transplant, doctors plugged him on to a veno-venous ECMO to support lung function. The machine then pumped blood out through one channel and back into the body through the other. On Thursday, when the hospital received a call from the state transplant authority about a possible donor, the team was prepared. The team carried out the two transplant surgeries — heart and lung — simultaneously on two patients. “Transplant was not an easy decision. We debated about it several times. But the patient was a healthy, young patient. If we could reverse the lung damage, we knew he had better chances to lead a long happy life,” said senior transplant surgeon Dr K R Balakrishnan. The Covid-affected lungs doctors have retrieved holds valuable information. “We are examining the diseased organ under an electron microscope. We want to study how and how much the novel virus has invaded the lungs,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/gzb-covid-patient-gets-lungs-mum-girl-arms-from-dead-man-in-chennai/articleshow/77814931.cms||Malathy Iyer
August 29, 2020||Chennai||Ghaziabad Covid patient gets lungs, Mumbai girl arms from dead man in Chennai||CHENNAI/MUMBAI: When a 48-year-old man from Ghaziabad, whose lungs had been damaged due to Covid-19, was wheeled into a Chennai hospital on Friday, he had a slim chance of survival. About a few hours later, in faraway Mumbai, Monika More’s dream of regaining her hands, severed in a train accident six years ago, came true with a double hand transplant. And, they both had one man and his family to thank—the organs came from a 34-year-old man who was declared brain dead by doctors at Gleneagles Global Hospital in Chennai after intracerebral haemorrhage on Thursday. His wife agreed to donate his organs and they were allotted to various hospitals. While Global Hospital’s Chennai branch, where he died, retained the liver, the heart and lungs went to two patients in a different hospital, kidneys to two patients at Gem hospital, skin to SIMS and hands to Monika at Global Hospital in Mumbai. The heart transplant surgery was performed at MGM Healthcare in Tamil Nadu’s capital. Monika’s transplant has been in planning stage for over eight months now, but forearm donations are rare. On Thursday, Monika’s family heard from the Chennai hospital about the donor. The cross-match between the donor and recipient came late in the evening, with the donated arms being flown to Mumbai in a special charter flight around 10.50pm. The organs were wheeled into the operation theatre around 2am on Friday and the transplant was declared complete around 5.30pm. Monika, a resident of Kurla in Mumbai, had lost her hands at the Ghatkopar station and on Friday, became the first in Mumbai to undergo a hand transplant. “Monika is stable and has been moved to the ICU,” said plastic surgeon Nilesh Satbhai, who led the 15-hour transplant operation at Global Hospital. Monika didn’t suffer hyperacute rejection as blood flowed through the transplanted arm. Monika, who had prosthetic arms and had joined a Kurla hospital as a social worker six months ago, intends to pursue a professional career. The family is now raising funds for the surgery and the long rehabilitation ahead. In Chennai, the eight-hour-long transplant surgery on the Covid patient with damaged lungs ended at 7am on Friday. The Ghaziabad businessman had suffered severe respiratory failure due to Covid-19, doctors at MGM healthcare said. He was tested positive for the virus in June. “The patient is on a ventilator, but is awake. He met his family members,” said Dr Suresh Rao, co-director, Institute of Heart and Lung Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support. He was a part of the transplant team. “After being rigid in bed for nearly two months, the patient moved his fingers and limbs,” he said. Minutes after they replaced his lung, doctors removed the extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) he was connected to for more than a month. The recovery, however, may take a long time. “Twelve hours after surgery, the patient is able to do well without ECMO. His new lungs are healthy. He has no other comorbid conditions or illness. But he is still on a ventilator because he is weak. Recovery will take time as his chest muscles are weak now,” said transplant pulmonologist Dr Apar Jindal. “The infection was severe, and the lung they removed did not look like anything doctors have seen before. A lung is spongy. The one we removed was as hard as a liver. It was inflamed and was plastered to the chest wall,” he said. The patient was tested positive for Covid-19 on June 8 and admitted to a hospital in Delhi in a critical condition. On June 20, doctors there put him on a ventilator. A month later, he was airlifted and brought to MGM healthcare. His oxygen saturation was just 60% (normal is above 95%). Five days later, on July 25, a day after he was put on the waitlist for lung transplant, doctors plugged him on to a veno-venous ECMO to support lung function. The machine then pumped blood out through one channel and back into the body through the other. On Thursday, when the hospital received a call from the state transplant authority about a possible donor, the team was prepared. The team carried out the two transplant surgeries — heart and lung — simultaneously on two patients. “Transplant was not an easy decision. We debated about it several times. But the patient was a healthy, young patient. If we could reverse the lung damage, we knew he had better chances to lead a long happy life,” said senior transplant surgeon Dr K R Balakrishnan. The Covid-affected lungs doctors have retrieved holds valuable information. “We are examining the diseased organ under an electron microscope. We want to study how and how much the novel virus has invaded the lungs,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gzb-covid-patient-gets-lungs-mum-girl-arms-from-dead-man-in-chennai/articleshow/77814930.cms||Malathy Iyer
August 29, 2020||Mumbai||Ghaziabad Covid patient gets lungs, Mumbai girl arms from dead man in Chennai||CHENNAI/MUMBAI: When a 48-year-old man from Ghaziabad, whose lungs had been damaged due to Covid-19, was wheeled into a Chennai hospital on Friday, he had a slim chance of survival. About a few hours later, in faraway Mumbai, Monika More’s dream of regaining her hands, severed in a train accident six years ago, came true with a double hand transplant. And, they both had one man and his family to thank—the organs came from a 34-year-old man who was declared brain dead by doctors at Gleneagles Global Hospital in Chennai after intracerebral haemorrhage on Thursday. His wife agreed to donate his organs and they were allotted to various hospitals. While Global Hospital’s Chennai branch, where he died, retained the liver, the heart and lungs went to two patients in a different hospital, kidneys to two patients at Gem hospital, skin to SIMS and hands to Monika at Global Hospital in Mumbai. The heart transplant surgery was performed at MGM Healthcare in Tamil Nadu’s capital. Monika’s transplant has been in planning stage for over eight months now, but forearm donations are rare. On Thursday, Monika’s family heard from the Chennai hospital about the donor. The cross-match between the donor and recipient came late in the evening, with the donated arms being flown to Mumbai in a special charter flight around 10.50pm. The organs were wheeled into the operation theatre around 2am on Friday and the transplant was declared complete around 5.30pm. Monika, a resident of Kurla in Mumbai, had lost her hands at the Ghatkopar station and on Friday, became the first in Mumbai to undergo a hand transplant. “Monika is stable and has been moved to the ICU,” said plastic surgeon Nilesh Satbhai, who led the 15-hour transplant operation at Global Hospital. Monika didn’t suffer hyperacute rejection as blood flowed through the transplanted arm. Monika, who had prosthetic arms and had joined a Kurla hospital as a social worker six months ago, intends to pursue a professional career. The family is now raising funds for the surgery and the long rehabilitation ahead. In Chennai, the eight-hour-long transplant surgery on the Covid patient with damaged lungs ended at 7am on Friday. The Ghaziabad businessman had suffered severe respiratory failure due to Covid-19, doctors at MGM healthcare said. He was tested positive for the virus in June. “The patient is on a ventilator, but is awake. He met his family members,” said Dr Suresh Rao, co-director, Institute of Heart and Lung Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support. He was a part of the transplant team. “After being rigid in bed for nearly two months, the patient moved his fingers and limbs,” he said. Minutes after they replaced his lung, doctors removed the extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) he was connected to for more than a month. The recovery, however, may take a long time. “Twelve hours after surgery, the patient is able to do well without ECMO. His new lungs are healthy. He has no other comorbid conditions or illness. But he is still on a ventilator because he is weak. Recovery will take time as his chest muscles are weak now,” said transplant pulmonologist Dr Apar Jindal. “The infection was severe, and the lung they removed did not look like anything doctors have seen before. A lung is spongy. The one we removed was as hard as a liver. It was inflamed and was plastered to the chest wall,” he said. The patient was tested positive for Covid-19 on June 8 and admitted to a hospital in Delhi in a critical condition. On June 20, doctors there put him on a ventilator. A month later, he was airlifted and brought to MGM healthcare. His oxygen saturation was just 60% (normal is above 95%). Five days later, on July 25, a day after he was put on the waitlist for lung transplant, doctors plugged him on to a veno-venous ECMO to support lung function. The machine then pumped blood out through one channel and back into the body through the other. On Thursday, when the hospital received a call from the state transplant authority about a possible donor, the team was prepared. The team carried out the two transplant surgeries — heart and lung — simultaneously on two patients. “Transplant was not an easy decision. We debated about it several times. But the patient was a healthy, young patient. If we could reverse the lung damage, we knew he had better chances to lead a long happy life,” said senior transplant surgeon Dr K R Balakrishnan. The Covid-affected lungs doctors have retrieved holds valuable information. “We are examining the diseased organ under an electron microscope. We want to study how and how much the novel virus has invaded the lungs,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/gzb-covid-patient-gets-lungs-mum-girl-arms-from-dead-man-in-chennai/articleshow/77814242.cms||Malathy Iyer
August 29, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Mumbai crosses 3,000mm rain mark with over a month left||MUMBAI: With Friday’s moderate rainfall, the city crossed the 3,000mm mark this season. Indian Meteorological Department also issued a yellow alert (heavy rain at isolated places) for Mumbai and Thane for Saturday. There is over a month before the monsoon season ends, as the withdrawal date is October 8. IMD’s Santactruz observatory on Friday received 58.3mm rainfall between 8.30am and 8.30pm. With this, Santacruz observatory recorded 3,011.4mm rain since June. The city’s annual average rainfall is 2,514mm. Colaba recorded 64.4mm rainfall, taking its season total to 2,772.5mm. Last year, the city received 3,695.6mm rainfall in the monsoon season (June to October 14). From 8am to 8pm on Friday, Chembur received 104mm rainfall, one of the highest among suburbs. Many other suburbs received rainfall of 40-60mm during the same duration. Thane recorded 56.7mm and Navi Mumbai 80.2mm on Friday. “Satellite and radar images show dense cloud patches over eastern suburbs of the city and there is an intense cloud formation over north Konkan coast that is bringing slow but steady rain to the city,” said K S Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. The city began receiving heavy rain since 6am on Friday. After few hours, IMD issued a yellow alert for the day and Saturday. An orange alert (heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places) was issued for Palghar and Raigad for Saturday. From Sunday, the city can expect light to moderate rain till Tuesday. “Conditions for monsoon are active along the coast of Maharashtra and central India due to a low pressure weather system over north Chhattisgarh and east Madhya Pradesh, and likely to move in west-northwest direction. Due to convergence of strong lower level south-westerly winds from Arabian Sea and easterly wind from Bay of Bengal, rain could enhance over two-three days,” said Hosalikar. IMD forecast for the next 48 hours generally cloudy skies with moderate to heavy rain in city and suburbs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/mumbai-crosses-3000mm-rain-mark-with-over-a-month-left/articleshow/77814847.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
August 29, 2020||Dehradun||Proud to receive Dronacharya Award in same year as my two students get Arjuna: Jaspal Rana||Dehradun: Indian shooting legend Jaspal Rana, who was finally recommended for the Dronacharya Award after the last year’s controversy, on Wednesday said he is proud to receive the prestigious award in the same year as his two students— Manu Bhaker and Saurabh Chaudhary—receive the Arjuna Award. “What can be a prouder moment than this. This award doesn’t belong to me or an individual, but it belongs to the entire team which has worked alongside me, the federation and my students,” Rana told TOI. The Commonwealth and Asian Games gold medallist was nominated last year for the Dronacharya Award by the National Rifle Association of India (NRAI), but he was not considered by the jury which created quite a flutter. Subsequently, Rana filed a lawsuit alleging that the correct information wasn’t passed onto the jury. When asked whether he will continue to pursue the case, he replied, “I will speak with my lawyer and comment on it later.” Rana, who is the coach of the national junior pistol team, also talked about the Indian contingent’s preparations for the upcoming Tokyo Olympics and how the Covid-19-induced lockdown threw a spanner in their works. “I reckon we could have come up with a contingency plan. Like a quality hostel meant exclusively for shooters. If we had something like that, then we could have got the entire national team in one place and created our own bio-bubble with no outsider coming inside the hostel. This would have made sure that the team hadn’t missed out on any practice even during the lockdown. I am only talking about having one single hostel only for the top national shooters and for that, you need only 30 rooms. Such a thing was required in these times and we missed out on that very badly. In Europe, they have such a facility specifically for the national shooting contingent,” he said. “But the catch is that the entire world is missing out on competing with each other for the last 6-8 months. Therefore, it would be quite interesting how things shape out by the time the Tokyo Olympics takes place,” he added. When he was asked whether there is a need for a ‘New Sports Policy’ on the lines of the National Education Policy, Rana said, “The current sports policy is an excellent one and if we can honestly work on those guidelines then we can achieve a lot more. Many programs are being run like ‘Khelo India’ Games or the top-most players of different disciplines are identified and are invested. Policies are being implemented but need to become more transparent. The process should be so transparent that no one gets left out despite performing well.” Talking about his feelings when his students go through a rough patch during their career, Rana said, “Being a national coach is totally a different thing. I mean you celebrate your student winning medals, but you can’t entirely celebrate because there are always a few ones who were unable to qualify or perform well. Shooting is a tough sport and the best years of most of the shooters are not more than five years. The national squad keeps changing every year and some needs to make way for others. A coach feels good for incoming players but feels bad who couldn't do it. So, it is a kind of a mixed feeling. Several kids pursue shooting but only 1% of them become good professionals and it’s not that only that 1% has made sacrifices in life.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/proud-to-receive-dronacharya-award-in-same-year-as-my-two-students-get-arjuna-jaspal-rana/articleshow/77807687.cms||Mohammad Anab
August 29, 2020||Dehradun||27-year-old Frenchwoman arrested for uploading ‘obscene’ videos shot on Laxman Jhula on social media||Haridwar: A 27-year-old Frenchwoman, who has been staying in Rishikesh since the lockdown was imposed in March, was arrested for allegedly uploading “obscene” content shot in and around Laxman Jhula in Rishikesh on Friday. The case was registered based on a complaint filed by local councilor Gajendra Singh Sajwan. According to the woman, she shot a promotional photoshoot for her gemstones business featuring herself and another woman walking “semi-nude” on the Laxman Jhula. “All I was trying to do was promote my business of gemstones and garlands,” the woman told police. Her social media profiles suggest she has been in Rishikesh for her business and to practise yoga. An FIR under section 67 (transmitting obscene material that is lascivious in nature) of Information Technology (IT) Act and section 294 (obscene acts and songs) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was lodged on Wednesday. The woman was detained on Thursday and released on bail a few hours later. The Embassy of France has been informed about the incident, according to station house officer (SHO) Muni Ki Reti RK Saklani. Another foreigner who featured in her photos has also been booked, but police are yet to identify her. Some local youths, who were allegedly involved in the shoots, have also been named in the FIR. “An investigation is on in the incident. The woman had been staying at a local guest house since March, where she shot some of the photos that led to her arrest. They (the woman and her friend) had hired some local photographers for the shoots,” Saklani said. Even though Laxman Jhula is currently closed over concerns of it being overburdened, and a new bridge to replace it has been commissioned, small groups of people cross it on foot to avoid taking a long detour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/27-year-old-frenchwoman-arrested-for-uploading-obscene-videos-shot-on-laxman-jhula-on-social-media/articleshow/77809796.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Only one PU English lecturer selected on coast in seven years||Mangaluru: The recent direct recruitment of government PU college lecturers in Dakshina Kannada has seen just one local person being appointed as an English lecturer since 2013. Recently, under the initiative of the current state government, more than 1,200 lecturers were selected across the state. Sadly, only one person was selected as an English lecturer from the coast, whereas Mysuru district alone got 10 English lecturers. Dakshina Kannada has 53 PU colleges and there are 191 vacancies of PU lecturers in them. The recent direct recruitment has seen the filling up of only seven vacancies. According to experts, there are several reasons why candidates from the coast are not getting recruited as lecturers. One of the issues is reservations, in which candidates from the Kalyana Karnataka region have an upper hand. Another reason is lack of seriousness and indifferent attitude towards competitive examinations, among the people on the coast. Rajesh Anand, a resident Kolalagiri village in Udupi, who got selected as an English PU lecturer, points out that it is not that candidates from the coast do not appear for competitive examinations, but that they aren’t selected as they are not serious enough. Rajesh lauded the KEA for conducting the examination in a very scientific manner. There are a lot of improvements in comparison to previous recruitments. It had prescribed a very comprehensive and relevant syllabus which included not only English literature but also language. The first PU lecturers recruitment notification was published in 2015, re-notification in 2017 and the process was unduly delayed till the end of 2019. It was completed recently, and selected lecturers are currently undergoing counselling through video conferencing at the DC’s offices of the respective districts. So far, in Dakshina Kannada, out of 191 vacant posts, only seven are filled — four for business studies, and one each for mathematics, sociology and chemistry. However, there is a small shift of mindset among parents as well students, to take competitive examinations seriously, says Vittala A, principal, Kittel Memorial PU College. Many II PU students failed in English Interestingly, many II PU students from rural areas on the coast failed in English. A senior lecturer commented that as far as English lecturer posts are concerned, there were only 50 lecturers selected across the state, excluding the posts meant for the Kalyana Karnataka region. “More than one lakh students failed the PU English examination held in 2020. One of the main reasons for this is lack of regular English lecturers at government PU colleges.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/only-one-pu-english-lecturer-selected-on-coast-in-seven-years/articleshow/77811049.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
August 29, 2020||Dehradun||AAP holds protest against reinduction of controversial BJP MLA Champion||Dehradun: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday held a protest against the re-induction of controversial BJP MLA Kunwar Pranav Singh ‘Champion’ into the saffron party fold and claimed that the ruling party took money from Champion to revoke his suspension. Addressing media persons, spokesperson of AAP Ravindra Singh Anand said, “How can BJP re-induct Kuwar Pranav Singh ‘Champion’ who was seen abusing people of Uttarakhand in the video which went viral in July 2019. According to our information, he paid crores of rupees to the party for revocation of his suspension.” Earlier, Kuwar Pranav Singh Champion was expelled by the BJP after a gun-toting video of the lawmaker surfaced in July 2019. He was also heard making derogatory remarks against people of Uttarakhand. The AAP leader also cleared that his party never offered any position to Kuwar Pranav Singh ‘Champion’, who, according to AAP, reportedly claimed that he was offered deputy chief minister post and crores of rupees. There is no place for such people in AAP.” He claimed that AAP is the only party in Uttarakhand which can provide good governance to the people of Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/aap-holds-protest-against-reinduction-of-controversial-bjp-mla-champion/articleshow/77809813.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 29, 2020||Surat||25,000 super-spreaders tested in Surat, 700 found Covid positive||SURAT: In past one month, Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) conducted rapid antigen tests on more than 25,000 suspected super-spreaders, of whom, over 700 tested positive for Covid-19. Official sources said the super-spreader category includes grocers, vegetable vendors, diamond workers, retailers etc and that the civic body started testing people suffering from malaria and dengue at the Dhanvantri raths across the city. Altogether 25,212 such people took the tests, of whom 703 tested positive. The Covid-19 positivity ratio is 3%. About 112 raths have been deployed across the city where 40,000 people have been screened by the doctors and medical staff at mobile OPDs. On an average, about 9,000 people in the city undergo rapid antigen tests in a day at the health centres, primary health centres and Dhanvantri raths in the city, said sources. Of the tests, 172 people of 3,585 who underwent the rapid antigen test in south zone tested positive, followed by 127 out of 4,395 people in central zone, and 91 out of 3,224 people in Varachha-B among many other areas. SMC has also been carrying out testing of suspected people arriving into the city through airports, railway station, bus terminals or in private vehicles at the entry points in the city. In the past nearly one month, health officials tested 13,218 people and found 171 positive. Dr Ashish Naik, deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital) told TOI, “We have increased rapid antigen testing across the city, especially of people entering the city from all the entry points. On an average about 1,100 people are tested daily by the health officials.” Dr Naik added that for the benefit of masses, rapid testing of malaria and dengu have been started at the raths. Patients testing positive for malaria and dengue are advised further treatment by the staff. About 33,000 diamond workers took rapid test of whom 224 were found infected so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/25k-super-spreaders-tested-in-surat-700-found-ncov-positive/articleshow/77810827.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Vadodara||Juni Ghadi Ganesh immersion peaceful||VADODARA: Every year on this day, the police used to be on the edge when immersion procession for Juni Ghadi Ganesha used to take off amid thousands of devotees in the old city. But on Friday, the cops were breathing easy as Ganesha idol was immersed in the presence of a few dozen devotees. It was for the first time that the organisers immersed the clay idol in a small container amid the chants of ‘Ganpati Bappa Morya’. “The government has banned big gatherings so we couldn’t take out immersion procession in the same pomp like every year. The devotees were disappointed as they had to see off Ganesha without the usual music,” said Madhusudhan Wagh of Juni Ghadi Ganesha Mandal. Every year, the Juni Ghadi Ganeshs procession used to be the top priority of the cops as it passed through the communally sensitive areas. Hundreds of policemen used to be on guard on the route of the procession to avoid any trouble. “We were on alert this year too and warned people to not gather in big numbers. But the police teams deployed in the old city were at ease as there was little scope for any communal tension this time,” said a senior police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/juni-ghadi-ganesh-immersion-peaceful/articleshow/77810522.cms||Tushar Tere
August 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cases of vector-borne diseases fall as sanitisation drills increase||HYDERABAD: With residential societies in the city enhancing their sanitisation and cleanliness drills in view of the pandemic, the count of vector-borne disease has dropped significantly this year. Both dengue and malaria cases, which usually witness a spike in numbers during the monsoon season, have dropped by 50% or more. According to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) records, while August 2019 saw 63 cases of dengue reported from Hyderabad, the figure stood at 23 (as of date) this year. In July too, the numbers were much lower — 18 as against 81 last year. In the case of malaria, Hyderabad reported only one incident in the last three three months. “I have noticed that amid the Covid-19 fear, people’s participation in anti-larval activities has increased. Unlike earlier, this time people not only raised their issues but also followed the precautionary measures suggested to them,” said Ram Babu, chief entomologist, GHMC. He added that the ‘10 minutes at 10 am every Sunday’ programme of the government, where residents were urged to empty out stagnant water every Sunday, also contributed. Residents admit that fogging and sanitisation of their communities have been of utmost importance over last few months. “Our target was to ensure that not even one person from our society gets admitted in hospital, irrespective of the disease. We have intensified the fogging in our housing society. The job is being done by a private agency,” said Praveen Rao, secretary of My Home Vihanga (Financial District). Another resident said that people have become extra cautious about their health now. “Unlike previous years, emptying stagnant water in the house as well as from the premises topped the agenda. Utmost priority is being given to health and we are consuming immunity boosting food. We don’t want to fall prey to any diseases and visit the hospital,” said Praveena Sarvepalli, a resident of MLA colony, Banjara Hills Road No. 12. Gopi Krishna, a resident of SVSS Sankalp in Lower Tank Bund said they shared preventive measures that need to be taken against vector-borne diseases, since the onset of monsoon. “Unlike previous years, as soon as monsoon arrived, we shared the best practices among family and friends to protect ourselves from vector-borne diseases. Extra precautions were taken after lack of beds was reported in hospitals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cases-of-vector-borne-diseases-fall-as-sanitisation-drills-increase/articleshow/77813714.cms||Nabinder Bommala
August 29, 2020||Thane||Mumbai crosses 3,000mm rain mark with over a month left||MUMBAI: With Friday’s moderate rainfall, the city crossed the 3,000mm mark this season. Indian Meteorological Department also issued a yellow alert (heavy rain at isolated places) for Mumbai and Thane for Saturday. There is over a month before the monsoon season ends, as the withdrawal date is October 8. IMD’s Santactruz observatory on Friday received 58.3mm rainfall between 8.30am and 8.30pm. With this, Santacruz observatory recorded 3,011.4mm rain since June. The city’s annual average rainfall is 2,514mm. Colaba recorded 64.4mm rainfall, taking its season total to 2,772.5mm. Last year, the city received 3,695.6mm rainfall in the monsoon season (June to October 14). From 8am to 8pm on Friday, Chembur received 104mm rainfall, one of the highest among suburbs. Many other suburbs received rainfall of 40-60mm during the same duration. Thane recorded 56.7mm and Navi Mumbai 80.2mm on Friday. “Satellite and radar images show dense cloud patches over eastern suburbs of the city and there is an intense cloud formation over north Konkan coast that is bringing slow but steady rain to the city,” said K S Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. The city began receiving heavy rain since 6am on Friday. After few hours, IMD issued a yellow alert for the day and Saturday. An orange alert (heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places) was issued for Palghar and Raigad for Saturday. From Sunday, the city can expect light to moderate rain till Tuesday. “Conditions for monsoon are active along the coast of Maharashtra and central India due to a low pressure weather system over north Chhattisgarh and east Madhya Pradesh, and likely to move in west-northwest direction. Due to convergence of strong lower level south-westerly winds from Arabian Sea and easterly wind from Bay of Bengal, rain could enhance over two-three days,” said Hosalikar. IMD forecast for the next 48 hours generally cloudy skies with moderate to heavy rain in city and suburbs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mumbai-crosses-3000mm-rain-mark-with-over-a-month-left/articleshow/77814846.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
August 29, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai crosses 3,000mm rain mark with over a month left||MUMBAI: With Friday’s moderate rainfall, the city crossed the 3,000mm mark this season. Indian Meteorological Department also issued a yellow alert (heavy rain at isolated places) for Mumbai and Thane for Saturday. There is over a month before the monsoon season ends, as the withdrawal date is October 8. IMD’s Santactruz observatory on Friday received 58.3mm rainfall between 8.30am and 8.30pm. With this, Santacruz observatory recorded 3,011.4mm rain since June. The city’s annual average rainfall is 2,514mm. Colaba recorded 64.4mm rainfall, taking its season total to 2,772.5mm. Last year, the city received 3,695.6mm rainfall in the monsoon season (June to October 14). From 8am to 8pm on Friday, Chembur received 104mm rainfall, one of the highest among suburbs. Many other suburbs received rainfall of 40-60mm during the same duration. Thane recorded 56.7mm and Navi Mumbai 80.2mm on Friday. “Satellite and radar images show dense cloud patches over eastern suburbs of the city and there is an intense cloud formation over north Konkan coast that is bringing slow but steady rain to the city,” said K S Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. The city began receiving heavy rain since 6am on Friday. After few hours, IMD issued a yellow alert for the day and Saturday. An orange alert (heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places) was issued for Palghar and Raigad for Saturday. From Sunday, the city can expect light to moderate rain till Tuesday. “Conditions for monsoon are active along the coast of Maharashtra and central India due to a low pressure weather system over north Chhattisgarh and east Madhya Pradesh, and likely to move in west-northwest direction. Due to convergence of strong lower level south-westerly winds from Arabian Sea and easterly wind from Bay of Bengal, rain could enhance over two-three days,” said Hosalikar. IMD forecast for the next 48 hours generally cloudy skies with moderate to heavy rain in city and suburbs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-crosses-3000mm-rain-mark-with-over-a-month-left/articleshow/77812698.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
August 29, 2020||Hyderabad||AP crosses 4L mark with over 10k new cases; more than 3L recoveries||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh on Friday became the third state in the country to cross four lakh Covid-19 cases. The cumulative tally of the state stood at 4,03,616 with 10,526 fresh cases reported on Friday. Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu are the other states to have crossed the four-lakh cases mark. Meanwhile, the cumulative recoveries crossed the three-lakh mark to reach 3,03,711, translating to a recovery rate of 75%. The toll jumped to 3,714 as 81 more people succumbed to the pandemic on Friday. AP breached the one-lakh case mark on July 27, nearly 135 days after the state reported its first case on March 12. But it took only 11 days for the state to add the next one lakh cases to touch the two-lakh milestone. The third one lakh cases also came in 11 days. But the state recorded the latest one lakh cases in just 10 days. Even though the daily new Covid-19 cases showed some stabilising trend for the last one month by limiting to the 7,000-10,000 daily range, the growing positivity rate is a concern for health officials. The state’s case positivity rate stood at 11.4 per cent as of Friday against the national average of 8.57%. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-crosses-4l-mark-with-over-10k-new-cases-more-than-3l-recoveries/articleshow/77812511.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Dehradun||Dr Ramola removed from Doon CMO post, Dr Dimri to take charge||Dehradun: In a major development on Friday, the post of Dehradun’s chief medical officer (CMO) was withdrawn from Dr BC Ramola and given to Dr Anoop Dimri. Currently posted at the health directorate, Dr Anoop Dimri told TOI that he will soon take charge as the Dehradun CMO. The orders regarding removal of Dr Ramola from the post of CMO were issued by secretary health Amit Negi. According to sources, the move has been taken as Dr Ramola was facing too much resentment from health department staffers for his alleged behavioural issues. “Dr NS Bisht, who is also the physician to the chief minister, sat on a protest against Dr Ramola alleging harassment. A few nurses have also written letters to seniors in DG health's office that they were shifted forcefully from duties amid pandemic. Even some MLAs have also written complaint letters against Dr Ramola to the CM and to authorities concerned. Due to these reasons, he was removed from the post even as there were just five months left for his retirement,” said a senior health department official. Dr Ramola will now work as a senior consultant in Gandhi Shatabdi Hospital. Prior to becoming the CMO of Dehradun, Dr Ramola was the head of this hospital. Meanwhile, Dr Ramola told TOI that he is “happy” with the development and will continue to perform his duties in his new role.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dr-ramola-removed-from-doon-cmo-post-dr-dimri-to-take-charge/articleshow/77809825.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 29, 2020||Dehradun||Isolated places receive light showers in U’khand||Dehradun: Light to moderate rain spells accompanied by thunderstorms were witnessed at isolated places in Uttarakhand — including Dehradun, Pithoragarh, Bageshwar, and Nainital districts. Dhanaulti near Mussoorie recorded 50 mm rainfall, followed by Mussoorie (40 mm), Pantnagar (40 mm), Yamkeshwar (40 mm), Someshwar (20 mm), Rishikesh (20 mm) and Mori (20 mm). According to Bikram Singh, director of the regional meteorological centre, “Light to moderate showers with intense spells of rain can occur at isolated places in the four districts of Uttarakhand. The rest of the districts can also witness light to moderate showers.” Meanwhile, the temperatures are settling around normal-to-above normal in both hills and plain regions of Uttarakhand. The highest maximum temperature was recorded at Khatima at 34 degree Celsius and the minimum of 14.1 degree Celsius was recorded at Ranichauri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/isolated-places-receive-light-showers-in-ukhand/articleshow/77809843.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 29, 2020||Dehradun||Minor bureaucratic reshuffle in U’khand||Dehradun: In a minor bureaucratic reshuffle on Friday, the state government made IAS officer Ramesh Kumar Sudhanshu the new secretary of mining department. Besides, he will continue to look after the charge of Secretary IT, Bio Technology, PWD, and Chairman of Bridge, Ropeways, Tunnel, and Other Infrastructure Development Corporation of Uttarakhand Limited (BRIDCUL). Also, the charge of principal secretary (PS) mining was withdrawn from Anand Bardhan, who will continue to hold the position of PS forest, excise, higher education, and commissioner of inter departmental coordination for development work, urban development, and energy. Additionally, new postings were given to two PCS officers. PCS Prashant Kumar Arya has been made the new director of Uttarakhand Tourism Development Council and Kamlesh Mehta was given the charge of additional CEO of Uttarakhand Civil Aviation Development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/minor-bureaucratic-reshuffle-in-ukhand/articleshow/77809837.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 29, 2020||Dehradun||Man arrested over year after he murdered, buried in laws inside Rudrapur home||Nainital: Nearly 16 months after he allegedly killed his father and mother in-law as well as their two daughters, Udham Singh Nagar Police arrested 37-year-old Narendra Gangwar after the bodies were discovered buried in the accused’s home in Raja Colony area of Rudrapur. Police identified the bodies as those of 55-year-old Heera Lal, his 45-year-old wife Hemvati and their daughters Parvati, 24 and Durga, 20. “Lal was originally a resident of Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly district, where he owned property worth almost Rs 1 crore. The family moved to Rudrapur a few years ago. In 2015, Lal’s eldest daughter married Gangwar and the couple lived with the Lals. Two years later, Gangwar had an altercation with his in-laws after which he was asked to move out of the house,” said a police officer who did not wish to be named. According to police, a friend of Gangwar, Vijay Singh, acted as an accomplice in the crime. Speaking to TOI, US Nagar SSP Dalip Singh Kunwar said that Gangwar had asked Lal to transfer his property to him but the latter refused, saying he had two other daughters. “On April 20 last year, he went into his father-in-law’s room and killed him and one of the daughters. His mother-in-law and the other daughter were not in the house then. When they returned, he killed them too. He and his accomplice then dug a hole in the house, buried the bodies and continued living there,” Kunwar said. According to sources, Gangwar simply told his wife that her entire family had gone missing, although a missing complaint was never filed. “Prima facie, Gangwar’s wife had no knowledge of the crime. However, we are investigating if she had a role in the murders,” the SSP said. Relatives smelled a rat when Gangwar started making efforts to procure his father-in-law’s property. "He started by trying to get a death certificate for his father-in-law. Some of the relatives got wind of some foul play and approached us. We started an investigation. Gangwar was interrogated on Friday. He initially denied the allegations but eventually confessed to the murders,” Kunwar said. The district magistrate ordered the accused’s home to be dug up and the bodies were exhumed and sent for post-mortem the same day. Police recovered a shovel and other equipment used for the crime. Gangwar and Singh have been charged with sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-arrested-over-year-after-he-murdered-buried-in-laws-inside-rudrapur-home/articleshow/77809898.cms||Prashant Jha
August 29, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Hotels seek easing of norms to survive||MUMBAI: Ahead of the next phase of unlocking in the state under Mission Begin Again, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI) submitted recommendations to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and heads of some departments seeking relaxation in operations. HRAWI said the state should allow hotels to operate with full capacity. It proposed relaxation of restrictions on gatherings for social functions or meetings, by linking permissible number of guests based on size of venue. “The industry’s biggest challenge is survival. One of the worst affected industries during this pandemic is the hospitality industry. We are in dire need of government support. Maharashtra government has been receptive and understands our woes,” said Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, president, HRAWI. HRAWI also urged the government to allow sale of liquor at restaurants and recommended that open spaces and terraces be allowed to be used for dining. Restaurants can enforce social distancing, HRAWI vice-president Pradeep Shetty said on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hotels-seek-easing-of-norms-to-survive/articleshow/77812702.cms||Chittaranjan Tembhekar
August 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar opens drinking water, pucca lane projects in state||Patna: CM Nitish Kumar on Friday inaugurated different projects total worth Rs33,716.51 crore through videoconferencing. The projects included piped and safe drinking water supply to more than 140.94 lakh households as well as pucca lanes and drainage system in 1,13,902 wards in rural areas and 1,898 wards in urban areas across the state. These pro-poor projects were executed under the ‘Har Ghar Nal Ka Jal’ and ‘Ghar Tak Pakki Gali-Naliyan’ schemes under the state government’s Saat Nischay (seven resolves) programme. Of the total Rs33,716.51 crore, Rs20,430.73 crore were spent on the ‘Har Ghar Nal Ka Jal’ and Rs13,285.78 crore on the pucca lane and drainage projects. All district magistrates, the elected representatives of the three-tier Panchayati Raj Institutions and the urban local bodies from several districts, Jeevika didis and field officials of the Panchayati Raj department, public health engineering department and the urban development department were connected to the programme through videoconferencing. Beneficiaries of the projects from different villages and small towns also shared their experience with the CM through videoconferencing about the piped water supply facility in their households. They lauded the state government’s efforts and hailed the CM for providing the facilities to their doorsteps. Addressing the event, Nitish said people residing even in remote villages were now getting safe and piped drinking water and reaching home by pucca lanes without their feet becoming muddy in the rainy season. He called upon people not to forget the development works done by his government (at the time of election). “I work for the welfare and progress of all people. I always think of prosperity in rural areas. My government has executed several development works. We also took steps for social reforms. At the request of women members of Jeevika, my government enforced total prohibition in the state. But I have only one request — don’t fall prey to the misinformation campaign launched by the opposition parties,” Nitish said. The CM also announced increase in the annual maintenance grant to the ward implementation and management committee to Rs24,000 per annum from the existing Rs12,000. He also said the people engaged in maintenance work of the piped water scheme would now get Rs1,000 per month in place of existing Rs500. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, PHED minister Vinod Narayan Jha, panchayati raj minister Kapildeo Kamat and urban development and housing department minister Suresh Sharma also addressed the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-opens-drinking-water-pucca-lane-projects-in-state/articleshow/77812553.cms||Madan Kumar
August 29, 2020||Dehradun||Even BJP has started accepting that Modi magic will not work in 2022: Cong||Dehradun: Following Uttarakhand BJP chief Bansidhar Bhagat’s comment that people will vote for development works and not just on the name of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, state Congress leaders have launched an attack on the saffron party saying that even the BJP is realising that Modi magic has faded away. “Bansidhar Bhagat has won assembly elections on numerous occasions and is an experienced campaigner. He knows the pulse of the state and understands the public mood. Therefore, his statement can be seen as a caution to party MLAs,” said former Uttarakhand chief minister and senior Congress leader Harish Rawat. He added, “No one else but the BJP state chief has himself maintained that the Modi magic will not work in the next state elections.” The former CM asserted that the statement has come when the elections are less than 18 months away and the “ruling party has started realising that their performance has been poor in the state”. In a similar vein, Congress state vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana said that “be it in the first three years or during the Covid-19 phase, the BJP legislators have maintained distance from people and now they are realising this fact.” He did not fail to mention that the “BJP was going through a tough phase as on one end, some party legislators have come under controversies and on the other, people are questioning the performance of its elected members.” Notably, Bhagat, in his statement, had asked the BJP MLAs to go on ground and work hard and not remain dependent on PM Modi for votes. On being targeted over the issue, the BJP chief later said that PM Modi is the best leader in the world and his statement was “misinterpreted”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/even-bjp-has-started-accepting-that-modi-magic-will-not-work-in-2022-cong/articleshow/77809914.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 29, 2020||Dehradun||‘Modi’s name won’t cut it’, Uttarakhand BJP chief tells party members||DEHRADUN: A day after Uttarakhand BJP president Bansidhar Bhagat ran into a controversy for saying that “people won’t vote in the name of Prime Minister Narendra Modi now” — referring to the 2022 assembly elections — the state party chief on Friday clarified that he meant to convey to ticket aspirants and MLAs that they need to perform and win people’s trust. Shortly after Bhagat’s statement on Thursday, the opposition Congress had claimed that the BJP had admitted that the Modi wave was over. In an interview to the media, Bhagat had said, “Ab aisa nahi hai ki Modi Ke naam se log vote de denge. (Now people won’t vote in the name of Modi).” He had added that candidates would have to do ground work if they wanted votes. On Friday, the saffron party’s state chief said his comments had been taken out of context by the opposition and what he meant to convey was that MLAs in Uttarakhand need to perform to win people’s trust and a party ticket. “My statement was misinterpreted. I only wanted to boost the morale of our party while ensuring accountability for each party leader,” he said, adding, “Narendra Modi is the greatest leader in the world, not just India and the public opinion is with him. He is a hero for the people of India and his leadership is the party’s strength.” Bhagat added, “Achievements of the central government will definitely help people see how much the BJP has done for the country but candidates who are eyeing tickets as well as MLAs need to be held accountable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/people-wont-vote-in-modis-name-now-says-ukhand-bjp-chief-later-clarifies-comment-meant-to-ask-mlas-to-perform/articleshow/77809932.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 29, 2020||Jaipur||‘No toilets in 50% houses under PM Awaas Yojana’||JAIPUR: The CAG report has found several deficiencies in the implementation of Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana-Gramin (PMAY-G) in the state. Among the sample completed houses, 31.02% houses remain vacant or are being used for non-residential purposes while 49.15% houses have no toilets despite the state being declared open defecation free (ODF), said the report. PMAY-G was launched on April 1, 2016, with the objective of providing pucca houses with basic amenities to all the homeless and those living in kuchha houses by 2022. A financial assistance of Rs 1.20 lakh was to be paid to the beneficiaries in three instalments linked with progress of construction of the house. Total 6.87 lakh houses were to be constructed in the state in three years from 2016-17 to 2018-19. The performance audit in some selected districts, blocks and panchayats shows that though the progress in construction was good, various shortcomings were found in implementation. “Due to deficiencies in identification of the beneficiaries, only 16.99 lakh out of 40.57 lakh beneficiaries were identified in time. As such, the scheme catered to only 41.88% of the intended beneficiaries defeating the vison of ‘housing for all’,” said the report. Failure to upload the data pertaining to 7.15 lakh beneficiaries resulted in refusal by the Central government to include them in ‘permanent waiting list’ depriving them of the benefit of the scheme. Assistance for landless beneficiaries and persons with disabilities was not provided to the mandated extent. The report said the objective of convergence with other schemes to ensure availability of basic amenities like toilets, electricity, clean drinking water and clean cooking fuel in the completed houses could not be achieved to the stipulated level. Instances of delayed transfer of Central and state share to the state nodal account, delayed the release of first instalment to the beneficiaries, double payment of same instalment to beneficiaries and delay in submission of audit report were detected. Besides, monitoring and inspection of the scheme, implementation was inadequate and grievance redressal mechanism remained deficient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-toilets-in-50-houses-under-pm-awaas-yojana/articleshow/77812578.cms||Joychen Joseph
August 29, 2020||Vadodara||45-minutes train ride from Vadodara to Statue of Unity||VADODARA: Soon one will be able to reach world’s tallest statue – the Statue of Unity (SoU) – from Vadodara in 45 minutes. Indian Railways (IR) is eager to finish the project of providing direct train connectivity for tourists visiting the 182-metre tall statue by November this year. “Prime Minister’s office is directly monitoring the progress of the project while the railway minister gets regular updates every month through video conferencing,” Devender Kumar, divisional railway manager of Vadodara railway division said on Friday. Kumar said that the internal target to finish the project, which includes includes achieving train speed of 130 km per hour, was November this year. “There is already a line from Vadodara to Dabhoi. The train speed on this 30 km section is 75 km per hour which will be first increased to 110 km per hour and later taken to 130 km per hour,” he said. The railway station at Kevadiya colony whose foundation stone was laid by President Ram Nath Kovind in December 2018 is being constructed at a cost of Rs 20 crore. He said that work on the ground has re-started after migrant labourers, who had left for their home state, returned. Sources said that the biggest challenge for the railways is to lay the new rail line between Chandod and Kevadiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/45-min-train-ride-from-vadodara-to-sou/articleshow/77810605.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal health panel asks private hospitals to refund ‘overbilled’ amount||KOLKATA: The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) on Friday asked several private hospitals to refund money to Covid patients who were “deemed to have been overcharged”. Some of the 10 orders issued by the WBCERC are interim as the cases are still being heard. In the first case, the commission has asked BP Poddar Hospital to refund a part of the money that was charged from a Covid patient admitted for four days. The hospital had charged Rs 1,51,259 from the patient, who later lodged a complaint with the commission. “The commission felt the charges for the four days should have been around Rs 90,000 and hence asked the hospital to refund the rest of the amount till we come up with the final judgment,” said commission chairperson Justice (retired) Ashim Kumar Banerjee. The hospital said it is yet to get a copy of the judgment but would comply with commission’s directives. “We are open for discussions on whether the fault was from our end or if the patient was unable to pay the whole amount,” said Mohit D Bhagat, assistant general manager, BP Poddar Hospital. In another case, a patient admitted in the Covid isolation ward of R-Fleming Nursing Home for six days was allegedly charged Rs 3.5 lakh. The health panel has asked the hospital to refund Rs 1.5 lakh to the patient for now. “According to our initial findings, services rendered to the patient during the hospital stay was restricted to two dialyses. This is an interim order and the hospital has been asked to file an affidavit,” said Banerjee.  Sources at the Topsia hospital said the patient was admitted under a specific package but said it would honour the commission’s interim order. The health panel has also asked the North 24 Parganas district administration to inquire into the allegations by the family of a 68-year-old patient, who had claimed that the family had been asked to pay Rs 1 lakh even as the patient was admitted under the state government’s Swasthya Saathi scheme. “The allegations are baseless. But even if a single penny was taken from the patient we will refund it,” said K K Gupta, vice chairman, Jagannath Gupta Institute of Medical Sciences in Budge Budge. Medica Superspecialty has also been asked to refund Rs 27,000 that it had charged from a patient for consumables. ILS Hospital Dum Dum, too, was directed to refund Rs 15,000 it had charged from a patient for PPEs. Both the hospitals have agreed for the refund. Four other cases were linked with Covid testing where labs have been either accused of overcharging or for coming up with false reasons. In one of the cases, the lab pleaded that the charge was taken before testing cost was capped but agreed to refund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/panel-asks-private-hosps-to-refund-overbilled-amount/articleshow/77812625.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 29, 2020||Jaipur||Water resource dept bags national innovation award||JAIPUR: The Jal Shakti ministry has awarded the water resource department and Indira Gandhi Canal department, the national water innovation award, increasing the efficiency of the water bodies and making projects cost-effective by technological advancement. The award was given on Friday to the secretary of water resource department, Naveen Mahajan. The key Initiatives which led to the award was river modelling to predict inflow in dams, sedimentation analysis in reservoirs, flood forecasting and drought management. “These simulation models can be effectively used which could lead in the better decision-making process,” said Mahajan. The department has used modern-day techniques like bathymetric system for the precise system of water bodies and river system using the gravitational scale. Explaining how the operational cost has been lowered down, Mahajan says “The traditional flow irrigation system is gradually converted into pressurised piped irrigation methods to enhance the efficiency of the water use. The technological intervention has also lowered the operational cost,” said Mahajan. The impact assessment of the above efforts on the human settlements has also been recognized by the ministry. The promotion of micro-irrigation system in the command area and the system of the rotational method for equitable water distribution among farmers has improved the economic prospects of the farmers. Usage of analytical tools, computer software, automation and remote sensing technologies at large on the existing projects makes the state’s innovation stand out among other applicants for the award. The department has attained transparency in water management, better flood and drought management, real-time data collection and dissemination to public at large.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/water-resource-dept-bags-natl-innovation-award/articleshow/77812591.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Dehradun||588 fresh Covid-19 cases, including 50 SSB jawans, surface in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: With 588 fresh Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand, the novel coronavirus tally reached 17,865 in the state on Friday. Among the new cases were 50 Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) jawans who have arrived from various states to SSB training centre in Chamoli for special training in warfare. Also, 11 more fatalities pushed the toll of the virus to 239 in the Himalyan state. Dr GS Rana, chief medical officer (CMO) of Chamoli, told TOI that a total of 58 people tested Covid-19 positive in the district and these cases include 50 SSB jawans from SSB training camp in Gwaldam. It’s worth mentioning here that Gwaldam is one of the most premier defence training academies in India and is renowned for imparting training of “Guerrilla Warfare”. “The SSB jawans were found infected in the random sampling that took place in the camp on Monday. A total of 117 test samples were collected from there. The test report of 50 jawans came positive late on Thursday night,” added the CMO. Among the 588 new Covid-19 cases, the maximum of 185 were reported from the state capital Dehradun. Haridwar also reported 120 fresh cases on Friday, followed by 72 from Udham Singh Nagar, 55 from Nainital, 26 from Tehri, 18 from Pauri, 13 from Almora, 12 cases each from Pithoragarh and Bageshwar, six cases each from Champawat and Uttarkashi, and five from Rudraprayag. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, informed that among the 11 deaths reported on Friday, eight were recorded from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Rishikesh, one from Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH), and two from Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani. Meanwhile, infection rate of the state has reached 5.3 in Uttarakhand and the recovery rate stood at 67.8% on Friday. As many as 349 patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals on the day. The sample pendency shot up to 18,747 in the state as more than 10,000 test samples were collected on Friday, the highest figure in a single day so far. In some good news for the state, the private hospitals will now be able to admit Covid-19 patients. The government will soon come up with minimum charges for Covid-19 treatment. The orders regarding the same were issued by health secretary Amit Negi. “The private hospitals in the state will be allowed to do Covid-19 treatment at minimum original cost incurred by the hospital,” read the orders issued on Friday. Till now, the private hospitals in the state were only allowed to treat Covid-19 patients who were already admitted in the respective institutions for some critical diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/588-fresh-covid-19-cases-including-50-ssb-jawans-surface-in-ukhand/articleshow/77809947.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 29, 2020||India||SC: Final-yr exams must for getting grad/PG degrees||NEW DELHI: Ending the suspense for 1.5-crore final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students, the Supreme Court on Friday said final examinations are a must to get degrees but ruled that in a pandemic situation, states had power under the Disaster Management Act to postpone examinations beyond the September 30 deadline set by the University Grants Commission (UGC). The court said the state or the disaster management authority could delay the final exams but not scrap them. They will need to be rescheduled in consultation with the UGC, the court said, upholding the regulator's mandate to set the rules for award of degrees. In doing so, the SC said it recognised the importance of the evaluation process. The SC said UGC guidelines had taken the pandemic situation into account and had given three options to universities for conducting final examinations — offline, online and a mix of both. There was nothing unreasonable about the guidelines as it also provided another opportunity to students, who, for some reason, may miss the final examinations, it said. Maharashtra has decided to cancel final-year examinations, citing rising Covid-19 cases. It found support from West Bengal and Delhi, who termed the UGC guidelines an advisory and not mandatory. In support of the Maharashtra government's decision, Shiv Sena's youth wing ‘Yuva Sena’ had moved the SC challenging UGC’s July 6 guidelines mandating completion of final examinations by September 30. Disagreeing with their stand, a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah said states and universities had no power to “promote students in the final year or terminal semester” without holding final examinations. It said UGC was the sole authority to take a decision on this count. "Decision of the state or State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) to promote students in the final year/terminal semester on the basis of previous performance and internal assessment being beyond the jurisdiction of Disaster Management Act, 2005, has to give way to the UGC's July 6 guidelines directing to hold examination of final year/terminal semester,” it said. However, the court said if the state or SDMA has decided that it cannot hold final examinations by September 30, then the state shall approach UGC for fixing a new schedule for final examination for undergraduate and postgraduate courses. "We grant liberty to such state/Union Territory to make an application to the UGC for extending the September 30 deadline for that state/UT which shall be considered by UGC and rescheduled date be communicated to such state/UT at the earliest," the bench said. Writing the 160-page judgment, Justice Bhushan said, “UGC's July 6 guidelines have to be treated to have been issued in exercise of the statutory powers vested in the commission under Section 12 (of the UGC Act, 1956). As per the Statutory Regulations, 2003, it is the statutory duty of universities to adopt the guidelines issued by the UGC. The July 6 guidelines cannot be ignored by terming it as non-statutory or advisory.” The petitioners had also challenged the July 6 guidelines on the ground that it differentiated between final year and other students in undergraduate and postgraduate courses. They said while non-final year students had been exempted from examinations, it was made mandatory for final-year students. The SC said the guidelines indicated that the expert body took measures in the interest of students and their academic career. “The flexibility of examination through offline, online and mixed mode as well as providing special opportunity to those who still missed appearing in the final examination makes it reasonable and non-violative of right to equality,” it said. Rejecting the charge that the guidelines endangered lives of lakhs of students given the rising trend of Covid-19 cases, the SC said standard operating procedures for conduct of examination were put in place to ensure safety of students. Watch No degrees without final-year examination: Supreme Court upholds UGC's position||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-final-yr-exams-must-for-getting-grad/pg-degrees/articleshow/77814720.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 29, 2020||Patna||Patna man leads US research on quantum technology||PATNA: A man from Patna in Bihar has been nominated the leader of US research scientists’ team to build what Einstein had written off as science fiction. Saikat Guha has been appointed the director of Center for Quantum Networks (CQN) under University of Arizona. The CQN has been awarded a research project worth more than $26 million. The team is charged with developing the internet of the future, ruled by quantum mechanical properties, instead of conventional 0s (zeros) and 1s (ones). The work is expected to transform areas such as medicine, finance, data security, artificial intelligence, autonomous systems and smart devices. Saikat is the son of Prof S N Guha, former vice-chancellor of Patna-based Aryabhatta Knowledge University. Saikat went to the US in 2002 after passing Class XII examination from the local St Michael’s High School and completing BTech course from IIT Kanpur. He did his MSc and PhD from Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). Explaining the fundamentals of his team’s research, Saikat told this correspondent over phone from Arizona, “Less than a year ago, a quantum computer for the first time performed certain calculations that are no longer feasible for even the largest conventional supercomputers. The quantum internet will allow for applications that will never be possible on the internet as we know it.” He further pointed out that the next few years will be very exciting, as “we are at a time when the community puts emerging quantum computers, processors, sensors and other gadgets to real use. We are just beginning to connect small quantum computers, sensors and other gadgets into quantum networks that transmit quantum bits”. According to Saikat, quantum-enabled sensors will be more sensitive than classical ones and will dramatically improve technologies such as microscopes used in biomedical research to look for cancer cells, sensors on low-Earth-orbit satellites and magnetic field sensors used for positioning and navigation. He said the present internet system is a playground for hackers due to insecure communication links to inadequately guarded data in the cloud. “Quantum systems will provide a level of privacy, security and computational clout that is impossible to achieve with today’s internet,” he said. The CQN will bring together scientists, engineers and social scientists working on quantum information science and engineering and its societal impacts. It has teamed up with Harvard University, MIT and Yale University to work on the core hardware technologies for quantum networks and create an entrepreneurial ecosystem for technology transfer, Saikat added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-man-leads-us-research-on-quantum-technology/articleshow/77812619.cms||B K Mishra
August 29, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Maharashtra’s sole Muharram procession from Bhendi Bazaar to Mazgaon||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Friday permitted a Muharram procession this Sunday only on one route in the state— from Bhendi Bazaar to Mazgaon graveyard in Mumbai. The procession will be on a truck, but the last 100 metre will have five persons carrying the Taziya —a replica of the Mausoleum of Imam Hussain—on foot in a procession, said a bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and Madhav Jamdar. The procession will be on Sunday from 4.30pm to 5.30pm. In an August 19 circular, the state had denied permission, said senior counsel Rajendra Shirodkar along with advocates Asif and Shehzad Naqvi, prompting All India Idaara Tahafuz-E-Hussainiyat, which organizes the mourning processions, to approach HC for intervention. They contended violation of right to equality, pointing out that Ganesh visarjans with restrictions were permitted in artificial ponds, during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. On Friday, HC also heard advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni with government pleader Purnima Kantharia and minutes of the order were finalized with both sides agreeing that it was an order “by way of an exception and not intended to serve as a precedent, for others to seek permission to hold any festivals which would involve...congregation of people”. Habib Nasir, secretary of the NGO, gave an undertaking it will abide by all conditions during the pandemic and there will not be more than five persons to carry the Taziya and one video-grapher. The undertaking was in a “representative capacity for and on behalf of the entire Shia community residing in the state”. Police will impose Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code to prevent assembly of more than five persons in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/states-sole-muharram-procession-from-bhendi-bazaar-to-mazgaon/articleshow/77813905.cms||Swati Deshpande
August 29, 2020||Goa||In Goa, monsoon to be ‘above average’ in September: Expert||PANAJI: A rollicking Goan monsoon is likely to continue its watery groove into September, as meteorological scientists expect La Nina to trigger more than average precipitation. “Goa is most likely to witness an above normal September rainfall this year due to La Nina phenomena. There are 50% chances of La Nina developing over eastern Pacific Ocean from September, which will continue till next year,” M R Ramesh Kumar, retired chief scientist, National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) said. La Nina is a climatic phenomenon related to the cooling of surface ocean temperatures in eastern Pacific Ocean near the coast of Peru. The La Nina cooling favourably impacts monsoon rainfall in India, as compared to El Nino, which interferes with monsoon patterns, triggering dry conditions. Currently neutral conditions are prevailing over the eastern Pacific region of South America. Once the cooling phase begins, India’s western coast, including Goa and central parts are expected to receive good rainfall. But La Nina can adversely affect the north-eastern monsoon during October to December over south-east peninsular India. “As per IMD forecast, the rainfall across the country during the second half of monsoon season will be above normal,” Rahul M, scientist, Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), Panaji said. Though Goa’s 13 rain gauge centres collectively recorded hardly 60mm of daily average rainfall during last five days this month, heavy rainfall during the season has pushed the total to 3381.9mm, producing a 29% surplus till Friday morning. A rainfall of 2,625.6% is considered normal at this stage. During this decade, the impact of La Nina boosted monsoon rainfall during 2010–12, 2016, and 2017–18. Of the several La Nina years studied so far, most of them had normal monsoon conditions over the Indian subcontinent and in some years there has been excess rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-goa-monsoon-to-be-above-avg-in-sep-expert/articleshow/77813804.cms||Paul Fernandes
August 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Ludh to get 65 more ventilators to handle Covid-19 peak rush||Ludhiana: As Ludhiana has entered the peak of Covid-19 pandemic, the district is expected to get about 65 ventilators to meet the requirement for worst case scenario. On Wednesday, 44% of the ventilators available in Ludhiana district (81) were occupied whereas on Thursday 38.27% of such machines were occupied. Additional deputy commissioner (ADC) development and nodal officer for Covid-19 in Ludhiana district, Sandeep Kumar said as of now, the load of patients to be put on ventilators is less than 50% when compared with the availability of ventilators — now, they have 65 more ventilators for the district. He added that the ventilators have already been received at the state headquarters. The officer said of the 65 ventilator, 55 are being given to private hospitals and 10 are for government hospitals. He added that private hospitals authorities can receive ventilators from the headquarters. Nodal officer said they will install the ventilators soon. He added the ventilators are being given free of cost to private hospitals that have no access to them to help them tide over Covid-19 pandemic. The officer said they have increased the number of ventilators for poor Covid-19 patients at Christian Medical College Hospital from five to 15. He added that private hospital staff is handling those. “We have four new anaesthetics in Ludhiana and they can handle the ventilators at the government set up,” said the nodal officer. The district administration officials said as the number of cases has started witnessing a fall, there are chances that the occupancy of the ventilators will fall too. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga also indicated that things are improving on the Covid-19 front in Ludhiana district. He added that they have been doing exhaustive sampling and contact tracing in the district to ensure that patients are detected and are treated early so that they don’t need to be put on ventilator support. Till Thursday, total number of Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana district was 9,427 whereas 350 people from the district had lost their lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ludh-to-get-65-more-ventilators-to-handle-covid-19-peak-rush/articleshow/77811359.cms||Shariq Majeed
August 29, 2020||Dehradun||Badrinath highway still blocked, other roads connecting Char Dham shrines reopen||Dehradun: With the spell of rain continuing on Thursday, the Badrinath national highway remained closed for four-wheelers and heavy vehicles at Totaghati in Tehri district due to recurring landslides. Significantly, the authorities were successful in restoring the traffic movement on highways connecting Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri shrines, which were also intermittently getting blocked due to falling debris. However, the Thal-Munsyari highway in Pithoragarh district is obstructed at Haridya, according to the state emergency operation centre (SEOC). Meanwhile, the regional meteorological centre recorded moderate to heavy rainfall in several parts of Uttarakhand since Wednesday night. Sama in Bageshwar district received 110mm rainfall, while Loharkhet recorded 70mm rain. Mussoorie received 40mm rainfall, according to the Met office. The Met office said only a few spells of rain and thunderstorms are likely to occur on Friday. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover anywhere between 33 degree Celsius and 23 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/badrinath-highway-still-blocked-other-roads-connecting-char-dham-shrines-reopen/articleshow/77803508.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 29, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD-BJP accuses Cong of stashing 4k ration kits meant for needy||Ludhiana: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have accused Congress leaders of misappropriation of ration meant for distribution among the poor people in the city. However, Congress leaders claimed that opposition leaders were trying to gain political mileage. On Thursday, the BJP leaders claimed that they found more than 4,000 bags of food at a private school in Sandhu Nagar that belongs to Congress leader Baljinder Sandhu whose wife Rupinder Kaur Sandhu is councillor of ward number 91 in north constituency. According to BJP leaders these were given by the central government to distribute among poor people during the lockdown. However, Sandhu said his school was being used as a godown, from where ration kits were being distributed. BJP state vice-president Parveen Bansal said, “Now, they are saying it was a godown. Did anyone in north constituency know of this place being used as godown? Moreover, if it was a godown, then it shows that government has no place to store ration kits and depended on councillors and MLAs to store ration for it.” According to him, BJP has been crying itself hoarse that ration was not reaching during the lockdown. “Who allowed the Congress leader to store ration kits in large quantity in his personal godown?” he asked. Meanwhile, senior Akali Dal leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal and district SAD president Ranjit Dhillon in a joint statement claimed that even they had pointed out that poor people were not getting their share of ration during the lockdown and now the 4,000 ration bags found in a private school proves that Congress considered storage better than providing it to the needy. They claimed that it was only because of this many migrant labourers were forced to leave the city. Both BJP and SAD members said they will be staging protest against Congress government over the issue. However, Congress MLA Rakesh Pandey said, “Who gave BJP leaders the authority to enter somebody’s private property along with cameramen? Sandhu is magnanimous and did not take any action against them.” He said they supply ration as per demand from the school to 16 wards of north constituency. Pandey claimed that BJP leaders were exaggerating as well to gain political mileage. “On August 21, 2,100 ration kits were unloaded there and we are in the process of distributing them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-bjp-accuses-cong-of-stashing-4k-ration-kits-meant-for-needy/articleshow/77811373.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Rajkot||Farm labourer kills infant daughter in fight with his wife||Rajkot: A six-month-old girl became a victim of a bitter altercation between her parents as her father clubbed the infant to death by hurling her on the bed and slamming a wooden bat on her tender head.The macabre incident happened in Manaba village of Morbi district’s Maliya-Miyana taluka late on Thursday night. Police have detained the 37-year-old assailant Kalamsinh Baviya alias Kamlesh, who has been living with his wife Sangeeta and four children in the village for the last four years. He works as a farm labourer.On Thursday, Baviya returned from his native village in Dhar district of Madhya Pradesh and went to fetch Sangeeta who had gone to stay with her brother Sapit with her three daughters and son. But ever since he returned, Baviya was keeping aloof and not talking to anyone.The two families including Sapit’s had dinner together around 7:30pm. At around 9pm, Sangeeta casually inquired with her husband about the reason for his quietude. Baviya suddenly got furious and a bitter fight broke out between the couple.Scared of his abnormal temper, Sangeeta picked up her six-month-old daughter Savina and started rushing out to escape his wrath. “Baviya however snatched Savina from her hands, threw her on the bed and hit her head with a bat. The baby girl died on the spot,” said R B Tapariya, sub-inspector with Maliya-Miyana police station. “We have detained Baviya. He will be formally arrested once he undergoes Covid-19 test,” added Tapariya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/farm-labourer-kills-infant-daughter-in-fight-with-his-wife/articleshow/77811412.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Surat||Surat: Diamond units offer plasma as panacea||SURAT: City’s economic cornerstone - the diamond cutting and polishing industry - is making a concerted effort at not just rebooting the growth engine but also combating the Covid-19 pandemic. Diamond artisans, their family members and others associated with the industry are coming out in huge numbers to donate plasma to help hasten the recovery of critically ill patients. In fact, data obtained from two hospitals and as many blood banks reveals that of the total 824 plasma donors as on August 28, at least 200 are from the diamond industry. “In all, 39 artisans from our units have donated their plasma after recovering from Covid infection and 11 who were willing couldn’t due to health reasons,” Nagji Thummar, owner of Gopinath Gems in Varachha’s Hira Bazaar, told TOI. Two blood banks - Lok Samarpan Blood Bank and SMC-run SMIMER - are witnessing a rush from diamond industry people willing to donate plasma. In fact, the worst-ever slowdown in the diamond industry too has not deterred their donation spirits. “Since July 28 when we got permission to collect plasma, 120 people in all have donated at our blood bank. Of these, 75% were diamond polishers, workers and unit owners,” said Hari Kathiriya of Lok Samarpan Blood Bank. Dr Ankita Shah, head of immunohematology and blood transfusion (IHBT) department at SMIMER told TOI: “Owners of diamond firms like Unique gems, Ram Impex, Mangukiya Impex and Gopinath Gems and others are encouraging their workers to donate plasma and the results are visible.” “After our awareness campaign, 12 workers from our unit donated plasma. Our aim is to see that plasma is available easily for the needy,” said Sanjay Mangukia, owner of Mangukia Impex in Katargam. The emery wheels in the diamond hubs of Katargam and Varachha have come to screeching halt after the outbreak of Covid-19 and at least 2,200 had tested positive. SMC had also directed closure of all diamond units for three weeks last month due to spiralling number of cases after unlock 1, which led to a massive spike in Surat’s Covid-19 cases in June-July. Khodabhai Kapadia, a prominent diamond trader, who played a key role in plasma donation awareness among diamond units, said, "Majority of the donors have been artisans and unit owners, who not only want the industry to recover but also ensure that maximum people recover.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-units-offer-plasma-as-panacea/articleshow/77811500.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
August 29, 2020||Aurangabad||HC grants anticipatory bail to ex-MLA booked in atrocities case||Aurangabad: Citing that the FIR appears to have been filed with malafide intention, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has granted anticipatory bail to former MLA Harshvardhan Jadhav in a case registered in March this year under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act as well as for criminal intimidation. Paan stall owner Nitin Dabhadehad lodged a complaint stating that after he started the stall outside the premises owned by Jadhav, the latter made caste-based remarks and showered abuses while threatening to eliminate him. Accordingly, the offence was registered on March 1 this year. The former MLA remained untraceable for the Kranti Chowk police of Aurangabad city. After his application for anticipatory bail was turned down by the special court, he moved the HC. During the course of hearing, lawyers representing the state and the complainant contested for the rejection of anticipatory bail plea. They even cited that the former MLA has seven offences registered against him, including conviction in one of them. Jadhav’s lawyer Abhsysingh Bhosale contested that the offence was a result of political vendetta and he has been wrongly framed in the case. The lawyer pointed out that the paan stall was installed just a couple of days before the incident and was removed in the presence of police, as it was adding to the traffic woes at the signal opposite the district and sessions court. Granting conditional bail, Justice Vibha Kankanwadi took note of the contradictions in the statements by the complainant in the case. "FIR appears to be filed with some political intention or as the tapri was removed on the demand of the appellant, the informant had some grievance against the appellant. The FIR appears to be with some mala fide intention," ruled the HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-ex-mla-booked-in-atrocities-case/articleshow/77810142.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 29, 2020||Goa||Goa will open shacks from October: Lobo||PANAJI: The state government will allow beach shacks along the coastal belt to open from October for the tourist season, science and technology minister Michael Lobo said on Friday. The minister, who is Calangute MLA, also said the first charter with Russian tourists is expected to land in Goa in mid-October. Lobo also said that pending permission from the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA), bars in the state would be allowed to open in September. He told TOI that tourism stakeholders would meet CM Pramod Sawant. “We will tell the chief minister that since the Russian charter wants to come to Goa in mid-October, they should be given the green signal right away, and that the Union ministry of civil aviation and MHA should relax conditions for entry of tourists through charter flights,” Lobo said. He also said there is no need to minimise shack numbers. “It all depends on how many charters land in Goa and how the tourism season peaks,” he said. “Shacks will be put up at prominent locations and not everywhere.” Lobo said that if the state is not prepared right now to open in October, it won’t be in a position to open tourism activities in that month. “We have to allow it now, so that charter companies can book their landing slots at the airport, tourists can book hotels, get their logistics ready, etc,” he said. The minister said that the entire tourism industry is shut now, and that those working in the industry are without salaries. “Economic activities have come to a standstill, and we require foreign tourists,” he said. Lobo said that the coronavirus will not totally disappear, but that there will be a decline from September, and that business should start from October. “If we don’t start business from October, how are we supposed to live?” he said. “Let us wait for the entire month of September, and if there is a decline in Covid cases, we (must) start regular tourism activities with proper standard operating procedures (SOPs) and all points of entry,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-will-open-shacks-from-october-lobo/articleshow/77813830.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Chandigarh||MC team demolishing illegal structure allegedly attacked by civic body’s own staff||Ludhiana: In the recent stone pelting episode where municipal corporation (MC) team was attacked after demolition of religious structure in the industrial area, the involvement of MC class IV employees has come to light. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu has directed officials concerned to find out who were involved in attacking the MC building branch officials so that action could be taken against them. Around four days ago, building branch officials had gone to remove religious encroachment in a public park in Ghoda factory in the industrial area. The officials razed the illegal structure, but a few people started pelting stones at them and windowpanes of vehicles got damaged in the process. Now, it has come to light that some MC employees were also involved in pelting stones at the officials. While taking note of the issue the mayor, in the presence of MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, directed the officials to identify those employees who pelted stones. Sandhu claimed this could have led to serious injuries to the officials who were only doing their duty. A few people encroached upon a site reserved for public park at Ghoda factory road and established a religious shrine. A court case was also filed by the encroachers claiming legal right over the land. But the decision came in favour of the MC and the civic officials razed the illegal structure. According to sources, this is not for the first time that involvement of MC employees has surfaced in stone pelting against the MC officials during demolition drive. A few years ago too at Metro Road, in a similar incident, stones were pelted at the MC team, but no action was taken against any employee involved at that time, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-team-demolishing-illegal-structure-allegedly-attacked-by-civic-bodys-own-staff/articleshow/77811406.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Trichy||Pudukottai hospital treats 11 mentally-ill Covid patients||PUDUKOTTAI: While treating Covid-19 patients remained a challenging task for doctors during the pandemic, a team of health professionals and social workers pitched in to successfully treat 11 mentally ill patients among them in Pudukottai. They were discharged from the special Covid ward at Dr Muthulakshmi Memorial Govt Hospital (MRMGH) on August 26 after nearly 12 days of treatment and care from psychiatrists, physicians, nurses, social workers and hospital workers. District mental health programme officer Dr Karthik Deivanayagam said two among them had seizure disorder while a couple of others had anaemia. In all, 35 mentally ill patients, both wandering people and inmates of homes, were identified, of whom 11 tested positive. They were provided comprehensive treatment from confirmatory RTPCR testing to isolation and treatment for the prescribed period in line with government guidelines. Dr Karthik said detailed clinical screening and psychiatrist assessment were done while being offered Covid-19 test simultaneously. “This service demands cumulative expertise of psychiatrists and physicians as Covid 19 in a homeless mentally ill person is a complex situation requiring prompt assessment and de-escalation of psychological crisis situations,” said Dr Karthik. Initially, the rescued people were given a bath, a haircut if required, food and clothes to attend to their basic needs. Thanking Pudukottai collector P Uma Maheswari, dean of government medical college hospital Dr M Poovathi and others, Karthik said the service demanded a higher degree of commitment from the team to be extra vigilant and empathetic during the treatment period. From rescue to recovery comprising provision of food, accommodation, dress, Covid testing, quarantine, isolation, treatment and discharge, it was challenging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pudukottai-hospital-treats-11-mentally-ill-covid-patients/articleshow/77812744.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Aurangabad||4 held for ransacking hospital in Gangapur||Aurangabad: Four youths of a family have been arrested on the charges of ransacking a hospital in Gangapur and attacking a doctor and medical staffers. The incident has been caught on CCTV cameras. Police said that they suspects blamed the hospital for referring their family member Yamunabai Bhad (70) to another facility. Bhad passed away while she was being taken to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Aurangabad city. The suspects blamed the Gangapur-based private hospital ‘Sanjivani’ for wasting crucial time in referring her to GMCH which was at a distance of 45 km. The ransacking and attack has left the medico Yogesh Gawli and his staffer Tushar Rajput injured. The suspects also damaged Gawli’s high-send car that was parked in the hospital’s parking area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4-held-for-ransacking-hospital-in-gangapur/articleshow/77810153.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 29, 2020||Hyderabad||36 hours on, no trace of prisoners who escaped from Covid-19 ward||Hyderabad: Four fugitives, who escaped from Gandhi Hospital’s Covid-19 prisoners’ ward on Thursday, continued to evade the police dragnet. Even after 36 hours of their escape, police have not succeeded in catching them. Fourteen special police teams are on the job to apprehend the offenders, who have neither contacted their family members nor tried to reach homes. Apart from going through the CCTV camera footage at the hospital, cops are also keeping an eye on the hospital’s surrounding areas to spot the accused. Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said that an intensive manhunt was on and added the runaway prisoners would be caught soon. The quartet — Mohammed Javed (35), Mohammed Abdul Arbaz (21), P Narasimha (44) and Soma Sundar (19) — escaped from the prisoners’ ward located on the second floor of the eight-storeyed hospital building in the early hours. The police teams took some of the family members, including Javed’s brother who recently gave fresh clothes to him at the hospital, into confidence and also kept a watch on their houses. Javed was earlier arrested from a worship place in Karnataka where he had taken shelter after committing a property offence. Cops also verified with those who had recently met the accused during prison mulaqat and also checked if they had contacted any of the other inmates, who have been recently released. “Two of the offenders are convicts. All of them have multiple cases registered against them,” a police official said. As the offenders are alcoholics, cops also checked toddy compounds and liquor stores. Worship places where free shelter and food is being provided have also been checked apart from the places where vagabonds take rest. “All the police stations in the city have been alerted to notify about any property offence,” police sources said. Meanwhile, additional commissioner (law & order) DS Chauhan visited the hospital and issued instructions to cops to ensure that such incidents do not recur in future. It is learnt that reinforced window grills are being installed in the prisoners’ ward toilets and additional security personnel strategically deployed in and around the ward. Feelers have been sent to the medical and health department as well as the municipal authorities to increase illumination around the hospital building. Police suspect that the accused might have scaled the 6-ft high boundary wall near the mortuary and escaped into narrow bylanes of Padmarao Nagar where the CCTV camera coverage is not elaborate||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/36-hours-on-no-trace-of-prisoners-who-escaped-from-covid-19-ward/articleshow/77812784.cms||Mahesh Buddi
August 29, 2020||Patna||1,998 fresh Covid cases in Bihar take tally to 1,30,848||PATNA: The number of Covid-19 cases in the state rose to 1,30,848 on Friday with 1,998 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. However, at 84.77%, the state’s recovery rate is third best in the country after Delhi and Tamil Nadu as per the data shared by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Friday. The state health department has, however, put the state’s recovery rate at 85.94%. Altogether 1,12,445 people have so far recovered from the disease in the state, including 2,749 in the last 24 hours. With 12 fresh deaths in the last 24 hours, Covid toll in the state has jumped to 674. Active cases in the state stood at 17,727 on Friday. As per the state health department, five deaths were recorded in Patna on Thursday, four in Darbhanga, two in Madhubani and one in Samastipur. The Covid-19 toll in Patna district has now jumped to 154. According to the state health department, 28,82,926 samples have so far been tested in the state, including 1,05,766 in the last 24 hours. With 296 more people testing positive for the virus in Patna on Friday, the district’s tally has mounted 20,317. However, with 17,769 recoveries and 154 deaths, active cases in the district stand at 2,394. Other districts which reported large number of cases in the last 24 hours included Bhagalpur (121), East Champaran (94), Kishanganj (88), Purnia (87), Muzaffarpur (86), Katihar (84), Araria (83), Saran (83) and Begusarai (79). AIIMS-Patna nodal incharge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev said 13 new patients were admitted to the hospital, including those from Patna’s Rukanpura, Kautilya Nagar, RPS Mor and Khagaul localities, and 17 discharged on Friday. Seven people died at AIIMS-Patna on Thursday, including three from the state capital. The deceased included a 65-year-old man from Boring Canal Road, a 52-year-old woman from Ramji Chak in Digha and a 75-year-old man from Diwan Mohalla. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital did not register any fresh death on Thursday. Two positive patients were admitted to the hospital and seven discharged in the last 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1998-fresh-covid-cases-in-state-take-tally-to-130848/articleshow/77812779.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 29, 2020||Chennai||Build neighbourhood parks, but don’t standardise one design, say residents||CHENNAI: It’s not enough to build parks, they must be well designed and well maintained and for this citizens should be involved from the start, say city residents. “All parks should not be standardised with one boring design; they must have innovative concepts,” said V Sandhya, a resident of Anna Nagar. “From our experience of creating the sensory park in Santhome area, we have realised that community involvement is crucial for maintenance and design. Engaging with citizens using a liaison officer who will coordinate between community and corporation will help in sustaining these projects,” says Kavitha Selvaraj, architect and urban designer. “The Bougainvillea park in Anna Nagar is well maintained because of private participation, but several parks in the same locality have become dens for drug and liquor addicts, “ points out Sandhya. Funding is also an issue. The civic body that had set aside Rs 130 crore for park maintenance in 2017 reduced it to Rs 90crore in 2018 and to just Rs41crore this year. However, officials clarified that this dip is because of reduced repair work. “Major repair work was carried out between 2016 and 2018. But now basic maintenance is enough,” said an official. G Sathish, a resident of Sholinganallur, said engineers and superintendents with a background in horticulture should be appointed to handle parks. Three park superintendents were appointed two weeks to posts in the civic body that were vacant for more than five years. “These officials will ensure better maintenance,” said an official. Jayshree Vencatesan, managing trustee of care earth, said people should look at parks as an extension of their homes. “Unlike other cities that have garden spaces at homes, the only viable option for recreation and a green space in Chennai is the parks,” she said. Talking about their maintenance, she said, larger responsibility lies with civil society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/build-neighbourhood-parks-but-dont-standardise-one-design-say-residents/articleshow/77812821.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Dehradun||Former chief secretary of Uttarakhand named secretary Lok Sabha||DEHRADUN: Former chief secretary (CS) of Uttarakhand — Utpal Kumar Singh — who retired on July 31 this year – has been named the secretary in the Lok Sabha on Friday. A notification from the Lok Sabha issued on Friday states that Singh can start his service from September 1, 2020. A 1986-batch IAS officer, Singh became the 15th chief secretary on October 25, 2017, a position which he held till his retirement on July 31, 2020. Born on July 29, 1960, Singh hails from Jharkhand and was an IAS officer from Uttarakhand cadre. During his stint as CS, he monitored a number of important projects, including Prime Minister’s Narendra Modi’s ambitious All Weather Road Project for Cham Dham route and reconstruction and development at Kedarnath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/former-chief-secretary-of-ukhand-named-secretary-lok-sabha/articleshow/77810145.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 29, 2020||Nagpur||NMC to restart accepting samples for RT-PCR test after 2-day gap||Nagpur: Lack of proper system and coordination between the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and five government-run laboratories was a major reason behind no Real Time (RT)-PCR tests at the six centres run by the civic body for two consecutive days. The NMC on Friday evening announced RT-PCR tests will resume at these centres from Saturday. On the other hand, three government laboratories whose staffers had tested positive for Covid-19 managed to conduct RT-PCR tests on Thursday and Friday. IGGMCH deputy medical superintendent Dr Sagar Pande told TOI, “Our laboratory was not closed at all. Some of our staffers had tested positive, yet we conducted tests considering its importance in the prevailing situation. We tested 636 samples on Thursday and around 400 on Friday,” he said. According to Dr Pande, NMC is sending large number of samples only to IGGMCH daily. “We have told the NMC officials about excess samples and less staff with us. We also test our in-house samples. The NMC should have sent the samples to remaining four laboratories. There should be a system so that NMC distributes samples to five laboratories on alternate days,” he said. NMC officials said IGGMCH had asked them not to give swabs for 2-3 days due to excess samples and staff shortage after some tested positive on Wednesday. “IGGMCH is nodal agency for receiving and dividing total samples among all the five laboratories. “On Wednesday, IGGMCH refused to accept samples collected at NMC’s six centres. They were accepted only after we spoke to the office of divisional commissioner. Therefore, we stopped collecting swab samples for RT-PCR on Thursday and Friday and switched to Rapid Antigen test. Today, we were asked to send samples from Saturday,” they said. Dr Pande said, “IGGMCH is not a nodal agency and was never given any such order in writing by any authority.” According to NMC officials, IGGMCH has been accepting all samples and dividing it among five laboratories since August 3 when swab collection for RT-PCR tests started at the six centres . “On Wednesday, IGGMCH said conduct Rapid Antigen test and send emergency patients for RT-PCR test either to the hospital or GMCH. We are confused as to what happened in the last two days,” they said. Testing of many symptomatic and high-risk contacts of positive patients was delayed for two days. A resident of KT Nagar said, “My husband has tested positive at a private laboratory. We have been tested negative in Rapid Antigen. Doctors advised us RT-PCR test. NMC centres said RT-PCR was stopped. We have no faith in private laboratories, so waiting for last two days,” she said. An NMC staffer at one of the six NMC centres said, “Few people had to return without testing as they cannot afford charges of private laboratories.” The NMC had opened 34 testing centres, out of which six conduct RT-PCR and remaining Rapid Antigen. Samples of symptomatic patients were being taken at six centres to avoid double testing and wastage of Rapid Antigen kit. Few days ago, the government had issued algorithm for testing. Accordingly, tests for symptomatic and high-risk contacts of positive patients are to be done only through RT-PCR while Rapid Antigen is to be used only for emergency patients. Still, NMC is conducting Rapid Antigen at six centres and the same being done at remaining centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-to-restart-accepting-samples-for-rt-pcr-test-after-2-day-gap/articleshow/77812722.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 29, 2020||Goa||Goa-based hotelier summoned by ED in Sushant case||PANAJI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday summoned Goa-based hotelier Gaurav Arya in connection with its investigation into the Sushant Singh Rajput case, and asked him or his authorised representative to appear before it on Monday at 11am. ED officials pasted the summons at Arya’s hotel, The Tamarind, in Anjuna. The organisation is probing the money laundering charges made by the late actor’s father. An FIR filed by Bihar police was made the basis for the ED to commence the investigation. Assistant director Rajiv Kumar said that the directorate is probing the cases under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. “I consider the attendance of Gaurav Arya necessary in connection with the said investigation,” he said in the summons. Rajput’s father, Krishna Kishore Singh, had lodged an FIR in Patna alleging abetment of suicide. Bihar police also registered charges of cheating, theft, wrongful confinement. There have been unverified allegations of money being siphoned off from Rajput’s accounts, and the ED has thus sought bank statements and other financial transactions from Mumbai and Bihar police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-based-hotelier-summoned-by-ed-in-sushant-case/articleshow/77813852.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Stock in 4 reservoirs higher than last year||PUNE: The collective stock in the four reservoirs that supply water to Pune stood at 28.7 TMC (98.5%) on Friday, slightly higher than last year’s stock of 28.6 TMC (98.3%) around this time. With the exception of Temghar, which was 88.4% full, the other reservoirs — Khadakwasla, Panshet and Varasgaon — were filled to capacity. Irrigation department officials said they increased water release from Khadakwasla, Panshet and Varasgaon on Friday afternoon after the their catchments reported good spells of rainfall. Water was released from Khadakwasla at a rate of 3,424 cusec (and increased to 9,416 cusec by 10pm, while Panshet and Varasgaon discharged water at 1,000 cusec, in addition to the release of water for power generation. Khadakwasla dam also released water into the Mutha canal at a rate of 1,000 cusec. Water from Mulshi dam too was released at 2,000 cusec. The department stopped water discharge from Panshet and Varasgaon on Thursday following a lull in rainfall activity. “The discharge would increase further if the catchments continue to receive heavy spells of rain,” an irrigation department official said. As per the state irrigation department, about 9 TMC water has been released from the four dams into the Mutha river so far. This water further flowed into the Ujani reservoir, which now has over 90% stock. The water released from Khadakwasla is equivalent to Pune city’s water requirement for six months, officials said. During the previous monsoon, the dams had together released more than 20 TMC of water into the Mutha. Meanwhile, Pavana dam, which supplies water to Pimpri Chinchwad, had 7.9 TMC (92.8%) on Friday evening. Officials said water will be released after storage goes beyond the 95% mark. The catchments of the dam have so far reported over 1,400mm of rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stock-in-4-reservoirs-higher-than-last-year/articleshow/77812824.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Agri firm defaults on Rs 360 crore loan repayment||HYDERABAD: Even before the dust on the promoters of Sri Krishna Agri Process India Limited who were booked by CBI in the Rs 51-crore IDBI Bank loan fraud case settles down, their role in similar loan frauds has come to light. The accused, who promoted another firm Sri Krishna Stockist and Traders Private Ltd, defaulted on Rs 240 crore loan to Canara Bank and Rs 126 crore loan to IFCI Ltd, the erstwhile Industrial Finance Corporation of India. The accused — Thota Kanna Rao and Thota Venkata Ramana — are directors of both Sri Krishna Agri Process and Sri Krishna Stockist and Traders. Sri Krishna Stockist and Traders has been facing a CBI probe since 2018. The latest case of IDBI Bank against the directors is the second FIR issued by the investigating agency. CBI alleged that the accused approached IFCI for a term loan and mortgaged 16 properties at a market value of Rs 330 crore. IFCI asked the properties’ evaluation to AP Industrial and Technical, Consultancy Organisation Ltd (APITCO) and MITCON Consultancy & Services. APITCO valued it at Rs 257 crore, while MITCON put the value at Rs 253 crore. Two other valuation experts — Spoorthi Consultancy and Lopa Verma & Associates — were roped in, who valued the properties at Rs 14.3 crore and Rs 28 crore respectively. Based on this, IFCI filed a complaint with CBI alleging that Kanna Rao and Ramana had conspired with APITCO and MITCON and artificially inflated the valuation of the properties and resorted to cheating to obtain the loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/agri-firm-defaults-on-rs-360-cr-loan-repayment/articleshow/77812819.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 29, 2020||Hyderabad||17-year-old arrested in Cyberabad for impersonating MP||HYDERABAD: A 17-year-old was arrested by Cyberabad cybercrime police on Friday for creating a fake social media account of a Rajya Sabha MP and trying to extort money from a person impersonating as the MP. The offender from Uttar Pradesh had sent a friend request to the complainant, impersonating MP Joginapally Santosh Kumar, on social media. The accused started chatting with the complainant and demanded Rs 50,000 to help pay his friend’s daughter’s medical treatment in Bhopal. The complainant then found the account to be fake and approached police. Cops traced him to UP. The offender was nabbed and booked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/17-year-old-arrested-in-cyberabad-for-impersonating-mp/articleshow/77812829.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Enjoy, rain to continue for 3 to 4 days||Ludhiana: After rainfall on Friday morning in many areas, weather turned pleasant in Ludhiana, even as it was sunny during the day. Meanwhile, met department predicts rainfall in isolated places in the district for the next three days. Acoording to the met department, rainfall in the city between 8.30am on Thursday and 8.30am on Friday was recorded at 3.2 millimetres (mm). The rainfall between 8.30am to 5.30pm on Friday was recorded as “trace” amount. The rainfall had an effect on the day’s temperature, as the maximum (day) temperature in Ludhiana was recorded at 31 degrees Celsius, which is two degrees less than normal. Minimum (night) temperature in city on Friday was recorded around normal at 25.8 degrees Celsius, which is a degree more than normal. A met department official at Chandigarh said weather for next four days is “generally cloudy sky with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers”. He added that the day temperatures are expected to remain around or slightly below normal and night temperature might remain slightly above normal. The met department website, meanwhile, predicts rise in day temperature to 33 degrees till Sunday before falling to 29 degrees till next Wednesday. The night temperature is expected to rise to 26 degrees till coming Thursday. The residents continued to enjoy the weather in the city. “It was getting hot and humid again, but the rain since yesterday has brought the pleasant weather back to Ludhiana. Weather has been amazing and it was great to stroll in the neighbourhood park,” said Gurdev Singh, a trader from Pakhowal road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/enjoy-rain-to-continue-for-3-to-4-days/articleshow/77811469.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Nigerians call the shots in cocaine peddling in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Nigerian peddlers have emerged as the main suppliers of cocaine to drug abusers in Hyderabad, enforcement officials have said. According to officials, all Nigerian suppliers operate from Bengaluru and Mumbai. “They keep shuffling between the two cities so as to not get identified,” said an excise official. This year alone, 235 gm of cocaine had been seized in the city, which had led to the arrest of 12 peddlers. Enforcement agencies have identified Emmanuel Ummudu alias Imma, James, Devine Ebuka Suzu alias Ebuka, Ugochukwu Cheema Good Luck and Ben alias Banard alias MTN as the kingpins behind the supply of cocaine into the city. In the two recent seizures, the arrested accused had confessed that they were provided the drug by Ebuka, Ben and Ummudu. “These Nigerians have multiple cases registered against them in the city. They were arrested a few times before and are out on bail. To avoid imprisonment, they started using associates to supply the drug here,” assistant excise superintendent N Anji Reddy said. While Ebuka and his brother Cheema Good Luck have been into cocaine peddling, excise officials said Ben is more enterprising as he also operates an escort service from Uganda. Ummudu married a Mumbai-based bank employee, Leela Shivakumar. The couple was arrested by Cyberabad police in 2018. A fellow Nigerian, Bongani Lucky, is supplying the drug to his associates in Mumbai and Bengaluru. Since it is difficult to zero in on suppliers who use SIM cards of Ivory Coast and operate through WhatsApp in other states, law enforcement agencies are apprehending carriers who enter the city to deliver cocaine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nigerians-call-the-shots-in-cocaine-peddling-in-city/articleshow/77812783.cms||Mahesh Buddi
August 29, 2020||Chandigarh||17 cops who had tested +ve join duty again, ready to donate plasma||Ludhiana: Seventeen police personnel belonging to Dugri police station and SBS Nagar police post have joined back duty on Friday, after defeating Covid-19. They had contracted the virus on August 10. The station house officer (SHO) was also diagnosed with dengue and was admitted to DMC Hospital. The others were in home isolation. SHO at Dugri police station, inspector Surinder Kumar said 20 constables of Dugri police station had fever on August 10. Thereafter, the entire staff of the police station and police post were asked to get their Covid-19 tests done. Twelve from Dugri police station and five from the police post have tested positive. Inspector said, “I was also diagnosed with dengue and was admitted to DMC hospital for one week. Rest were in home isolation. I would like to thank CP sir, ADCP Rupinder Kaur Sra madam who arranged daily webinars for us. Every day, they used to call us and would make us interact with the doctors.” “The doctors have helped us in dealing with health issues and the stress too,” he added. Further he said, “The hospital staff was also very cooperative. One thing I have learnt from there, which I want to share with all is wearing double masks. In hospital, the staff members wear a three-ply mask and then a N-95 mask over it, for double protection.” A constable-ranked policeman said, “CP sir used to call us every day to find out how we are doing. This really helped us in fighting the Covid-19.” The SHO also said the cured from Dugri police station are willing to donate plasmas for other Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/17-cops-who-had-tested-ve-join-duty-again-ready-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/77811482.cms||Payal Dhawan
August 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Purandar MLA proposes new site for airport project||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday directed the local administration to check the feasibility of developing the new airport at the alternative site proposed by Purandar MLA Sanjay Jagtap. The MLA proposed land acquisition for the project from three villages — Pandeshwar, Rise and Pise — instead of the seven villages selected earlier because they had fertile irrigated land. The site proposed by the MLA in the meeting convened by Ajit Pawar to discuss the land acquisition process for the proposed airport is to the east of the current site. Baramati MP Supriya Sule was also present in the meeting. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao told TOI that the administration would sit with the local MLA on Monday to explain him the master plan and the survey conducted earlier with the feasibility study done in coordination with the airport authorities. “If he has some suggestions, we shall consider them and then conduct feasibility study,” he said. Land acquisition officers stressed that if the state government went for a new site for the proposed airport, approvals from different ministries would have to be sought all over again. Another detailed project report would delay the already delayed project further. According to the existing plan, 2,832 hectares of land was to be acquired from the seven selected villages. In the changed scenario, the administration would have to check if there is enough land available in the three villages Jagtap talked about in Friday’s meeting with the deputy chief minister. Last week, Ajit Pawar had expressed his determination to go forward with the project. He had sought possible land acquisition options. Jagtap had earlier stated that he would not allow the airport to come up at the proposed site without proper study. He had also claimed that he was never included in the discussions. Jagtap defeated Shiv Sena’s incumbent Vijay Shivtare by 31,000 votes in the Assembly polls last year. He always maintained that he was not opposed to the airport coming up in Purandar, but the selected site should be changed because fertile land would be acquired for the project otherwise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/purandar-mla-proposes-new-site-for-airport-project/articleshow/77812855.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 29, 2020||Pune||Valuables stolen from ex-DGP’s flat worth Rs 1.3 crore in Pune||PUNE: The value of cash and jewellery stolen from the Undri flat of a former director-general of police on Monday has been pegged at over Rs 1.3 crore, police said on Friday. There has been no breakthrough so far. “I can account for the stolen cash and ornaments,” DGP Raj Prem Khilnani (retd) told TOI. Additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale said they have checked 300 criminals involved in burglary cases in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and rural Pune in the past three years. “We are not ruling out the involvement of criminals from outside the district. We are also keeping an eye on jewellers and others known to buy stolen property,” he said. “A sniffer dog picked up the burglars’ scent up to a distance of 500m,” Morale said. “The burglary appears to have been well planned. We have questioned the society’s guards and are going through the visitors’ log and call records,” Senior inspector Vinayak Gaikwad said. DCP (zone V) Suhas Bawache, who is supervising the investigation, said they were on the right track.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/valuables-stolen-from-ex-dgps-flat-worth-rs-1-3cr/articleshow/77812845.cms||Asseem Shaikh
August 29, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: 54 new parks in added areas to expand green cover||CHENNAI: The city is set to get 54 new parks, mostly in the added areas, that will have walking tracks, children’s play areas, lawns and trees. Some may also get yoga centres and open gyms. Pooniamman Nagar and V S Mani Nagar in Manali, Senthil Murugan Nagar and Thamirabharani Street in Ambattur, Kottivakkam and Senthil Nagar in Madipakkam (Perungudi zone) and Karappakam and Semmenchery in Sholinganallur are among the areas where the parks will come up within six months at costs ranging from `36 lakh to `1 crore based on the area. The city, spread across 426sqkm, now has 1.6 sq km of parks against an ideal park space of more than 100 sq km given the population and the number of properties. Greater Chennai Corporation deputy commissioner (works) said, several new projects are in the pipeline. “Four new theme-based parks including in Kotturpuram and in Nolambur will also be completed soon,” he said. An engineer said the projects, in the pipeline since 2018, couldn’t be taken up earlier due to fund crunch. “Now, we are using capital funds of `45 crore to create them. They will be maintained by contractors or residential welfare associations. We have added about 149 new parks in the last two years, increasing the number from 525 to 674. Our target was 200 new parks,” said an official. Another official said the civic body usually takes up a project when an open space designated as park is handed over by the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority after property registration. “Also, space under litigation when reclaimed is converted into a park or garden.” Presently, 40 parks are maintained by residential welfare associations, corporate companies and NGOs. The rest are contracted for ₹41crore, as per this year’s budget. Residents of Ambattur, where the most parks, 12, are coming up, are thrilled. S Suresh, secretary of the Thiruvengada Nagar Residents Welfare Association, said they wanted the civic body to ensure better maintenance and lighting. People in Perungudi and Sholinganallur, which will each get six and eight parks, said they had always used the beach as recreation space. “We have demanded open spaces including playgrounds since 2014. We are glad they have finally been taken up,” said M Rajesh, a resident. Vishvesh Patel of Balaji Nagar in Royapettah said he had to travel 5km daily to use a park, near Napier bridge. “If the civic body can reclaim OSR lands in city areas that have been encroached upon as well as create parks, it would be very helpful.” M B Nirmal, founder and chairman of Exnora International, said new parks were always welcome. “They should be looked as major greening spaces and not just concrete walking areas.” Corporation commissioner G Prakash was unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/54-new-parks-in-added-areas-to-expand-chennais-green-cover/articleshow/77812851.cms||Komal Gautham
August 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Brigadier contacts bank to get Rs 10k back, loses Rs 4L||Bengaluru: A brigadier with ASC Centre in Bengaluru lost Rs 4 lakh in eight transactions to cybercriminals, though he had requested the bank helpline to freeze his account after the first withdrawal. In his complaint to Viveknagar police station, the 52-year-old officer, who is a recipient of Vishisht Seva medal, said on August 23 he received a message that Rs 49,999 was debited four times from his account in National Games Village branch of Syndicate Bank (now Canara Bank). The officer said around 11.50am on August 21, he had visited an ATM kiosk to withdraw Rs 10,000 but the transaction failed. Subsequently, he could withdraw Rs 15,000, but the transactions showed Rs 25,000 had been debited. “Realising the transaction hadn’t been reversed, I made six calls to the customer care beginning 7.45am on August 22. I shared the necessary details with the staff, who assured me the money would be credited in two working days,” the officer narrated. But the brigadier was shocked to find Rs 49,999 each was withdrawn in four transactions. “I immediately called the customer care and reported the matter at 10.20am on August 23. I made a nine calls to freeze my account and block my card,” he said. Around 2.40pm, the officer’s card was blocked but almost Rs 2 lakh was deducted in the early hours of the next day. The officer suspects his debit card was cloned and data stolen. He said he was surprised how his details had been hacked and despite issuing clear requests to bankers to freeze his account and receiving positive confirmation to that effect, money continued to be lost. He visited his bank on August 24 and found the money from his account was transferred to Paytm; the transaction had originated in Lucknow. The officer told TOI despite making 20 phone calls to the customer care, meeting the branch manager and launching a complaint with the civil police station in Bengaluru, he is yet to get his money back. He asserted that he hadn’t provided his bank account and personal details to anyone. Viveknagar police have registered a case under Information and Technology Act and are yet to initiate a probe. Canara Bank authorities said they are looking into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/brigadier-contacts-bank-to-get-rs-10k-back-loses-rs-4l/articleshow/77812068.cms||Kiran Parashar
August 29, 2020||Surat||Abandoned Dumas camels get shelter in Deesa||Surat: It was an emotional moment for the volunteers of the Nature Club Surat (NCS) as they bid adieu to the three camels which were rescued in the first week of August after they were abandoned by their owners. These camels were shifted to panjrapole (animal shelter) in Banaskantha’s Deesa taluka, which would be the final resting abode of the abandoned animals, said Snehal Patel of NCS, an NGO working for environment conservation, relief and rescue of animals. These camels were used to ferry revellers across the Dumas beach and earn their keepers a decent income. They were seen loitering on city road in search of food and shelter by the volunteers of NCS in the first week of August. Following the distress calls from the residents in Vesu and Pilod, the volunteers rescued the camels and brought them to animal shelter home at Eco Farm in Vesu. According to Patel, the camels were abandoned by the owners during the lockdown as they had become a burden on them. With Dumas beach closed due to the pandemic, there was no one to ferry and no income for the owners. The injured camels were given treatment by the veterinary doctors of the NCS. After the recovery, the NCS contacted the office-bearers of the panjrapole in Deesa for shifting the camels. With the consent of the office-bearers, the camels were boarded on to a truck and transported to Dessa on Friday. Patel told TOI, “We had developed an emotional bond with the camels during their stay here. All three camels were treated and brought to a healthy state. Since the animals are big, it was difficult for us to nourish them in a proper environment. So we decided to shift them to the panjrapole in Deesa.” Patel added, “There are many panjrapoles in and around Surat, but the one at Deesa is the oldest and biggest. It has more than 10,000 animals and that the environment there is more suitable for the camels to stay healthy in captivity.” Asked if the camel owners contacted NCS for their custody, Patel said, “Not a single person has turned till date.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/abandoned-dumas-camels-get-shelter-in-deesa/articleshow/77810850.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Mangaluru||With int’l competitions cancelled, students make a fresh start||Mangaluru: Pandemic has left the students of the Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT), Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) disappointed after several competitions were cancelled or shifted to virtual platforms. “The situation has made the hackathons and online engagements as the only competitive arenas,” said Srikant Rao, director, MIT. Tushaar Neb, team leader, Mars Rover Manipal said for the last one year, the team has been preparing for the University Rover Challenge, Utah, US. “Our rover was in its testing phase and we were in the process of finalising flight tickets and hotel accommodation. The team was devastated when we heard the competition was not happening. It’s a two-year journey for a team member. Based on the video submissions, the team stood seventh, which is the second-best score of the team yet. We are happy that our efforts did not go in vain,” said Tushaar. Baidyananth Kundu, a team member, Project Manas, undergraduate AI robotics research team, said that they were disappointed in not being able to participate at the AUVSI SUAS competition, Maryland, USA. “However, the team has bounced back in action and has started preparations for the next competition. Work on designs has commenced as its being build with better foundations,” he said. Similarly, Team Manipal Racing was looking forward to participating in the BAJA SAE Louisville competition in the second week of May. Thirteen of 18 students had booked flight tickets and the refunds took a while. Shrey Gurav, vice-captain, said, “The event was transferred to a virtual platform. The virtual event was a good learning experience except for not being able to give the sales presentation due to a technical glitch. That would have given us a better overall ranking than the current 25th.” AeroMIT, aeromodelling, and drone research team were lucky to participate in SAE Aero Design East, Florida, USA, and securing an overall fourth position. Vishnu Latheesh, team leader said, “A team of 15 were lucky to participate at the international competition in March, where we were ranked one in technical presentation, fourth in mission performance and eight in design report. However, a national competition for which the team had qualified stands cancelled. Currently, online recruitment for the next season and research on vertical take-off and landing aircraft is on,” Vishnu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/with-intl-competitions-cancelled-students-make-a-fresh-start/articleshow/77811008.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
August 29, 2020||Chennai||The businessman who became a brand himself||CHENNAI: TNCC working president and Congress Lok Sabha MP from Kanyakumari, H Vasanthakumar, passed away on Friday at a city hospital, where he was admitted on August 10, after developing symptoms of Covid-19. He was 70. He leaves behind his wife, who is also undergoing treatment for Covid, and an actor son, Vijay Vasanth. On August 9, he participated in a virtual meet, organised by TNCC, for freedom fighter Chinna Annamalai’s centenary, which turned out to be his last public appearance. “I spoke to him over phone on August 11. He was sounding cheerful and said there was only mild symptoms for him and his wife. Since their grandson was at home, they got themselves admitted to hospital as a precautionary measure,” recalls K Chandrasekharan, secretary, TNCC arts wing. “With God’s blessings, I will be back home in a few days,” Vasanthakumar had told him. Born on April 14, 1950 at Agastheeswaram in Kanyakumari, he was the younger brother of former TNCC president Kumari Ananthan. Vasanthakumar started his career as a salesman in VGP & Co selling ‘Murphy’ transistors door-to-door on instalment basis on a bicycle. After gaining some experience, he was keen to open his own shop. While no one came forward to lend him money, a customer advised him to approach Indian Bank for loan. He met senior branch manager M Gopalakrishnan, who later went on to become CMD of the bank, who sanctioned him a small loan. Starting from scratch in 1978, he established Vasanth & Co. It later became TN’s largest consumer durable retail chain. It has over 80 branches in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka. Vasanthakumar was elected to the Tamil Nadu assembly from Nanguneri assembly segment for the first time in 2006, when the Congress was part of the DMK alliance. He lost in the 2011 assembly elections. He lost to BJP’s Pon Radhakrishnan in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections from Kanyakumari. In the 2016 assembly elections, when Congress was back in the DMK alliance, Vasanthakumar got elected from Nanguneri to the assembly for the second time. But he contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls from Kanyakumari and defeated Pon Radhakrishnan. Later, he resigned the MLA post. “He was a man without contradictions. Even if he differed with what I said, he would put across his views with a smile and convince me. A complete family man, he took every decision only after discussing it threadbare with his wife and son,” recalls TNCC president K S Alagiri. Vasanthakumar had spoken to former TNCC president and Trichy Lok Sabha MP S Thirunavukkarasar on August 14 and invited the latter to visit TNCC headquarters for the Independence Day flag hoisting ceremony. “Vasanthakumar was a pure nationalist and had a bright future for himself in the TNCC. In a short duration as MP, he proved himself as a very good parliamentarian,” Thirunavukkarasar said. “His self-confidence was supreme. He was a businessman who made himself the brand for his trade. He connected with the customers and built an empire from scratch,” said former Congress MP Peter Alphonse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/the-businessman-who-became-a-brand-himself/articleshow/77812861.cms||D Govardan
August 29, 2020||Kolkata||After Supreme Court verdict, West Bengal universities may hold final-semester exams before Durga Puja||KOLKATA: The state higher education department wrote to the disaster management department, seeking its opinion on holding university terminal-semester exams, after the Supreme Court gave a verdict on Friday, saying final-year college exams would have to be conducted this year, but individual states could ask to defer the dates beyond the earlier deadline of September 30 set by the University Grants Commission. The terminal-semester exams could be postponed but not cancelled, the SC stated. . On receiving the disaster management response, the government will approach UGC with a plea to hold the assessments before Durga Puja in October, as suggested by chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “The department has approached the disaster management department as UGC had earlier written to state universities on conducting end-semester exams by September-end. On receiving the disaster management’s feedback, the state will write to UGC, along with their suggestions,” said a state official. The SC verdict has alarmed education officials, who have to come up with a formula by bridging the digital divide, maintaining safety guidelines and finding a solution to travel woes. Going by Banerjee’s announcement, state-run university VCs have been alerted that preparations have to be made for a schedule before Durga Puja. The VCs plan to follow the government advisory, likely to be issued next week. “Like earlier, this time, too, we will go with the higher education department’s decision,” said an official of North Bengal University. Several universities have already published their final-semester/year results, based on the state-suggested 80-20 formula under which, 80% weightage has been given to students’ best scores from past semesters and 20% to the test scores or internal assessments conducted before the lockdown this semester. But SC’s verdict made several VCs rethink if published or ready results would have to be scrapped even as state officials indicated the results, based on the 80-20 formula was unlikely to hold. Assessments on the current semester through home assignments, online exams and project are likely to stand, provided the weightage to current semester is at least 50%. “The 50-50 formula or above, where the higher weightage is given to current semester assessments, will stand as UGC had prescribed a 50-50 formula in April,” the official said. Among the state universities opting to abide by the state “advice” include Calcutta University, Rabindra Bharati University, some of the arts and science departments of Jadavpur University and a few universities that have not yet published results. Presidency University, which has assessed terminal-semester students, published the results in July. VC Anuradha Lohia said, “We conducted online/offline exams of the terminal semesters in a blended manner from 25th June to 7th July, as resolved by our GB. The grades have been finalized on the basis of the result of terminal semester exams and continuous assessment, in accordance with the extant exam regulations. This is in line with UGC guidelines received earlier. Our results were published on 31st July.” CU adopted the 80-20 formula, ratified in the Syndicate, its highest decision-making body. The 170 colleges affiliated to CU are now in a fix. “It is not possible to hold online exams as many students live in remote regions. Also, a decision applicable to Presidency, which has around 600 students taking the exam, can’t be applied to CU where the number will be more than 1 lakh. The only way out for CU is to conduct the exam,” said a higher education official. CM suggested students could be assigned centres near home. “It will be a huge task for university to find out every student’s location,” an official said. In RBU, the EC meeting was put on hold as the case was in SC. “Now, we will follow UGC guidelines and state advisory on exams,” said VC Sabyasachi Basu Ray Chaudhuri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-sc-verdict-univs-may-hold-final-sem-exams-before-puja/articleshow/77812898.cms||Somdatta Basu
August 29, 2020||Nagpur||50% dip in idol immersion compared to last year||NAGPUR: The city witnessed a 50% drop in immersions during the first six days of Ganesh idol visarjan, shows data provided by environment activists. On August 24, TOI reported that the first day of immersions saw a 50% drop as compared to last year. The trend seems to be continuing as many citizens are immersing idols at their homes. According to the statistics provided by NGO Green Vigil Foundation, a total of 614 idols have been immersed till now in the artificial tanks kept on Air Force side of Futala lake. Around the sixth day last year, the number of immersions was almost double. “A comparison of data of both the years shows that on every single day of immersions, the number has dropped by half this time,” said Surbhi Jaiswal, team lead at the NGO. As reported by TOI earlier, mayor Sandip Joshi has appealed to all the citizens to do immersions at home so that Covid distancing is maintained during the pandemic. “To ensure safety, many people are opting for home visarjan this time,” said Mehul Kosurkar, deputy team lead at the NGO. Another reason behind the decline is the civic body’s bold step of cordoning off all the lakes. For the first time, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has barricaded Futala lake, which would witness the highest number of footfall every year. “When immersions in the lake are not permitted, people are finding it pointless to come and immerse their idols in the artificial tanks. They are preferring to carry out the ritual at their homes,” said Jaiswal. The barricading of the lake seems to be working well as till now there are no reports of idol immersions in the water body. However, according to activists, the real test will be on the tenth day when more immersions are expected. According to NMC officials, artificial tanks are being installed zone-wise. NGOs and NMC staffers will be deployed at immersion sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/50-dip-in-idol-immersion-compared-to-last-year/articleshow/77814493.cms||Manka Behl
August 29, 2020||Pune||No change in compensation for protesting farmers: Govt||PUNE: The government on Friday ruled out any additional compensation for farmers affected by the Bhama Askhed pipeline project. The decision was taken at a review meeting chaired by deputy chief minister and district guardian minister Ajit Pawar. “The decision was to offer compensation as per guidelines set by the previous government, so any additional demand was not approved,” Wadgaonsheri MLA Sunil Tingre of the Nationalist Congress Party told TOI. The farmers affected have sought compensation as per ready reckoner rates or land in lieu of the parcels acquired. They have been offered Rs15 lakh per hectare. “Compensation as per ready reckoner is higher, so we will continue our agitation,” Satyavan Navale, one of the protesting farmers, said. The project has been held up for four years over land acquisition issues. Pune Municipal Corporation said around 1,400 farmers are directly affected by the project, aimed at supplying an additional 2.8 TMC of water to Pune. Despite repeated attempts by phone and via SMS, district collector Rajesh Deshmukh could not reached for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-additional-relief-for-those-affected-by-bhama-askhed-project/articleshow/77812862.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
August 29, 2020||Vadodara||GCMMF first Indian entity to be in top 20||VADODARA: For the first time an Indian dairy has found a place in the global top 20 list released by Rabobank. The Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF) that markets brand Amul is ranked 16th in Rabobank’s Global Top 20 dairy companies list by the Dutch financial services company. So far, despite being world’s largest milk producer, no Indian firm was featured in the global ranking. For this ranking, GCMMF’s annual turnover of US $5.5 billion (4.9 billion euros) which the home grown dairy giant had achieved in 2019 has been considered. “Going by the brand value of Amul our turnover comes to US$ 7 billion. Considering this, we could have been ranked 11th,” said R S Sodhi, managing director of GCMMF, the apex body of all the milk unions of Gujarat. The survey names Swiss major Nestle as the top dairy firm in the world with a turnover of US $ 22.1 billion, followed by France’s Lactalis with US$ 21 billion turnover. US’ Dairy Farmers of America which was ranked 6th in 2019 list has been ranked third with US$ 20.1 billion turnover. “All other dairy companies that have been featured are either multinationals, privately owned or have nation-wide operations. We are the only co-operative brand, having operations largely based in a single state – Gujarat – and owned by 36 lakh farmers to be featured in this list,” said Sodhi. Amul has already emerged as top ten milk processors in the world after it was ranked as ninth largest milk processor globally in 2018 by the International Farm Comparison Network (IFCN), a global dairy research network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gcmmf-first-indian-entity-to-be-in-top-20/articleshow/77810560.cms||Prashant Rupera
August 29, 2020||Nagpur||After Raut, Joshi also to hold meet on weekend janata curfew||Nagpur: At a time when guardian minister Nitin Raut has decided to make an official announcement on Monday to implement janata curfew on weekend beginning September to curb spread of Covid, mayor Sandip Joshi has also called a meeting of public representatives and traders to discuss the issue on the same day. TOI had on Friday reported Raut’s statement that in view of the rising Covid cases, full lockdown with curfew in the weekend is likely to be implemented in the city from the first week of September. Joshi told TOI, “I have already started the process. I had held a meeting with traders associations on Wednesday during which the business community had promised to support the janata curfew provided the odd-even formula is abolished. The government will come up with guidelines for the lockdown before September 1. Therefore, I have organized a meeting on Monday to take a final decision.” The mayor also said, “I have discussed the issue with concerned authorities from a few other municipal corporations in the state where the odd-even system has been discontinued. I had written letters to city municipal commissioner to do away with the odd-even, but he did not implement it.” On Raut’s plan, the mayor said, “Guardian minister should take everyone into confidence before taking any decision. We have seen all had supported the janata curfew on July 25 and 26.” “I am thankful to the guardian minister for waking up now after the district has registered 25,000 Covid cases,” said Joshi taking a jibe at Raut. On July 18, Raut along with home minister Anil Deshmukh had given consent for 15-day full lockdown with curfew and constituted a committee under divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar to chalk out a detailed plan. Later the plan was dropped and moves like home isolation of positive patients and home quarantine of high-risk contacts were implemented. Commenting on netas speaking in different voices during the pandemic, RTI activist TH Naidu said, “Statements of Raut and Joshi clearly prove there is lack of coordination between the authorities in the city. This is not expected from public representatives, at least during the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-raut-joshi-also-to-hold-meet-on-weekend-janata-curfew/articleshow/77812805.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Bizmen demand deadline extension for submission of H & C forms||Ludhiana: The last date for the submission of C and H forms to the state taxation department falls on September 1, but city’s businessmen said they will not be able to make it by deadline, as Covid-19 caused considerable delay in the process. According to them, they need more time to collect the forms from outstation dealers. The businessmen thus are asking for an extension till March 31, 2021. Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations (FICO) said, “C and H forms were required during the VAT regime and ever since introduction of GST these were abolished. But in order to ensure the past tax compliance, it is necessary for us to submit these forms pertaining to the old pre-GST period and last date of submission of these forms has been fixed to be September 1. But due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation, it has been not possible for us to get the C-forms from all our dealers, who are based in other states and as a result it is very likely that majority of the businessmen will not be able to submit the forms by September 1. Therefore, we request the state government and the state taxation department to extend the last date of submission of these forms to at least March 31, 2021.” According to Rajeev Jain, general secretary of FICO, “Although the state government had earlier extended the date of submission of C and H forms, they did it only by few days. Unfortunately, the nationwide lockdown made it impossible for us to get these mandatory forms from our dealers in other states and cities. The dealers said they have to get these forms issued from their state taxation departments and due to prevailing situation it has not been possible for them to get these issued. Therefore, we request the government of Punjab to extend the date of submission of these forms till March 31 next year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bizmen-demand-deadline-extension-for-submission-of-h-c-forms/articleshow/77811490.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 2 lakh set to miss digital classes on T-SAT and DD Yadagiri||HYDERABAD: As the state prepares to start digital classes from September 1, it turns close to two lakh students do not have access to the TV channels that will telecast these lessons. As per the school education department’s plan, students will be taught through T-SAT channels (Nipuna and Vidya) and DD Yadagiri, once classes resume. However, a survey by the authorities have shown that nine per cent of the total 22 lakh students don’t have access to the channels. This was highlighted in a memo issued by, A Sridevasena, director, school education department which stated that these households were not being transmitting the three channels by local cable operators. “When we conducted a survey we found that many students, especially in rural areas, did not have access to T-SAT channels. While some D2H providers transmitted it, local cable operators were wary of it. Due to this, classes which were to start by August 17 were postponed. However, the problem persists,” said Chava Ravi, general secretary of Telangana State United Teachers Federation.Director of school education department has asked all district education officials to issue instructions to local cable operators about compulsory transmission of channels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2l-set-to-miss-digi-classes-on-t-sat-dd-yadagiri/articleshow/77812816.cms||Preeti Biswas
August 29, 2020||Nagpur||BJP to protest govt refusal to subsidize power bills||Nagpur: BJP leaders have threatened to launch a state-wide agitation unless the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) reviews its decision to reject energy minister Nitin Raut’s proposal to subsidize power consumers. BJP general secretary Chandrashekhar Bawankule slammed chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Raut for misleading consumers. “They promised to reduce the inflated power bills of consumers. But after fooling people for some weeks, the finance department rejected the proposal. This is nothing but cheating consumers,” Bawankule told the media. The former energy minister has demanded that consumers should get free power up to 300 units per month for four months. “Until the government sanctions the necessary amount, the BJP will continue to agitate over the issue,” he added. According to Bawankule, the power distribution companies issued inflated bills to consumers during summer months but the government has not taken any remedial steps so far. Meanwhile, Mumbai MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar has said that he will table a breach of privilege motion against Raut for fooling people on power subsidy. “The minister had told the media that government had cleared the proposal to subsidize power in principle. Then how come it was rejected by the cabinet,” he said. Earlier in the day, Bhatkhalkar had tweeted TOI’s exclusive news of cabinet rejecting Raut’s proposal and called the energy minister’s promise a pipe dream. The MLA said that his party would continue to agitate for power bill subsidy on the lines of other states. “We have already taken up the issue in a big way and will continue our stir,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-to-protest-govt-refusal-to-subsidize-power-bills/articleshow/77812854.cms||Ashish Roy
August 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Man crushed to death by train||Ludhiana: A man estimated to be around 40 years old was crushed under a passenger train in the early morning hours at Dhandari Kalan railway crossing on Friday. Police could not ascertain the identity of the deceased, as the body was badly crushed after coming under the wheels of the fast moving train. Balbir Singh, investigation officer at Ludhiana railway station (GRP station), said, “A line-man deputed nearby railway tracks had informed the local control room of the government railway police of the accident in the early morning hours of Friday. Following which, a police party under my guidance reached the spot, recovered the dead-body.” During preliminary investigations, the police got to know that the deceased was trying to cross the railway tracks from one of Dhandari Kalan crossings, but came under train coming from Amritsar. “Police could not recover any documents from the possession of deceased. So we are unable to establish the identity of the deceased. Railway police has initiated the proceeding under section 174 of CRPC for further investigation in the matter,” added the investigation officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-crushed-to-death-by-train/articleshow/77811527.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Rajkot||Krakach mourns 20-yr-old lioness Rajmata’s death||Rajkot: The villagers of Lilia and Krakach in Amreli district will organize a ceremony to pay tributes to the oldest lioness in Gir, Rajmata, which died at the age of 20, a few days ago. They are also planning to create a monument in Krakach in her memory. The amiable co-existence of humans and lions in Gir is well-known world over. While Gir residents are emotional for their prides, they have also helped the forest department in lion conservation for the past many years. Mahendra Khuman, a resident of Lilia said, “We have planned a ceremony to pay tribute on September 6 in Krakach for limited number of people. Locals were emotionally attached with the lioness which lived amidst us for a very long time.” He further said that the villagers are also planning to erect a monument in the memory of the legendary lioness in Krakach. While it is still on the ideation table, villagers will work out the finer details like costs etc later, he added. Rajmata was popular among forest circle and wildlife lovers. She had given birth to record 15 cubs in her lifetime. According to experts, she was the pioneer in setting up her kingdom in Lilia Krakach area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/krakach-mourns-20-yr-old-lioness-rajmatas-death/articleshow/77811562.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Stayed back in India due to Covid-19, says Chinese national||Hyderabad: The Chinese national Yah Hao, who was arrested by Hyderabad police for online gambling, claimed innocence and ignorance of the allegations of gambling levelled against him by the police. He said that he was sent by his higher-ups from Beijing T Power Company in China to visit India for 15 days for business purpose in January. “Yah Hao claimed that after he came to India in January, the situation in China became alarming with the spread of Covid-19 and hence he had to stay back in India. When asked about the business purpose for which he came, Hao replied that he does not know anything about the online gambling and said that his company deals with apps. He did not disclose anything about the apps,” sources in the city police told TOI. For most of the question on the money trail and the different companies identified by the police as firms that are operated in India by Beijing T Power Company, Yah Hao passed the buck to his superior Liu Shang, who is based in China,saying Shang has the information.Police found that some consultancies, reportedly from Delhi, helped the Chinese nationals and their Indian associates by arranging directors to set up a registered company. However, the role of these consultancies is under investigation. Police are also moving another custody petition seeking the custodial interrogation of the Chinese national and his Indian associates, Dheeraj Sarkar and Ankit Kapoor, in another case. As the accused did not give much information, police teams are now working on gathering further evidence by probing the bank transactions and the details given by different payment gateways.Yah Hao said that he was sent by his higher-ups from Beijing T Power Company in China to visit India for 15 days for business purpose in January||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stayed-back-in-india-due-to-covid-19-says-chinese-national/articleshow/77812825.cms||Srinath Vudali
August 29, 2020||Kolkata||Fired employee takes revenge||Kolkata: A man, who was thrown out of employment by a private firm in Phoolbagan during the lockdown, took revenge against his employer by trying to extort money from him. The owner of the firm, a resident of Phoolbagan, alleged in the FIR that the accused had stolen various data and important documents from the office, posed as an enforcement directorate officer with the help of others and tried to extort money from his employer. Cops suspect the incident took place between April 27 and last month. The complainant alleged that three persons had entered into criminal conspiracy against him. The accused had stolen the file containing valuable documents, diaries, laptop and Rs 25,000 cash from the desk of the complainant. The accused obtained the password and other details of the e-mails, exchanged by the victim with banks, and siphoned off Rs 1,45,000 from his account. He had transferred the money to the account of a co-accused, according to the FIR. “The case has several angles that need to be probed. Apart from personal enmity, there is a question of professional rivalry,” said an IPS officer. To extort money, the accused had threatened the victim with dire consequences by impersonating themselves as ED officers. Cops have charged several IPC sections in the FIR, pertaining to 406 (criminal breach of trust) 410 (stolen property) 419 and 420 (cheating) 379 (theft), 385 (extortion) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). Cops said they will check bank documents and record the statements of bank officials and go through the recent transactions made by the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fired-employee-takes-revenge/articleshow/77812910.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 29, 2020||Hyderabad||2 arrested in over Rs 1 crore theft case||Hyderabad: Central Crime Station police arrested two accused in the Rs 1.2 crore cash theft case by employees of an ATM cash replenishment service company on Friday. In April and May, on the instigation of Ch Vijay Kumar, 33, and his associate K Ashok, 30, realtors from Warangal, R Rajasekhar Reddy and Rama Bharat, cash custodians of Secure Value India Ltd, an ATM cash replenishment service company, stole Rs 1.2 crore which was to be replenished in ATMs. “Vijay Kumar and Ashok lured Rajasekhar and Bharat to steal the cash saying that they can double the amount in a short time by investing in Dubai. Vijay told Rajasekhar and Bharat that no one would notice that entire cash was not being loaded in ATM due to lockdown. Rajasekhar and Bharat siphoned off over Rs 1.2 crore cash and gave it to Vijay,” CCS inspector P Padmanabha Raju said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-arrested-in-over-rs-1-crore-theft-case/articleshow/77812852.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Kochi||Idukki bishop tests positive||Idukki: Bishop of Idukki diocese Mar John Nellikkunnel (47) and five priests in bishop’s house in the district tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, said district medical officer. A 27-year-old staff member of the diocese also tested positive. The bishop might have contracted the infection after he attended a mass at a convent at Vazhathope or a marriage function at Poopara, media director of Idukki diocese Fr Joby Pulickakunnel. Six nuns, including a 90- year-old, at the convent were tested positive on Thursday. “The bishop and priests (ageing 72, 27,43, 29 and 53) were admitted to St. John’s Hospital, Kattappana, for treatment. Three priests in the bishop’s house were also under quarantine,” said Fr Pulickakunnel. The bishop’s house has been shut down and those who had visited it in the last couple of days should go on quarantine, the bishop’s house said. Meanwhile, 49 people tested positive in Idukki on Friday. A total of 27 people contracted the disease through local transmission and the sources of five cases could not be traced. The sources untraced were a 52-year-old man from Kalayanthani, 36- and 60-year-old men from Upputhara, a 22-year-old woman from Vazhathope Mulakuvalli and a 62-year-old man from Vannappuram who is a merchant in Alappuzha, said officials. Those tested positive include a four-member family from Mariyapuram and Rajakumari and a three- member family from Kamakshi. The others tested positive through local transmission were from Kumily, Kurivilacity, Kumaramangalam, Vannappuram and Bisonvalley, said officials. Meanwhile, 36 people recovered from the virus, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/idukki-bishop-tests-positive/articleshow/77811531.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Ex-jawan fires in air in Hyderabad to scare away revellers, arrested||HYDERABAD: A retired Army jawan created a scare by opening fire twice in the air at Hyder Shah area in Narsingi on Thursday night after an altercation with a group of Ganesh puja revellers. The former soldier, Naga Malleshwar Rao, was booked under the Arms Act and was arrested. Police also booked a case against the youth for violating Covid-19 norms, besides creating nuisance. Narsingi police said the incident took place in Shivam Elite Apartment where Rao resides on the third floor. The group of youth associated with an internet centre whose office was in the same apartment block installed a Ganesh idol on the premises. They were planning to immerse the idol on Thursday night and organised a party. The youth had reportedly consumed alcohol and were dancing to loud music. When residents raised an objection, the youth told them that they would disperse soon. At around 9 pm, an annoyed Rao asked them to stop drinking. However, with the youth continuing to cause disturbance by playing loud music, an irate Rao rushed to them on the terrace and shouted at them. “Rao pulled out his pistol and fired in the air. Later, he came down to the cellar and picked up a heated argument with the other revellers. When some of them questioned him for carrying a weapon and threatening them, the ex-serviceman lost his cool and fired again,” police said. When contacted, Narsingi inspector Gangadhar told TOI that Rao had worked in Jammu and Kashmir and was in possession of a licensed weapon. “We booked him for violation of the Arms Act. Further investigation is on,” he said. Watch Shocking: Ex-jawan creates scare by opening fire in Hyderabad, arrested||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ex-jawan-fires-in-air-to-scare-away-revellers-arrested/articleshow/77812863.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Man rapes 19-year-old neighbour promising marriage||LUDHIANA: A 19-year-old has accused her neighbour of raping her for 14 days. He had taken her with him promising marriage, said the girl. The girl managed to flee the house, where the accused had kept her. In her complaint to police, the girl said the accused, her neighbour, befriended her and on August 14, he told her to go with him to get married to him. However, he took her to his friend’s house instead promising marriage after a month. The girl alleged that the accused raped her for 14 days. On August 27, she escaped the place and came back to her parents’ house. A complaint was lodged with police. Investigating officer sub-inspector Kiranpreet Kaur said, according to the complainant, the accused is around 24 years and is a labourer. SI added, the police have registered a case against accused under section of 376 (rape) of IPC. A manhunt has been launched for the arrest of the accused. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-rapes-19-year-old-neighbour-promising-marriage/articleshow/77811541.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Lucknow||Zafar Islam likely to be BJP’s new Muslim face in UP & Bihar polls||LUCKNOW: Zafar Islam, the first Sunni Muslim to represent BJP in Rajya Sabha from Uttar Pradesh, is likely to be extensively deployed in the forthcoming Bihar assembly elections and then in UP in 2022. Party insiders say that Islam’s nomination to the upper house is mainly due to his proximity to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah who have full faith in his political skills as well as his expertise in economic, financial and corporate affairs. Impressed by the Modi magic, he quit the high profile job of MD of Deutsche Bank and joined the BJP in 2013. On several occasions, he has admitted to have joined the BJP as he was impressed by ‘Modi’s dynamism and his development agenda’. It is not only that the PM rewarded Islam for reportedly playing an anchor role in dislodging Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh by using his personal rapport with Jyotiraditya Scindia, paving way for the BJP to bounce back to power and then his bid to destabilise the Gehlot government in Rajasthan with his another friend in the Congress Sachin Pilot. Only a few know that Zafar, an IIM passout, also provided key inputs to the PM in his May 12 economic package of Rs 20 lakh crore to combat economic slump triggered by the pandemic. “Not only this but on the PM’s instructions Zafar had extensively toured the western world to see how global leaders were managing on economic front amid the corona crisis,” revealed one of the sources close to Zafar, who is recuperating in AIIMS after being down with Covid-19. Sources said that the PM recently called him at AIIMS to enquire about his health. Zafar is likely to file his nomination papers for Rajya Sabha elections in September. The BJP has declared Zafar as party candidate for the byelection to the vacant seat in Uttar Pradesh caused by death of Amar Singh. So much in hurry was the top leadership of BJP in elevating Islam, 45, that it did not even wait for November when election for 10 Rajya Sabha seats would be held. “Sending somebody to Rajya Sabha at the age of 45 and who joined the party in 2013 shows the PM has full faith in Zafar and his politico economic management,” said an aide close to the young Muslim face in the BJP. Zafar’s ancestors were from UP though his father had migrated to Hazaribagh in Jharkhand. In the past seven years of his stay in the BJP, he has developed his network both in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar and it is for this reason that he is likely to be deployed for the crucial Assembly elections in the two states. Zafar would be BJP’s first Sunni Muslim MP from UPwhich has the largest population of the minority community. This itself is a significant political message to the Muslims in the politically sensitive state like UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/zafar-islam-likely-to-be-bjps-new-muslim-face-in-up-bihar-polls/articleshow/77813865.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Marathis in Hyderabad go ‘live’ with online aartis for Ganesh puja||HYDERABAD: The recent ban on processions, large gatherings and pandals has turned Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations into a low-key affair. Following the government norms, the Marathi associations in the city are taking to Zoom aartis and virtual celebrations to ensure that community members celebrate the festival from their homes. “This year, we have decided to take the celebration to the homes of our community members by taking the celebrations online. Apart from aartis and daily puja, we have organised programmes that educate people about famous Marathi personalities,” said Anand Kulkarni, vice-president, Maharashtra Mandal. On the other hand, keeping their tradition alive, the members have installed a smaller eco-friendly idol at Maharashtra Mandal in Ramkote but restricted entry of visitors to avoid the spread of Covid-19. Rajesh Bajikar, a resident of Sultan Bazar said, “We have installed smaller idols this time in our community and only priests and core committee members were allowed to attend the pujas on all seven days. Usually, ever year, we get a four to six-foot idol and since it is a smaller idol, we have decided to immerse it in a bucket.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/marathis-in-city-go-live-with-online-aartis-for-ganesh-puja/articleshow/77812859.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Lucknow||Pandemic fails to snap contraband supply chain, teens turn conduits||LUCKNOW: To much surprise of railway authorities, contraband smuggling via trains saw no slowdown even in the pandemic. In just six months,156kg of ‘ganja’ was seized and 24 drug couriers were caught from national capital bound trains on Jhansi-Delhi route. Most of those who were arrested were youngsters, including a class XII student, who took the job of drug delivery to earn a quick buck. Maximum arrests were made from Bengaluru-New Delhi Rajdhani Express, Andhra Pradesh Express and Karnataka Sampark Kranti Express. Talking to TOI, senior commandant, RPF, Prakash Kumar Panda said, “The railway route of Vizag to Delhi via Bhopal, Jhansi, Agra, Mathura is one of the most used routes of drug cartel couriers. A very strong drug cartel is working from Visakhapatnam, who hires young men, women and even teenagers in order to work as a courier for drug consignment delivery to the national capital region. For every successful delivery of a cannabis consignment from Rajahmundry via Vizag to Delhi, an individual is paid Rs 5,000 to Rs 15,000.” “Over the period we developed our intelligence at ground level which helped us during the lockdown to catch drug couriers who were travelling in a group of two-three members as a normal passenger to smuggle drugs. Due to continuous arresting and intelligence gathering, our counterparts in Andhra Pradesh made some arrests couple of days back. We expect to reach to the kingpin of the gang soon,” he added. Explaining the modus operandi, GRP inspector Vijay Singh, who conducted several joint operations with the RPF team, said, “The modus operandi of drug courier is very simple. They travelled to Vizag via flight or a premium train as a genuine passenger from the national capital and returned with contraband in sleeper or AC coaches of Delhi-bound express train. The gang also use Rajdhani Express to smuggle cannabis, but frequent police raids forced the gang to change their operative ways. Now, they alight at Agra Cantt or Mathura and opt for taxi service for the national capital via Aligarh and Ghaziabad or via Yamuna Expressway.” The joint operations carried out by sleuths of railway protection force and government railway police seized 194 kg cannabis since January. However, data of RPF Agra division revealed that 46 couriers of drug cartels were arrested from whom 41.5 lakh worth of cannabis was seized between September 2019 and August 2020, while GRP Agra division claimed that 519 kg of cannabis was recovered worth Rs 51.9 lakh between February 2019 and July 2020 from 52 couriers. On August 22, a Mathura youth, identified as Rohit Kumar, was arrested by RPF New Delhi after he alighted with 72.5 kg of ganja from train. He had smuggled the contraband from Visakhapatnam and was posing himself as RPF constable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pandemic-fails-to-snap-contraband-supply-chain-teens-turn-conduits/articleshow/77813875.cms||Arvind Chauhan
August 29, 2020||Kochi||Kochi pips state capital in air quality||Kochi: Among Kerala’s two major cities — Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram — Kochi recorded lesser air pollution compared to the state capital, according to a study by Ambee, a clean-tech start-up that monitors pollution using satellite imagery and real-time sensors. The study revealed that both the cities reported significantly better air quality during the lockdown from May to July than in the earlier months of February to April. The study covered several locations across Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram, both within and on the outskirts of the cities from February to July. The Air Quality Index (AQI) measures the particulate matter and levels of other gases in the air. AQI measures from 0 to 500, lower the number better the quality of air. Though air pollution levels in Kochi used to be highest in the state, the AQI has been consistently low since lockdown. Kochi consistently recorded an air quality between 45 and 50 in May, June and July. During the same period, the levels were between 55 and 65 in Thiruvananthapuram. The average AQI in Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram during May-July were 48.6 and 59.75, respectively. In stark contrast to the immediately preceding months, including the early lockdown phase, the AQI in Kochi between February and April was 83.11 and 89.18 in Thiruvananthapuram, the study further said. “We used satellite data for the study so that we could reach out to more places and also get localized data. Using satellite imagery, we analysed the air quality as the satellite sensors can read aerosol presence,” said Madhusudan Anand, founder of Ambee - an environmental intelligence start-up. Aerosols are small particles suspended in the atmosphere which affect the air quality and climate change. Their distributions can be monitored by satellite remote sensing. Many images of aerosol properties are available as the byproducts of the atmospheric correction of the satellite data. “We build comprehensive systems for air quality monitoring and offer real-time data to a granular level – updated every few minutes for the neighbourhood. Besides air quality levels, Ambee measures a number of air quality parameters and pollutants, including those that are considered by multiple government agencies for AQI measurements. Ambee’s multimodal approach and its array of sensors measure air quality, particulate matter, volatile organic compounds, temperature, humidity, and other environmental factors,” Anand said. Pollution control board officials said the AQI had peaked in March and fallen drastically in April and May when there was complete lockdown. “After Onam, I think we can expect the rise because the rainy season is also over. Kochi had got good rains from June to August and so particulate matter must have been cleared by the heavy rain and winds,” a PCB official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kochi-pips-state-capital-in-air-quality/articleshow/77810264.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Goa||Chaturthi celebrations flouting rules leading to spike: Rane||Panaji: Even as Goa’s confirmed Covid-19 count crossed the 16,000-count on Friday, indicating that 1% of the state’s population has contracted the virus, health minister Vishwajit Rane said that the “state is seeing a spike in case” since people defied protocol while celebrating Ganesh Chaturthi. For every million residents, 10,394 have tested positive for the virus. The Ganesh Chaturthi weekend saw a dip in testing and thus cases. After 385 positives last Friday, the count dropped to 306 on Saturday, 209 on Sunday, and 139 on Monday. However, since Tuesday — when the state reported 392 positives — the state has seen over 400 cases a day, with 523 on Friday. Prior to Ganesh Chaturthi, the state government requested people to celebrate the festival at a personal level, and to follow all precautions. But, “people moved together without wearing masks in hundreds,” Rane said on Friday. Meanwhile, Goa’s Covid-19 death toll reached 175, after four more persons succumbed to the virus. Two of these fatalities — of a 59-year-old woman from New Vaddem and an 84-year-old woman from Mormugao — were reported at the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. The other two — of a 70-year-old man from Baina and a 53-year-old from Ponda — happened at the ESI-Covid hospital. Panaji reported 25 new infections on Friday, including that of a driver attached to Raj Bhavan. Many staffers at the state secretariat have also tested positive, and the office will function at 50% strength from Monday to September 11. As cases continue to rise, Rane said that GMC’s cardiothoractic ward will also be used for treating Covid patients. This will be in addition to the three wards already in use for high-risk patients at the state’s lone tertiary care hospital. “All cardiac patients visiting GMC for treatment, if they test positive for Covid-19, will be treated in a separate cardiothoractic ward,” Rane said, adding that all non-essential services at GMC have been suspended. He also said that the state government has set up a committee under the directorate of health services to monitor rates being charged by private hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients. “We will finalise the rates by next week,” he said. Last month, four private hospitals in the state started treating Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chaturthi-celebrations-flouting-rules-leading-to-spike-rane/articleshow/77813879.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Hyderabad||No trees on tribals’house sites: HC||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court has directed the Jangaon district collector and revenue authorities to not plant any trees in the land earmarked for house sites for 20 tribal families in Yerragolla Pahad village in Jangaon mandal. Justice A Abhishek Reddy gave this direction while hearing an urgent lunch motion petition filed by the tribals complaining about revenue and police officials’ moves to evict them from their house sites. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-trees-on-tribalshouse-sites-hc/articleshow/77812896.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Kolkata||Taxi driver sets man on fire, held||Kolkata: A 30-year-old tea stall owner at Phoolbagan area was allegedly set on fire by a taxi driver around 4.30am on Friday. The victim, Vinod Yadav, a resident of Narkeldanga Main Road, was admitted to SSKM Hospital with 30% burns. Doctors stated his condition to be stable. The accused, Sujit Yadav (33), a resident of Duttabad in Salt Lake, has been arrested. Cops said the victim was preparing tea on Friday morning when the accused had come there along with two local residents, Saheb Yadav and Arjun Yadav. The three were allegedly in an inebriated condition. Both Saheb and Arjun left the stall after having tea, but Sujit stayed back. The accused became furious when the victim told him that he did not know the whereabouts of Arjun. In a fit of rage, he brought a diesel bottle out of his taxi, poured it on Vinod and set him to fire. However, some locals claimed that the victim had an argument with the accused who had refused to pay for his two companions. Though the accused fled after the incident, cops nabbed him. A case of attempt to murder has been lodged against him. “The patient suffered 30% burns and he is in stable condition now,” said Kalyan Das, an assistant professor of plastic surgery at SSKM Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/taxi-driver-sets-man-on-fire-held/articleshow/77812953.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 29, 2020||Kozhikode||Plantain prices climb, but farmers fail to reap benefit||Kozhikode: After a season ravaged by Covid-19-linked price slump and heavy rains, even the uptick in farmgate prices of plantain (nendran) to Rs 35-40/kg with Onam round the corner has failed to enthuse farmers. Farmers in key plantain-growing areas like Wayanad are left with very little produce to harvest following the crop losses suffered in recent rains in which around seven lakh banana plants meant for Onam harvest were destroyed in the district, causing a loss of Rs 2.8 crore. Furthermore, adverse weather conditions have taken a toll on the quality of the produce. This year has been particularly harsh for farmers as plantain prices fell to a near 10-year low of Rs 10/kg in February, following arrivals from neighbouring states. The lockdown prolonged the price slump, taking heavy toll on farmers. Even though prices touched Rs 40 for first-grade bananas and around Rs 35 for second-grade ones in Kalpetta market on Friday, farmers say that not many would benefit as around seven lakh plants meant for the Onam market were destroyed in the strong winds and heavy rains in Wayanad alone in the first week of August. “I had cultivated 10,000 plants, of which 3,000 meant for Onam market perished in the strong winds early this month. I have been harvesting the crop in phases this year with the price averaging just Rs 16. Even though prices have increased in the run-up to Onam, farmers don’t have enough produce left to harvest and the ones I sold on Thursday got me only Rs 33/kg as they didn’t meet the first quality standard. This year’s cultivation has resulted in a loss of over Rs 3.5 lakh,” said Prajeesh TJ, a farmer based in Vellamunda, Wayanad. Wholesale traders in Kalpetta said that though plantain demand is not as usual this Onam season, the buying price from farmers has increased to Rs 40 over the last few days because of the drop in arrivals from neighbouring states. The retail price for nendran stood at around Rs 60 in Kozhikode on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/plantain-prices-climb-but-farmers-fail-to-reap-benefit/articleshow/77811572.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Srisailam tragedy: BJP seeks CEA probe||Hyderabad: The BJP’s Telangana unit has demanded an inquiry by the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) into the Srisailam hydro power station fire accident on Friday. The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) which is probing the matter lacks technical expertise, the party alleged. A press release from the party said BJP state president and Karimnagar Lok Sabha MP Bandi Sanjay handed over a letter to the Union minister for power RK Singh in Delhi seeking a probe and the minister responded positively.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/srisailam-tragedy-bjp-seeks-cea-probe/articleshow/77812873.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Students may skip JEE-NEET for travel woes from districts||KOLKATA: Even after downloading their admit cards, several candidates for engineering and medicine entrance tests JEE (Main) and NEET (UG) might be forced to give the exams a miss, given the difficulty they are likely to face reaching the venues, particularly district residents who have chosen centres in Kolkata. The JEE (Main) is slated for September 1 to 6 and NEET for September 13. Most examinees from districts had been attending tutorials in Kolkata and living in shared accommodations, but after the lockdown was imposed, they returned home. Now their landlords are no longer willing to let them in, posing a challenge to those candidates in commuting from the districts to the Kolkata centres. NEET candidates are especially worried as the Bengal government has announced complete lockdown on September 11 and 12, and the students fear they might not be able to reach the centres on time on September 13 as they would not be able to travel to Kolkata on the two previous days. Amiya Kumar Maity, a doctor who mentors NEET aspirants, had appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to postpone the NEET (UG) exams, pointing out that the students would be at great risk and could contract the novel coronavirus at the centres. “With no regular train and bus services, how can the examinees reach the centres? Many of them will have to travel over 200km,” he had said. Buttressing his point, Debajyoti Kar, a post-graduate trainee in radiology, who mentors NEET aspirants, said many of his students would not be able to sit for the exams due to commute woes. “Moreover, finding hotels to put up in Kolkata will be another problem,” he said. Shreya Panda from Ichhapur in North 24-Parganas, who had planned to appear for both JEE (Mains) and Neet, may skip JEE (Mains) as her centre is at an engineering college in Kalyani. “It will be difficult for me to hire a car on two days. So, I would rather take NEET exam, which will be held at Aditya Academy in Dum Dum, than appear for both exams,” she said. Susanta Pramanick, a student from Debra in West Midnapore, who did not take UG admission last year to prepare for NEET, is almost in tears as he has no clue how to reach his exam centre at Amrita Vidyalaya on Budge Budge Trunk Road. “There is no bus now and the few cars that are there are unwilling to ferry me to Kolkata and some are asking for exorbitant rates. Also, our mess owner in Kolkata is no longer allowing me to stay there. So, I will have to miss my exam,” he said. Nilanjan Bishnu, who also spent a year to prepare for NEET, is equally worried: “Belonging to a lower-middle class family, how can I afford to hire a car to travel from my home at Dhubulia in Nadia to the exam centre in Barasat, a distance of over of 100km on one way.” Jakir Hossain is also in the same boat as he fears he would not be able to make it to his centre at Lakshmipat Singhania School in Alipore from his home at Tapan in South Dinajpur. However, Ahana Saha from Falakata in Alipurduar hopes she might be able to reach the exam centre at Siliguri, where she plan to reach by their car and stay a relative’s home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/students-may-skip-jee-neet-for-travel-woes-from-districts/articleshow/77812986.cms||Debashish Konar
August 29, 2020||Nagpur||Will work in tandem with elected representatives: Radhakrishnan||Nagpur: New municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B on Friday said he would ensure better coordination with the people, elected representatives and the civic administration to deliver better civic amenities. “Administration and elected representatives work as different wheels of one institution. No institution can function without proper coordination with elected representatives,” Radhakrishnan said while interacting with media persons after assuming charge as the 78th municipal commissioner of Nagpur Municipal Corporation. Refusing to directly answer query about his predecessor ignoring elected representatives, Radhakrishnan said he believe in working for the development of the city and working in tandem with elected representatives, which would directly benefit the citizens. “Being the state’s second capital, my focus will be on the city’s overall development,” he said adding that his immediate priority was Covid-19 management. In the last 25 days, the number of Covid-19 cases and rising death toll are a cause for concern for the new civic chief. Radhakrishnan said he learnt about these disturbing facts during his first review meeting of the Covid-19 management in the city. “An analysis of the Covid death toll revealed that in most cases patients reported to the hospitals in advanced stages resulting in loss of life within 48 hours of admission,” he said. As there is no treatment for Covid-19, the primary objective for the NMC will be to bring down the toll. Treatment protocols need to be improved, said Radhakrishnan who has experience of handling Covid-19 cases in Mumbai’s Cooper and peripheral hospitals. According to him, patients with comorbidities need to be extra cautious. The new civic chief assured to improve the dashboard for Covid-19 treatment facilities in the city. He said he would try to highlight the availability of beds in different hospitals in the city and assured to improve facilities at different testing centres. He said the NMC will continue to keep a tab on private hospitals assigned to treat Covid-19 patients. Additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma, who was also present, pointed out many people were going in for tests almost daily or quite often. “Another cause of concern is that many citizens were hiding their personal information,” he claimed and appealed to citizens not to hide information while testing for Covid-19 as it impacted their health. Radhakrishnan admitted NMC’s financial condition was grim and said the situation in other government departments was no different due to the pandemic. He said he would review NMC’s financial condition and expenditure while prioritizing the works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/will-work-in-tandem-with-elected-representatives-radhakrishnan/articleshow/77812959.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 29, 2020||Hyderabad||2 inter-stateburglars from MP arrested||Hyderabad: Two burglars from Madhya Pradesh were nabbed by Rachakonda police on Friday and 26 tolas of gold ornaments, 2.5 kg silver and Rs 1.8 lakh cash were recovered. They were caught by Medipally police and CCS Malkajgiri sleuths near Ambedkar statue in Boduppal when they were moving around suspiciously. They have been identified as Rituraj Singh from Satna and Gaya Prasad Sen from Seoni. The duo was residing at Jyothi Nagar in Boduppal. Rituraj was involved in 19 cases in MP, while Prasad was involved in one case. The duo was involved in 14 burglary cases in Medipally, Shamshabad and Maheshwaram police limits this year alone. “They target locked houses in isolated colonies and do a recce in the evening. After midnight, they break the house locks and steal valuables,” said Mahesh Bhagwat, CP, Rachakonda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-inter-stateburglars-from-mp-arrested/articleshow/77812916.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corporation identifies 10 roads for smartcity project||TRICHY: The detailed project report (DPR) to establish smart roads in Trichy city has been completed with the civic body identifying 10 arterial and commercial roads in the first phase. The stretches will get exclusive pedestrian and bicycle lanes and smart drains to transmit cables. “DPR is complete for the smart road proposals identified in phase I. Once the commissionerate of municipal administration (CMA) approves it, tenders will be floated to execute the civil work,” a senior corporation official said. Some of the roads identified are Thillai Nagar main road, Sasthri road, West Boulevard road and Bishop road (Thennur high road). The roads under smart cities mission were proposed at a cost of Rs 77.50 crore. Unlike conventional road projects that only relays damaged roads, smart roads are intended to improve the accessibility of all road users by adding plausible amenities. The smart ducts as part of the proposal will eliminate the need to dig the roads. The civic body had also envisioned at marking vending and non-vending zones to streamline street vendors. However, citing the delay in completing the underground drainage project and potable water supply project, the smart road proposal was put on hold for a brief time. Recently, Trichy Corporation revived the proposal and embarked on the DPR preparation, which was completed successfully last week. “Smart roads without evicting the encroachments will be of no use. The civic body should ensure that encroachments do not return,” K Shyam Sundar, a resident of Thiruverumbur said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corporation-identifies-10-roads-for-smartcity-project/articleshow/77812975.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 29, 2020||Lucknow||Kin choose electric cremation for victims||LUCKNOW: The spike in Covid-19 deaths has led to an increase in the demand for electric crematorium at Baikunth Dham. Nearly 60% of the families which lost their loved ones to Covid-19 opted for electric cremation over traditional wood pyre due to lack of money and hands. According to LMC, an average of 150 cremations used to take place in a month till March before the outbreak of the pandemic. However, April saw about 200 cremations, May 220, June 240, July 290 and in August, over 300 have taken place so far. On an average, seven bodies of Covid-19 patients are being cremated through the electric method. Most families opting for the electrical process belong to other districts. As per government orders, last rites of all Covid-19 patients dying during treatment in Lucknow hospitals have to be performed in the district itself. TOI spoke to some such families and found that one of the prime reasons was shortage of funds. Families with weak financial backgrounds are left with little money after spending a substantial amount on food and accommodation during their stay in the city and treatment of their patient. Electric cremation costs around Rs 500 compared to at least Rs 4,000 spent on the traditional method. Another big factor is lack of hands, as only two-three relatives escort a patient to the city. The traditional cremation process requires more people and takes nearly three hours, while electric cremation can be done with the assistance of fewer people and in about an hour. Barabanki resident Rama Devi, whose father, a farmer, died during treatment, said the family was left with little money after spending huge sums on travel, lodging and medicines. “My mother, brother and myself came to Lucknow. There was no one to support us,” she said. Balram, a daily wager from Sitapur, lost his brother to the disease. He had come with Rs 8,500 with him which was exhausted in a few days. “When my brother died, I had to borrow money from a relative for his cremation. I could only afford the electric crematorium,” he said. In charge of the electric crematorium Dilip Dey said, “Besides Lucknow, we have received families from Unnao, Kheri, Sitapur, Hardoi, Barabanki, and Rae Bareli so far. PPE kits have been provided to workers who assist in the last rites.” (With inputs from Raghav Duggal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kin-choose-electric-cremation-for-victims/articleshow/77813885.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
August 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||‘Baseless allegations’: Balan warns oppn of legal action||Thiruvananthapuram: Law minister A K Balan on Friday warned of legal action against opposition parties if they are not ready to withdraw allegations that files in the GAD section of the state Secretariat were set ablaze on the directive of the chief minister and the chief secretary. “KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran and Union minister V Muraleedharan have levelled the allegations. These are illegal and against all political ethics. If they are not willing to withdraw the allegations, let them come with evidence. If they fail to do either, we will initiate legal proceedings,” Balan told reporters here. He said all Secretariat files have been digitized since 2014. It was just a minor fire which has been blown out of proportion by opposition parties, he said. The minister also slammed “baseless” reporting in the media. He said media houses carrying false reports should clarify their stand. “If not the government would be forced to take legal action or file a complaint with the Press Council of India,” said Balan. Balan alleged agitations organized by opposition parties are in violation of epidemic act and disaster management act. The government will be forced to take action against agitators under these acts, he added. The minister said by exploiting the Secretariat fire, UDF was hoping to cover up the defeat of its no-confidence motion. The Congress is also hoping to divert attention from its national leadership crisis. The BJP hopes to shift attention from the fact that the editor of its TV channel was being questioned by customs in the gold smuggling case, he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/baseless-allegations-balan-warns-oppn-of-legal-action/articleshow/77811607.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Complaints of footpath encroachment reach PMO||Hyderabad: Complaints against encroachment of footpaths in the city have now reached the office of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Hyderabad unit of the civic panel, confederation of resident welfare associations (CoRWA), a pan India national apex body of RWAs, has raised the issue of encroachment of free footpaths. The panel urged the Prime Minister to come up with a legislation to ensure that no one can occupy an inch of these footpaths located outside their properties. The CoRWA president, Rao VBJ Chelikani, who addressed the representation to the PM, cited a Supreme Court judgement given by Justice Arun Mishra and Justice Deepak Gutpa on September 2, 2019. The judgement says that all those who have encroached the footpaths in Delhi should be given a 15-day notice to vacate, failing which they would face punitive action. “This judgement should be made applicable to whole of India,” Chelikani appealed. “According to the law, the pedestrian must walk only on footpaths and not on roads. Encroachment of footpaths is posing danger to senior citizens, children and physically challenged people. It is strange that neither the civic body nor the traffic police care about these encroachments,” Rao said. He suggested certain measures to be followed by the states. He urged the PM to instruct the states to direct the urban local bodies on encroachments. “The ULBs must collect details of encroachments and take steps to evict squatters within a time frame. A national seminar on such encroachments has to be organised in Delhi,” Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/complaints-of-footpath-encroachment-reach-pmo/articleshow/77812925.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 29, 2020||Kochi||Basic food safety regn sees rise post lockdown||Kochi: The financial crisis followed by the Covid-19 induced lockdown seems to have forced many people to venture into small food-related businesses to survive in this time of uncertainty. As per the data provided by the assistant commissioner of food safety office in Ernakulam, basic food safety registration shows an upward trend in the post lockdown period. Those registered under the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India’s (FSSAI) basic registration for running small food-related business the turnover of which is below Rs 12 lakh annually increased to 1,950 in June and July compared to 1,590 in January and February. Those who want to run hotels, street vending, bakeries, distributing food materials and other food-related sales need to take the basic registration. Meanwhile, the state licence for running food business the turnover of which is between Rs 12 lakh and Rs 20 lakh annually dropped from 350 in January and February to 325 in June and July. “People who are working in other sectors like online taxi in the pre-lockdown period are now selling food items in taxies for a living. Many people who have lost jobs due to the pandemic also ventured into food business,” said a food safety official. He added that they had received complaints on people selling food products on vehicles on roadsides and conducted inspection. “We had collected around 15 samples to test its quality at the lab. We are waiting for the test results,” said the official. Meanwhile, the local body authorities who should conduct inspection to check whether the establishments follow all the procedures including dangerous and offensive (D&O licence) trade licence are yet to wake up from their slumber. Though data from the food safety office shows rise in people starting small food-related business, Kochi corporation health officials said there was no increase in people taking D&O trade licence for running the business. Hotel association members said 40% of hotels in Ernakulam remain shut in the post lockdown period. “Anyone who wants to run even a street vending food business would get an FSSAI registration. But existing hoteliers were in a dire situation,” said G Jayapal, general secretary of Kerala hotel and restaurant association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/basic-food-safety-regn-sees-rise-post-lockdown/articleshow/77810302.cms||T C Sreemol
August 29, 2020||Goa||NCP calls for another lockdown||Saligao: Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has urged the state government to impose another lockdown for 15 to 21 days in Goa in view of the rise in Covid cases. Addressing a press conference at Mapusa on Friday, NCP state general secretary Sanjay Barde said, “When Goa was in the green zone there was a lockdown, but now when cases are spiralling and many deaths are being reported, why is the government not imposing another lockdown?” He said people are still suffering and do not have enough money for survival and to take care of their health. “Many people had a difficult time celebrating Ganesh Chaturthi as they did not have sufficient income,” Barde added. He alleged that the oximeters procured by the state government from China, being used in various departments, are faulty as they do not show accurate levels of oxygen. Barde also alleged that there was a scam in the procurement of ventilators by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ncp-calls-for-another-lockdown/articleshow/77812983.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Hyderabad||T generates 42% bank biz: NABARD chairman||Hyderabad: National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) chairman Chintala Govinda Rajulu on Friday said that Telangana is among the states where 42% business of banks is generated. Rajulu visited the state for the first time after assuming charge as NABARD chairman in May on Friday. “We are expecting 6.5 lakh crore business this year,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-generates-42-bank-biz-nabard-chairman/articleshow/77812941.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Hyderabad||‘TRS, BJP playing with students’ lives’||Hyderabad: TPCC chief N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Friday alleged that the BJP-led government at the Centre and the ruling TRS in the state are playing with the lives of lakhs of students by deciding to conduct entrance exams amid the pandemic. Uttam visited Gandhi Bhavan to express solidarity with Youth Congress leaders on hunger strike. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-bjp-playing-with-students-lives/articleshow/77812954.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Rajkot||20-year-old allegedly raped by two in Rajkot||RAJKOT: Three persons were detained on Thursday night for the gang rape of a 20-year-old woman in Ambedkar Nagar locality on Kalavad Road in Rajkot on Saturday night. Police said the accused, Nemish Solanki (22) and his accomplice Parimal Solanki (18) took the survivor in an autorickshaw to a secluded place on Awadh Road. “The survivor and Nemish were friends. The survivor had asked Nemish for money, for which Nemish had called her up. After taking her to a secluded place in the rickshaw, Nemish allegedly raped her,” said an official from the University Police Station. “Parimal called up Hitesh Rathod, who came on a bike,” said police. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/20-year-old-allegedly-raped-by-two-in-rajkot/articleshow/77811605.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Chennai||AIADMK will lead alliance: CM Edappadi K Palaniswami||TRICHY: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday put to rest any doubts regarding the party which will lead their alliance in the assembly election by saying it will only be the AIADMK. “No matter what the election is, AIADMK will lead the coalition in Tamil Nadu. Whether it was during the M G Ramachandran period or J Jayalalithaa’s, assembly election or parliamentary election, it was only the alliance led by AIADMK that faced the elections. So, it will be AIADMK that will lead the coalition ever”, Palaniswami affirmed while replying to a question at Thanjavur on whether the alliance for the 2021 assembly election will be led by AIADMK or BJP. When reporters raised the same question at Tiruvarur earlier in the day, he had said that it would be decided once the assembly election was announced. He also added that not only the AIADMK, but no party was in a state to decide the alliance now. On NEET, he said, “To protect the students from the spread of the virus during this pandemic, I had already written a letter to the Prime Minister on July 8 asking him to cancel the NEET examination”. Asked whether the government would take steps to prevent agricultural land being converted into housing sites despite the delta being declared a protected agriculture zone, the chief minister said, “Shelter is the ultimate need for everyone. People wish to reside within city limits. That should be fulfilled, but it should not go beyond a limit”. He also dispelled fears that the recently announced Mettur surplus water scheme to fill 100 lakes in Salem will render the delta dry as “only the excess water will be utilized for this scheme”. During the meeting, he explained the ongoing projects and establishment of infrastructure including two-way road projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aiadmk-will-lead-alliance-cm/articleshow/77817806.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Trichy||AIADMK will lead alliance: CM Edappadi K Palaniswami||TRICHY: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday put to rest any doubts regarding the party which will lead their alliance in the assembly election by saying it will only be the AIADMK. “No matter what the election is, AIADMK will lead the coalition in Tamil Nadu. Whether it was during the M G Ramachandran period or J Jayalalithaa’s, assembly election or parliamentary election, it was only the alliance led by AIADMK that faced the elections. So, it will be AIADMK that will lead the coalition ever”, Palaniswami affirmed while replying to a question at Thanjavur on whether the alliance for the 2021 assembly election will be led by AIADMK or BJP. When reporters raised the same question at Tiruvarur earlier in the day, he had said that it would be decided once the assembly election was announced. He also added that not only the AIADMK, but no party was in a state to decide the alliance now. On NEET, he said, “To protect the students from the spread of the virus during this pandemic, I had already written a letter to the Prime Minister on July 8 asking him to cancel the NEET examination”. Asked whether the government would take steps to prevent agricultural land being converted into housing sites despite the delta being declared a protected agriculture zone, the chief minister said, “Shelter is the ultimate need for everyone. People wish to reside within city limits. That should be fulfilled, but it should not go beyond a limit”. He also dispelled fears that the recently announced Mettur surplus water scheme to fill 100 lakes in Salem will render the delta dry as “only the excess water will be utilized for this scheme”. During the meeting, he explained the ongoing projects and establishment of infrastructure including two-way road projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/aiadmk-will-lead-alliance-cm/articleshow/77812985.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Pune||Final-year exam plan next week, students to get enough time for study, says edu minister||PUNE: Higher and technical education minister Uday Samant on Friday said a plan of action to conduct final-year exams is being discussed by vice-chancellors and it will be announced early next week. Samant said students will be given enough time for preparations as their careers were at stake. He also said the mode of examination will be decided once the VCs meet. “We will not waste much time on announcing the exam details and by next week, the students will get to know the plan,” he added. He was speaking at a news conference on Friday following the Supreme Court’s order to conduct final year exams as per the guidelines set by the University Grants Commission (UGC). “The state government respects the court’s order. We began preparations to conduct the exams as soon as the order came. We will discuss with the vice-chancellors on the ways to conduct them and the other modalities. I will personally visit the universities in the state and discuss the action plan with the VCs,” he said. Samant said the government was not going to announce the exam dates immediately or be in any hurry to conduct them. “We may review the situation, and if required, request UGC to extend the date beyond September 30 for the exams,” he said. There are nearly eight to nine lakh students in the final year across Maharashtra. On the common entrance test (CET) for professional courses, Samant said the department was finalising the exam centres at the taluka and division level. “All education officials are working on the securing the exam centres and once they are clear about it, we will tell students the exact time-frame of the exams,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/final-year-exam-plan-next-week-students-to-get-enough-time-for-study-says-edu-minister/articleshow/77813896.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
August 29, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 'Hope your in my class,' tweets the real Sunny Leone||KOLKATA: It was a fan moment for the students at Ashutosh College, when actor Sunny Leone on Friday tweeted, “See you all in college next semester!!! Hope your in my class ;)” after her name appeared on the first merit list for BA (Honours) in English. Her name topped the list posted on the college’s website on Thursday. An application ID and roll number accompanied the name that showed a perfect score of 400 in the best four subjects in Class-XII boards.  Asutosh College authorities lodged a complaint at the Kolkata Police’s cybercrime police station. “We are concerned about the prestige of our institution and apprehend mala fide intentions of person/persons unknown. We strongly condemn such disgraceful activity...” read the complaint letter signed by the college vice-principal. Police pointed out all the details in the application form were possibly fake as it mentioned Johny Sins—screen name of celebrated American porn actor, director, and YouTuber Steven Wolfe—as her husband. “The phone number given is switched off and the email ID seems to be made for mischief. We are trying to track the IP address,” said an officer. See you all in college next semester!!! Hope your in my class ;) 😆😜— sunnyleone (@SunnyLeone) 1598595892000To prevent further damage, Asutosh College changed Leone’s name to ABC on the old list and later, uploaded a fresh and verified one, without her mention. Candidates can view the lists only after entering their IDs. Read Also'Sunny Leone' tops admissions list of Kolkata collegeBollywood actor Sunny Leone's name "mischievously" made it to the top of the merit list for admission to an undergraduate programme of a Kolkata college on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hope-your-in-my-class-tweets-the-real-sunny/articleshow/77813037.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Pune||Online, offline & blended modes for SPPU pupils||PUNE: Savitribai Phule Pune University is ready to conduct examinations for over 2 lakh students studying in various final year courses. It is among the largest universities in the country with over 700 affiliated colleges, 234 recognised institutes and 71 research institutes under its wing. The examination would be held in a blended mode, online examination for some professional courses and offline examination for the others. Students need not come to the laboratory for all practicals, they may be told to conduct seminars or submit assignments instead, N S Umrani, pro-vice chancellor, Savitribai Phule Pune University, said. The university had decided in May that for both professional and non-professional courses, each examination would be of 50 marks, and the exam duration would be for one and half hours. “The university is prepared to conduct examinations. We would call students in a staggered way in multiple sessions to avoid crowding. We have a detailed plan passed by the academic council. The exams will be conducted after approval from the district collector, probably after October 15, or as and when the situation improves,” Mahesh Kakade, director board of examination and evaluation, said. For all final-year postgraduate students, syllabus up to March 13 will be considered for the exams. The same will be applicable for final-year students of undergraduate and postgraduate professional courses. The syllabus comes to around 60% of the total syllabus, Umrani said. For final-year undergraduate courses, conventional courses such as BA, BSc 100% syllabus will be considered. “When we took information from the affiliated courses, we came to know that 100% of their syllabus has been completed. Many conventional degree courses had already started examinations before the lockdown was announced. Final-year students with backlogs must study 100% of the syllabus,” Umrani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppus-plan-to-conduct-exams-for-over-2l-final-year-students-ready/articleshow/77813903.cms||Ardhra Nair
August 29, 2020||Goa||If I test +ve for Covid, I will go to GMC: Rane||Panaji: Health minister Vishwajit Rane said that the people of Goa, including himself, have full faith in Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital about its capability to treat Covid-19 patients. “Irrespective of what anybody says, the common man has faith in GMC,” said Rane after the government faced criticism from the opposition over elected representatives, as well as director of health services Jose D’Sa, opting for Covid treatment in a private hospital. “It is his (D’Sa) personal decision, I have no authority as health minister to question him. I don't see anything wrong in that,” he said. “When my father fell ill a few years ago, I had him treated at GMC. I have full faith in the institution. If I test positive, I too will go to GMC. Do you think I will go to a private hospital?” he said. Four corporate hospitals – Manipal, Victor, Healthway and SMRC – are treating Covid patients. The hospitals have a combined capacity of about 100 beds, while there are 600 beds in government facilities, the health minister said. Of these, two private hospitals are full, while the 220-bed Covid-ESI hospital was reportedly filled to capacity on Friday. “The government is trying to provide the best treatment to Covid patients,” he said. Ayush minister Shripad Naik, MLAs Churchill Alemao and Ramkrishna Dhavalikar are admitted in a private hospital. Tivim MLA Nilkant Halarnkar had also opted for private treatment. Only Cuncolim MLA Clafasio Dias was treated at the ESI hospital and later at GMC. Legislators eligible for medical benefits have the liberty to utilise their benefits, Rane said to a query on who will foot the bills of MLAs availing treatment in private facilities for Covid. “It is their choice,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/if-i-test-ve-for-covid-i-will-go-to-gmc-rane/articleshow/77813019.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Kochi||‘Thalir’ makes its debut in Kochi||KOCHI: Kakkanad-based vegetable and fruits promotion council Keralam (VFPCK) has opened the first outlet of its branded produce (Thalir) at Edappally. The outlet at the Milma showroom office has started off with ‘nendran’ bananas sale. VFPCK is also planning to expand the branding to more vegetables and fruits produced by its cluster farmers. “Thalir green outlets is our guarantee that the produce is safe-to-eat and we will be setting up more such outlets across the state,” said CEO Prof A K Sherief, adding that ‘thalir’ branded products would soon be available in all supermarkets, Horticorp and supplyco outlets. The produce is from selected farmers who follow good agriculture practices (GAP). Thalir green eco shops are part of Rs 15 crore project ‘strengthening marketing network in Kerala’ submitted by VFPCK to the state government as part of ‘rebuild Kerala’ following extensive damage to farmers during 2018 flood. VFPCK officials said in the first phase, 34 thalir green shops will be opened this year. Apart from the produce of safe-to-eat guaranteed produce, seeds, seedling, sapling, vegetable compost, all produced from the farmer groups will be available for sale. Assuring that the produce will be residue-free products, Sherief said these ecoshops will not have anything brought from outside. “We hope to build market faith and then raise the price for consumers who is getting this good product,” he added. VFPCK has 288 farmer groups and another 200 groups are under the participatory guarantee scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/thalir-makes-itsdebut-in-kochi/articleshow/77810340.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
August 29, 2020||Pune||Muslim community observes low-key Muharram this year||PUNE: The Muslim community has been observing the month of Muharram symbolically in view of the Covid-19 situation this year. Smaller Tazias have replaced big ones and visitors are not being allowed. Moreover, smaller Tazias have been installed away from the main road. Those involved in the Tazia procession say social distancing rules are being followed strictly and nobody is allowed in the pandal. There will be no Tazia or any other procession on August 30, the 10th day of Muharram. Community members said the month of Muharram is being observed by remembering Imam Hussein and his followers at home. “Our ancestors have been installing the Tazia at Gauriali chowk since 350 years. It is the oldest Tazia of Pune city. This year, to avoid crowding, we have not installed the Tazia. Instead, we have built a small Tazia and installed it at my residence at Bhagyodayanagar. We have also placed a sword and shield gifted by Ahilyabai Holkar to our ancestors along with the Tazia. The initiative has helped maintain the tradition of Muharram,” said Bilal Shaikh from Kondhwa. Nazir Khan, president of Banumukadam Asurkhana Trust in Camp, said, “We have maintained the tradition of installing the Tazia on Taboot Street for over 150 years. This year, we have reduced height of the Tazia because of the pandemic. We are not allowing people to enter the pandal. We have maintained social distancing rules. We haven’t organized a function to distribute ‘khichda and sharbat’. No procession will be held for Tazia immersion.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/muslim-community-observes-low-key-muharram-this-year/articleshow/77813013.cms||Asseem Shaikh
August 29, 2020||Pune||Devendra Fadnavis raises questions about Mumbai police investigation||PUNE: Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis on Friday posed questions about the state government’s investigation into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. “New revelations are coming forward now that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is investigating the matter. Why could these facts not be brought out when the Mumbai police was investigating it? The CBI will find out the truth,” he told reporters on the sidelines of the inauguration of the jumbo Covid-19 treatment facility in Baner. Fadnavis said the CBI’s revelations in the case are alarming. Had they come out earlier, citizens could have known the truth early, Fadnavis said. “The CBI entered the investigation after 40 days. There are talks about evidence having been destroyed. We should know why it happened. Was there political pressure on the Mumbai police?” Fadnavis said. He also referred to the CBI investigation that found out that eight hard drives were destroyed in Rajput's home. Fadnavis refuted allegations that BJP leaders are dragging Shiv Sena leader Aditya Thackeray into the case. “All these allegations have no merit. No BJP leader directly or indirectly has mentioned Thackeray’s name in association with this case,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fadnavis-raises-questions-about-mumbai-police-investigation/articleshow/77813020.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
August 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid tightens grip on dist with 400+ cases per lakh||Ludhiana: As the spurt in Covid-19 cases continues unabated in Ludhiana, the number of patients per lakh population has crossed 400-mark in the district, whereas Punjab’s average of cases per lakh is around 173.Going by the state’s media bulletin issued on Thursday evening, the number of cases per lakh population in the district was 407.4 and that of the state 172.42.On the parameter of cases per lakh, Ludhiana occupied third position among the districts of the state, while Jalandhar topped the chart with 976.8 cases and Amritsar sat at number two spot with 584.9 cases. Kapurthala district had the lowest 31.2 cases per lakh among all districts of the state.Meanwhile, an analysis of the data on cases per lakh population ever since the state authorities started mentioning it in the Covid bulletin starting August 13 suggests that there has been a steady rise in the number of cases per lakh, especially in Ludhiana district. While on the evening of August 13, the count of cases per lakh population for Ludhiana was 246.8, in the next seven days later it climbed to 337.7 and in a week’s time, the number swelled by around 70 to settle at the current value. Reacting to the increase in the number of cases per lakh population in the district, Ludhiana Chapter president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) Dr Sunil Katyala said whether the authorities agree or not, it is community spread. People are getting increasingly infected, pushing the count of cases per lakh population.“Public should be responsible and they should themselves take precautions. The government should also increase testing and make all-out efforts to strengthen the system more to prevent further spread of the pandemic. Even as there is adequate number of beds for Level 1 and 2 patients, as per my feedback, there is still shortage of Level 3 beds,” said the IMA official.Even as the civil surgeon was not available for his comments, an officer of the health department said cases per lakh are high as Ludhiana district has touched the peak of Covid-19. Things will improve in the coming days and there are indications that the situation has changed for the better, as is indicated in the percentage of recovery, which is around 75% now, he added.Date Cases per lakh For Ludhiana districtAugust 13 246.8August 14 258.5August 15 263.4August 16 276.0August 17 284.8August 18 304.2August 19 321.7August 20 337.7August 21 344.5August 22 358.6August 23 368.2August 24 367.3August 25 374.3August 26 393.2August 27 407.4||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-tightens-grip-on-dist-with-400-cases-per-lakh/articleshow/77810298.cms||Shariq Majeed
August 29, 2020||Ludhiana||11 from dist lose battle with deadly virus, 140 test +ve||TNNLudhiana: Eighteen persons, including 11 from Ludhiana, died of Covid-19 on Friday, when 140 from the district and 17 outsiders tested positive here. As per the local media bulletin, besides the 11 deceased from Ludhiana, others included two from Ferozepur, one each from Mansa, Barnala and Fatehgarh Sahib and two from Jammu and Kashmir. District residents who died at local hospitals included a 20-year-old man from Chawni Mohalla, a 48-year-old woman from Miller Ganj, who had diabetes and blood pressure (BP), a 65-year-old woman from Purana Dai Hata in Ludhiana with co-morbidities, a 60-year-old diabetic woman from Omaxe, a 70-year-old woman from Abdullahpur Basti, a 53-year-old woman from Sector 32, a 74-year-old woman from BRS Nagar, a 60-year-old man from Preet Nagar and a 62-year-old woman from Aggar Nagar.A 54-year-old man from Dana Mandi died at Rajindra Hospital in Patiala and a 58-year-old diabetic woman from Jodhewal Basti died at the civil hospital. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said with 11 deaths from the district, the toll has risen to 361 and 87 outsiders have died here so far.He said of the patients from Ludhiana who tested positive, 42 were from the flu corner, 18 were positive cases’ contacts, 20 from OPD, six healthcare workers, one pregnant woman, 29 from tracing process, two severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) cases and one pre-operative patient.ACP (detective / crime) Mandeep Singh Sandhu also has tested positive.Local health department officials said Ludhiana case count has reached 9,546 and that of outsiders stood at 989. The civil surgeon said 2,173 samples were sent for testing on Friday. To date, 7,370 patients have recovered, which constitutes 77.20% of the total cases. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said there were 1,812 active patients in the district at present. Cop succumbsA sub-inspector posted with Ludhiana (rural) police died of Covid-19 at a private hospital near Sherpur Chowk on Thursday evening. Gurbax Singh, 50, who belonged to Ferozepur, was posted as line officer at Police Lines in Jagraon. Police said he was admitted to the hospital on August 14 after he tested positive. He had respiratory problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/11-from-dist-lose-battle-with-deadly-virus-140-test-ve/articleshow/77810312.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ludhiana||ETO contracts virus||tnnLudhiana: Another case of Covid-19 surfaced in state taxation department on Thursday, when an excise and taxation officer (ETO) of Range 1 tested positive.Assistant excise and taxation commissioner of Range 1 VP Singh said, “After one of our officers tested positive, we recommended all those who came in his contact to get themselves tested. Two of the officers, who were his close contacts, have tested negative. Work, including public dealing, is going on as usual at the office. The entire building has been sanitized.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/eto-contracts-virus/articleshow/77810329.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: ‘Serial puppy killer’ finally put on leash||LUCKNOW: The city police arrested a resident of a posh society in Gomtinagar following an FIR lodged by a group of animal lovers against her after videos purportedly showing her stomping a puppy with her sandals in a moving car went viral. She was arrested on Friday evening and released after an hour as it was a bailable offence. The FIR was lodged on Wednesday against the accused after the videos went viral, but police swung into action following voices of protest for her arrest kept mounting. The woman had released a video in which she claimed that she was innocent and someone hacked into her Facebook account to make those videos viral. City-based animal’s rights activists have now shared with police a series of videos of the same woman seen stomping puppies with her sandals. A prominent city-based animal rights activist Kamna Pandey appealed to people not to circulate such videos as it has a negative impact upon people. She also claimed that the woman was a ‘serial killer’ and an open threat to animals. ACP, Vibhuti Khand, Swatantra Kumar Singh, said that an FIR under charges of cruelty to animals, mischief by killing or maiming animals was registered in the case. “Two teams arrested the accused -Poonam Dhillon, later as per laws she was let off,” said the officer. City-based psychiatrist, Dr Shruti Sinha, said that the accused suffers from antisocial personality disorder. “Such sufferers have no remorse for doing bad. They also have no hatred and no sympathy. Their tolerance levels are low while they blame others for their flaws,” said Sinha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/serial-puppy-killer-finally-put-on-leash/articleshow/77813904.cms||---
August 29, 2020||India||CBI quizzes Rhea Chakraborty for 10 hrs, ED checks her bank locker||MUMBAI: CBI on Friday questioned actor Rhea Chakraborty for the first time in connection with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Rhea was interrogated for around 10 hours along with her brother Showik to get a clearer picture of their personal equation with Rajput as well as their joint business ventures with the late actor. Rajput’s friend Siddharth Pithani was questioned separately. CBI officials allowed Rhea to go around 9.30 pm following which she approached Santacruz police station to complain about the aggressive behaviour of media persons at her residential building. Since their arrival in Mumbai on August 20, the CBI team has been piecing together the last few hours before Rajput’s death. The agency had questioned members of his staff who were present in the flat when he allegedly ended his life. Rhea is under the scanner in the abetment to suicide case being investigated by the agency based on allegations by Rajput’s family members. Showik, who is also a suspect in the case, was questioned for 15 hours on Thursday too. In an interview to a TV news channel on Thursday, Rhea had denied the allegations, stating Rajput’s sister had been staying with him in the last few days before his death and, hence, she was in a better position to explain the actor’s frame of mind. Rhea claimed she had shared all the details with investigating agencies as she herself wanted to know the truth On Thursday, the Enforcement Directorate, which is probing a related money laundering angle, examined Rhea’s bank locker in her father’s presence and found jewellery worth several lakhs. Watch Sushant Singh Rajput death probe: CBI grills Rhea Chakraborty||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cbi-quizzes-rhea-for-10-hrs-ed-checks-her-bank-locker/articleshow/77814744.cms||Vijay V Singh
August 29, 2020||Pune||FTII set to fill up 13 vacant faculty posts||Pune: The Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) is recruiting for 13 faculty positions in the direction, art direction, editing, screenplay writing, and cinematography. disciplines “The faculty members will be hired on two-year contract. Due to the pandemic situation, the interviews will be conducted online in September. We have set up an online platform for verification of documents and credentials. Shortlisted applicants will be asked to appear for an online interview,” said Bhupendra Kainthola, FTII director. He added that the institute was in no hurry to reopen the campus for the new batch or complete lessons for the existing batches. The Union HRD ministry and the local authorities, including the state government and the Pune Municipal Corporation, would take a call on the same, Kainthola said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ftii-set-to-fill-up-13-vacant-faculty-posts/articleshow/77813034.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Nagpur||CrPC’s Section 436A only applicable to under trials, not convicts: HC||Nagpur: In an important verdict, a three-judge bench at Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Friday ruled that the provision of Section 436A of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) is applicable only for undertrial prisoners and not to convicts. The provision deals with release of undertrial prisoners on bail during the investigation period on completion of half of the maximum jail sentence. The bench led by Chief Justice Dipankar Dutta along with justices Ravi Deshpande and Sunil Shukre clarified that convicted prisoners may apply for suspension of sentence and grant of bail under CrPC’s Section 389 before trial courts. “Such prisoners can agitate before respective courts under Section 389, if they’re languishing in jail for a considerable period of time. However, they can’t claim benefit of Section 436A,” the judges held. The plea was filed by Maksud Sheikh, a labourer from Chandrapur, who was convicted under Sections 506-II, 450, 326, 452, 354-A read with Sections 34, 149, 109 and 114 of IPC and also under Section 66E of the Information Technology Act, 2000. Various terms of imprisonment, ranging from three years to ten years were awarded to him. He twice filed bail applications under Section 389 and on medical grounds, but was rejected. He again approached HC under Section 436A contending that he’s behind bars since November 7, 2014, and completed half jail term and therefore entitled for bail. On August 14, justices Atul Chandurkar and Amit Borkar referred his case on Section 436A’s applicability to a convicted prisoner to full bench questioning “whether a convict is entitled to benefit of CrPC’s Section 436A?” In his view, the CJ said Section 436-A is restricted to grant of bail to an undertrial prisoner during investigation period, inquiry or trial’. “I concur with the prima facie view of justice Chandurkar’s bench as well as the opinion of justices Deshpande and Shukre. I agree with them that the reference ought to be disposed of by answering the question referred in negative,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/crpcs-section-436a-only-applicable-to-under-trials-not-convicts-hc/articleshow/77812990.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 29, 2020||Kochi||Director board members of Popular Finance held at airport||Kottayam: Pathanamthitta police chief KG Simon informed that Rinu Mariam Thomas and Riya Anna Thomas– director board members of Popular Finance, a gold loan company based in Pathanamthitta – were detained at Delhi airport on Friday. On Thursday, police had issued a look-out notice against the management of the firm after receiving several complaints from depositors. Notices were issued against managing partner Thomas Daniel, wife Prabha, also a partner, their daughters Rinu and Riya. The siblings were trying to leave for Australia when they were detained by immigration officials and an alert was sent to Kerala police. A police team, led by Konni CI Rajesh, left for Delhi on Friday evening. The team also includes a policewoman. Headquartered in Pathanamthitta, the firm, established in 1965, was active in gold loan business and also taking deposits from people. The company has 247 branches in Kerala. Thomas Daniel and his wife Prabha went into hiding as company shut its branches one by one. Simon said that a primary assessment is that the depositors’ loss would be to the tune of Rs 2,000 crore. “It’s difficult to confirm the exact amount as we are only receiving individual complaints,” he said. A 20-member special team was formed under Adoor deputy SP Binukumar to probe the case. Earlier, Daniel had issued a note saying that depositors will get their money and had sought a time frame of nine months. He had said that the pandemic led to the current crisis. Meanwhile, banks were directed to freeze the accounts of the accused. The probe team is also looking at recent transactions in these accounts. The team also conducted a raid at the head office of the company in Vakayar near Konni in Pathanamthitta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/director-board-members-of-popular-finance-held-at-airport/articleshow/77811620.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Pune||Crowding, social distancing violations at prominent Ganesh mandals a cause for concern||PUNE: A small crowd standing on the narrow footpaths outside and across the road from Dagdusheth Halwai Ganapati Temple has been a common sight since the beginning of Ganeshotsav. Similarly, devotees can be seen crowding outside pandals of other prominent Ganapati mandals in the area to offer prayers, in blatant violation of social distancing norms. Restrictions imposed on festivities and repeated appeals by the authorities to prevent crowding in order to check the spread of Covid-19 seem to have fallen on deaf ears as hundreds throng various Ganapati mandals throughout the day to offer prayers. City-based working professional Dipti Bhosale said, “I had gone to the Peth area on Sunday to make some purchases and I was happy to note that very few people were out to pray at Ganapati pandals. However, while I was crossing the area again on Friday, I noticed that at least 20 people were huddled outside the temples or pandals of prominent mandals. Though the crowd is small compared to previous years, no social distancing norms were followed. This can lead to a spurt in cases of Covid-19 in the city.” Entrepreneur Ashwini Deshmukh added, “The crowd for prayers at mandals is generally lower during the first half of Ganeshotsav. Many people immerse Bappa along with Gauri on the 6th day of the festival and step out to pray at the Manache Ganapati mandals, Dagdusheth Halwai Ganapati and other prominent mandals thereafter. I hope people remain cautious and opt for online darshan as we are still battling Covid-19.” Social worker Anand Saraf pointed out that people are visiting only the main mandals in the Peth areas. “More crowd can be seen when the aarti takes place. The crowd is only about 20-25% as compared to last year but the karyakartas and police are trying their best to manage and ensure social distancing,” Saraf said, Inspector Jagannath Kalaskar of Faraskhana police station has appealed to people to refrain from coming to mandals to offer prayers. “Despite repeated appeals, people are stepping out along with their children to offer prayers. Many can be seen without masks. We are trying to control the crowd. For example, at Dagdusheth Halwai, we are controlling the entry of people lining up to offer prayers from outside the temple by sending a few in batches. The crowd has been growing with each passing day. We saw crowds coming to pray at Dagdusheth Halwai Ganesh Temple till about 1am on Thursday night. We appeal to people to stay at home due to the ongoing pandemic,” Kalaskar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/crowding-social-distancing-violations-at-prominent-ganesh-mandals-a-cause-for-concern/articleshow/77813906.cms||Rujuta Parekh
August 29, 2020||Goa||Low on plasma, govt to step up donation campaign||Panaji: With a daily deficit of 20 plasma packets a day, the government intends to campaign aggressively for plasma donations. Collections at the plasma bank at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital is down to just four a day. “We need at least 10 donors daily,” health minister Vishwajit Rane told reporters after an expert committee meeting on Friday. To nudge potential donors, the government on Friday felicitated two donors—Derick Coelho and Sayed Hasan—whose plasma saved two lives. Rane said he suggested to the chief minister that plasma donation campaigns be taken up at the state-level. Legislators encourage recovered Covid patients, especially in constituencies with containment zones. “The chief minister will call a meeting of MLAs in this regard next week,” he said. He said they intend to rope in organisations such as Indian Medical Institute (IMA)-Goa and various branches of Rotary Clubs. “A plasma donor is not affected in any way, and hence more people should come forward,” he said.  GMC’s blood bank has the capacity to store 2,000 packs. GMC dean S M Bandekar, said with plasma they need not use costly medicines Also, high flow nasal oxygen (HFNO) for patients can be avoided when plasma is administered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/low-on-plasma-govt-to-step-up-donation-campaign/articleshow/77813038.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Goa||Health min requests for more NEET exam centres||Panaji: Health minister Vishwajit Rane has requested the National Board of Examination for an additional centre in Goa for NEET examination. “On the request of students, I have spoken to Pawanindra Lal, executive director, National Board of Examination, to set up a centre in Goa to conduct NEET examination so that students do not have to travel outside the state,” Rane stated on Friday. Recently, an additional Goa centre was arranged at Don Bosco College of Engineering, Fatorda for the National Aptitude Test in Architecture (NATA) which will be conducted on Saturday. Some students were accommodated in centres outside Goa. They were allotted centres in Mumbai, Bengaluru, Kolhapur and Belagavi. The Goa centre was granted after the students appealed to the state administration for one as travelling to centres outside the state would be problematic when it came to adhering to quarantine rules of the states. The NATA exams were postponed due to the Covid outbreak and the Council of Architecture decided to hold online exams on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/health-min-requests-for-more-neet-exam-centres/articleshow/77813040.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Pune||Sharp increase in demand for massage therapists||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: Working from home has its perks, but it also has its fair share of pain — in the head, neck, shoulders and back, to be specific. Consequently, massage therapists in the city have seen a substantial rise in demand for their services, with the most popular requests for head and shoulder massages. “I used to have 5-6 bookings per week, but recently, I am tending to 10-12 sessions. My clients comprise people from all age groups ,” a massage therapist from Shastrinagar said. In view of the pandemic, many massage therapists said they were taking all the precautions. “I use a fresh pair of gloves, mask and a sanitisation kit for every home visit. I sanitize my equipment before each session. After the session, I clean up and sanitise all touch points,” the massage therapist added. Massage therapists attributed most of these problems to an increase in screentime coupled with poor posture. “For the past four months, I have had a persistent ache in my neck and shoulders. I was advised rest and told to correct my posture. Last week I booked a massage session for both my husband and I and we felt rejuvenated afterwards. We have decided to book regular massages,” Meena Jaipuria, a resident of NIBM Road, said. The sessions range from 20 to 90 minutes. “I have seen a sharp increase in bookings ever since the lockdown eased,” another therapist from Hinjewadi said. Medical practitioners, while saying massages are great stressbusters, cautioned against treating them as a substitute for treatment for underlying problems General physician Wasim Siddiqui said, “Massage is an effective way to reduce stress and bring relief to aches. But one must ensure that a massage therapist is certified and knows what s/he is doing. Untrained professionals might end up doing more harm than good. One must also inform them of health conditions, if any, before a session begins. One should always bear in mind that massages cannot substitute actual treatment. If there is persistent pain, a visit tp a doctor is advised.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sharp-increase-in-demand-for-massage-therapists/articleshow/77813039.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Hit by even-odd rule, shopkeepers want essential items’ list revised||Ludhiana: On the fourth day of its implementation on Thursday, the even-odd system for opening of non-essentials’ shops received a mixed response. In some markets, where consensus could not be reached, no system was followed. Several traders are now up in arms against the government and want that more services and products, like batteries and industrial supplies, among others, should be included in the essentials’ category and they be kept out of the even-odd system. They reasoned that their products were required by the emergency and essential services’ providers like ambulances and factories.Meanwhile, factory owners, who are dependent on shops for sale of their products, also opposed the even-odd system, as it was hampering their sales.Jatinder Singh, who runs a shop of batteries and inverters near Mata Rani Chowk, said, “The government has not defined the list of essential items properly and several products and services have been left out. We are dealing in batteries, UPS, inverters, solar systems, among others. Batteries are used in police cars, ambulances, and at hospitals, government offices, factories and other organisations that are fully operational during the pandemic. But we have been forced to operate for only two to three days in a week and that too till 6pm. How does the government expect us to pay salaries to our staff? We are following proper Covid-19 safety norms, but authorities have turned a blind eye to us.”Pankaj Aggarwal, who runs a fastener shop in Vishvkarma Town, said, “The essential commodities’ list should be re-defined and all the industrial supplies, like fasteners, hand tools, machine tools, among others, should be included in it because factories, which have been allowed to function without any restrictions, are dependent on these. Imagine the situation if on a Saturday a V-belt of a machine in a factory breaks. How will the owner procure it when all shops are closed? Moreover, in our business there is very less contact as only one customer comes on behalf of the organisation or our employees make the delivery.”Satnam Singh Makkar, secretary of the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations, said, “This even-odd restriction will kill the traders and eventually hit the industry as we are dependent on shopkeepers’ network to sell our products, like auto, tractor and cycle parts. This situation will lead to fall in the sales of traders, which will hamper the industry. There will be no use of keeping the factories open then. Therefore, the government should immediately roll back the decision and focus on improving the health facilities in the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hit-by-even-odd-rule-shopkeepers-want-essential-items-list-revised/articleshow/77810334.cms||Mohit Behl
August 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Salon employee booked for sexually harassing customer||Times News Network Ludhiana: The police on Thursday booked an employee of a renowned salon for sexually harassing a woman customer on the premises. The 24-year-old woman said in her police complaint, “I had gone to the salon on August 2. One of their employees was giving me a head massage. While doing so, he started touching me inappropriately and harassed me. When I raised the alarm, he escaped from there.” Investigating officer assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurcharan Singh said, “The incident took place on August 2. But the woman lodged a police complaint on Thursday. Earlier, her family was trying to trace the accused.”Police have registered a case against the accused, who has been identified as Shaan, under Section of 354-A (1) (sexual harassment) of the IPC.  “The salon authorities are not cooperating with us. They have not even shared the address of the accused. We have got his cellphone number and are trying to track him,” the ASI added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/salon-employee-booked-for-sexually-harassing-customer/articleshow/77810345.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Jaipur||Government against JEE-NEET, but plans other exams in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: In the next three months, the Rajasthan government is going to conduct various examinations amid pandemic that is creating a political uproar in the state. While Congress party is protesting the Central government’s move to conduct JEE/NEET examinations, in Rajasthan more than 10 lakh students will appear for examinations like D.El.Ed, board supplementary, constable recruitment in the next three months. CBSE is also trying to conduct supplementary examination from 6 to 13 of September for around 1000 students. Although Institutes organising examinations are stating that they are taking all necessary precautions, but the risk is always there. Authorities in Bikaner, who are conducting D.El.Ed examinations for more than 6 lakh students, said “We have increased the number of examination centres and will be keeping a gap of 2 metre between two students. Students will not be allowed to enter and leave the premises in groups.” Similarly, Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) will be conducting their board exam supplementary papers starting from September 3 to 12. Around 1.17 lakh students will give the exams in 235 exam centres across state. G P Singh, coordinator Government Dungar College, Bikaner, that is conducting this year’s Rajasthan Pre-Teacher Eligibility Test (PTET) said that they have increased examination centres by 700 and it will be held in morning and evening shifts. “More than 5 lakh students will sit for examination, so this is a necessity to increase the centres and to conduct the examination in two shifts. Date is yet to be decided, but we will take all the necessary precautions,” said Singh. On Friday, state PCC president Govind Singh Dotasra criticised the Central government’s move of going ahead with the NEET/JEE examinations despite students’ protest. Reacting to this statement, former education minister Vasudev Devnani said that this is sheer hypocrisy of the Congress government who for their political benefit are blind towards the academic loss that students are going to suffer. “Just because Prime Minister Narendra Modi has decided to go ahead with the examination doesn’t mean the Congress party needs to protest against it on directions of Sonia Gandhi. In Rajasthan, when more than 6 lakh students will appear for D.El.Ed won’t then students will be expose to coronavirus. In NEET, only 1 lakh students in Rajasthan will appear with a rule to have 12 students in one room. Then what is the harm? This is hypocrisy of Congress party,” said Devnani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-against-jee-neet-but-plans-other-exams-in-raj/articleshow/77813049.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Goa||Additional roads notified in Panaji for second phase of pay-parking||Panaji: Citizens will soon have to pay for parking on nine new stretches in the state capital. The district magistrate, North Goa has notified the additional stretches on D B Marg, M G road, roads leading to 18th June Road and Patto Plaza, among others, in the second phase of pay-parking. “The tender will be floated in the first month of September. This second phase of pay-parking will be implemented from October,” city mayor Uday Madkaikar said. “After another two months, we will introduce the third phase of pay-parking,” he added. The maintenance of Patto Plaza, including roads, footpaths, streetlights and pay-parking, was handed over to the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) by the Economic Development Corporation (EDC) last month, the mayor added. The first phase of pay-parking was implemented for two and four-wheelers on nine stretches in Panaji before the lockdown on February 15 after a Rs 1.6 crore pay-parking contract was signed between CCP and the contractor. The cost per hour will be the same as that charged on roads brought under the first phase of pay-parking. Both two and four-wheelers will have to pay for parking on areas notified as pay-parking stretches. pay-parking charges will be levied 24 hours for all days, including Sundays and public holidays. Only areas notified for parking for persons with disabilities will not be charged pay-parking fees. Government vehicles are exempted from paying parking fees. The pay-parking fees once charged will be considered valid for any other location in the capital for the same time slot and vehicle. The district magistrate has stated that the pay-parking receipt must bear the letter head of CCP and bear the contact number of the responsible officer of CCP to ensure that grievances can be made. Attendants collecting parking fees will also compulsorily have to wear proper uniforms, carry proper ID and a certified copy of the rate chart notified to show citizens as and when demanded. After a hiatus of six weeks due to the nationwide lockdown, (CCP) restarted pay-parking in May. The pay-parking contractor had cited losses due to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/additional-roads-notified-in-panaji-for-second-phase-of-pay-parking/articleshow/77813045.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath asks officials to spruce up vigil, warns against laxity||LUCKNOW: Stressing on the need to strengthen surveillance to identify Covid-19 patients, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said action will be taken against officials in those districts where directives are not being implemented properly. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said it had been observed that many people were not disclosing illness on their own. “When teams visit homes, often people do not disclose illness thinking they can be treated at home. We appeal people not to do this. If anyone has any symptom, let us know so that they can get timely treatment,” he said. To intensify surveillance and door-to-door testing, the CM said integrated command and control centres should be strengthened. He also asked officials to complete work at Gorakhpur Children’s Disease Centre at the earliest. “Efforts are on to open the hospital by August 31. The medical education department had already requested the CM to inaugurate it,” Awasthi said. Yogi also observed that cases of malaria were reported from some districts and added that medical teams should be dispatched to these districts immediately and arrangements should be made to provide proper treatment to patients. Awasthi said the CM had asked officials to focus on eight districts where the number of cases was high or likely to rise. These include Lucknow, which has reported the highest number of cases and deaths in the state so far, Kanpur, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Bareilly, Gorakhpur, Jhansi and Ballia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-asks-officials-to-spruce-up-vigil-warns-against-laxity/articleshow/77813908.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CPM state secretariat terms ‘Nambiar-Swapna link’ serious||Thiruvananthapuram: CPM state secretariat, on Friday, termed media reports that Anil Nambiar – coordinating editor of pro-BJP channel Janam – had advised Swapna Suresh to claim that diplomatic baggage was not used for gold smuggling as ‘very serious’. “Media reports say that Anil Nambiar had advised one of the accused that she should claim that gold was not smuggled using diplomatic baggage. It is the same stand Union minister V Muraleedharan had been maintaining since the beginning of the expose. Muraleedharan’s refusal to correct his statement even after NIA and Union home ministry confirmed the use of diplomatic baggage for the purpose enquires more attention,” said the party state secretariat in a statement. It expressed doubts whether Muraleedharan was giving indirect directive to persons accused in the case. The party further reiterated its demand that BJP leadership should clarify its stand on the allegations against Nambiar. Meanwhile, Janam TV management has asked Nambiar to go on leave till he is absolved of the charges and is proved innocent. “A lot of fake news is spreading about Janam TV and Anil Nambiar after he was summoned by customs to record his statement. We have nothing to hide. He is the coordinating editor of the channel and was summoned by customs in connection with the gold smuggling case and later let off. But, until his name is cleared, he won’t be part of the organization. If he is proven innocent, he can rejoin duty,” said Janam TV MD Vishwaroopan. Meanwhile, Nambiar refuted all allegations against him on social media and said the cooked-up stories about him won’t last. “My telephone call records will reveal that I had called that lady (Swapna Suresh) only once in the past one year. That call was made to seek the reaction of the UAE consulate on smuggling. Giving advice to Swapna isn’t my job. Why nobody is talking about how Swapna’s audio clip reached another television channel? Am I the only media person who is close to Swapna? By targeting me and Janam TV, they are trying to hit senior leaders in BJP. Since my presence in the organisation would hamper news flow, I am stepping aside till everything clears,” he said. At the same time, DYFI state committee demanded an NIA probe into the role of Nambiar and BJP leaders, including V Muraleedharan and K Surendran, in the gold smuggling case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cpm-state-secretariat-terms-nambiar-swapna-link-serious/articleshow/77811653.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Goa||Postpone JEE, NEET, Goa opposition leader urges PM||PANAJI: Opposition leader and Congress MLA Digambar Kamat on Friday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to heed the pleas of students across the country and postpone the JEE and NEET exams. Kamat said that the Centre should understand the gravity of the pandemic and take decisions. “The student’s demand is genuine and the government must postpone the examinations,” said Kamat. “I request the Centre to postpone the JEE and NEET exams and not to play with the safety of the students.” While JEE is scheduled from September 1 to 6, the NEET exam is to be held on September 13. Kamat said that the country is passing through a very difficult time because of the coronavirus pandemic and conducting nationwide competitive exams would only jeopardize student’s lives and lead to an increase in Covid-19 cases. “The lack of preparedness by the government to handle the Covid pandemic has resulted in rapid spread of Covid in India. The Modi government should understand the gravity of the situation and listen to the students and not act against them,” said Kamat. Students across the country, along with some student bodies, have opposed the JEE and NEET examinations and have demanded that the exams should be postponed. Congress has lent support to the student’s cause. Kamat also pointed out that students in states affected by floods would be unable to prepare and appear for the exams. “In states affected by the floods like Bihar and Assam, students will face an uphill task to prepare for the exams and will be at a great disadvantage,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/postpone-jee-neet-oppn-leader-urges-pm/articleshow/77813051.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Pune||265 mandals are not celebrating Ganeshotsav in Pune||PUNE: As many as 265 Ganesh mandals in the city have decided to not celebrate the festival this year, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. There are a total of 3,223 registered Ganapati mandals in the Pune, including the two Cantonment boards. Adhering to the appeal made by the city police and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), 2,163 Ganapati mandals are celebrating the festival from the temples of the deity and have refrained from putting up the pandals. While 569 mandals preferred to celebrate the festivals from small rooms, only 226 put up small pandals to install the Ganesh idols. Pune police’s joint commissioner Ravindra Shisve told TOI, “We had appealed to Ganapati mandals to not celebrate the festival in a big way, which would attract people in large numbers. All the mandals have followed the directions. The mandals that have temples, have installed Ganesh idols there, while others have made small pandals.” Deputy commissioner of police (special branch) Mitesh Ghatte, said, “As many as 265 Ganapati mandals are not celebrating the festival this year. Many reasons can be attributed for their stance, such as strict Covid-19 rules on crowd gathering and also the financial crisis owing to the nationwide lockdown,” he said. Festival observer, Anand Saraf, who also collects data and details of the mandals said, “ Around 90% of the non-registered mandals are not celebrating the festival at all, while around 300 registered mandals are not celebrating the festival,” he said. Umesh Jadhav, president of Bal Ganesh Mandal on Sinhagad Road, said “We decided not to celebrate the festival this year as there was an issue of crowd gathering in the small pandal and secondly, the mandal did not have any sponsorship/advertisement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/265-mandals-are-not-celebrating-ganeshotsav/articleshow/77813907.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: IGR proposes 3% stamp duty on property gift deed||PUNE: Revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat will review a proposal from the state Inspector General of Registration and Controller of Stamps to levy a 3 per cent stamp duty on a gift deed for an ancestral residential or agricultural property. “I will have to study the entire proposal and take a review before making a decision,” he told TOI on Friday. At present, the stamp duty is a mere Rs 200 for a gift deed of such a property when transferred to a blood relative. According to the Inspector General of Revenue and Controller of Stamps (IGR) Omprakash Deshmukh, the amendment proposal has been sent to the state government for its assessment The IGR’s proposal was prompted by the many squabbles within families over a gift deed which needs the donor to make the deed and the blood relative donee’s consent to accept it. No permission is required from the other kin. According to Article 34 of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, which was revised in 2017, stamp duty on gift deeds is 3 per cent of the property value. But, if the property is residential or agricultural, and is gifted without any payment to a blood relative, then the stamp duty is Rs 200. The registration department’s proposal has requested the state government to amend the act and make the stamp duty for a gift deed to blood relatives also at 3 per cent. “A gift deed is the preferred option instead of the partition clause under Article 46 of the act where the stamp duty remains the same at Rs 200, but permission of all the family members is required. If the current proposal is accepted, people would probably shift to the partition clause to assign their properties and seek approval from the family members. It will reduce litigation,” a revenue official said. In 2017, the BJP-Sena government had revoked a decision to hike stamp duty on gift deeds two days after the state cabinet had passed it. The state cabinet had amended the Maharashtra Stamp Duty Act to hike the stamp duty on gift deeds from Rs 500 to 3% of the property value. Officials from the registration department told TOI that the current proposal would have to go through a long process of getting sanctions from the legal department and several other departments. The increase may pose other problems as the amount run into lakhs of rupees, and sometimes be unviable for old properties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/igr-proposes-3-stamp-duty-on-property-gift-deed/articleshow/77813911.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 29, 2020||Nagpur||HC raps NU for not releasing Shoma Sen’s dues||Nagpur: The high court here on Friday flayed Nagpur University for failure to pay Rs5 lakh to its former professor Shoma Sen towards her retirement and pensionary benefits like provident fund and gratuity. On August 16, HC had directed NU to release her dues within a week but latter failed to comply with directions. Sen was to retire on July 31, 2018, but was suspended by the NU administration following her arrest by the Pune police for alleged links with Maoists, playing an active role in flaring up Koregaon-Bhima violence, and indulging into Elgar Parishad’s activities in 2017. Subsequently, her retirement benefits were also kept on hold. Based on a recent Supreme Court decision, NU moved an application seeking to deposit Rs5 lakh with HC registry. However, the bench led by Chief Justice Dipankar Datta told it to pay the amount directly to the petitioner. The judges directed Maharashtra government to pay Rs5 lakh to Prof Sen towards retirement and other benefits, subject to the pendency of petition. Earlier, the government blamed the NU for delay in its affidavit but clarified it had paid her provident fund. The government was paying salary and other benefits, as it was a grant-in-aid post. NU then contended the pension and gratuity can be withheld till result of the criminal trial underway in Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-raps-nu-for-not-releasing-shoma-sens-dues/articleshow/77813032.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 29, 2020||Goa||TCP dept extends Panaji planning rules to Taleigao||Panaji: The state government on Friday stated that the rules, regulations, bylaws, notifications, orders, directions and powers which are applicable to the Panaji planning area will also be applicable to the Taleigao planning area. The Panaji and Taleigao planning areas were carved out of the North Goa Planning and Development Authority (NGPDA) and placed under the Greater Panaji Planning and Development Authority. “The government of Goa has decided to apply all the rules, regulations, bylaws, notifications, orders, directions and powers which were made, issued or conferred and were in force in the Panaji planning area before January 2018, to the Panaji planning area and Taleigao planning area,” chief town planner Rajesh Naik said. Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate had demanded that Panaji be brought under the control of Greater Panaji Planning and Development Authority (GPPDA), where he is the chairman. Earlier this month, GPPDA issued a public notice regarding the preparation of the land-use map and land-use register for the Panaji planning area. GPPDA has jurisdiction over Panaji, Taleigao, Bambolim and Kadamba planning areas, which were created on December 15, 2017. The town and country planning department had subdivided the Panaji planning area into the Taleigao planning area and Panaji planning area through a notification in January 31, 2018, and declared them as planning areas and defined their respective limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tcp-dept-extends-panaji-planning-rules-to-taleigao/articleshow/77813055.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ajmer||RPSC announces interviews and exams in September||AJMER: The Rajasthan Public Service Commission released its calendar for September to hold various interviews and examinations. Interviews of Public Relations Officer 2019 will be held on September 7 and 8. From September 9 to 11, interviews for surveyors in technical education department examination 2018 will be conducted. Similarly, interviews for vice principal/ superintendent in ITI department exam 2018 will be conducted from September 14 to 22 and from September 23 to 30 interviews for food security officer in health and medical department exam-2018 will be conducted. The Commission has also decided to conduct interviews of RAS exam-2018 from October 5 to 23 in the first phase. The commission decided to complete interviews of 560 candidates in this phase and will decide later about the second phase for the remaining candidates. The result of RAS Mains 2018 was declared on July 9 this year. Screening test for senior demonstrator of medical education department will be conducted from September 13 to September 17 and the examination for ACF and forest range officer grade I-2018 will be held from September 20 to 27. Exams held in August On August 2, the RPSC conducted screening test for veterinary officer selection exam-2019. Similarly, screening test for librarian grade II (language and library department) was also held on August 2. The lecturer school exam-2018 (Sanskrit education department) was held from August 4 to 7. The assistant professor (board speciality) (medical education department) screening test-2020 was held on August 11 and the assistant professor for super speciality in medical education department screening test was from August 13 to 14. Evaluation officer in planning department screening test-2020 was held on August 23. The screening test for deputy commandant of home security department was conducted on August 23. The commission asked the candidates to download descriptive application form from the website of the commission and check the dates from the website to attend the interviews of different departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/rpsc-announces-interviews-and-exams-in-sept/articleshow/77813056.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: After SC ruling, universities gear up for final year exams||JAIPUR: Supreme Court (SC) has ruled that final year students cannot be promoted without examinations which led all the educational institution in Rajasthan to start preparing for the same. Rajasthan University (RU) administration said that they have already planned everything in advance and were just waiting for the final decision. “More than 1 lakh students in university PG and UG final year in University and affiliated colleges will appear for the examinations. We had marked around 80 centres to conduct the examinations with proper distancing and safety. However, there is still a problem with students reaching the centres amid pandemic. The government must make special arrangements for transportation,” said a university official. University has already promoted first, second and third-year students as per government guidelines earlier but final year examinations will now be held. In Rajasthan Technical University, Kota administration is planning to conduct examinations in two shifts. “Our committee will set up soon to decide the examination dates and procedure to conduct examinations for more than 10,000 students in University and colleges affiliated. We are planning to conduct examinations in either in two shifts or different dates for different stream – civil, mechanical and electrical. We will take the decision soon,” said R A Gupta, vice-chancellor of university. Surprisingly Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Rajasthan Ayurveda University, Jodhpur has already started conducting their final year examinations. Abhimanyu Kumar explained, “In medicine, we cannot risk people’s lives and validity of the students’ degree later on. We are governed by Central Council for Indian Medicine (CCI) and we have not promoted any of our students. From August 21 to September 3, our final exam will continue and then exam dates of remaining years will be released.” Similarly, veterinary council of India has also not decided on the issue of promotion of students except final year. Veterinary universities of the state are still waiting for guidelines issued by the authorities to go ahead with the examination process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/after-sc-ruling-univs-gear-up-for-final-year-exams/articleshow/77813053.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Goa||Sal farmers to get compensation for loss due to floods||Bicholim: Agriculture minister Chandrakant Kavalekar recently visited the flood affected areas of Sal in Bicholim and assured the farmers that their pending issues including delay in compensation for losses suffered due to floods, would be solved. However, the farmers questioned the minister about the delay in compensation for the losses they suffered after last year’s floods. Some of them told Kavalekar that they did not get any compensation despite huge losses. They also brought to the minister’s notice that the agriculture department had released funds to some of the farmers but it had not reflect in their bank accounts. The farmers complained that wild animals destroy their fields during the summer, and during monsoon they suffer losses caused due to the release of water from the Tillari dam. Kavalekar was accompanied by Bicholim MLA and speaker Rajesh Patnekar and officials from the agriculture department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sal-farmers-to-get-compensation-for-loss-due-to-floods/articleshow/77813179.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Goa||Dead baby found in bin at Vasco||Vasco: A dead baby boy was found in a decomposed state in a dustbin at Gandhinagar in Vasco on Friday afternoon. SP (South) Pankaj Kumar Singh said, “At 2pm, a local passing by the bin noticed the body and informed the police.” One of the garbage bins at the waste dumping site had fallen over and the body could be seen. The passer-by alerted residents and the ward councillor. Police was immediately called to the site. Singh said age will be ascertained only after a postmortem. “The body is preserved at T B hospital,” he said, adding that an autopsy will also reveal if the child was alive or dead when he was abandoned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dead-baby-found-in-bin-at-vasco/articleshow/77813057.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Lucknow||‘MSME units get loan of Rs 23,000 crore in 3 months’||LUCKNOW: In an attempt to bring economy back on track, the state government has provided loans worth Rs 23,000 crore to MSME units in last three months, including Rs 12,000 crore to new units, indicating a rise in employment opportunities, additional chief secretary, MSME, Navneet Sehgal said. Holding a meeting with state-level bankers’ committee on Friday, Sehgal said the government had set the target of providing loans to 20 lakh new units. Sehgal pointed out that while banks had sanctioned loans worth Rs 10,000 crore under the emergency credit line guarantee scheme, only Rs 7,000 crore had been disbursed till now and the gap would be filled at the earliest. He said if the central government had declared a 100% guarantee against loans extended through emergency credit line scheme, then banks should not have a problem in approving loans. “Due to Covid-19 pandemic, the state’s economy has been disturbed and our priority is to strengthen MSME units. Under the Atmanirbhar Bharat package, directions have been issued to extend emergency credit line guarantee scheme to all units and a special drive will be carried out on September 15 to achieve the target of 100% loan disbursal so that in the first week of October, a mega loan fair can be organised,” Sehgal said. He said loans should also be made available to artisans under the Vishwakarma Samman Yojana being run by the state government. A programme of loan disbursal is likely to be held on September 17, on the occasion of Vishwakarma Diwas. “Traditional artisans are being given training and high quality tools. If they are also given financial assistance, they will be able to expand their work,” he said. Sehgal added that loan disbursal to roadside vendors and small shop owners should be ensured at the earliest. He also discussed the farmers’ credit card scheme, credit-linked subsidy scheme, Shishu Mudra Scheme, PM Mudra Yojana, PM Employment Generation Programme, CM Yuva Swarozgar Yojana and ODOP during the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/msme-units-get-loan-of-rs-23k-cr-in-3-mnths/articleshow/77813915.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Health department to replace RT-PCR with antigen tests||KOCHI: The state government has decided to completely replace RT-PCR tests with antigen tests for sentinel surveillance. But instead of testing more in the clusters, the health department has decided to exclude active clusters from the sentinel surveillance activity. Instead it is to be conducted in all panchayats, municipalities and corporations every week. Stating that sentinel surveillance needs to be reorganized to detect clusters early and to provide evidence for further policy changes, health secretary Dr Rajan Khobragade in an order said, “RT-PCR-based sentinel surveillance shall be replaced with rapid antigen tests in sentinel surveillance activity for Covid-19”. About 65% of daily Covid testing in Kerala is now using antigen kits. Now, about another 5% of sentinel tests will be done using the antigen kit, the accuracy of which has been questioned by experts. In the third phase of the Covid infection, the health department along with sentinel surveillance activity that aims at early detection has been emphasizing on thorough follow-up actions of isolation, treatment and support to confirmed cases besides contact tracing, quarantine of contacts and testing. State was so far using RT-PCR for sentinel surveillance. But there were allegations that the sentinel test results are often delayed by a week as it was last priority. “The sentinel surveillance activity has paid large dividends by early detection of clusters allowing triggering of containment strategies, emergency response systems and containment of the clusters. The sentinel surveillance activity also provides the catchment area for routine testing by identifying the cases and clusters. Sentinel surveillance has also led to policy implications, including identifying high-risk groups for testing and identifying high-risk areas for focused actions. Even as the transmission dynamics change and the pandemic evolves, the efforts for early detection and prevention should not lose focus,” the order added. Focus will be on workers in the organized sector like malls, hypermarkets, offices and shops, healthcare workers in non-Covid hospitals, persons with high social exposure like police, food delivery persons, community volunteers. Also people working in market places and guest workers will also be part of sentinel surveillance, besides people in old-age homes, orphanages and prisons. Elderly population in general will also be tested along with workers in unorganized sectors and the vulnerable in coastal, tribal settings and urban slums. Both symptomatic and asymptomatic will be tested for the purpose of sentinel surveillance. Each district surveillance officer (DSO) has been asked to analyze the epidemiological situation along with the sentinel surveillance data and take appropriate action in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/health-dept-to-replace-rt-pcr-with-antigen-tests/articleshow/77811679.cms||Preetu Nair
August 29, 2020||Nagpur||Covid hotspot Kamptee sees fast dip in cases, deaths||Nagpur: The Kamptee town, which had emerged as a Covid hotspot from July last week, has seen a sudden decline in the cases. From a day’s high of 63 positive cases recorded earlier, the numbers have come down in the range of 15-18 a day which includes those from the rural areas too. From the town there are not more than 6 to 8 cases in a day. The congested localities of Kamptee and earlier reluctance among people to get tested due to fear of being quarantined had been a matter of concern for the authorities. There were concerns about some deaths going unreported too. A fast change in mindset is now being seen. People were alarmed by the deaths while introduction of home quarantine policy helped ease their apprehensions about testing. Now, prompt testing has led to faster preventive measures, said officials here. Out of the over 60 positive cases recorded earlier on a daily basis, majority were from Kamptee town. Now, the town accounts for 6 to 8 cases in a day. From 4 to 5 deaths, the figure has come down to around three in the entire tehsil in the last over a week, said officials. A fast dip was seen in a week to 10 days’ time, said sources in the district administration. Kamptee, due to its numbers so far, has been ranked as the worst affected tehsil in Nagpur district. If the numbers remain low like now, the tehsil may soon lose the tag though authorities are keeping their fingers crossed hoping that there is no spike again. The tehsil has recorded 56 deaths so far, including 42 from Kamptee town. As against 4-5 deaths per day recorded earlier, last week had seen only 2 to 3 deaths a week. “The peak active cases had touched over 400 which touched a low of 160, reaching 183 at present,” said tehsildar AH Hinge. “Each day 200 to 250 persons are getting themselves tested. Earlier, there were apprehensions if tested positive one may be put in quarantine. Delaying tests despite having symptoms led to condition of patients worsening. Now, early detection and home isolation is expected to have curbed the spread,” he said. “Four private hospitals were converted into dedicated Covid care centres due to which the patients can now have easy access to medical help after testing positive. Apart from the government centres people are also walking in for tests at private labs,” he said. According to a source, awareness drives involving local religious leaders were also organized in the town appealing to people to come forward for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-hotspot-kamptee-sees-fast-dip-in-cases-deaths/articleshow/77813047.cms||Shishir Arya
August 29, 2020||Goa||Goa CM seeks Rs 300 crore from Nabard for development works||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that the state government has urged the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) to allocate Rs 300 crore for taking up development projects. Sawant held a meeting with various departments to review development works which were sanctioned by Nabard. Sawant said he has reviewed all projects taken up by directorate of panchayats, Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC), departments of fisheries, public works and water resources under the Rural Infrastructure Development Fund (RIDF). “During the past couple of years, Nabard funds were underutilised for various projects. Earlier, the state used to receive Rs 300 crore from Nabard, but due to non-utilisation this was reduced. However, this time we have requested Nabard to allocate this amount, and Nabard has assured us the funds will be sanctioned under RIDF,” he said. Sawant said that various projects, including providing toilets for public, construction of primary health centres as well as the South Goa fish market can be taken up under these funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-seeks-rs-300cr-from-nabard-for-devpt-works/articleshow/77813078.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Pune||Sandalwood trees stolen in Khadakwasla||PUNE: A security personnel from the National Defence Academy (NDA) on Thursday lodged an FIR with the Uttamnagar police station against unidentified men, who stole 12 sandalwood trees from the NDA premises. Assistant inspector Pandurang Waghmare said, “The theft happened between August 1 and 21. The suspects chopped the trees from different locations in the NDA.” The NDA has its own security to guard its premises. Waghmare said that after the first few thefts came to light the NDA administration had increased security in the area. “The suspects would enter the restricted area and chop the trees,” Waghmare said.The value of the stolen trees is about Rs18,000, the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sandalwood-trees-stolen-in-khadakwasla/articleshow/77813932.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Bhopal||EDITED190 test positive in city, corona count goes up to 10,146||Bhopal: Tally of the Covid-19 patients in the city crossed the 10,000 mark on Friday as 190 people tested positive. So far, a total 10,146 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the city. A close family member and two staffers of the Madhya Pradesh health minister Prabhuram Chowdhary are also among the 190 people who tested positive on Friday. It is noteworthy that Chowdhary also tested positive for Covid-19 five days ago. The list of positive patients also includes seven minors and eight elderly. Among the minors, two are aged below five years. The areas where these patients were found include Arera colony, where two people tested positive, TT Nagar where three people were diagnosed, two people tested positive from Katara Hills, nine people were found positive from different colonies in Kolar, one person was found positive in Gulmohar and other areas of the city. The list of positive patients also includes an official of the Economic Offences Wing (EOW), the office was sealed on Friday as a precautionary measure. Among the fresh positive patients are nine doctors, including two from Gandhi Medical College and a doctor from JP hospital. There has been a spurt in the number of cases in the city and more than 3,600 people have tested positive so far during the month of August in the city. This averages to around 128 cases per day, which is below the average cases of around 150 that were reported in the month of July when the district administration imposed a 10-day lockdown between the night of July 24 and August 3, in the city, said sources. So far, total 270 deaths have been reported in the city due to Covid-19, added sources. GFX New Cases- 190 Total Cases-10,146||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/edited190-test-positive-in-city-corona-count-goes-up-to-10146/articleshow/77811691.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Jaipur||Cases spiral in Jaisalmer, BSF jawans report max cases||Jaisalmer: Cases of coronavirus are increasing in Jaisalmer. Three persons including a woman died in last two days. In last four days, 62 cases have come to light. Maximum cases are of jawans coming from holiday or returning to duty.The district administration is conducting door-to-door survey in Jaisalmer municipal area and has deputed nine officers for monitoring. The matter of concern is that cases are increasing from BSF as more than 21 jawans were tested positive in last few days. As a preventive measure, BSF has directed to keep the jawans returning to campus in quarantine mandatorily.District collector Ashish Modi said that the situation of Jaisalmer is better compared to other districts. In last 3-4 days, there has been an increase in cases which is really worrying.He said that door-to-door survey has been started in municipal ward area to identify suspected patients. Nine officers have been deputed for monitoring.Modi accepted the spurt in cases among BSF men.Jawans coming back from training are being tested positive which has increased the worry of BSF. Till now, jawans going from one camp to another or coming back to battalions after training were not kept in quarantine.Three jawans were tested positive in few battalions and headquarters in Jaisalmer. More than 11 jawans have been tested positive in last four days. Now, BSF has decided to put the jawans returning to duty under quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cases-spiral-in-jaisalmer-bsf-jawans-report-max-cases/articleshow/77813084.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Goa||No decision on Goa’s mining plea, hearing on Sept 9||Panaji: As the formal order is not passed by the chief justice of India (CJI) on the application moved by the state government to tag state’s review petition along with mining companies’ special leave petition (SLP), Supreme Court on Friday adjourned Goa’s crucial mining matter to September 9. Speaking to TOI, advocate general Devidas Pangam said during the hearing, state mentioned to the bench that they have moved application to tag review petition with SLP. “The matter is adjourned because there was no decision on our application,” he said. Twenty-six village panchayats have approached the apex court with an interlocutory application (IA) seeking impleadment in the Goa mining case. In February 2018, the SC had quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases, bringing the industry to a halt. Last year, the state filed a review petition against the order. It also sought to tag the review petition with the one filed by mining companies seeking to extend their leases till 2037. The mining companies had filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the apex court after the high court of Bombay at Goa dismissed their petitions challenging the Goa, Daman and Diu (Abolition and Declaration of Mining Leases) Act, 1987. During the Portuguese rule, the appellants were granted mining concessions, which were then converted into mining leases under the act. The SLP had stated that the act should be made applicable from 1987 instead of 1961. The state government had also told the SC that the companies had made a representation to the mines department contending that under the amendment to Section 8A of the MMDR Act, they’re entitled to extend their leases to 2037, but that they would abide by the court’s order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-decision-on-goas-mining-plea-hearing-on-sept-9/articleshow/77813110.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Lucknow||UP govt to help farmers get rid of stubble in eco-friendly manner||LUCKNOW: The state government has decided to provide special farm equipment to farmers to help them get rid of crop residue or stubble, whose indiscriminate burning leads to air pollution, especially during the winters. In an order issued to all district magistrates and divisional commissioners on August 26, chief secretary RK Tewari said the process of procuring the equipment be completed by September-end. “For purchase of equipment worth up to Rs 5 lakh, the government will also provide a grant of 80% of the amount to registered agricultural societies, cane societies and cooperative societies. The societies will procure equipment by September 30 before providing them to farmers on rent. Individual farmers would, however, be provided 50% grant by the state government,” the order said. Under the arrangement, a committee headed by respective magistrates would select cooperative/cane societies/gram panchayats which would inform the agricultural directorate about the procurement. The directorate would transfer the grant of Rs 4 lakh per equipment to the said societies. Last year, the government had constituted a cell in every district to keep an eye on stubble burning. The revenue department had also roped in gram pradhan and regional lekhpal to curb burning of crop residue. To spread awareness among farmers, the government has also decided to initiate information education communication (IEC) activity which would be carried out by every department associated with agricultural activities. Workshops and seminars will also be organised in every district to make farmers aware about the harmful effects of residual crop burning and how it could invite penalty as per the order of the National Green Tribunal. In 2017, the environment department had issued an order to recover compensation for damages incurred to environment because of crop burning. The government has also come up with ex-situ (off the site) management of crop residue which may be accumulated and kept in stray cattle shelter homes. The exercise would be carried out by labourers working under MNREGS. The accumulated crop residue would be transported to stray cattle shelter homes by the animal husbandry department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-to-help-farmers-get-rid-of-stubble-in-eco-friendly-manner/articleshow/77813950.cms||Pankaj Shah
August 29, 2020||Jaipur||Congress leaders hold protest demanding to defer NEET, JEE||JAIPUR: Congress leaders and workers on Friday held demonstrations across the state demanding the postponement of NEET and JEE in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The party also simultaneously held an online campaign ‘Speak Up For Students’ Safety’ in which leaders and workers uploaded videos of the protest. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot in a video tweet said, “I believe that the government should take a decision based what the students feel, what the parents think. I hope that the government will act with sensitivity and will be ready to postpone the exam.” #SpeakUpForStudentSafety. The National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for medical colleges is slated to be held on September 13, while the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) for engineering is scheduled between September 1-6. Despite the students’ protests, the Union government has made it clear that the exams will be held as per schedule with due precautions. The protest in Jaipur was held at the main gate of Malviya National Institute of Technology (MNIT) on JLN Marg. Transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, chief whip Mahesh Joshi, former Pradesh Congress Committee president Sachin Pilot and other leaders took part in the agitation. “The Centre is adamant on holding the examinations while ignoring the plight of lakhs of students and putting their lives at risk. Congress will intensify the agitation if the exams are not postponed,” Khachariyawas said while addressing the protesters. PCC president Govind Singh Dotasra was scheduled to lead the protest, but could not attend due to health reasons. Dotasra in a tweet said he will not be able to attend to visitors for the next two days due to ill health. Pilot, who was also the former deputy chief minister of the state, said lakhs of students across the country are demanding that the exams be postponed therefore, the Centre should not be adamant on holding them. “The corona pandemic is not over yet. Hotels are closed and transportation is not available. How will the students from rural areas reach their exam centres? The stubbornness of the central government is not good and the exams should be postponed,” he said. Joshi told reporters that there are many factors with regard to the exams due to which the Centre should not go ahead with its decision to conduct the exams. “The Centre should have consulted the state government because a large number of students will come to take the exam. Hotels are closed and where will the students stay,” he argued. On the Pre-Diploma of Elementary Education exam scheduled to be held in the state on August 31, Joshi said the exam will be taken by local candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-leaders-hold-protest-demanding-to-defer-neet-jee/articleshow/77813062.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Wary of quarantine under poor conditions, villagers ‘flee’ from houses||KOTA: Apprehensive of being quarantined amid poor facilities after testing corona-positive in sample collection, around 90% households in Guwadi village of Bagli Panchayat in Itawa sub division of Kota district allegedly abandoned their houses on Thursday. When the medical team reached there for sample collection, they found most of the houses locked and the village abandoned. Following the increasing number of Covid-19 cases, local administration launched intensive awareness generation campaign on corona testing and sample collection in Guwadi village on Friday, while SDM, Itawa, after hearing locals’ complaints on poor facilities at Covid centres and charging of Rs 2,400 per patient, shot a letter to BCMHO to improve facilities in the Covid centre and to put fund details on corona treatment. After a person from Guwadi village tested positive on August 11, random sampling was carried out in the village on August 21 when 14 samples were collected and 11 of them tested positive, who were then sent to New Medical College Hospital in Kota for treatment, said block chief medical and health officer (BCMHO), Itawa block of Kota district, Dr Yaduvendra Sharma. The medical team had reached the village for the second round of sampling on Thursday noon, when most of the houses in the village were found to be locked and the village streets abandoned, he further said adding that since it is a small village with about 40-50 houses, people in the village were likely apprehensive of being tested positive after 11 people from the village had tested positive and thus, they fled from their houses to shun testing. The locals could have also likely moved to their fields for work since it was noon time, he further clarified. Now from Friday, the survey is being carried out in the village and intensive awareness generation campaign on corona testing and treatment is underway in the village, he added. Meanwhile, SDM Itawa, Ramavatar Barnala refuted reports of the locals in Guwada village having abandoned their houses due to corona fear, saying the villagers likely could have moved to their fields for work at noon. A mobile video on corona treatment at a hospital had gone viral in the village a few days ago, following which the locals could have gotten misguided on the treatment and facilities in Covid centre, said SDM Barnala, adding that during his visit to the village, the locals also complained to him of charging Rs 2,400 per person at the Covid centre. He thus on Friday wrote a letter to the BCMHO directing him on improvement in facilities at the Covid centre and to provide him the details of funds on Covid patients in the centre, Barnala said. A core team of panchayat samiti was on Friday sent to Guwadi village for awareness generation on Covid among the locals. The complaints of poor facilities at the Covid centre in Itawa and of charging Rs 2,400 per patient, mentioned by the SDM in the letter on Friday, are being probed into, Sharma said. At least 65 persons have tested positive in Itawa sub division so far and 48 of them were discharged after treatment, he further said adding only 16 cases are under treatment in the sub division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/wary-of-quarantine-under-poor-conditions-villagers-flee-from-houses/articleshow/77813113.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Pune||Five women hurt after tree branch falls on them||PUNE: Five women sitting on a footpath near the SPM School suffered injuries after a branch of a tree fell on them on Thursday night. The injured women — Sharada Thorat, Surekha Arde, Sarika Shinde, Laxmi Kasbe and Parvati Sonawane from Ambil Odha Vasahat in Sadashiv Peth — were engrossed in a conversation when the branch fell. “The residents of the area managed to rescue four women and took them to a nearby hospital. The fifth woman was rescued by the fire brigade personnel,” an officer from the Pune fire brigade said. The officer claimed that the showers had weakened the branch that fell on the women. “The Pune Municipal Corporation had chopped off some weakened branches of the tree before the onset of the monsoon,” the officer said. Last year in July, a 48-year-old woman died after the branch of a tree fell on her near the PMC’s Ghole Road ward office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5-women-hurt-after-tree-branch-falls-on-them/articleshow/77813923.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Goa||Labourgate: Lokayukta poses 10 queries, hearing on Sept 2||Panaji: Goa Lokayukta Justice (retired) P K Misra issued a set of 10 questions to the state government regarding the financial aid disbursed to building and other construction workers (BOCW) as part of Covid-19 relief and has slated the final hearing in the alleged labour scam on September 2. Goa Forward Party (GFP), which filed the complaint alleging the scam, said that the government failed to produce adequate information on Friday. “The final hearing was supposed to be held today, but the government has not provided any clear information in the last few hearings,” said GFP vice-president Durgadas Kamat. “There were a lot of discrepancies in the answers that were given and the Lokayukta is not at all satisfied.” Misra has sought information on the registration of the labourers, the registration process, the payment made to a private agency to register the workers and details about the check and balances in place to verify the data collected by the private agency. The labour commissioner failed to provide detailed answers to the earlier questions posed by Misra. The Lokayukta is hearing a complaint filed by Kamat, who has alleged that an amount of over Rs 13 crore was disbursed to BJP workers who had fraudulently claimed to be construction workers. “The Lokayukta has said that the final hearing will be held on September 2, and if by then the government does not respond and submit a detailed report, then he will go ahead and pass the order,” said Kamat. Current Lokayukta Justice P K Misra is due to retire on September 17. The labour commissioner’s office submitted an interim report, but it has information that does not pertain to the current case. This time around, Misra has asked if the department verified the claims made by Labournet Pvt Ltd, a private firm tasked by the department to register building and construction workers. The Lokayukta has also asked how much the company was paid to register the workers and the amount paid to the company till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/labourgate-lokayukta-poses-10-queries-hearing-on-sept-2/articleshow/77813170.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Goa||Clandestine garbage dumping along Dumanem road irks Gulem, Agonda locals||Poinguinim: The 1.5km interior road from Dumanem, which links the NH 66 at Gulem in Canacona, has been an eyesore for several months now. Villagers from Gulem and Agonda who use the road while travelliing to horticultural farms and paddy fields, and for grazing their cattle, said that garbage lies strewn along the otherwise verdant stretch. Krishna Velip, a resident of Gulem, said, “This road is hardly used during the night, but some uncivilised people come specially to dump their garbage.” Shristhal sarpanch Ganesh Gaonkar said that after they inspected this area last year, the panchas with the sarpanch immediately got the the stretch of road cleaned. “We simultaneously convened a meeting of the panchayat body and resolved to send a letter to the Canacona police for patrollng the area. However, people clandestinely continue to dump garbage along the road,” Gaonkar said. The panchayat body in the resolution called for intensive monitoring of the stretch of road during night hours. When contacted, Canacona police inspector Tukaram Chawan said that he will look into the matter and “see what can be done”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/clandestine-garbage-dumping-along-dumanem-road-irks-gulem-agonda-locals/articleshow/77813157.cms||Albert Fernandes
August 29, 2020||Nagpur||Rlys’ 480-bed q-facilities in 60 coaches await state nod||Nagpur: The Central Railway has readied 480 beds in 60 coaches with quarantine facilities for Covid suspects and patients with mild symptoms at three stations and the same would be made available whenever state government needs them, said divisional railway manager, CR, Somesh Kumar Shrivastav, on Friday. Shrivastav, along with other senior officials, said the lockdown period was fruitfully utilized for crucial asset maintenance and repair works taking full advantage of the lesser traffic load. “We would start services between Nagpur-Mumbai and Nagpur-Pune as soon as the state government lifts restrictions,” said the DRM, who was accompanied by additional DRMs Manoj Tiwari, Jai Singh, Anup Kumar Satpathy, divisional commercial manager (DCM) Krishnath Patil, assistant commercial manager CS Rao and others. Presenting the achievements accomplished by the CR amid the Covid restrictions, DCM Patil elaborated on the division’s revenue of around Rs4.80 crore through booking of 41 mini-rakes of cement consignments, Rs1.23 crore by ferrying ferro-manganese in 12 mini-rakes, Rs5.88 crore through booking of 24 mini-rakes of wheat and around Rs4 crore through 13,862 tonnes of parcel. “We had formed business development units (BDUs) which created opportunities and helped earning the revenue,” he said. The DRM also informed that Indian Railway Station Development Corporation (IRSDC) has already initiated tendering process for re-modelling of Nagpur station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rlys-480-bed-q-facilities-in-60-coaches-await-state-nod/articleshow/77813067.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 29, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: CBI quizzes driver of Balabhaskar||THRISSUR: The CBI sleuths probing the mystery behind the road accident that led to the death of musician Balabhaskar and his daughter questioned Arjun, the driver of Balabhaskar, on Friday. The accident happened at Pallipuram near Thiruvananthapuram in September 2018. Balabhaskar met with the accident when he was travelling from Thrissur to his home in Thiruvananthapuram with his wife Lakhsmi and daughter Thejaswini. While Balabhaskar and the daughter had succumbed to their injuries, Laskhmi and Arjun, who were seriously injured, survived. There were reports initially that Arjun was driving the vehicle when the accident took place. However, Arjun had reportedly told the crime branch investigators later that it was Balabhaskar who was at the wheel when the accident took place. According to his statements, he had driven the car up to Kollam and subsequently Balabhaskar took over. However, Lakshmi had told the police that it was Arjun who was driving when the accident happened. According to reports, Arjun had reportedly repeated this version to the CBI officials too. It is learnt that he has expressed willingness for a lie-detection test as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cbi-quizzes-driver-of-balabhaskar/articleshow/77811742.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Bhopal||MP records 1,000 new Covid cases for 9th consecutive day||BHOPAL: For the ninth consecutive day, more than 1,000 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh on Friday with the state reporting 1,252 new cases. With this, the tally of Covid-19 in the state has reached 59,433. Earlier on August 20, 1,142 people had tested positive, on August 21 (1,147 people), on August 22 (1,226 people), on August 23 (1263 people), on August 24 (1,292 people), on August 25 (1379 people), on August 26 (1074 people) and on August 27, 1,317 people had tested positive for Covid-19. Apart from these new cases, 17 casualties were also reported, says the state health bulletin released by the directorate of health services. With these new deaths, the toll due to Covid-19 in state reached 1,323 on Friday. Alarmingly, fresh cases were reported from 51 out of the 52 districts on Friday. As per the state health bulletin, it was Indore district where maximum 198 new positive cases were reported on Friday. After Indore it was Bhopal where 131 new positive cases were reported, followed by Jabalpur where 124 cases were reported on Friday. Of the 51 districts that reported fresh cases on Friday, new cases were reported in double figures from 34 districts of the state. Reports of a total of 25,853 samples were received on Friday when 1,252 people tested positive, thus overall 4.8% of the people whose samples were tested on Friday have been foundto be positive. This positivity rate—the number of people found positive out of every 100 samples tested— of 4.8% is higher than that of overall average positivity rate of around 4.5% in the state. On the brighter side, 943 people who were admitted in hospitals recovered and were discharged from the hospital. With these new patients recovering, the total number of patients who have recovered so far from the disease reached 45,396. A total of 4,885 localities across these 52 districts have been declared as containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-records-1000-new-covid-cases-for-9th-consecutive-day/articleshow/77811738.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Kochi||Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case: Customs records statement of former IT fellow to CM||KOCHI: The commissionerate of customs (preventive), probing the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case, on Friday recorded the statement of Arun Balachandran, the former IT fellow to the Kerala chief minister. Balachandran’s name waded into the controversy after it was revealed that he had intervened to book accommodation for key accused Swapna Suresh. Balachandran arrived at the CCP headquarters in Kochi at 12.30pm and was there till about 6.30pm. Soon after the scam erupted, Balachandran said he had acted at the behest of former IT secretary M Sivasankar. He claimed to have no knowledge of whom the accommodation was being arranged for. According to Balachandran, Sivasankar had sent him text messages to book an apartment in his residential complex. Screenshots of the messages were shared with customs. Balachandran claimed he was told the flat was a stop-gap arrangement for a family awaiting completion of their flat. According to sleuths, the accused used to gather at this apartment to plot their moves. Balachandran, who joined the government as CM’s IT fellow, was later named director of the newly formed high-power digital advisory committee. He was removed from the post soon after the controversy erupted. Meanwhile, Anil Nambiar, the journalist who was quizzed by customs the other day, came out with a Facebook post clarifying his position. In the post, Nambiar said the agency quizzed him on calls he made to Swapna’s mobile phone on July 5. “If the last one year’s call records are checked, it can be seen that I have called this woman only once … I called her as the secretary of the consulate general and a person that I know (I didn’t know that she had started government service then) so as to find out the truth behind an incident. I don’t understand how I, who called to inquire about the diplomatic baggage, myself would direct her to say that it was not one. The clarification of the consulate was aired in the 2pm bulletin that day. It is not my job to advise Swapna or to give her directions,” Nambiar wrote. Nambiar also said that he is distancing himself from responsibilities at the channel he works for till doubts around him are alleviated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-records-statement-of-former-it-fellow-to-cm/articleshow/77811763.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Lucknow||Cow slaughter: 1,500 FIRs in 7 months in UP||LUCKNOW: While UP government enforced strict penalties and raised jail term for cow slaughter, police unleashed a crackdown by registering 1,520 cases, arresting 4,258 people and gunning down two in encounters over a seven-month span, working up an average of seven FIRs every 24 hours. Police also invoked National Security Act (NSA) in 52 cases with 32 chargesheets filed in these cases. Records show maximum FIRs were lodged in Bareilly zone with 368 cases, followed by Meerut with 337 cases between January 1 and July 31. NSA was slapped on 42 persons in Bareilly zone alone. Speaking to TOI, additional director general of police, law and order, Prashant Kumar said, “Of 1,520 FIRs registered against cow slaughter, chargesheets have been filed in 1037 cases and 4,258 persons have been arrested.” Gangsters Act was also slapped against 2,663 repeat offenders under the Cow Slaughter Act and 1,829 were booked under Goonda Act to stop them from jumping bail. “We instructed district police chiefs to open history-sheet of repeat offenders and those on the run and also told to identify places where such incidents were common. Properties of repeat offenders have also been confiscated, the ADG said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cow-slaughter-1-5k-firs-in-7mnths/articleshow/77813975.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Man’s bike torched after he objected to marijuana peddling in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Police have booked two people on the charges of torching a vehicle owned by a 44-year old man, who allegedly raised objection to the suspects’ alleged act of marijuana peddling.Based on the complaint lodged by Santosh Sathe. a resident of Prakashnagar area of N-2 in New Aurangabad, Mukundwadi police booked the duo.As per the complainant, the duo had a grudge against him for raising voice against their alleged illicit trade of marijuana in the locality. He said in his complaint the suspect that on Thursday at around 3 am, the duo torched his bike reducing several of its parts to ashes. When contacted, police authorities said the duo has a history of being associated with different illicit businesses. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/mans-bike-torched-after-he-objected-to-marijuana-peddling-in-aurangabad/articleshow/77810532.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Bhopal||COVID aftermath: Few passengers leave auto, cab drivers high & dry||Bhopal: Several businesses and offices have been opened with the Unlock process. But, it has failed to help the business of auto and cab drivers as they are still not able to get enough passengers. Around 4,000 auto rickshaws in the state capital have been sold off only in Bhopal due to lack of business. Around 10,000 autos are registered with the Bhopal RTO. Several auto drivers have either stopped driving or changed over to other businesses. Auto drivers said that the situation has become challenging for them to survive. “One can understand our condition when trains are limited and Sunday is a complete lockdown. We are working with only 20% passengers at the Habibganj station,” said auto driver, Akshay Jain. He claimed that the presence of autos has also reduced by 50%. “At present, around 80-100 autos are available at the Habibganj station. Before lockdown, at least 150 autos used to be present at the same station,” said Jain, who was the former office-bearer of the auto association of new Bhopal. Auto drivers said they are left with no option except to switch over to other work. “Around 4,000 autos have been sold off as auto drivers were left with no money. They were forced to start selling vegetables and such other work which are in demand,” said an auto driver Rehman. The situation is the same for the private cabs also. A cab owner, without wishing to be named, said that their demand used to be quite high at Bhopal airport and stations, but the lockdown has changed the situation for them. “Before lockdown, flight frequency at Bhopal airport was very high. I bought another taxi as the demand was soaring. Now, the situation is such that I sold a taxi last week. I have to sell another taxi if the situation remains the same,” said Arjun Singh, a taxi driver. Even passengers have stopped using taxis, so things are totally different from the pre-lockdown times. “People are preferring private vehicles more nowadays. Even the passengers coming to the airport are finding it better to call their friends or relatives to drop them off. This has hit our work severely,” said Shabbir Khan, a taxi driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-aftermath-few-passengers-leave-auto-cab-drivers-high-dry/articleshow/77811806.cms||Ramendra Singh
August 29, 2020||Kolhapur||11 vegetable traders test positive for Covid-19 in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation’s (KMC) plan of carrying out testing of vendors and traders in vegetables markets across the city is showing results as a total of 11 traders have tested positive for the contagion. The vendors and traders are considered as super spreaders as they come in contact with large number of people every day. Nikhil More, deputy commissioner of the KMC, said, “The screening of vendors, including those arriving in the markets, has been increased. The staff on the ground have been asked to assist the traders and vendors to get tested as early as possible.” Meanwhile, the cases of Covid-19 are rising in other parts of the city with Raigad Colony reporting 42 cases on Thursday. “There is no need to panic and the locality has not been marked as the hotspot yet. We are also testing the inmates of Kalamba prison. So far, we have tested 200 inmates. Some of them have tested positive and they are included in the list of cases of Raigad Colony where the prison is located,” More said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/11-vegetable-traders-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/77810546.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Goa||Excess rain causes 50% basmati crop to decay||PANAJI: Rain has wreaked havoc on basmati rice fields in the state’s hinterlands this season. Affected by the continuous rain that lashed the state till last week, nearly 50% of the crop planted during the lockdown has started showing signs of decay, leaving farmers running from pillar to post trying various treatment options. “Cultivation of basmati rice was a very successful project in the villages of Netravali. However, due to the rain, 50% of the crop has been damaged,” block technology manager, agriculture technology management agency (ATMA), South Goa, Soham Ghate said. Pandurang Naik, one of the first farmers from Vergani to experiment with growing basmati this season, said that a significant section of his crop has been decaying. To tackle the problem he has used a few organic mixtures like herbs, tobacco and cow urine. However, the concoction has not helped. “We are therefore left with no choice but to cut off the damaged portions to contain the spread of decay. The objective is to salvage as much crop as we can,” he said. TOI had reported on July 20 that the Pusa Punjab 1509 variety of the basmati was introduced to the farmers by ATMA. This variant takes 90 days to mature unlike other varieties. In November 2019, ATMA had procured one kg of the rice and held a demonstration for the farmers of Netravali. The agricultural activity resulted in a yield of 100kg of organic rice and was harvested by March. Following its success, the multiplied seeds were distributed among farmers in Salgini and Juna with hopes to harvest the crop by October. With the crop showing no improvement, farmers are worried that they may not be able to salvage even some of the rice before harvest season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/excess-rain-causes-50-basmati-crop-to-decay/articleshow/77813193.cms||Nida Sayed
August 29, 2020||Nagpur||82 Covid positive, 2 dead in Wardha||WARDHA: Nearly 82 cases and two deaths due to coronavirus made a record of sorts in the district on Friday. Two men, aged 45 and 65, both residents of Wardha, died while undergoing treatment. Total 47 were discharged from hospital. On Friday, out of the 105 test reports that were out, 82 tested positive. Reports of 323 are awaited. The caseload of the district is now 879 while active positive are 257. Nearly 591 got discharged after recovery. The highest number of cases were from Wardha (35) followed by Selu (16) Hinganghat (10) Karanja (9), Ashti, Deoli (4 apiece) Samudrapur and Arvi (2 each).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/82-covid-positive-2-dead-in-wardha/articleshow/77813192.cms||Balwant Dhage
August 29, 2020||Mysuru||Changing rainfall pattern a cause of worry in Malnad||Srinivasa.M Mysuru: In the first week of August, Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga districts in the Malnad region witnessed floods and landslides that claimed over 12 lives. All the major reservoirs in the region reached their full capacity, and water was released from dams. However, according to data compiled by the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), since the beginning of the monsoon on June 1, many hoblis in these districts witnessed a shortfall in rain by over 50%, compared to the normal rain. All the three districts of Malnad received less than normal rain, which worried locals. Normal rain for Agumbe in Shivamogga,between June 1 and August 22 is 5,874mm. However, till now this hobli received just 2,599mm rain, which is a shortfall of 56%. Bhagamandala, which recorded an all time high of 486 mm rain on August 6, is facing a 38% shortage of rain. Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) senior consultant, G Srinivas Reddy, who is also the former director of KSNDMC, said that there has been a decrease in rain in June and July, and more rain in August. “Till the end of July, the rain situation was very alarming due to the dry spells in the Malnad region, however the amount of rain in August improved the situation,” he said.  “The frequency of dry spells and extreme weather events are increasing. There shall be a study of climate change on the local scale, to find out why this is happening,” he said. According to the data, Shivamogga, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru and Hassan received 13% less rain compared to the normal rain. Chikkamagaluru received 17% less rain, Shivamogga 16% less rain, Kodagu got 14% less rain and Hassan received 1% less rain when compared to the normal rain. Akhilesh Chippali, an activist from Shivamogga district, said that all the districts in the Malnad region are now witnessing extreme weather events. “Floods are caused not just by heavy rain, but due to afforestation which is rampant in all the districts in the Malnad region. Even light rain can cause floods and landslides, as there are less trees to reduce the flow of the water. The soil has lost its capacity to absorb rain water. We are facing an ecological disaster,” he warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/changing-rainfall-pattern-a-cause-of-worry-in-malnad/articleshow/77810571.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Places of worship bar entry of visitors, allow only 5 people inside at one time||BHOPAL: The places of worship in the city are having a very few visitors as not more than five people can offer prayers at one time as per the Covid-19 protocol. The caretakers at the places are strictly abiding by the Covid-19 norms. Some temples have changed the place for installation of Ganesha idol to avoid overcrowding, while mosques are holding the Friday namaz in two shifts, allowing only five people to offer prayers at one time. “This year, the idol of Lord Ganesha known as ‘Bhopal Ke Raja’ was installed at the Gulab Chand Dharamshala instead of its usual place Peepal Chowk to avoid overcrowding. Only the organisers are allowed entry during the aarti,” said Prakash Malviya, a member of the committee. K K Pandey, priest at Birla Temple, said very few devotees were coming to the temple for aarti. The temple has made all arrangements including thermal scanning and sanitizers in compliance with the norms, he said, adding, “We ensure that all devotees wear masks and only five people are allowed inside at one time, in accordance with the guidelines.” The Friday namaz at mosques is also held with only five people on the premises. On other days too, only five people are allowed to offer namaz. Some mosques hold Friday namaz twice so that 10 people can pray. Education director, Taj-ul- Masajid, Dr Mohd Hassan, said that the mosques were following the Covid-19 guidelines. “Only five people offer the Jumme ki namaz as we cannot allow more people inside the mosque as per the district administration’s guidelines. On other days too, we allow only five people at one time. Some mosques also hold the Friday namaz twice, to allow more people to offer prayers,” he said. Churches in the city have started holding the obligatory Sunday mass on Saturdays to offer prayers. “Sunday is lockdown day, so the obligatory mass is being conducted on Saturday. We hold the mass in two shifts allowing 10 people to attend the obligatory mass each Saturday with proper social distancing and precautions,” said Father Maria Stephen, PRO of the Bhopal Archdiocese.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/places-of-worship-bar-entry-of-visitors-allow-only-5-people-inside-at-one-time/articleshow/77811854.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Lucknow||Are young & restless driving Covid-19 pandemic in UP?||LUCKNOW: Every second covid-19 patient in Uttar Pradesh is the 20s or 30, according to a demographic profile of the Covid-19 patients in UP. “Of the total cases seen so far, 48.8% belong to the 21-40 years age group while 28.4% of the patients represented 41-60 years age bracket,” additional chief secretary health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said adding: “About 14% patients were below 20 while the remaining patients were above 60 years of age.” If experts are to be believed, any kind of irresponsible behavior by people in this group contributes immensely to the covid-19 burden in the state. “Estimates show that one positive patient in UP has at least four (3.6 to be precise) high risk contacts. Since the largest chunk of patients in the state belongs to the 20-40 years age bracket, they naturally form the biggest group of suspects as well with at least one of them turning positive (calculated on the basis of reproduction rate of 1.09 in UP),” said a senior officer engaged in surveillance work. Then, trends have also indicated that young who move out of their homes for all purposes end up transmitting the infection to the elders and children in the family. In fact studies in other parts of the country have shown that over 60% of the elderly covid-19 patients acquired the infection from someone else in the family. “While many of these people may not even know that they were acting as a spreader because 80% of the covid-19 patients are asymptomatic but those who ignore safety protocols such as wearing masks or following hand hygiene were surely irresponsible,” believed former CMO Lucknow Dr SNS Yadav. Even the World Health Organisation had expressed concern over ‘young being the driver of covid-19 epidemic in the Asia Pacific region.’ “The spread of the novel coronavirus in the Asia-Pacific region is being increasingly driven by people aged in their 20s, 30s and 40s who are unaware they are infected because they have no or mild symptoms,” WHO’s regional director Takeshi Kasai said in a press statement. Director General of Indian Council of Medical Research Prof Balram Bhargava however said that the ‘irresponsible’ were driving the pandemic in India. “I wouldn’t say young or old but irresponsible, less cautious people who are not wearing masks are driving the pandemic in India,” he said at an official briefing on Tuesday. Covid-19 tally 2.13 lakh with 5447 new cases: The coronavirus tally for UP crossed 2.13 lakh with 5447 new cases in the past 24 hours. This includes 52,651 cases of active infection. Health officials informed that Lucknow (707), Kanpur (298) and Prayagraj (276) were the biggest contributors of cases during the day. Health officials also recorded the death of 77 persons taking the total deaths to 3294. Twelve deaths each were recorded in Lucknow and Kanpur. They also noted that the total number of persons recovered reached 157876 on Friday with 4986 fresh entries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/are-young-restless-driving-covid-19-pandemic-in-state/articleshow/77814010.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 29, 2020||Kolhapur||640 new cases in Kolhapur district, death toll rises to 654||KOLHAPUR: The death toll of Kolhapur district on Friday rose to 654 with addition of 20 cases. A total of 640 new patients were also reported across Kolhapur. The total number of cases in the district has reached to 21,723 out of which 12,948 have been discharged and 8,121 are undergoing treatment. On Friday, as many as 671 patients were discharged. After inaugurating the modernised 12 rural public hospitals online, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said, “From next month we are going to start a state-wide ‘chase the virus’ campaign. All those above the age of 55 will be screened. Those having other diseases will be treated during this initiative. Also, we are going to start tele-medicine services for second opinion of health concerns. We are planning to start permanent facilities for fighting such pandemics. I appeal the Kolhapur administration to send us the required proposal.” Show-cause notice issuedKolhapur civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti issued a show-cause notice to a private hospital for not correcting the treatment bill after audit by KMC auditors. He said that he hospital had overcharged the patient and even had forced the relatives to pay the bills before the audit. “I appeal to the citizens to not pay bills before the audit is done,” he said. Meanwhile, Sangli district reported 18 deaths and 481 fresh cases of Covid. The total number of cases has reached to 10,422.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/640-new-cases-in-kolhapur-dist-death-toll-rises-to-654/articleshow/77810563.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid-19: Dakshina Kannada registers record single-day spike||Mangaluru: Dakshina Kannada district on Friday recorded 448 fresh cases of Covid-19, the highest single-day spike ever since the first case was reported on March 22. With this, the total number positive cases reported in the district increased to 11,837. Currently, 2,521 active cases are under treatment at various hospitals and home isolation in the district. So far, 8,973 persons have been cured of the disease in the district including 293 cases getting discharged from hospitals and home isolation after treatment on Friday. Out of 448 fresh cases reported on Friday, 273 were from Mangaluru taluk, followed by 103 from Bantwal, 27 from Puttur, 17 from Sullia and 18 from Belthangady taluks. Fresh cases include 258 asymptomatic, 149 with the symptoms of Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and 17 showing Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). Meanwhile, source infection in 215 persons is under investigation. The district also reported six deaths on Friday taking the total number of fatalities to 343. While Mangaluru taluk reported three deaths, one each from Bantwal and Puttur also died due to the infection. Meanwhile, another patient from other district who was under treatment in Mangaluru also succumbed to the infection. Meanwhile, Udupi recorded 174 positive cases on Friday. Out of 174 cases, 105 are asymptomatic and the source of infection in 18 is yet to be established. With this, the total number of cases in the district has increased to 11,087. The death tally in the district has increased to 95 with two more fatality reported on Friday. Fake news: Suo motu case filed Dakshina Kannada police is mulling filing a suo motu case against miscreants who spread the news that senior RSS leader Kalladka Prabhakar Bhat succumbed to Covid-19. The screenshot of a WhatsApp group member sharing the “Breaking News” on social media has gone viral. When contacted, Dakshina Kannada superintendent of police B M Laxmi Prasad told TOI that a suo motu case will be booked against those spreading such rumours and forwarding the fake news Sullia MLA tests positive Sullia MLA S Angara becomes the third MLA in Dakshina Kannada district to be infected with Coronavirus. Earlier, Mangaluru City North MLA Dr Y Bharath Shetty and Belthangady MLA Harish Poonja also tested positive. Angara, who returned from Bengaluru on Friday, underwent a Covid test after he got a severe headache. The MLA is in home isolation in Sullia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-19-dakshina-kannada-registers-record-single-day-spike/articleshow/77809326.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Mysuru||Ex-Mysuru DC tests negative for Covid-19 a third time||Mysuru: In the times of Covid-19, there is more to leading from the front than just taking on a proactive role in dealing with the crisis. One needs to set an example in conduct too and that is exactly what former Mysuru deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar has done. He underwent for the third time an RT-PCR test for Covid-19, and tested negative on Thursday, as he had on the previous occasions as well. Sankar has, each time he came in contact with an infected patient, chose to quarantine himself and underwent the RT-PCR test. His decision to subject himself to the Covid-19 test thrice is set in stark relief by the prevalent reluctance among the people to take the examination. Given that he has plunged headlong in work, which primarily involves management of the pandemic in the district, Sankar is bound to be in the thick of people most part of the day. Despite being aware of the risks, the DC has not been hesitant in visiting hospitals, nor has he shied away from visiting Covid-19 hotspots – he accompanied ministers on their visit to the pharmaceutical factory in Nanjangud, which reported India’s first cluster case. More recently, in the wake of the suicide of the Nanjangud taluk health officer, Sankar conferred with protesting health department personnel at the office of the Mysuru DHO. However, Sankar does worry about the wellbeing of his 10-month-old daughter, and takes utmost care to prevent her from getting infected. The former DC said that the rank and file of the Mysuru district administration is fully prepared to deal with the troubles that entail being at the front lines of the battle against Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/ex-mysuru-dc-tests-negative-for-covid-19-a-third-time/articleshow/77810755.cms||Lawrence Milton
August 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Time ripe for second stimulus aimed at industry||Battling the problems of working capital crunch and revenue shortfalls triggered by dwindling demand after the lockdown, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) are among the worst hit in the pandemic. Industry experts, therefore, feel that time is ripe for a second stimulus from the government. They say the stimulus must be aimed at strengthening the industry so that it can provide more employment, put disposable incomes in people’s hands, and thus help revive demand. “The time to introduce a stimulus package is now. The government cannot keep feeding the population through its own funds as there will be a limitation,” said Rahul Mehta, chief mentor and immediate past president, Clothing Manufacturers’ Association of India (CMAI). He was speaking at a session on ‘MSMEs: Reigniting Growth’, conducted as part of TOI’s four-day ‘Virtual Conclave — Getting Back Dhandho: Making Gujarat Future Positive’. “The next stimulus package needs to be aimed at the industry which can take care of the population’s well-being by providing employment,” Mehta said. “Measures are needed to strengthen business and industry by incentivizing additional consumption as well as production.” Mehta also emphasized the need to incentivize labour-oriented industries. “Employment is the biggest concern and thus, there is a need to incentivize such industries,” he said. “The government must decide its priorities and incentivize various sectors in a way that the largest percentage of population is covered.” The session on MSMEs was moderated by Sunil Parekh, advisor to Zydus Cadila Group and Jubilant Bhartia Group and the founding curator of Ahmedabad Global Shapers, a World Economic Forum initiative. “The government’s move to enable the MSMEs to participate in the process of tenders below Rs 200 crore and barring global players give a huge opportunity,” Parekh said. “However, the government must play a facilitating role to not just simplify the procurement system but also create awareness about it and handhold industries.” M Thennarasan, vice-chairman and managing director of Gujarat Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC), hailed the Government of India’s decision to allow only domestic players for tenders up to Rs 200 crore. “MSMEs have a huge role to play here,” he said. “The anti-China sentiment globally can be converted into an opportunity with which the MSME sector can help position India as a global leader.” Industry players also felt the need for measures to encourage MSMEs to export and compete in the global market. “This is the right time to promote exports because the majority of MSMEs have been catering to big companies,” said Chintan Thaker, co-chair, Assocham Gujarat State Council, who is also the head of group corporate affairs and strategic planning at Welspun Group. “If exporters are incentivized by helping them compete in the global market with competitive pricing, it will have a positive cascading effect on the smaller industries in turn,” Thaker said. Working capital woes faced by industries in handling overhead costs was one of the key points highlighted during the discussion. Industry players called for a stimulus from the government to address this issue. “I am very bullish about manufacturing and optimistic that problems will vanish after October,” said Natu Patel, senior vice-president of Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) and managing director, Meghmani Organics Limited. “The time is right to come out with a second stimulus package for the industry,” Patel said. “At a time when the government has frozen the dearness allowance (DA) of its employees, it is pushing industries to raise wages. This is not the right policy and it is my request that this policy be scrapped.” Alongside stimulus, the industry also expects measures from the government to bring migrant workers back so that industrial units can ramp up their currently underutilized production capacities. “Many MSME workers had gone to their hometowns during the lockdown. About 70-80% have returned, while the remaining are yet to come back,” said Rajiv Vastupal, CMD, Rajiv Petrochemicals, who is also the immediate past chairperson of FICCI Gujarat State Council. “It is crucial to note that industrial units have still not been able to reach full production level,” Vastupal said. “The government should take initiatives to bring workers back the way they were helped to travel to their home states.” The state government with its Industrial Policy 2020 has already taken a slew of measures to support the MSMEs. Highlighting these, Thennarasan, said, “Recently the Government of Gujarat brought the MSMEs under a separate commissionerate to have a special focus on them.” He went on to say: “The Gujarat CM recently unveiled a new industrial policy which has a lot of benefits for the MSMEs.” He added: “Gujarat Industrial Policy 2015 had benefitted 32,157 MSMEs, attracted investments to the tune of Rs 36,975 crore, and generated employment for about 2.7 lakh people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/time-ripe-for-2nd-stimulus-aimed-at-industry/articleshow/77813221.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath pays tribute to Firaq Gorakhpuri on birth anniversary||GORAKHPUR: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath paid tributes to the world renowned poet Raghupati Sahai, known by his pen name Firaq Gorakhpuri, on his birth anniversary on August 28, on Friday. The CM posted his couplet —‘Aane wali naslen tum par fakhra karengi ham-asro , jab bhi unko dhyan aaega tum ne Firaq ko dekha hai,’ on his official twitter handle and wrote the poet was born in Gorakhpur and was a great scholar of English, Urdu and Persian. Founder of Firaq Academy, Anil Kumar Srivastav said, “Firaq was born at noon of August 28, 1896 at Laxmi Nivas in Turkmanpur of Gorakhpur. His father Babu Gorakh Prasad ‘Ibrat’ was a renowned advocate and his house, built by his father, was named after Firaq’s grandfather Laxmi Narayan. Babu Gorakh Prasad and his third wife Dulari Devi had five sons including Firaq and three daughters Firaq Gorakhpur was a sharp student said AK Srivastav adding that, “Firaq saab was at fourth position in United province (Uttar Paradesh and Madhya Pradesh) in BA exam in 1918 and government offered him post of deputy collector as per his merit but he didn’t join the job and joined congress as joint secretary with Jawaharlal Nehru. Later he took teaching job in Lucknow and Kanpur. He pursued MA in English from Agra University as private student and topped the university. After that he started teaching English at Allahabad University with Harivansh Rai Bachchan.” Speaking about his pen name ‘Firaq’, writer Neeraj Srivastav, told, “When Premchand came to Gorakhpur in 1916, he used to sit with Firaq’s father and once Firaq saw Urdu poet Nasir Ali Firaq’s name in a magazine with Premchand. Since then he took Firaq as his pen name.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-pays-tribute-to-firaq-gorakhpuri-on-birth-anniv/articleshow/77814033.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Three get 10-year jail term for robbery||Mangaluru: The fourth additional district and sessions court on Friday sentenced three persons to 10 years rigorous imprisonment each and Rs 36,000 fine in an assault and robbery case. The convicted are 35-year-old Farooq, resident of Kasaragod; 50-year-old Harish Shetty, resident of Belthangady and 57-year-old Satish Bhandary, resident of Karinje Kallabettu. Another accused, identified as Ashraf, is absconding. On November 9, 2015, the trio, after assaulting a staff of a grocery shop in Moodbidri belonging to one Mohammed Shareef, fled with Rs 4.5 lakh. Shop employees Chandrashekar and Poornesh were returning home in a two-wheeler with the cash when the quartet stopped and assaulted them. Later, they fled with cash and police managed to arrest them after six months. The court examined 16 witnesses and 26 documents were produced. The judge T P Ramalingegowa found the trio guilty and pronounced the judgement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/three-get-10-year-jail-term-for-robbery/articleshow/77811126.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Fadnavis criticises state govt for not reopening temples||Kolhapur: Former chief minister and leader of the opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Friday came down heavily on the state government over the reluctance to reopen temples across Maharashtra.“Why is the government afraid of opening temples when malls and liquor shops have been opened?” asked Fadnavis, who was on a tour of Satara, told reporters that the central government had allowed opening of religious places and other states had followed the order. “Maharashtra is not different from other states. People will follow social distancing and other norms as they are doing it in other places”, he said.Speaking on status of Covid-19 in Satara district, Fadnavis said he would soon meet chief minister on the issue. “The ICU facility in Satara district needs to be enhanced and the government should urgently approve the administration’s proposal to set up a Covid hospital in Satara stadium,” he said.Expressing concern over the increasing number of positive cases in Satara district, Fadnavis said that infection ratio in the district is 18% while it is 22% in the state. He said civic hospital should have additional beds. “The civil hospital has a capacity of 128 beds, but has 148 patients currently. Government should increase the beds and ventilators along with carying out rapid antigen tests,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/fadnavis-criticises-state-govt-for-not-reopening-temples/articleshow/77810590.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Hubballi||Recovery appears a distant dream for small eateries in Dharwad||Dharwad: Restaurants and small eateries (aka ‘darshinis’), which had been hit hard due to Covid-19 lockdown, are struggling to recover despite the government easing several restrictions. During Lockdown 1.0, the government had permitted supply of essential commodities, fruits, vegetables, milk and medicines among others. But it had not allowed the sale of food items by eateries and restaurants. As a result, all restaurants and eateries were closed and their owners, unable to run the show, had sent workers home. During Lockdown 2.0, the government permitted takeaway of food items — with riders — from restaurants. However, not many eateries came forward to prepare and sell food, saying it would not be financially feasible. Those who started selling food items did not have encouraging business as people were reluctant to buy ready food from outside. The quality of food in some restaurants — both vegetarian and non-vegetarian — had taken a beating as their main cooks had left the place, forcing the owners to depend on local cooks. After maximum restrictions were removed, hotels were allowed to supply food to customers in their premises by following norms like social distancing, wearing of masks and ensuring hygiene (sanitisers). But still, the business has not picked up to the expected level. Mahesh Shetty, president of Dharwad Hoteliers’ Association, said there are about 160 eateries, including restaurants and darshinis in Dharwad city, where about 10,000 people, including cooks, suppliers, assistants, cleaners and cashiers work. “Following prolonged shutting down of shops, both the owners and employees are in deep trouble. The recovery is slow. While low-budget darshinis have shown a 30% recovery, the restaurants are still unable to recover the daily expenses,” Shetty said. He attributed the slack in business to people’s reluctance to eat-out. “We used to have a lot of regulars from nearby offices coming to eateries/ restaurantsfor breakfast and lunch. But now they are bringing food from their homes,” Shetty said, adding: “There has been a sharp decline in our revenue while the expenses on rent, electricity, water, fuel and other overheads continue to be same.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/recovery-appears-a-distant-dream-for-small-eateries-in-dharwad/articleshow/77810597.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
August 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Congress launches Arogya Hasta to help people in M’luru||Mangaluru: Dakshina Kannada District Congress (DCC) Covid-19 Helpline has launched ‘Arogya Hasta’, a drive to conduct health checks and help the residents of Mangaluru city avail benefits under the Ayushman Bharat health scheme. Helpline coordinator Ivan D’Souza launched the drive at Jappinamogaru ward in the city on Friday. D’Souza said their aim is to create awareness among people on how to be safe from the virus and to help poor and middle-class people avail free treatment. “Our team comprising a doctor and paramedical staff pay door-to-door visits in the city. They will be checking the temperature using digital thermal scanner and oxygen levels using pulse oximeter randomly. Many people are reluctant to go to hospitals due to lack of awareness and fear of private hospital expenses. Our team will focus on aged people and children. Necessary arrangements will be made to shift patients to hospitals in ambulance and we will ensure free treatment under government health schemes,” D’Souza explained. Under the Arogya Hasta programme, the DCC Helpline will also launch a special drive to ensure free treatment under Ayushman Bharat scheme to all. “Camps will be held at various places in the district from September 1. Nearly 80% of the patients are not able afford the treatment cost in private hospitals,” he said, adding: “We also have requested the health department to distribute necessary medicines to patients on home isolation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/congress-launches-arogya-hasta-to-help-people-in-mluru/articleshow/77810915.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara reports 575 cases, 12 deaths||Kolhapur: Satara district on Thursday registered as many as 575 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the total number of patients to 12,218. Of these, 5,418 are currently active. The district also reported 12 deaths. With this, the total number of casualties in the district swelled to 345. While Karad and Satara tehsils continue to register fresh Covid cases every day, positive cases are gradually increasing in Khandala and Phaltan tehsils. Karad tehsil registered 194 cases in the last 24 hours, including 94 from the town. Malkapur, on the other hand, recorded 22 cases. In addition, Satara tehsil registered 111 cases, including 76 patients from the town. Similarly, Patan tehsil and Wai tehsil recorded 16 and 19 cases respectively. Of the 16 cases reported from Wai tehsil, eight are from the town. Khandala tehsil identified 39 new patients including 13 from Shirval and five from Lonand. Fresh cases are also reported from tiny villages and hamlets located in Khandala tehsil. Surprisingly, the same trend has been witnessed in Phaltan tehsil which registered 88 patients, including 33 from the town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-reports-575-cases-12-deaths/articleshow/77810618.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Bhopal||Shivraj suspends recovery on inflated power bills||Bhopal: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, in a major relief to low electricity consumers announced to suspend recovery of outstanding inflated bills. Talking to reporters at Indore on Friday, Chouhan said from September the consumers would be charged only for one month power consumption. Later, the state’s energy department ordered that power bills for the upcoming months of September and October, no old outstanding amount should be added. This benefit is extended only for the consumers whose connection is for up to 1 kilowatt consumption. “It’s our decision that the public won’t bear arbitrary charges. I have suspended recovery on old electricity bills. From next month on, only one month of electricity bill will be charged,” Chouhan said. The state government will examine the inflated electricity bills and will decide further course of action, he added. During the last five months of Covid-19 pandemic, people have complained of receiving inflated electricity bills, which the power company issued based on average meter consumption. According to power discom officials, they had received over 12,000 complaints of inflated power bills between April and May while the count was still on. Congress leaders have been trying to mount pressure on Chouhan government accusing it of overcharging the consumers. The chief minister further said, “The state government is in talks with private transporters to start buses and other transportation facility.” On allegations of BJP leaders violating Covid-19 norms by organising political programmes ahead of by-polls at 27 assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh, Chouhan said, “The rules are the same for everyone. Appropriate actions will be taken on violation of the same”. To another question about allegations of the Indore district administration and health department hiding the number of deaths reported due to Covid-19, Chouhan said that everything is available on public domain. Late evening, energy secretary Akash Tripathi issued orders to all the three discoms in the state to suspend recovery on inflated bills. The discoms have been directed to ensure that no outstanding, arrear or surcharge (penalty imposed for delay in payment) of previous months should be added to the bills of the consumers (upto 1 kilowatt connection) in their bills of September and October. If the consumer’s bills for month of September are outstanding in the month of October, then this amount should be charged in the bill of October along with surcharge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivraj-suspends-recovery-on-inflated-power-bills/articleshow/77811900.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Kolhapur||54% Kolhapur cases in 21-50 year group||KOLHAPUR: More than half of the Covid-19 patients detected in Kolhapur district are young and middle-aged — between the age of 21 and 50 years. As per data released by the administration, as many as 54.6 % patients belong to this category. As on Thursday, Kolhapur district had a total of 21,083 positive cases and 11,509 of them were from the said age group. Last month, the number of patients in the age group of 21 to 50 years old was less than 50% — 5,993 out of 10,439 patients. Officials have attributed this trend to the natural instinct among the youths and family commitments and financial responsibilities among the middle-aged people. “The youths are less serious, while middle aged are exposed to all kind of situations because of their age,” an official said. The age group between 51 and 70 years is second on the list. This age group had 5,607 patients as on Thursday night. Officials said that this age group is showing increasing number of patients. This age group had 2,461 patients in the second week of August. As per data, the district has 1,232 patients who are above 71-years-old. The number of patients belonging to the said age group has increased by three times in a short span, from 319 on August 1 to 471 around two weeks ago. Meanwhile, the district has also reported 1,120 patients who are between the age of 11 and 20 years. The number of patients in this age group is also on the rise. Children between the age of one and 10 years have also been infected by the contagion and their current number os 986. On August 1, the total number of patients in this category was 426 which later increased to 560 in just two weeks. As many as 29 toddlers have also tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/54-kolhapur-cases-in-21-50yr-group/articleshow/77810600.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab's Covid-19 toll 1,307 as 51 die||CHANDIGARH: Continuing with its high mortality rate in Covid-19 cases, Punjab recorded 51 deaths on Friday, taking the state’s casualty count for the virus to 1,307. As many as 1,555 fresh cases of coronavirus infection surfaced in the state, pushing the tally close to 50,000. The virus has infected 49,378 people so far. In all, health teams across the state checked 19,733 samples and the positivity came out to 7.88%, 2.99% higher than Thursday. The highest number of fatalities, 12, were reported in Amritsar. It was followed by 11 casualties in Ludhiana, five each in Jalandhar and Patiala, two each died in Tarn Taran, Sangrur, Mansa, Fatehgarh Sahib, Fazilka and Gurdaspur, and one each died in Barnala, Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Mohali. When this report was filed, 68 people were in a critical condition and on ventilator support, and 491 on oxygen support. At 211, Jalandhar contributed the highest number of cases. It was followed 182 cases in Gurdaspur, 140 in Ludhiana, 115 in Faridkot, 109 in Patiala, 85 each in Hoshiarpur and Mohali, 84 in Ferozepur, 81 in Amritsar, 65 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 56 in Pathankot, 54 in Moga, 46 in Kapurthala, 40 in Barnala, 37 in Fazilka, 30 in Mansa, 21 in Ropar, 25 in Sangrur, eight in Nawanshahr, and two in Tarn Taran. A total of 2,036 people were discharged after recovering during the day, taking the tally of discharged patients to 30,972. Of them, 489 were in Ludhiana, 447 in Ferozepur, 401 in Mohali, 145 in Jalandhar, 106 in Amritsar, 68 in Bathinda, 56 in Sangrur, 46 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 41 in Gurdaspur, 36 in Faridkot, 30 in Muktsar, 26 in Hoshiarpur, 21 in Nawanshahr, 20 in Tarn Taran, 16 each in Pathankot and Kapurthala, eight in Mansa, and six in Moga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-toll-1307-as-51-die/articleshow/77813244.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab's Covid-19 toll 1,307 as 51 die||CHANDIGARH: Continuing with its high mortality rate in Covid-19 cases, Punjab recorded 51 deaths on Friday, taking the state’s casualty count for the virus to 1,307. As many as 1,555 fresh cases of coronavirus infection surfaced in the state, pushing the tally close to 50,000. The virus has infected 49,378 people so far. In all, health teams across the state checked 19,733 samples and the positivity came out to 7.88%, 2.99% higher than Thursday. The highest number of fatalities, 12, were reported in Amritsar. It was followed by 11 casualties in Ludhiana, five each in Jalandhar and Patiala, two each died in Tarn Taran, Sangrur, Mansa, Fatehgarh Sahib, Fazilka and Gurdaspur, and one each died in Barnala, Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Mohali. When this report was filed, 68 people were in a critical condition and on ventilator support, and 491 on oxygen support. At 211, Jalandhar contributed the highest number of cases. It was followed 182 cases in Gurdaspur, 140 in Ludhiana, 115 in Faridkot, 109 in Patiala, 85 each in Hoshiarpur and Mohali, 84 in Ferozepur, 81 in Amritsar, 65 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 56 in Pathankot, 54 in Moga, 46 in Kapurthala, 40 in Barnala, 37 in Fazilka, 30 in Mansa, 21 in Ropar, 25 in Sangrur, eight in Nawanshahr, and two in Tarn Taran. A total of 2,036 people were discharged after recovering during the day, taking the tally of discharged patients to 30,972. Of them, 489 were in Ludhiana, 447 in Ferozepur, 401 in Mohali, 145 in Jalandhar, 106 in Amritsar, 68 in Bathinda, 56 in Sangrur, 46 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 41 in Gurdaspur, 36 in Faridkot, 30 in Muktsar, 26 in Hoshiarpur, 21 in Nawanshahr, 20 in Tarn Taran, 16 each in Pathankot and Kapurthala, eight in Mansa, and six in Moga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-toll-1307-as-51-die/articleshow/77819439.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab's Covid-19 toll 1,307 as 51 die||CHANDIGARH: Continuing with its high mortality rate in Covid-19 cases, Punjab recorded 51 deaths on Friday, taking the state’s casualty count for the virus to 1,307. As many as 1,555 fresh cases of coronavirus infection surfaced in the state, pushing the tally close to 50,000. The virus has infected 49,378 people so far. In all, health teams across the state checked 19,733 samples and the positivity came out to 7.88%, 2.99% higher than Thursday. The highest number of fatalities, 12, were reported in Amritsar. It was followed by 11 casualties in Ludhiana, five each in Jalandhar and Patiala, two each died in Tarn Taran, Sangrur, Mansa, Fatehgarh Sahib, Fazilka and Gurdaspur, and one each died in Barnala, Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Mohali. When this report was filed, 68 people were in a critical condition and on ventilator support, and 491 on oxygen support. At 211, Jalandhar contributed the highest number of cases. It was followed 182 cases in Gurdaspur, 140 in Ludhiana, 115 in Faridkot, 109 in Patiala, 85 each in Hoshiarpur and Mohali, 84 in Ferozepur, 81 in Amritsar, 65 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 56 in Pathankot, 54 in Moga, 46 in Kapurthala, 40 in Barnala, 37 in Fazilka, 30 in Mansa, 21 in Ropar, 25 in Sangrur, eight in Nawanshahr, and two in Tarn Taran. A total of 2,036 people were discharged after recovering during the day, taking the tally of discharged patients to 30,972. Of them, 489 were in Ludhiana, 447 in Ferozepur, 401 in Mohali, 145 in Jalandhar, 106 in Amritsar, 68 in Bathinda, 56 in Sangrur, 46 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 41 in Gurdaspur, 36 in Faridkot, 30 in Muktsar, 26 in Hoshiarpur, 21 in Nawanshahr, 20 in Tarn Taran, 16 each in Pathankot and Kapurthala, eight in Mansa, and six in Moga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-toll-1307-as-51-die/articleshow/77819438.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Sangli MP threatens to start agitation||Kolhapur: Sanjaykaka Patil, the Sangli MP who belongs to the BJP, has threatened to start an agitation along with the relatives of Covid-19 patients who died due to the shortage of beds. Patil has given a two-day ultimatum to the administration to make health staff and ventilators available in the rural health centres. He also said several non-Covid patients have also died after they were denied admission to the public and private hospitals for urgent treatment. Earlier, Patil had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking transfer of the district collector and municipal commissioner. “Over the past couple of weeks, patients are dying and the number of cases is increasing rapidly. There is a lack of coordination among various departments. The rural health centres are neglected. The patients are taken to Sangli and Miraj where they are dying. The relatives have to wait for 1-2 days to get the beds with ventilators or oxygen,” said Patil. He said he met district collector Abhijeet Chaudhary and asked him to step up the efforts. “We are told that there is a staff shortage. I am ready with 400-500 volunteers who can help the administration. I am going to agitate with the relatives of the patients if the situation worsens over the next two days,” he added. Chaudhary said, “We have 1,500 beds in the district, of which, 400 are ICU beds. We are increasing the number of beds and bed availability can be known from our portal. We are also increasing hospitals in the district.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sangli-mp-threatens-to-start-agitation/articleshow/77810630.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Nashik||Up to 40 high-risk contacts being traced per patient in Nashik||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to increase the number of high-risk contacts traced per Covid-19 patients from 22 to 40. A civic official said the corporation has taken this decision to find the maximum number of suspected Covid-19 cases and break the chain. “So far, the NMC has traced around 7 lakh high- and low-risk contacts of Covid patients. Of them, 3% have tested positive. Also, around 28% are high-risk contacts, while the remaining 72% are the low-risk,” he said. “The health teams of the civic body immediately track down the contacts of a patient after s/he is tested positive. Initially, we used to trace nine contacts, but gradually increased the number to 23. It is now 40,” he added. Currently, the city has 3,230 active patients from 1,136 containment zones of the city. On April 6, the city had sealed the first containment zone in Manohar Nagar. Till date, the civic body has drawn as many as 4,790 containment zones. The NMC has deployed a team of 400 health officials and staff to conduct a survey of Covid-19 suspects in all the 1,136 active containment zones. Moreover, the NMC is also conducting around 17,000-1800 tests — 80% antigen tests and remaining RT PCR tests — every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/up-to-40-high-risk-contacts-being-traced-per-patient/articleshow/77810628.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 29, 2020||Mysuru||State to promote local cattle breeds||S Ramesh Mysuru: The department of animal husbandry and veterinary sciences has decided to conserve and promote indigenous cow breeds such as Mysuru’s pride Amrit Mahal, Malenadu Gidda and other domestic breeds in 17 districts of Karnataka by encouraging cattle growers under National Insemination and Impregnation Programme. The department has initiated steps to promote more than 25 local breeds like Hallikar, Rathi, Red Sindhi under the new drive as the state is witnessing a constant decline in the number of indigenous varieties with farmers preferring Jersey and Holstein Friesian (HF) breeds which yield more milk than the local variety, said sources in the department. Speaking to TOI, deputy director of animal husbandry of veterinary sciences, Shivamogga district,T M Sadashiva, said that drive has been launched 0in 17 districts. The drive gains significance as there has been rising demand for milk and other products from indigenous cows. The drive will cover about 50 to 200 desi cattle in each village and the government has set the target of 500 villages for the programme. Most desi cows produce 1,700 to 2,250 kilograms of milk in standard home conditions — much lower than HF and Jersey varieties with yield over 6,500 kilogram per lactation cycle, said the officer. He also said the government is also providing interest free loans up to Rs 7,000 per cattle head for the maintenance of local breeds. Farmers with Kisan Credit Cards can avail this loan facility in all public sector and cooperative banks. Government has also initiated steps to tag desi cattle across the country which will provide a unique identity to them, thereby helping collect details of breed productivity and approximate age. “There is huge demand for desi cow milk and majority of farmers are going for organic farming these days at both domestic, national and international level,” said Mysuru Milk Union Limited Director K C Balaram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/state-to-promote-local-cattle-breeds/articleshow/77810626.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Goa||Aguada jail museum to greet people from Feb||Calangute: The museum at the erstwhile central jail complex at Fort Aguada in Sinquerim will be thrown open to the public around February next year, said minister for ports Michael Lobo. Lobo inspected the ongoing work of the jail complex restoration on Friday along with Candolim panchayat members, GTDC officials and others. “Around 90% of the work is complete and the remaining will be completed by December. Installation of the exhibits will begin thereafter and may take around two months,” he said. Envisaged as a museum to depict Goa’s freedom struggle, it has now been decided to have galleries on Goan artefacts too. “We want to showcase the Goa during the Portuguese era and the Goa of today. I appeal to Goans who have historical artefacts to come forward and donate them. Goa’s freedom struggle history will also be showcased. It will be the only of its kind museum,” Lobo said. He said Nandan Khudchadkar, owner of the Calizz private museum in Candolim, has agreed to hand over his collection of Goan artefacts to the museum. The collection comprises traditional household items, tools used by Goan craftsmen, etc. Lobo said restoration of Fort Aguada along with the museum is being done at a cost of Rs 25 crore through funds from the Centre as part of the Swadesh Darshan scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aguada-jail-museum-to-greet-people-from-feb/articleshow/77813292.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Developers hail stamp duty move||Kolhapur: Developers from Kolhapur city have welcomed the state government’s decision of reduction in stamp duty charges for new property registration, but are expecting some changes in the development control rules for initiating new projects. The developers have said that the earlier rules are not conducive for development in the city which has very few land parcels of large stretches left for development. The earlier rules prohibit the developers from taking up new projects on small-sized lands. The restrictions regarding the building size has impeded the growth of the realty sector in last few years. Vidyanand Bedekar, president of Credai Kolhapur, said, “No doubt the prices of properties will come down due to the reduction in stamp duty. We are hoping for changes in the development laws which are expected to be finalised by mid of next month. It will address major concern of size of the building which is restricted in relation to the road width. There are very few land parcels where planned road has more width than that is required for tall buildings.” For urban areas, the stamp duty is reduced from 5% to 2% till December end. For rural areas, it has been cut down from 4% to 1%. Post that, the stamp duty will be 3% and 2% respectively for urban and rural areas till March next year. “Buyers who had dropped their plan of purchasing a flat due to lockdown can now buy their dream home,” said Bedekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/developers-hail-stamp-duty-move/articleshow/77810623.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Delhi||Jeweller staffer siphons off Rs 2 crore in Delhi||NEW DELHI: An accountant with a jeweller in Karol Bagh was arrested by Economic Offences Wing of Delhi Police for embezzling Rs 2 crore and spending the money on subscriptions of a Chinese sex chat application. He would transfer the money from his employer’s account into his mobile wallet and spend it on chatting on the app. The jeweller lodged a complaint with police against the accountant, Mahesh Bodola, and another employee, Sarad Agarwal. They fled after the matter came to light. The complainant told police that Badola had been working with him for the past 17 years. He had given him access to his bank accounts and even allowed him to link his phone number with them. The jeweller found that Rs 2 crore had been spent since April 2019. A scrutiny revealed that the amount was transferred to a wallet and then to an app called BIGO. “The wallet service provider confirmed that the amount had been transferred to BIGO. A bulk of the funds were transferred to another online payment application,” said OP Mishra, joint commissioner, EOW. After Badola could not be traced, he was declared a proclaimed offender by a court. He was tracked down to a village in UP and arrested. During interrogation, Badola said that he was addicted to the lewd live chat app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jeweller-staffer-siphons-off-rs-2cr/articleshow/77813271.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Nashik||NMC survey finds 34,000 comorbid patients||Nashik: As per the civic body’s primary survey report, people with comorbidities — including critical illnesses like diabetes, blood pressure, cancer and other diseases — account for roughly 2.7% of the city’s population. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) is conducting a survey of the comorbid patients and it has already surveyed 12.3 lakh people in the city. This is nearly 75% of the Nashik city’s population. So far, 34,000 people with comorbid conditions have been identified. The survey of the remaining population is expected to be completed within a week or two. The survey was launched in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. NMC figures show that almost 30% of the patients who have succumbed to the infection in the city had other comorbid conditions. “We have deployed 600 teachers from NMC schools to conduct a survey of people with comorbidities. We are conducting health check-ups of comorbid patients and testing those with Covid-like symptoms,” said the NMC officials. “We have already increased the number of antigen tests of suspected Covid-19 patients in the city over the past month for early detection. An antigen test takes only 20-25 minutes to find out whether the suspected patient is Covid-19 positive or not,” they said. “So far, over 40,000 antigen tests have been conducted and more than 5,000 people have tested Covid-19 positive. An NGO has provided 20 mobile clinics for screening and testing of Covid-19 suspects in the city to break the chain of coronavirus,” added the officials. The results have yielded good results as early detection of patients and immediate treatment has helped increase the recovery rate and reduce the death rate of Covid-19 patients over the past month. Intensive survey also underway in Manmad Health officials in Manmad have also started an intensive survey of people with comorbid conditions and those aged above 60 years to keep a close watch on the high-risk groups. Manmad, a city with a population of over 90,000, had seen a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases about a month ago. So far, the city has reported more than 400 cases, but had only 45 active cases on Thursday. Citizens have been given homeopathy tablets to boost immunity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-survey-finds-34000-comorbid-patients/articleshow/77810636.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 29, 2020||Gurgaon||Soon, traffic alerts on Twitter to help commuters avoid snarls on rainy days||Gurgaon: The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is working on a traffic management plan for the monsoon, which will alert residents of diversions on social media in case of heavy rains. The plan, which is being drafted by GMDA along with the traffic police, is likely to be ready in the next couple of weeks. DCP (traffic) and GMDA mobility division chief Chander Mohan said the plan will aim to cut down traffic jams in case of a heavy downpour. “We will be looking at alternate routes that can be opened if rainwater collects on a particular road. For instance, on MG Road, we can open gates of the societies along the road, which aren’t open otherwise to reduce traffic on the stretch,” said the DCP. He added that they will be studying major roads in the city, especially those susceptible to waterlogging, and have diversions in place much in advance based on the weather forecast. “We will study the routes and alternate diversions. For instance, if there is waterlogging on Golf Course Road, some traffic can be diverted to Gurgaon-Faridabad road,” he said. These changes and diversions will be communicated to commuters through social media channels such as Twitter. Meanwhile, talks are also on with Google on updating real-time data about waterlogging and diversions on Google Maps. “If we give them authorised data on traffic jams or diversions and it is updated in real time, it will help all those using GPS. Commuters can then avoid routes with heavy traffic, which will help us as well,” Mohan told TOI. He added that the plan will be ready in the next two weeks. Once it is ready, it will be placed in the public domain for people to view it and submit suggestions. “We will analyse the suggestions and incorporate the ones feasible in the final plan,” Mohan said. GMDA, along with other government bodies, will also be drafting a long-term plan to address the drainage problems in the city. Traffic jams are a big problem during rainy days, as arterial roads in the city — including Golf Course Road, Sohna Road and NH-8 — often get choked due to rain slowing down traffic. Sewa Ram, a town planner at School of Planning and Architecture, had earlier told TOI that the city administration must devise a traffic plan for the monsoon. “The government needs to appoint responsible officers who can proactively manage traffic in case rainwater gets accumulated. Trouble points can be identified in advance and officers can be appointed accordingly,” Ram said. He has also worked with GMDA on the city’s mobility management plan, the draft for which was published last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/soon-traffic-alerts-on-twitter-to-help-commuters-avoid-snarls-on-rainy-days/articleshow/77806102.cms||Shubhra Pant
August 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Amid pandemic, Punjab’s virology lab plan opposed||Jalandhar: The Punjab Bachao Manch has opposed setting up of a virology lab near Chandigarh in Punjab, claiming that setting up of a Biosafety Level-4 (BSL-IV) lab in a densely-populated state would pose a major threat in case of an accident or sabotage. The Manch, which has former bureaucrats, doctors and activists as its members, has said such institutions are potential danger spots, from which pandemics for humans, domestic animals and agriculture crops could originate due to sabotage or accident. International experts are of the opinion that such facilities should be set up in isolated places, it said. “Punjab is a densely populated state… Any transmission of infection from the proposed institution of virology by accident or otherwise may result in spread of pandemic in humans, animals or food crops and this would be disastrous from the entire north-western region as well as the country,” reads the statement released by Punjab coordinator of the Manch Dr Jiwanjot Kaur, a gynaecologist. The Manch has on its board retired IAS officer Harkesh Singh Sidhu, human rights activists Paramjit Kaur Khalra, Gurbachan Singh and Manwinder Singh Giaspura. The Manch has also pointed out that Punjab is a border state and prone to terror attacks and it is also in the earthquake-prone zone (Seismic Zone 4). “Experts are of the view that the site for BSL-3/BSL-4 facility should be out of high risk of earthquake zone. This is necessary, otherwise damage caused to such a facility by a high-intensity earthquakes would further aggravate the damage caused by the quake. Even if such damage is caused to the buildings, it may cause spillage or leakage of dangerous material kept in laboratories which may lead to catastrophe,” says the Manch. It has also made an appeal to the Punjab and Union governments to reconsider their decision, and asked NGOs and activists to raise the issue while also urging the MLAs and MPs of the state to look into the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/amid-pandemic-punjabs-virology-lab-plan-opposed/articleshow/77813273.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Nagpur||Hearing on tree felling put off||Nagpur: Following objections from environmentalists, the civic body postponed the public hearing of large-scale tree felling for Smart City Project Roads. The decision was taken a day after TOI reported about the opposition from environment activists towards the sudden hearing during the ongoing pandemic. Earlier this year, Smart City Project special purpose vehicle Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSCDCL) had sought permission to cut 139 trees for construction of five roads in Smart City Project area. Activists had filed objection letters with the garden department of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), seven months after which NMC called for a public hearing which was scheduled on the evening of August 28. In a letter submitted to the garden department and tree authority of NMC in the morning of the same day, honorary wildlife warden of Nagpur Jaydeep Das requested the authorities to adjourn the proposed hearing. “At a time when the judiciary is holding hearings virtually, it is disturbing to note that the NMC is asking us to remain physically present with all the documents in such a short notice. NMC premises is highly contaminated with Covid-19 and it is not at all prudent to call us in the middle of an outbreak,” he wrote. Founder of Green Vigil Kaustav Chatterjee too demanded postponement of the hearing, highlighting that corona pandemic is at its peak in the city. Taking cognisance of their views, NMC decided to postpone the meeting. Officials said that the meeting would be held when the situation is better and safe for everyone. Following opposition from activists, a team of officials including Mahesh Moroney, deputy CEO of NSSCDCL and environment NGO Green Vigil Foundation had conducted a joint survey in January this year and decided to save at least 30-35% of the trees at the five road stretches. Activists have demanded that similar surveys and public hearing for all the pending cases should be conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hearing-on-tree-felling-put-off/articleshow/77811925.cms||Manka Behl
August 29, 2020||Delhi||ED gets Tahir Hussain’s custody in northeast Delhi riots case||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Friday granted six days’ custody to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to interrogate former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain, who has been accused in several northeast Delhi riots-related cases. Additional sessions judge deemed fit to allow the ED plea in the interest of an “effective and proper” investigation. Special prosecutor, ED, N K Matta had sought Hussain’s custody for 14 days on the grounds that it was a suspected case of money laundering. He submitted that Hussain carried out the laundering and other “fraudulent” acts of cheating and forgery as part of a criminal conspiracy. The directorate claimed to have searched Hussain’s premises and found “incriminating documents and digital devices”. The agency contended that it had recorded statements of several persons, besides recovering WhatsApp chats and “bogus” invoices. The money laundering case is believed to have been registered by ED on the basis of an alleged money transaction, which was stumbled upon during its investigation. It accused Hussain of not cooperating in its investigation and hence highlighted the requirement to confront him with the seized documents and various persons. The court directed the jail authorities to conduct a Covid-19 test on Hussain and following the test report, hand over his custody to ED. Hussain was recently chargesheeted in the alleged murder case of Intelligence Bureau officer Ankit Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ed-gets-tahirs-custody-in-ne-delhi-riots-case/articleshow/77813277.cms||Aamir Khan
August 29, 2020||Ghaziabad||Faulty design, clogged drains behind flooding||GHAZIABAD: The problem of flooding of the Gaushala underpass is as old as the underpass itself. Though the problem started when the flyover was inaugurated 20 years ago, but the flooding accentuated after 2013 when the area saw a population influx. The Ghaziabad municipal corporation (GMC), however, said that the faulty design of the underpass is behind the frequent flooding. Municipal commissioner Mahender Singh Tawar said, “The underpass is on a low lying area and during rains, water from drains overflow on the road and accumulates in the underpass. During heavy rainfall, water in the underpass reaches up to 9 feet. The rate of water accumulating in the Gaushala underpass is far more than the water discharge rate and this leads to flooding. The water takes more than three hours to clear on its own.” GMC councilor Rajender Tyagi said that the design of the underpass has no provision of pumps to suck out the water. “Besides, the manholes are also clogged and sometimes, waste water from Vijay Nagar trunk line also flows into the underpass.” Tyagi added that 20 years ago when the underpass was inaugurated, drainage system of the adjoining areas such as Jassipura, Gaushala and Shivpuri was sufficient but over the years there has been an influx in the population of the area and the drainage system was never revamped apart from some short-term solutions. In 2018, the civid body claimed that it has rectified the clogging of drains and a machine was also installed to pump out the excess water but residents said that the machine was later removed by the civic body. TP Tyagi, a resident, said, “The underpass was constructed by the railways after several demands by residents who faced difficulty in crossing the rail line in Vijay Nagar area. However, it seems that no attention was paid to create a proper drainage system to flush out waste or rain water. And the GMC also came up with short-term measures such as widening the drains but it didn’t have much effect.” GMC officials, however, maintained that they are planning to install pumps in the underpass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/faulty-design-clogged-drains-behind-flooding/articleshow/77813282.cms||Abhijay Jha
August 29, 2020||Hyderabad||RWAs, health dept discuss areas of cooperation||Hyderabad: Residential Welfare Associations (RWAs) of the city have expressed willingness to handle call centres, take up ward-wise home isolation monitoring and suggested that Covid-19 combat initiatives could first be taken up in 10-15 locations where RWAs are active. In a meeting with health minister Eatala Rajender, members of United Federation of Resident Welfare Associations (UFERWAS) highlighted the areas of possible cooperation. “RWAs can get involved in helping the Primary Health Centres (PHCs) in various areas of twin cities, for community testing facilities in respective community areas monitored by PHCs or other organizations like CCMB,” BT Srinivasan, general secretary of UFERWAS said. The members requested the government for active interaction between health department officials and to give them more access to the facilities provided by the state government. The members informed officials that some institutes providing Covid treatment are asking for confirmation from government doctors for admission. The authorities said that there will be a helpdesk provided by the state government at such private institutes and patients can directly approach them. Director of public health Dr G Srinivasa Rao said that there will be a WhatsApp group to coordinate convergence efforts with UFERWAS. Health department officials urged RWA members to help in spreading awareness in suburban areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rwas-health-dept-discuss-areas-of-cooperation/articleshow/77813283.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 29, 2020||Lucknow||50% attendance and 9.30am in time must for govt offices: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: CM Yogi Adityanath said on Friday that at least 50% staff must remain present at government offices at any given point of time. He also directed senior officials to take action against those who are not in office by 9.30 am. Following the CM's directions, various government offices were inspected on Friday to see whether staff was reporting for work. Chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari conducted a surprise inspection at the offices of the Commissioner and Registrar of Cooperatives and found that a massive 90% of the employees were absent. A livid CS has directed officials to deduct wages of those who were absent and to initiate departmental inquiry against them. The CM has also directed all district magistrates, chief development officers, chief medical officers, SSP and SP-rank police officials to dedicate two hours from 11am to 1pm each day for interaction with the public. He said that they should hold their Covid meeting from 9 am to 10 am, carry out inspections for an hour after that and then spend two hours meeting the public.Meanwhile, after the CS’s inspection of the Commissioner and Registrar of Cooperatives office, he said: “The absence of most of the staff during office hours clearly indicates that there is indiscipline in the office and lack of administrative control. This is uncalled for and strict action will be taken against absent staff members, including salary cut and departmental enquiry. We will also fix responsibility for something like this being allowed to happen.” Sources in the CS office said that Tiwari reached the reception of the Cooperative building at 9.40 am and found nobody there. During the inspection of the office, he found that the additional commissioner and additional registrar Shivendra Kumar, additional commissioner and additional registrar Kripashankar, additional commissioner and additional registrar Alok Singh, additional commissioner and additional registrar RK Singh, financial adviser P K Aggarwal, deputy commissioner and deputy registrar R K Kulshrestha, deputy inspection commissioner and deputy registrar Ashok Kumar, assistant commissioner Shraddha Anang, assistant commissioner Abhay Singh, assistant commissioner Mohsin, assistant registrar Swati Aggarwal, assistant commissioner Ramsagar, assistant accountant Geeta Pushkar and accounts officer Rajendra Singh Negi were found missing. Except for two employees, all others were missing in the purchase sales section, education section and development section. No employees were present in the Consumer and Public Information Section.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/50-attendance-and-9-30am-in-time-must-for-govt-offices-cm/articleshow/77814081.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Ragpicker drowns in flooded underpass after saving boy||GHAZIABAD: An 18-year-old ragpicker drowned while saving a child in the flooded Gaushala underpass during Friday’s rains in the city. His body was fished out by divers later. The low-lying underpass is inundated every monsoon, and children can often be seen swimming there. According to police, Arjun alias Haddi lived with a group of ragpickers near the Ghaziabad railway station. SP (city) Abhishek Verma told TOI that the incident took place around 1pm on Friday, when a few children were swimming in the water collected in the underpass. Arjun was passing by with his friend Guddu when he heard a 12-year-old boy shouting for help. “The underpass suddenly got filled with a lot of water due to heavy rain, and the boy couldn’t swim out. Arjun jumped into the water and managed to save the child, but himself drowned. Though his friend raised the alarm, he couldn’t be rescued in time. Divers later fished out his body from the water,” the SP said. Police said they are trying to trace his family to inform them about the incident. “Locals and his friend Guddu said Arjun had been living in Ghaziabad with the ragpickers since he was eight years old and had no family here. Arjun had told them his family died in an accident in Bihar when he was a child, after which he came to Ghaziabad,” said Devendra Bisht, SHO of Vijay Nagar police station. “We are trying to trace his family members. We have sent his photos to different police stations of the state and Delhi-NCR,” the SHO added. Ghaziabad municipal commissioner Mahender Singh Tawar blamed flaws in the engineering design of the Gaushala underpass for the flooding. “We visited the spot after the incident, and I was told that the flooding of Gaushala underpass is a very old and recurrent problem. Every time it rains, it gets inundated. The underpass was constructed by the railways many years ago, and since it is in a low-lying area, rainwater from higher areas accumulates there,” Tawar said. He added, “There is an inherent engineering design fault behind the problem. GMC had recently constructed a drain abutting the underpass to channelise accumulated rainwater, but it takes two to three hours for water to pass through the drain. Till that time, it remains completely submerged.” Meanwhile, mayor Asha Sharma said she had directed officials to set up automatic drainage systems in all such underpasses. “In Gaushala underpass, rainwater accumulates to dangerous levels, and it takes hours for it to be cleared. If the drains are choked, the situation becomes even more difficult. I have directed the authorities to make arrangements for an automatic drainage system, so that rainwater does not accumulate in the area,” she said. Watch Shocking: Ragpicker drowns in flooded underpass after saving boy in Ghaziabad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/ragpicker-drowns-in-flooded-underpass-after-saving-boy/articleshow/77813274.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
August 29, 2020||Nashik||Active case tally rises in Malegaon||NASHIK: A sharp rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in Malegaon town during the last fortnight has resulted in drop in recovery rate from 76% to 65%. On Thursday, the number of active patients stood at 710 as compared to 292 on August 11. The recent patients are reported mostly from Malegaon West. “Malegaon East was the hotbed of Covid-19 cases earlier when the entire country was in lockdown mode. Later, the number of cases rose in Malegaon West when the unlock phase began. This has affected the recovery percentage that has nosedived 10 points,” health officials from Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) noted. Besides, night curfew that has been introduced in Malegaon, the health department is also taking up various measures for patients in early stages of the infection. On August 23, Malegaon civic body had organised a free health check-up camp with the help of private practitioners for people aged 15 and above to check for their health and prevalence of the disease among them. However, only 102 people benefited from the camp where 37 medics and paramedics campaigned across the centres all day long. “We were expecting at least 1,500 people at the camps organised at various places in western areas, but it did not help,” a health officer from the municipal corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/active-case-tally-rises-in-malegaon/articleshow/77810654.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 29, 2020||Gurgaon||Illegal farmhouses: Departments to give action taken report||Gurgaon: The Haryana chief secretary on Thursday held a review meeting, during which he directed the Gurgaon deputy commissioner to collect reports from all the departments concerned — forest, mining, town and country planning and the Municipal Corporation of Gurgaon (MCG) — on action taken against the illegal farmhouses in Bandhwari area of the Aravalis. The deputy commissioner will then file a combined report before the Supreme Court. The move comes after the top court took suo motu cognisance of a TOI report about a hillock that had been flattened to build an access road to the unauthorised colony of 50 farmhouses in Bandhwari village, off Gurgaon-Faridabad road. The court had sought a report from the CS and directed the district magistrate (deputy commissioner) and police authorities to take action. Moreover, the apex court also made Gurgaon Police a party in the case and asked them to submit an action taken report. A joint demolition drive had been undertaken by the MCG and the DTCP on Wednesday, in which eight properties were razed. The drive resumed at 11am on Thursday and continued till 6pm, during which several more structures were brought down. “We have demolished most of the farmhouses. Some of them had massive structures such as swimming pools, badminton courts and other facilities,” district town planner RS Batth said, adding that five JCB machines had been used for the purpose. Some more structures are expected to be demolished on Friday. MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said immediate action had been taken after the SC took cognisance of the matter. “Our primary focus was to restore the area. In the last two days, almost all farmhouses, barring a few, have been demolished and we have brought down every illegal structure,” Singh said. The authorities also plan to file an FIR against the developer. “A criminal complaint is being filed by the DTCP,” he added. DCP (east) Chander Mohan said an FIR will be filed in the matter as soon as they receive a complaint. “Government agencies are taking action and they are expected to file a complaint on the basis of which an FIR will be registered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/illegal-farmhouses-depts-to-give-action-taken-report/articleshow/77806134.cms||Bagish Jha
August 29, 2020||Nashik||NMC refuses to pay Rs 53cr to WRD||Nashik: The civic administration has decided not to pay the re-establishment cost of Rs 53 crore to the water resources department (WRD). It has also decided to study the Nagpur pattern of generating income from the treated water being provided to India Bulls plant in Sinnar. The decisions were taken by mayor Satish Kulkarni during a meeting with functionaries from all parties and officials from Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Friday. The water reservation agreement of NMC with WRD is pending for 15 years. The WRD is demanding re-establishment cost of Rs 53 crore due to the rise in NMC’s quota for water reserved in the dams. Sudharkar Badgujar from Shiv Sena, Shahu Khaire from the Congress, NCP’s Gajanan Shelar and senior corporator Gurumit Bagga were the ones to bring to the notice of the attendees of the meeting about the Nagpur civic body, which is providing recycled water to the MSEDCL and fetching Rs 15 crore revenue annually. The NMC is supplying over 500 million litres per day (MLD) water to the city. Around 65% effluent is generated every day. This effluent is recycled at the nine sewage treatment plants (STPs) run by the civic body and released into the Godavari river. “The recycled water is being given to India Bulls plant at Sinnar. The WRD is again charging on this recycled water from India Bulls. How can WRD charge for the quota of water for which NMC has already paid? The NMC should get this amount in line with the Nagpur pattern,” said Badgujar. Accordingly, Kulkarni directed the civic officials to study the agreement between the Nagpur civic body and the MSEDCL for distribution of recycled water. The party group leaders also brought to the notice of the mayor and civic officials that there was a provision in the agreement between NMC and WRD signed in 2004 that the latter will bear the re-establishment cost. Hence, the WRD should not levy any charges . The mayor said that he would pursue all the disputes with district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal and state WRD minister Jayant Patil and also seek for increasing the water quota for Nashik to meet the needs of the city. Kulkarni further said that he would appoint a senior NMC officials at the rank of the deputy commissioner to pursue the matter of adequate water reservation for the city with the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-refuses-to-pay-rs-53cr-to-wrd/articleshow/77810680.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Haryana cases breach 60,000-mark, 15 succumb||CHANDIGARH: Haryana on Friday reported its highest number of Covid-19 fatalities in a day, 15, and got 1,298 new patients, taking the state’s total to 60,596 confirmed cases and 661 deaths. Also, active cases in the state reached 10,225 — the first time they reached the five-figure mark. With 1,020 patients gettingdischarged after they tested negative, the number of recoveries rose to 49,710 and the recovery rate settled at 82.04%. The doubling rate has now reached 34 days. In a first, six districts in the state reported 100 or more cases. Gurugram got the highest number of new patients, 126, and its total rose to 11,569 with 132 deaths. Faridabad reported 115 new patients and one death, taking over overall district total to 12,304 cases with 168 deaths. Hisar emerged as a new hotspot and recorded 110 new confirmed cases and one death. Panipat reported 104 new patients with two deaths. Sonipat and Karnal reported 100 new patients each. Karnal also reported three deaths. Yamunanagar reported 81 new patients. In Ambala, 80 new patients took the tally to 3,510. Kurukshetra reported 76 new cases with one death. Rohtak reported 63 new cases and one death. In Panchkula, 56 new cases and two deaths took the district total to 1,979 cases and 17 deaths. Rewari got 54 new patients with two deaths. Mahindergarh reported 53 new cases. Sirsa reported 44 new patients with one death and the district total reached 1,210 cases with 12 deaths. Kaithal reported 42 new cases. In Bhiwani, 28 people tested positive, followed by 24 in Jhajjar, 20 new cases and a death in Fatehabad, 13 new cases in Palwal, and nine in Nuh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-cases-breach-60k-mark-15-succumb/articleshow/77813288.cms||Manvir Saini
August 29, 2020||Noida||Waterlogging chokes Noida, Ghaziabad yet again after heavy rains||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: Heavy rains left several parts of Ghaziabad and Noida flooded yet again on Friday and caused a pile-up of traffic at key intersections. The showers also washed away the monsoon preparedness claim of the civic authorities. The heavy downpour started around 11am and within a couple of hours, several areas like Vasundhara, Vaishali, Indirapuram, Vijaynagar and Gandhinagar were submerged by the rainwater. And in rural Ghaziabad, water entered several houses in low-lying areas like Shastri Nagar and Kavinagar. The Navyug Market office of the Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation, which claimed to have completed desilting of all the major drains of the city, was itself inundated. Across Ghaziabad, commuters had a harrowing time battling snarls and navigating through the waterlogged stretches. The Ghaziabad traffic police’s recently launched 'rain scheme' to tackle congestion by not allowing heavy vehicles, save buses, during showers at 18 key points also fell flat due to waterlogging. Though the rain scheme was implemented at all the 18 points, including Lal Kuan, Meerut Tiraha, Loni Tiraha, Tigri underpass, UP Gate, Bhopura U-turn, Tulsi Niketan road and Balram Nagar U-turn, vehicular movement was hampered as over 50 four-wheelers broke down due to waterlogging. Cops said cranes were sent to all these 18 points but they faced issues while towing away the stalled vehicles. Vehicular movement was stopped on the elevated road from Raj Nagar extension. Due to this, traffic congestion was reported on Link Road and GT Road. Ramanand Kushwaha, SP (traffic), said, “We implemented the rain scheme around by 12pm and deployed around 1,000 cops to manage traffic across the district. We had also diverted vehicles from Meerut Tiraha and Lal Kuan, and banned heavy vehicles (except buses) during the showers,” he said. In neighbouring Noida too, waterlogging led to commuter woes across arterial and inner roads, especially under the Mahamaya flyover where commuters could be seen battling accumulated water that had risen to at least two feet height. While many two-wheeler riders were videographed stranded under the flyover, cars too slowed down on the stretch till the water was pumped out from the area by Friday afternoon. Commuters battled waterlogging at the Mahamaya-Dalit Prerna Sthal stretch, the Gaushala road, the Sector 16 intersection, Sector 10-20 intersection, etc. Further, the inner roads of many of the sectors, including sectors 19, 20, 25, 27 and 18, too developed pools of water although traffic situation eased out by the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/waterlogging-chokes-noida-gzb-yet-again-after-heavy-rains/articleshow/77813293.cms||Shikha Salaria
August 29, 2020||Ghaziabad||Waterlogging chokes Noida, Ghaziabad yet again after heavy rains||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: Heavy rains left several parts of Ghaziabad and Noida flooded yet again on Friday and caused a pile-up of traffic at key intersections. The showers also washed away the monsoon preparedness claim of the civic authorities. The heavy downpour started around 11am and within a couple of hours, several areas like Vasundhara, Vaishali, Indirapuram, Vijaynagar and Gandhinagar were submerged by the rainwater. And in rural Ghaziabad, water entered several houses in low-lying areas like Shastri Nagar and Kavinagar. The Navyug Market office of the Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation, which claimed to have completed desilting of all the major drains of the city, was itself inundated. Across Ghaziabad, commuters had a harrowing time battling snarls and navigating through the waterlogged stretches. The Ghaziabad traffic police’s recently launched 'rain scheme' to tackle congestion by not allowing heavy vehicles, save buses, during showers at 18 key points also fell flat due to waterlogging. Though the rain scheme was implemented at all the 18 points, including Lal Kuan, Meerut Tiraha, Loni Tiraha, Tigri underpass, UP Gate, Bhopura U-turn, Tulsi Niketan road and Balram Nagar U-turn, vehicular movement was hampered as over 50 four-wheelers broke down due to waterlogging. Cops said cranes were sent to all these 18 points but they faced issues while towing away the stalled vehicles. Vehicular movement was stopped on the elevated road from Raj Nagar extension. Due to this, traffic congestion was reported on Link Road and GT Road. Ramanand Kushwaha, SP (traffic), said, “We implemented the rain scheme around by 12pm and deployed around 1,000 cops to manage traffic across the district. We had also diverted vehicles from Meerut Tiraha and Lal Kuan, and banned heavy vehicles (except buses) during the showers,” he said. In neighbouring Noida too, waterlogging led to commuter woes across arterial and inner roads, especially under the Mahamaya flyover where commuters could be seen battling accumulated water that had risen to at least two feet height. While many two-wheeler riders were videographed stranded under the flyover, cars too slowed down on the stretch till the water was pumped out from the area by Friday afternoon. Commuters battled waterlogging at the Mahamaya-Dalit Prerna Sthal stretch, the Gaushala road, the Sector 16 intersection, Sector 10-20 intersection, etc. Further, the inner roads of many of the sectors, including sectors 19, 20, 25, 27 and 18, too developed pools of water although traffic situation eased out by the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/waterlogging-chokes-noida-gzb-yet-again-after-heavy-rains/articleshow/77815482.cms||Shikha Salaria
August 29, 2020||Faridabad||Covid-19: Haryana cases breach 60,000-mark, 15 succumb||CHANDIGARH: Haryana on Friday reported its highest number of Covid-19 fatalities in a day, 15, and got 1,298 new patients, taking the state’s total to 60,596 confirmed cases and 661 deaths. Also, active cases in the state reached 10,225 — the first time they reached the five-figure mark. With 1,020 patients gettingdischarged after they tested negative, the number of recoveries rose to 49,710 and the recovery rate settled at 82.04%. The doubling rate has now reached 34 days. In a first, six districts in the state reported 100 or more cases. Gurugram got the highest number of new patients, 126, and its total rose to 11,569 with 132 deaths. Faridabad reported 115 new patients and one death, taking over overall district total to 12,304 cases with 168 deaths. Hisar emerged as a new hotspot and recorded 110 new confirmed cases and one death. Panipat reported 104 new patients with two deaths. Sonipat and Karnal reported 100 new patients each. Karnal also reported three deaths. Yamunanagar reported 81 new patients. In Ambala, 80 new patients took the tally to 3,510. Kurukshetra reported 76 new cases with one death. Rohtak reported 63 new cases and one death. In Panchkula, 56 new cases and two deaths took the district total to 1,979 cases and 17 deaths. Rewari got 54 new patients with two deaths. Mahindergarh reported 53 new cases. Sirsa reported 44 new patients with one death and the district total reached 1,210 cases with 12 deaths. Kaithal reported 42 new cases. In Bhiwani, 28 people tested positive, followed by 24 in Jhajjar, 20 new cases and a death in Fatehabad, 13 new cases in Palwal, and nine in Nuh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/haryana-cases-breach-60k-mark-15-succumb/articleshow/77819470.cms||Manvir Saini
August 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University exams now prove a handful for examiners||NEW DELHI: It isn’t as if the stress caused by Delhi University’s online open-book examinations has come to an end with the conclusion of tests. The nightmare has shifted to the other side. Teachers tasked with evaluating the answer scripts online are logging in to find well over a thousand answer sheets awaiting their attention when they earlier handled 25 a day. A teacher-evaluator in the commerce department was confronted with 1,700 answer sheets, while a mathematics teaching assessing the paper on complex analysis has been left handling 400-800 answer sheets. Though the teachers have not been given a deadline to submit their evaluations, they are stressed about completing the assessment evaluation alongside conducting online classes. There are other problems too. Current and former Academic Council members have written to vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi on the matter. Pankaj Garg, a signatory, described the evaluation burden as “not only unjust, but also unethical”. Garg said, “To add to our woes, there are no instructions on the marking scheme for the evaluation. Head examiners should have been given guidelines to conduct online meetings with the evaluators to ensure uniformity in the evaluation process.” In the new online process, teachers log in with the provided ID and passwords and are guided to their dashboards to access answer sheets assigned to them by the examination department. They press the ‘evaluate now’ button to score the tests. A red mark indicates a student response that hasn’t been evaluated. This turns to green upon completion of the process. A teacher at Sri Venkateswara College, said, “When I logged in to access the complex analysis answers, I was alarmed to see 1,560 sheets. Later, I found there were around 408 answer sheets.” During the offline evaluation process, teachers received a bundle with 25 answer scripts in a day. Two mathematics teachers claimed to have got, respectively, 888 and 930 answer scripts. The worst off seem to be commerce evaluators who have been left handling around 1,700 answer sheets. A professor of the commerce department remarked, “How can you assure quality evaluation when a teacher is loaded with so many answer papers?” Garg, who teaches mathematics in Rajdhani College, said asking an examiner to look at so many answer scripts was against regulations. “A teacher can be asked to evaluate around 150 answer sheets maximum,” he insisted, while also complaining that teachers who did not teach particular subjects had been assigned assessment of those. Alok Kumar of Shri Ram College of Commerce said, “Though I did not teach any course in the final semester, I have been given a login ID. It could be for students who have reappeared for back papers in the first semester. I am yet to log in and check.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-exams-now-prove-a-handful-for-examiners/articleshow/77813327.cms||Shradha Chettri
August 29, 2020||Bhopal||Covid patients in Chhindwara hosp raise a stink at ‘not being shown test reports’||Bhopal: Patients admitted to a Covid-19 ward at Chhindwara district hospital have alleged that they are not being provided with their confirmatory test reports. Doctors, on the other hand, claimed that reports are being shown, but as these are cumulative in nature and contain information about others too, it is not given in hard copy. A 35-year-old woman of Paradsinga village in Chhindwara, who was admitted at a Covid-19 ward in the district hospital, had alleged that despite numerous resquests, she was not shown the report — whether she had tested positive or not. “Normally if a test is conducted and reports are generated, a unique code is sent to the patient’s number and the patient can check the report by using that number, but in this case, it is showing that there is no such report available. And it is not just her ,but there are several patients at the ward who were not provided with their Covid-19 test reports,” said Shweta Battad, a friend of the Covid-19 positive patient. “Moreover, she is a lactating mother and, as per norms, they should not be kept away from their babies, but despite pleas, her baby was kept at another facility. The baby has now returned home,” added Shweta, who is also resident of Paradsinga village. When contacted over the issue, civil surgeon, district hospital, Dr CS Gogiya, said, “Reports are shown to the patients, it is written on their treatment sheets as well and, when a patient is discharged, then detailed report is provided with the discharge ticket. But as reports come to us in a cumulative format, which contains reports of hundreds of other patients, too, the hard copy is not provided to the patients as it is confidential to disclose anyone else’s report to others. But we show the reports individually to positive patients”. “And in case of lactating mothers, we are first getting the infant tested and, if the report is negative, we are keeping the child with mothers as a precaution. I do understand that patients feel bad about it, but it is being done for safety of the infant. We also counsel such patients. They initially feel bad, but later understand the situation,” the civil surgeon added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-patients-in-chhindwara-hosp-raise-a-stink-at-not-being-shown-test-reports/articleshow/77811941.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Gurgaon||FIR filed against directors of CHD Developers for ‘cheating buyers’||Gurgaon: The Economic Offence Wing (EOW) of Delhi Police have registered an FIR against eight people, including the directors and managing director of CHD Developers and Roots Developers, for cheating homebuyers of their under-construction residential project CHD Vann in Sector 71 of Gurgaon. The case has been registered against Rajinder Kumar Mittal and Gaurav Mittal of CHD Developers and Roshni Devi and Dharampal of Roots Developers under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) and 120B (punishment of criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. The project — CHD Vann — was launched by CHD Developers in 2014 and the possession was due in 2017. In their complaint, the homebuyers alleged that the developer collected around Rs 224 crore from 250 homebuyers, but spent only Rs 80 crore for buying land and construction work. “Despite paying more than 80 per cent of the total amount, the project is still incomplete and the work on the project has stopped three years ago,” said SK Malik, a complainant. “The developer fleeced and siphoned off our hard-earned money on the pretext of delivering us our dream house, and are now planning to leave the country to evade any legal action,” the complaint reads. However, the spokesperson of CHD Developer said the project is cash flow positive. “Due to real estate circumstances and Covid-19, new sales are not happening. There is no diversion of funds. It is delay of possession. We are raising funds and construction will start very soon,” he said. Out of 569 flats, including 101 EWS units, in the project, the developer had a share of 295 flats as it is a joint venture project and has already sold 250 flats on an average price of Rs 1.15 crore, a buyer said. “My father retired in 2011 and wanted to buy a house. He gave me half of his retirement money and rest I paid from my savings and booked a flat in CHD Vann in 2014. For last three years, the builder has stopped construction. I am paying rent as well as the EMI. I have also lost my job due to the pandemic,” said Another buyer Raju Gautam adding that the Haryana government should take action against the builder and get project completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/fir-filed-against-directors-of-chd-developers-for-cheating-buyers/articleshow/77806179.cms||Rao Jaswant Singh
August 29, 2020||Bhopal||NEET, JEE must be held on time: MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||INDORE: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday batted for holding Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) and National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) on time. “It’s a matter of children’s future. NEET, JEE exams should be conducted on time so that a year of students can be saved,” Chouhan said. The tests are scheduled for next month. CMs of non-BJP-ruled states — including Punjab, Bengal, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh — have opposed the Centre’s move to hold these all-India exams despite the risk of Covid-19. Chouhan, who was on a day’s visit to Indore on Friday, warned that strict action will be taken against private hospitals for overcharging Covid-19 patients. “Today, I have come to know about some (private) hospitals overcharging Covid-19 patients. I have instructed local administration to prepare a reasonable fee structure for private hospital managements after talks with them,” he said. After inaugurating a super-specialty hospital, the CM said, “We need more beds to tackle the Covid pandemic, and this hospital will help us to meet the challenge. There will be 14 departments but our priority is to treat Corona patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/neet-jee-must-be-held-on-time-shivraj/articleshow/77811983.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Kolkata||Activists urge KMC to protect Kolkata neighbourhoods||KOLKATA: Heritage conservationists, architects and activists have urged KMC to change its outlook towards heritage from preserving monuments and individual buildings of historical, cultural or architectural significance to protecting neighbourhoods that lend a unique character to the city. While acknowledging that cities cannot be turned into museums and will change over time, IIT-Kharagpur associate professor (architecture & regional planning) Sanghamitra Basu said management of change was required so that Kolkata could retain its significance. “We need to evolve rules to help preserve as well as manage the development of precincts that we consider significant to the city heritage,” the member of the KMC heritage preservation committee said. TimesViewA zone-wise focus on conservation efforts has a better chance of being successful than looking at properties piecemeal. This is a proven fact all over the world. Kolkata should learn from this and tweak its heritage-conservation norms.Writer Amit Chaudhuri felt KMC needed to act quickly to help preserve the character of the city and its uniqueness. “It is not Howrah bridge or Victoria that makes Kolkata the city we love but the neighbourhoods with distinctly similar yet different houses. The south has many Art Deco houses while the north has neo-classical features. These houses are being pulled down with alarming regularity,” said the founder of Calcutta Architectural Legacies, a pressure group on heritage conservation. Chaudhuri also argued that areas like Marine Drive or Fort area in Mumbai, Lutyens Delhi or the French quarters in Puducherry weren’t preserved accidentally but because there was law against their destruction. “It isn’t about preserving ancient heritage, it is also about modernity. A lawyer’s house in the 1920s is a unique interpretation of how a person lived in the city, how residents were thinking about neighbourhoods. Kolkata is one of the great cities of modernity. And we need to protect it,” he said, adding that it was imperative for key members of KMC to get themselves informed about heritage precincts and why they were critical for Kolkata. Intach’s GM Kapur pointed to several neighbourhoods like Hastings, Elgin Road, Camac Street and Theatre Road that have been irreversibly altered but felt several others like Purna Das Road, Hindustan Park, Lee Road, Creek Row and Chitpore could still be preserved. “It is crucial that we protect our tangible and intangible heritage,” he said. Urban conservationist Kamalika Bose called for designating heritage precincts to ensure sustainable development of historically and culturally significant areas. “You need legislation to safeguards collective character and look beyond cherry-picking individual architectural landmarks. For Kolkata this is urgent and essential as several neighbourhoods, urban settings and public open spaces can still be saved from irreversible and incongruent change,” she pointed out. Conservation architect Partha Ranjan Das has already submitted a draft on how heritage precincts can be incorporated in the heritage rule under the KMC Act. “We have to look at heritage in a holistic manner,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/activists-urge-kmc-to-protect-city-neighbourhoods/articleshow/77811930.cms||Subhro Niyogi
August 29, 2020||Shimla||136 infected in Himachal, 141 recover from virus||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported 136 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, while 141 patients recovered from the virus. With this, the state’s tally for the number of positive cases reached 5,637, of which 1,413 are active, 4,149 patients have recovered, 31 have died and 42 have migrated out of state. At the time this story was filed, 2,08,609 persons had been tested. Of them, 2,02,471 persons had tested negative and results of 501 samples were awaited. The new patients include three from Bilaspur district, 16 from Chamba, two from Hamirpur, 30 from Kangra, two from Kinnaur, one each from Kullu and Mandi, 12 from Shimla, 35 from Sirmaur, 19 from Solan, and 15 from Una. Among the recovered patients, eight are from Bilaspur, 10 each from Chamba and Kangra, five from Hamirpur, four from Kinnaur, 32 from Mandi, seven from Shimla, 12 from Sirmaur, 47 from Solan, and six from Una. Bilaspur has so far recorded 296 cases, of which 125 are active. Chamba has got 400 cases, of which 105 are active and four patients have died. In Hamirpur, of the total 493 cases, 72 are active and four patients have died. Kangra has recoded 783 cases, of which 170 are active, 607 have recovered and six patients have died. Kinnaur has got 81 cases, of which 23 are active. In Kullu, of the total 271 cases, 41 are active. Lahaul-Spiti has recorded eight cases, of which three are active. Of the total 395 cases in Mandi, 48 are active and seven patients have died. Shimla has got 308 cases, of which 77 are active and two patients have died. In Sirmaur, of the total 789 cases, 248 are active. SolanSolanhas got 1,382 cases, of which 392 cases are active and six have died. Una has got 431 cases, of which 109 are active and one patient has died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/136-infected-in-himachal-141-recover-from-virus/articleshow/77813325.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana reports 2,900 Covid cases, 11 deaths||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Thursday reported 2,932 Covid-19 positive cases, pushing the state’s tally to 1,17,415, even as 11 more persons died from the virus. While the death toll rose to 799, the state public health department said in a bulletin on Friday morning that another healthcare worker died of Covid-19 in the state. A woman sanitation worker at Niloufer hospital died after contracting the virus at work. The Covid fatality rate in the state stands below 1%, lower than the national average of 2%. The government also tested 61,863 samples during the last 24 hours to reach a total of 12,04,343 samples tested. There are 28,941 active cases and 22,097 cases under home isolation at present. While GHMC had 520 cases, Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri reported 218 cases each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-reports-2900-covid-cases-11-deaths/articleshow/77813368.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Aurangabad||4,612 active cases in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: The district has reported 78 fresh Covid cases on Friday, including 45 from Aurangabad Municipal Corporation limit and 33 from the rural parts, taking the total number of active cases to 4,612. So far, Aurangabad district has recorded 22,263 cases. As many as 16,979 patients have recovered from the contagion so far. The total number of deaths due to Covid-19 rose to 672 after eight deaths were reported at the government medical college and hospital (GMCH) on Friday. The deceased include a 34-year-old woman of Golatgaon, a 64-year-old woman from Satara area,in Aurangabad district, a 42-year-old man from Cantonment area, an 88-year-old from Ulkanagri, Garkheda, a 52-year-old from Daigaon Lasur Station, a 78-year-old resident of Dhanora road, Beed, a 55-year-old from Sillod and a 68-year-old from Nagad Tanda, Kannad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4612-active-cases-in-aurangabad/articleshow/77810699.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Family blames police for accidental drowning of youth in rural Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: Family members of a youth have lodged a written complaint with the office of superintendent of police, blaming Pachod police for his accidental death. Suraj Chavan, a 24-year-old from Abdullahpur Tanda — suspecting a police raid at the Ganesh pandal where several young men were playing cards — tried to flee the spot and ended up falling into a well and eventually drowning in Aglawe Gevrai village on Wednesday. After the police registered a case of accidental death, Suraj’s brother Kiran lodged a complaint blaming the police for the death, said assistant inspector Atul Yerme, who heads the Pachod police station. The area police station, as well as the senior officers, however, have refuted the claim that the cops were raiding the particular pandal where these youths were playing cards. Superintendent of police Mokshada Patil has sought a detailed report. Gorakh Bhamre, the assistant superintendent of police heading Paithan division, told TOI, “In the wee hours of Wednesday, the Pachod police carried out a raid in the Abdullahpur and nabbed some people playing cards in a pandal.” Around the same time, some other youths were playing cards at another pandal in Aglawe Gevrai. Police believe some of the youths may have found out about the other raid and felt that the cops might next come for them. The youths who were playing cards were summoned to the police station on Friday and their statements were recorded. “The youths said Suraj was the first to claim that the cops are coming,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/family-blames-police-for-accidental-drowning-of-youth-in-rural-aurangabad/articleshow/77810698.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 29, 2020||Kolkata||Civic body to fine builders for blocking roads||Kolkata: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) is set to crack the whip on errant builders who stack construction material on the city’s roads and pavements. From imposing fines to issuing stop-work notices, the civic authority has chalked out multiple punitive actions to clear the streets following chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s warning that these encroachments were choking the city’s drainage system and leading to widespread waterlogging. Sources in the KMC buildings department said the municipal commissioner on Wednesday issued a circular asking officials to prepare a list of builders flouting rules and hand over the list to the solid waste management department for levying spot fines and seizing construction material dumped on the roads. An amendment in the KMC Act has empowered the civic body’s solid waste management department to impose spot fines on builders who encroach on roads and pavements. The amount may vary from Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000 depending on the number of offences. According to KMC rules, a builder is allowed to stack construction materials near the site till the ground floor of the building is built. Thereafter, the construction material has to be moved into the site. “Any deviation from this rule will attract spot fines,” said a solid waste management department official. The civic brass also wants to teach a lesson to repeat offenders by confiscating the material after the second offence and issuing stop-work notice after the third. A KMC drainage department official said large areas get severely waterlogged during monsoon because of choking of the underground drainage system by construction materials like sand and stone chips. The state municipal affairs department is set to write to municipal commissioners of KMC, Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation and Howrah Municipal Corporation, asking them to take appropriate action against errant builders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/civic-body-to-fine-builders-for-blocking-roads/articleshow/77811926.cms||Saikat Ray
August 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore district inches close to daily count of 500 Covid cases||Coimbatore: The Coimbatore district recorded its single-day high of 496 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking tally to 13,897. With 438 people getting discharged, the number of active cases stands at 3,380. So far, 10,237 people have recovered and been discharged. The district also recorded six more deaths, taking the toll to 280. Of the six deaths, two died within 24 hours of admission. Belying the health department’s rhetoric that many deaths occurred at CMCH because private hospitals referred the patients at the last minute, a 60-year-old woman died exactly 24 hours after admission in a private hospital. While one of the six was a 47-year-old woman who had asthma, another was a 53-year-old man who had diabetes and hypertension. The remaining were above 60 years of age. On Thursday too, two of the 11 deaths occurred within 24 hours of hospitalization. This trend had prompted the district collector on Thursday to warn private hospitals from referring Covid-19 patients to government hospitals, when they had given up on the patient recovering. He even released phone numbers of coordinators for all Covid-19 treating hospitals, whom patients and attenders could contact if they faced any issues. Out of the close to 500 cases, more than 85% were from corporation limits. The deputy director of public health’s office again had to be shut when a staff member from the office tested positive. A staff member from the R S Puram head post office tested positive prompting the closure of the office while a 43-year-old staff member at Bharathiyar University also tested positive. Besides this, in corporation limits six people from Raja Street and seven from Ramnagar tested positive. The Pollachi municipality recorded seven new cases. From rural areas, Mettupalayam’s Mahadevapuram recorded six cases, Thudiyalur’s Kasthurinaickenpalayam recorded six cases and Thondamuthur’s Arumugagoundenpudur recorded four cases. Sulur recorded three new cases while Kinathukidavu had four and Anamalai three new cases. Pollachi south recorded 10 new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/district-inches-close-to-daily-count-of-500/articleshow/77813314.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Tasmac bars stay open beyond 10pm||Coimbatore: A police team in plain clothes during surprise inspections found that two Tasmac bars were functioning illegally in and around Gandhipuram beyond 10pm. The team, led by G Stalin, DCP (law & order), Coimbatore city, took a private car to Gandhipuram last week. Stalin noticed a Tasmac bar near a theatre in Ram Nagar, where liquor was being sold to people even after 10pm. One of the policemen went to the bar and confirmed that the illegal sale of alcohol was taking place indeed. The police team surrounded the Tasmac bar and held enquiries with the bar salesmen. They came to know that the state-run outlet was selling liquor at almost double the rates during night hours. The DCP and his team then visited Pappanaickenpudur area and found another Tasmac bar selling liquor after 11 pm. The DCP then contacted respective police officials from the area and asked them the reason for illegal sale of liquor in their police station limits. Some officials replied that they did not notice any Tasmac bar functioning illegally when they were out for night rounds. A bevy of police officials reached the spot when the top cop told them he had caught the salesmen redhanded, a police official said. The DCP had recently found a bar with more than ten customers at the East sub-division and warned police officials for not taking action against the bar salesmen. “I go for surprise night rounds in the city. If I find any illegal liquor sale, the respective police officials will be warned and stringent action will be taken against the Tasmac bar salesmen,” said Stalin. He also requested local residents to to inform the police if they find any illegal sale of liquor during night and early morning hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tasmac-bars-stay-open-beyond-10pm/articleshow/77813346.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Mysuru||Drug racket busted in Karnataka's Kodagu||MADIKERI: The Kodagu police have taken into custody three persons after a raid on a hotel in the wee hours of Friday following a tip off that a gang is supplying drugs in the tourist hub.  The police are suspecting that the gang has links with the international mafia given that one of the people involved was a foreigner.  The gang was involved in the supply of MDMA, which is called ecstasy, according to the police who are investigating the case. The cops are looking for three persons who have escaped during the raid at the Madikeri hotel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/drug-racket-busted-in-kodagu/articleshow/77810714.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Razed Aravali farmhouses had jacuzzis, lounges||GURUGRAM: Lush green lawns, badminton courts, jacuzzis, open gyms and lounges, the government team bringing down illegal farmhouses in the Bandhwari area for the last three days discovered that the two biggest premises, which they took the bulldozers to on Friday, were also the most luxuriously appointed. Built across two levels, they had all modern amenities and were being used as retreats where one could go to spend some time in the lap of nature for up to Rs 15,000 a night. Action will be initiated against both the developers and owners of these farmhouses, officials said. The government moved in to demolish the farmhouses, around 50 of them and all built on protected land, after TOI reported on August 25 that an entire hill had been flattened to build an approach road to this farmhouse colony, 1.5km off the Gurugram-Faridabad road. “The three-day long demolition drive has ended. Some of the structures were very strong and it took us an entire day to demolish just one,” said district town planner S Batth, who led a joint team of MCG and the department of town and country planning (DTCP). While some of the razed farmhouses were ready-to-move-in, others were at different stages of construction. The two demolished on Friday, for instance, had tie-ups with global accommodation sites and were being used as retreats. These were sold as plotted land and secured with boundary walls by as part of ‘Rose Valley Farms’ project, officials said. Rose Valley Farms had come to the notice of the authorities way back in 2015. “MCG had then issued notices to the developers, but there was no follow-up action. And over the years, more farmhouses were constructed. The illegal colony also came to the notice of DTCP last year and we had even recommended filing of an FIR,” said Batth. “We are going to file a chargesheet, based on our last year’s complaint. Along with the farmhouse owners, the developers will also be prosecuted for violation of urban area norms. The construction was carried out without the change of land use and the approval of the building plan. We are also trying to find out the ownership pattern of the land and how the same was sold to individual owners,” he added. “We have seized records showing some of the farmhouses had tie-ups with an online accommodation platform. They would charge up to Rs 15,000 a night,” said another DTCP official. Watch Gurugram: Authorities raze illegal Aravali farmhouses||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/in-illegal-farmhouses-jacuzzis-lounges-and-badminton-courts/articleshow/77814768.cms||Bagish Jha
August 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Man held for sexually assaulting minor girl||Coimbatore: The all women police on Friday arrested a 23-year-old man for sexually assaulting a minor girl at his relative’s house near Madukkarai. The accused, a resident of Madukkarai, was working as a collection agent for a private finance firm when he befriended the girl, police said. “The girl’s family advised her to quit the relationship and began searching for a groom. On August 19, when her parents left for Palani, the girl eloped with the accused. He took her to a relative’s house and sexually assaulted her several times,” a police officer said. Meanwhile, her parents lodged a missing complaint at the Race Course police station. After investigation revealed that the girl is a minor, police handed over the accused to the all women police (central). Inspector S Latha registered a case against the man under Section 5 (l) and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. He was remanded in judicial custody and lodged in the Pollachi sub-jail. As the minor girl refused to go with her parents, she was sent to a shelter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-held-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-girl/articleshow/77813358.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Noida||Noida: Drug addict arrested after boy found with head thrust into mud||NOIDA: It was a horrifying sight for those who found the boy. The body of the seven-year-old lay prone on the green belt near Mahamaya flyover. His face had been pushed into the mud, seemingly with brute force. Almost 24 hours after the murder came to light, police picked up a man as the main suspect – a 21-year-old named Babu. The murder, according to the cops, an act of revenge by Babu, who had an altercation with the boy’s family after he told them he wanted to marry the boy’s 14-year-old sister. Babu, police said, was arrested on Friday from near a housing society in Noida. The boy went missing around 3 pm on Tuesday. A little before that, around noon, Babu allegedly went to the boy’s jhuggi in Salarpur along with his mother and threatened the family. “Within hours, the boy went missing from outside the jhuggi. He had been playing with other children. We looked for him throughout the day. Later, we thought he was with one of our relatives. But he never came back,” Chandana, a relative of the boy, said. The victim’s father collects scrap to earn a living. His mother works as a house help. The family is from South Dinajpur district of West Bengal. On Thursday afternoon, they got a call from the police and were told about the body. “We were shown pictures of the boy. He had a mark on the head and the body was swollen. His feet were twisted, suggesting that he was beaten up. He had injuries on the limbs as well,” Chandana said. An FIR was registered after the body was found. Although the boy’s parents have alleged that Babu and his mother Jyotsna had threatened them with murder, only Babu has been booked under IPC sections 302 (murder) and 201 (disappearance of evidence). Police said Babu is a drug addict and had been jailed twice under the NDPS Act. Additional DCP (Noida) Ranvijay Singh said Babu and the boy’s family were not on good terms for years. “The accused person’s family had resorted to violence against the other family earlier as well,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/drug-addict-arrested-after-boy-found-with-head-thrust-into-mud/articleshow/77813355.cms||Shikha Salaria
August 29, 2020||Goa||Dahl’s mom writes to CBI for update||Panaji: The mother of Finnish national Felix Dahl, who was found dead in Canacona in 2015 has written to the central bureau of investigation (CBI) seeking an update the investigation. In a letter to CBI investigation officer, Minna Pirhonen said, “I understand that a CFSL team had visited the crime scene to confirm murder/homicide of my son in July/Aug 2018 and subsequently you have carried the investigation. Despite the same, no arrests have been made till date of the suspects who were clearly named in our petition to the high court,” she said. She said she understands that the application for the lie detector test for some of the suspects was rejected in November 2019. “You informed me that a new application will be made for lie detector tests, but I don’t see any fresh applications,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dahls-mom-writes-to-cbi-for-update/articleshow/77813371.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Faridabad||Gurugram: Razed Aravali farmhouses had jacuzzis, lounges||GURUGRAM: Lush green lawns, badminton courts, jacuzzis, open gyms and lounges, the government team bringing down illegal farmhouses in the Bandhwari area for the last three days discovered that the two biggest premises, which they took the bulldozers to on Friday, were also the most luxuriously appointed. Built across two levels, they had all modern amenities and were being used as retreats where one could go to spend some time in the lap of nature for up to Rs 15,000 a night. Action will be initiated against both the developers and owners of these farmhouses, officials said. The government moved in to demolish the farmhouses, around 50 of them and all built on protected land, after TOI reported on August 25 that an entire hill had been flattened to build an approach road to this farmhouse colony, 1.5km off the Gurugram-Faridabad road. “The three-day long demolition drive has ended. Some of the structures were very strong and it took us an entire day to demolish just one,” said district town planner S Batth, who led a joint team of MCG and the department of town and country planning (DTCP). While some of the razed farmhouses were ready-to-move-in, others were at different stages of construction. The two demolished on Friday, for instance, had tie-ups with global accommodation sites and were being used as retreats. These were sold as plotted land and secured with boundary walls by as part of ‘Rose Valley Farms’ project, officials said. Rose Valley Farms had come to the notice of the authorities way back in 2015. “MCG had then issued notices to the developers, but there was no follow-up action. And over the years, more farmhouses were constructed. The illegal colony also came to the notice of DTCP last year and we had even recommended filing of an FIR,” said Batth. “We are going to file a chargesheet, based on our last year’s complaint. Along with the farmhouse owners, the developers will also be prosecuted for violation of urban area norms. The construction was carried out without the change of land use and the approval of the building plan. We are also trying to find out the ownership pattern of the land and how the same was sold to individual owners,” he added. “We have seized records showing some of the farmhouses had tie-ups with an online accommodation platform. They would charge up to Rs 15,000 a night,” said another DTCP official. Watch Gurugram: Authorities raze illegal Aravali farmhouses||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/in-illegal-farmhouses-jacuzzis-lounges-and-badminton-courts/articleshow/77814871.cms||Bagish Jha
August 29, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Health officers test +ve, sero-survey put off||GHAZIABAD: The sero-survey in 11 districts, including Ghaziabad, which was slated to start from Friday, has been postponed for a week after several senior health officers tested positive for Covid-19. Officials said the survey will now start from September 3-4. The survey was initially supposed to start from August 26 with the help of King George’s Medical University. However, it was deferred to August 28. Officials said the director-general of family welfare, Mithilesh Chaturvedi, who is also the director of communicable diseases, and some health officials at KGMU tested positive. Dr Vikasendu Agrawal, state surveillance officer, Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme, said, “We have decided to start the survey in the first week of September. All logistics are in place and we can start the sample collection at a 24-hour notice.” Other districts where the sero-survey is to be held are Kanpur City, Varanasi, Agra, Kaushambi, Prayagraj, Gorakhpur, Meerut, Moradabad, Lucknow and Baghpat. From Ghaziabad, 1,080 samples from 45 clusters are to be collected for the survey. Of 45 clusters, nine are in rural areas. The survey will be completed over five days. Along with Covid-19, people will also be checked for antibodies for hepatitis-B and hepatitis-C. Meanwhile, the ICMR has completed its sero-survey in nine other UP districts -- Unnao, Auraiya, Bareilly, Amroha, Gautam Budh Nagar, Saharanpur, Gonda, Mau and Balrampur – and will send 3,600 samples to a Chennai-based lab for testing. An ICMR scientist said the report will be available in the next 10 days. Watch Ghaziabad: Sero-survey put off after health officers test Covid-positive||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/health-officers-test-ve-sero-survey-put-off/articleshow/77813360.cms||Aditya Dev
August 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Observations on protests out of petition’s scope: Judge||Aurangabad: Justice M G Sewlikar on Thursday released a separate ruling agreeing with all, but one of the reasons, mentioned by Justice T V Nalawade in the Bombay high court’s August 22 judgment that quashed three FIRs registered by the Ahmednagar police against 29 foreign and six Indian members of the Tablighi Jamaat for entering Ahmednagar district without informing the local authorities. These members had returned after taking part in the Markaz religious congregation in Delhi in mid-March when the Covid-19 pandemic was spreading in India.The differing point was Justice Nalawade’s observation suggesting that the police action was to send a signal to the Muslims who had participated in the country-wide protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC) that preceded the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in India in January.“I find it difficult to concur with these observations as allegations in this respect are not made in the petitions nor there is any evidence in this regard. Therefore, in my opinion these observations are outside the scope of the petitions,” Justice Sewlikar said in his ruling.He, however, concurred with all other reasons mentioned by Justice Nalawade to the effect that the material on record did not show that foreign nationals were infected by Covid-19 when they landed in India. Also, the record did not show they violated visa conditions. Visiting religious places did not amount to violating visa conditions. Witness statements recorded during the investigation did not show that they were propagating religion and continuation of their prosecution would be an abuse of the process of law.“I agree with all the observations of my learned brother except the observations contained in paragraph No.35,” Justice Sewlikar said.Para 35 of the August 22 judgment read: “There were protests by taking processions holding dharana at many places in India from at least from prior to January 2020. Most of the persons participating in the protest were Muslims. It is their contention that the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019 is discriminatory against the Muslims. They believe that Indian Citizenship will not be granted to Muslim refugees and migrants. They were protesting against National Registration of Citizenship (NRC). There were protests on large scale not only in Delhi, but in most of the states in India.”The para further read: “It can be said that due to the present action taken fear was created in the minds of those Muslims. This action indirectly gave warning to Indian Muslims that action in any form and for anything can be taken against Muslims. It was indicated that even for keeping contact with Muslims of other countries action will be taken against them. Thus, there is smell of malice to the action taken against these foreigners and Muslim for their alleged activities. The circumstances like malice are an important consideration when the relief claimed is the quashing of F.I.R. and the case itself.”Justice Sewlikar has held the CAA, NRC part observations as the one out of the scope of the petition. He had made a specific mention in the August 22 judgement, ``I had the privilege to read the Judgment of Brother Hon’ble Shri Justice T V Nalawade. I agree with the operative part of the Judgment but I do not agree with some reasoning and reserve the reasons.‘’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/observations-on-protests-out-of-petitions-scope-judge/articleshow/77810726.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
August 29, 2020||Delhi||Pen-paper exams at Delhi University from September 14||NEW DELHI: Students appearing for Delhi University’s pen-paper examinations will have to carry masks and sanitisers and bring their own stationery. On Friday, DU announced that the second phase of final-year undergraduate and postgraduate exams, including those for students of SOL and NCWEB, will begin on September 14 in a blended (offline and online open book) manner. OBE, which forms the first phase, will end on August 31. The second phase of examinations will be held as a one-time measure in compliance with the orders of Delhi high court on August 17 and August 27. The exam forms will be available from August 30 and will have to be submitted by September 8. While the exams in the second phase are only for those students who have either not appeared or have failed to upload the scanned images of answer scripts in the first phase, DU has also allowed students with disabilities who wish to improve their performance in selected papers to appear for the same. The best grade or marks secured by such students in the two examinations will be taken into consideration for preparation of the final result. Students facing problems in reaching Delhi for the pen-paper exams will be allowed to give it online. They will receive the question paper on their registered e-mail address and submit the scanned images of answer scripts via the same mode. The students will have to clarify the mode through which they will give the exam. “Once they choose an option, they won’t be allowed to change it after the examination has begun,” DU said. Those opting for exams in pen-paper mode will have to visit the exam centres. Students in the persons with disabilities category, including visually impaired, will have to indicate their choice before September 4. They can either travel to Delhi or give the exam online with the assistance of scribes. The duration of the pen-paper exams will be three hours, for online mode four hours, while disabled students will get five hours. DU has directed colleges to refrain from providing physical assistance during exams. Social distancing norms must be strictly followed and seating arrangements will have to be according to the standard operating procedures and guidelines issued by UGC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pen-paper-exams-at-du-from-sept-14/articleshow/77813370.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Gurgaon||Iron & steel costs soar, industries seek Centre’s aid||Gurgaon: Having suffered substantial losses due to the pandemic and the lockdown, industries in Gurgaon and Manesar have a new worry — the increasing prices of the raw materials, especially steel and iron. Since the lockdown, there has been a sharp increase in the prices of different kinds of raw material, especially ferrous and non-ferrous metal, ranging between 10% and 25%. The Gurgaon Industrial Association (GIA) has now written to Union minister of steel Dharmendra Pradhan, seeking his intervention and a policy to regulate the procurement of raw materials for the industries. Owners said they are still struggling to revive their industries after the lockdown. “In case of iron HR coils, the steel producers have already increased the prices by approximately Rs 7,000 per ton with effect from July 1 in intervals till today on the pretext of increased input cost, such as iron ore,” said Major KC Sandal, a city-based industrialist and GIA vice-president. Sandal added that re-rollers are now being offered at Rs 53,000 per ton for an iron cold-rolled sheet and coils — an increase of Rs 10,000-Rs 12,000 per ton from the pre-lockdown cost of Rs 42,000 per ton. The hike has been the same for the steel parts used in the process of manufacturing as well. “Aluminium ingot and section prices are up by Rs 20,000 and prices of plastic raw materials have also been increasing every week after the lockdown,” said Rajeev Bansal, another city-based industrialist and a GIA member. He hinted that in the case of stainless-steel raw materials, a single company has the monopoly in the market. “These tendencies of major manufacturers are making things worse for the industries in a post-Covid world. Moreover, there is black marketing as material is in short supply in the market as producers prefer to export to overseas markets, creating a huge gap in demand and supply,” said JN Mangla, GIA president. The association wants the government to take a cue from other countries that are offering subsidies to industries, and especially to exporters. “We need policies and measures that take the industry out of this despondency so that they can also play in the international market and realise the vision of a self-dependent India,” said Mangla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/iron-steel-costs-soar-industries-seek-centres-aid/articleshow/77806211.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Mysuru||Govt should not celebrate Dasara this year: KRRS||Mysuru: Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) and Hasiru Sene State unit president Badagalapura Nagendra has urged the government not to celebrate Dasara this year in the wake of Covid-19 crisis. Speaking to reporters on Friday, he said let people celebrate the festival as per tradition and customs at their homes, “but the government should not celebrate it even on a low-key as it could lead to the spreading of the virus fast”. Saying that thousands of cotton growers in HD Kote taluk had suffered loss due to crop failure fake seeds supplied by agencies this kharif season, Nagendra demanded that the government distribute compensation for all the affected growers. Accusing several private and public sector banks of recovering crop loan amount from Fasal Bima Insurance cover (the one-time relief) and other compensation amount deposited by the government to farmers’ bank accounts, he asked the government to direct the banks not to adjust the amount to crop loan borrowed by farmers till Corona crisis subsides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/govt-should-not-celebrate-dasara-this-year-krrs/articleshow/77810744.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Lucknow||UP to conduct NEET, JEE as per Centre’s guidelines||Lucknow: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has sought to allay fears over the NEET and JEE, saying that UP has already conducted two major examinations this year and there was no complaint of any infection spread. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said that the state government would follow the directions it receives from the Centre on conducting these examinations. “The examinations would be organised as per guidelines issued by the Centre, following social distancing norms. On August 9, BEd exams were held in UP for which 5 lakh people appeared. The UPPSC exams were also held but there were no incidents of the virus spreading in either of these exams,” Awasthi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-conduct-neet-jee-as-per-centres-guidelines/articleshow/77814106.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Health dept, RWAs set to kick off partnership fighting Covid||HYDERABAD: The collaboration of resident communities and government in fighting Covid-19 is likely to commence in the next few days as health minister Eatala Rajender has appealed the United Federation of Resident Welfare Associations (UFERWAS) to help in using community/function halls as isolation centres, in partnership with the health department. In a meeting with the UFERWAS in the city, he said that health department will offer all support by way of medicines and food to isolation care centres. “The welfare associations should come forward to educate the residents about the facilities provided by the government,” he said. He said that there are some issues at ground level but all can be sorted with everyone’s cooperation. The health department reportedly told the RWA members that they will assign two mobile testing vans exclusively for the UFERWAS. The health commissioner will also arrange a meeting with collectorate officials of Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Medchal Malkajgiri and Nalgonda as part of their areas fall under Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). A coordination unit will comprise of district medical health officer, deputy commissioner and a representative from GHMC circle. During the meeting, it was brought to the notice of officials that some private companies are insisting on getting a Covid-19 negative certificate from employees when they are ready to join after recovering from Covid. The health minister clarified to them that according to government guidelines, employees joining after recovering from Covid-19 do not have to provide the certificate. “We will give these directions to private companies also,” he said. The minister said that there is enough awareness among the population, but some are still unaware and not in a position to properly respond to the situation, especially those who live in slums. “RWAs must help in that area,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/health-dept-rwas-set-to-kick-off-partnership-fighting-covid/articleshow/77813464.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 29, 2020||Coimbatore||SHRC seeks report on threat against panchayat president||Coimbatore: The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has issued a notice to Tirupur collector K Vijayakarthikeyan on Friday seeking a detailed report on the incident of a ward councillor intimidating and threatening the Kavandachipudur village panchayat president, who belongs to the Scheduled Caste (SC) community. Taking suo motu cognizance of media reports of the incident, the commission asked the collector to submit the report within three weeks. “In the event of any default, the commission may proceed to take action as it deems fit and proper.” The Dharapuram police had arrested the councillor, S Kuppusamy, 40, under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act on Tuesday based on a complaint lodged by panchayat president R Selvi, 33, on August 14. In May, panchayat officials and public representatives had decided to distribute immunity boosters and safety gears to sanitary workers in view of Covid-19 pandemic. As the work needs to be carried out on an emergency basis, they decided to distribute the same without much publicity. “On May 4, when I was discussing with other officials and elected members, Kuppusamy rushed into the office and questioned me for not informing him about the event in advance. He used castiest slurs and attempted to assault me,” Selvi said in her police compliant. Meanwhile, Kuppusamy and his friends Gopalakrishnan, who was Selvi’s former employer, and Deva threatened her and her husband on August 14 and asked them to withdraw the complaint. “My ex-employer threatened to lodge a chit fund fraud complaint against me if I didn’t withdraw the complaint. Distressed, we attempted to self-immolate us. But I was admitted to hospital after I drank kerosene,” Selvi said. Subsequently, she lodged a fresh complaint naming the three. After arrest, Kuppusamy was admitted to the Tirupur government hospital with high blood pressure. He was discharged and lodged in the district jail on Thursday. The remaining two, who are still at large, have moved the Madras high court for bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/shrc-seeks-report-on-threat-against-panchayat-president/articleshow/77813369.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Water project work hit at SIHS Colony as residents oppose digging up relaid road||Coimbatore: Residents of SIHS Colony near Singanallur in the city have opposed the city corporation’s move to dig up newly laid road to lay pipeline for the 24x7 drinking water supply project. Civic body officials, however, said they have no other option but to dig up the road to lay the pipeline, which if not laid would affect water supply to Mookambikai Nagar, Vignesh Nagar and Mahesh Nagar. A few days ago, Suez India Pvt Ltd, the firm implementing the project, had started laying pipelines through SIHS Colony. Presently, drinking water is supplied only through tanker trucks to Mookambikai Nagar, Vignesh Nagar and Mahesh Nagar, where more than 300 families reside. When they laid pipelines for about 5km, public demanded workers to stop the work. As part of the plan, pipeline has to be laid in the area for 11km. The work was suspended on Thursday. K Thangaraj, a resident of SIHS Colony, said, “The city corporation has relaid the road, which was in a dilapidated state for more than a decade, only three months ago. If we allow them to dig up the road again, it would cause inconvenience to commuters. We also would have wait indefinitely for them to restore the road to good condition.” Pointing out that the height of road has increased as it was relaid over the damaged road, he said if it was relaid again rainwater would enter the houses during monsoon. Another resident, K Arunagiri, said, “With the existing tank, it would be extremely difficult to provide drinking water to all the areas in the locality. Before laying pipelines, other requirements like construction of additional tanks should be carried out. Now, drinking water is supplied only once in 10 days.” A source with the city corporation said they would construct a service reservoir with a capacity of 16 lakh litres at SIHS Colony as part of the project. “Once the pipeline laying work is over, Suez India Pvt Ltd would restore the road with wet mix and concrete.” The source said they were planning to hold talks with the residents to end the stalemate and resume work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/water-project-work-hit-at-sihs-colony-as-residents-oppose-digging-up-relaid-road/articleshow/77813376.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Complete UGD project soon, MLA tells corpn||Coimbatore: The city corporation should complete the underground drainage (UGD) work, which is being implemented for the last 10 years, Singanallur MLA N Karthik said on Friday. “Foundation stone for the project was laid in 2009. The corporation should have completed the work within five years,” the DMK MLA said.  “The city corporation, being the second biggest urban local body in the state after Chennai, does not have a underground drainage network to treat sewage water. Domestic sewage is still let out in open drains, polluting water bodies. Frequent sewage overflows cause foul odour in residential areas apart from mosquito menace,” he said. Due to population growth and increasing number of houses, the quantity of sewage generated may be higher than the project capacity, Karthik said. “More than half of the chambers and pipelines laid for the project remain unused, and their condition will be known only when the corporation implements the project. The success rate of the project is minimal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/complete-ugd-project-soon-mla-tells-corpn/articleshow/77813372.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: Curtains on McLeodganj’s 160-year-old Parsi link||SHIMLA: Closure of the 160-year-old shop ‘Nowrojee & Sons General Merchants’ at McLeodganj near Dharamshala has left many nostalgic and shocked. Housed in an old wooden structure, the shop was part of history that not only served to the Britishers during the Colonial rule and withstood the devastating earthquake of 1905, but also saw the sleepy Dharamshala and McLeodganj grow as international tourist destinations. The shop was also a symbol of friendship between its late Parsi owner and Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama. Located close to the abode of Tibetan spiritual leader, the shop founded in 1860 has remained one of the iconic addresses of the hill town all these years. The development has left many surprised in McLeodganj. “Nowrojee & Sons General Merchants was the first grocery store of Mcleodganj and the family was among the first families settled here. It is unfortunate that the younger generation from the family is unable to carry forward their business here,” said Sanjeev Gandhi, general secretary of Hotel and Restaurant Association of Smart City Dharamshala. He said more than just a small shop, Nowrojee & Sons General Merchants was a brand in itself as initially McLeodganj was known by the name of shop itself. “If the family members would meet us, we would request them not to sell the property and not to close the shop,” he added. Six generations of Nowrojee family had run this shop. It was very popular among the tourists and Tibetans as Nauzer Nowrojee and Dalai Lama were friends till the death of Nauzer Nowrojee in 2002. Nauzer was the eldest among five brothers and he looked after this shop for 60 years. While Nauzer died at the age of 85, his two sons are settled outside the state. Caretaker of the shop Joginder Singh who was working here for many years said the shop was being closed as the family was not interested in running it. He refused to comment further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/curtains-on-mcleods-160-year-old-parsi-link/articleshow/77813383.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Crocodile threat in flood-affected villages near Bhitarkanika||Kendrapada: Flooding in the riverside villages under Dasarathpur and Binjharpur blocks of Jajpur district and Aul, Pattamundai and Rajkanika blocks of Kendrapada district near Bhitarkanika national park has brought uninvited guests out in the open. With water flooding the park, many crocodiles were spotted in the swollen waterways, making their way to villages marooned by floodwater. On Thursday, flood-affected people of Duttapur under Dasarathapur block found a 16-feet-long saltwater crocodile on their village road after the river Kani, a tributary of Baitarani, flooded the village. A video of the crocodile emerging from knee-deep floodwater has since gone viral. “When I saw it, I couldn’t believe my eyes. It was big enough to swallow a man,” said Nalini Das of Duttapur. The villagers were surprised how a giant crocodile managed to reach their place, some 50 kilometers from Bhitarkanika. “We suspect the crocodile may have been carried away by floodwater and entered river Kani,” said Ajit Behera of Duttapur. Flood-hit villagers of Machagaon, under Balikuda block of Jagatsinghpur, were in for a surprise to find an estuarine crocodile in Devi river. Many residents also reported seeing more saltwater crocodiles than usual as the reptiles strayed into the rivers from the water bodies in Bhitarkanika, home to more than 1700 saltwater crocodiles. Saltwater crocodiles have been spotted in the marooned villages of Pradhanpada, Barahadomunda, Kanapur, Balisahi, Gahamapala, Arupada, Rahapur, Ostia, Bandhapatana, Naladia, Srirampur and others as the reptiles strayed into the rivers of Bramahani, Kharosotra and Kani from Bhitarkanika. “Wading through flooded areas can be dangerous as it may contain crocodiles. We advised residents in flooded areas to be on the lookout for saltwater crocodiles as they may move into residential areas due to flooding. Crocodiles could be easily mistaken for floating debris. The forest department has been keeping an eye on the crocodiles in the flood-hit areas. So far, there has been no reports of crocodiles injuring people. After the floodwater recedes, the crocodiles will return to Bhitarkanika,” said Bikash Ranjan Dash, the divisional forest officer of the national park. Last year forest department officials barricaded around 35 ghats in the riverside villages near Bhitarkanika national park to prevent crocodiles from entering the bathing areas. But floodwater washed away many of the barricades. “After the floodwater recedes, we will rebuild the barricades,” Dash added. “Villagers should keep an eye out for saltwater crocodiles. The reptiles come closer to land in search of food as their traditional feeding grounds get submerged due to flooding,” said Hemant Rout, secretary of Gahiramatha Marine Turtles and Mangrove Conservation Society. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/crocodile-threat-in-flood-affected-villages-near-bhitarkanika/articleshow/77812006.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Call to check official discretionary power||Amaravati: The department of revenue has long been considered as the most corrupt government wing due to the complex process involved in land administration. Revenue officials are known to demand huge bribes for issuing caste, income certificates to pattadar passbook for farmers. Frequent raids and slapping of cases against revenue officials by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) teams seemed to have failed to instill fear among revenue officials as people continue to roam around the offices for months together to get their permissions cleared. “The main reason for corruption among government officials is the discretionary powers vested with them. The corruption can be brought down only when their wings are clipped,” said Indian Institute of Management-Ahmedabad (IIM-A) in its report on good governance practices to the government. IIM-A has suggested to the state government to install CC surveillance cameras in all tehsildar offices to prevent corruption in revenue department. It also felt vigilance raids are required to contain corrupt practices in revenue offices. The committee of IIM-A carried out a detailed study of the revenue administration in the state and found that cleaning of revenue records is an urgent need to bring reforms. Auto mutation of land records should be taken up to reduce hassles of change of ownership and enquiry in real-time basis. It also recommended that deemed mutation should also be taken up to reduce the interference of the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/call-to-check-official-discretionary-power/articleshow/77810769.cms||Samdani MN
August 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Ex-serviceman’s murder solved with arrest of daughter, her beau||TNNLudhiana: The Ludhiana (rural) police on Friday claimed to have solved the August 25 murder of an ex-serviceman, with the arrest of his daughter, her alleged boyfriend, and their accomplices.Kulwant Singh, 47, a resident of Salempura, was found dead on his motorcycle near Canal Sports Stadium, Sidhwan Bet.Those arrested include his 18-year-old daughter (name withheld), her alleged boyfriend Baljinder Singh Inda, 26, their associates Kuldip Singh Shiva, also of Salempura, and Sumant Kumar Akash of Safipura in Sidhwan Bet. Another accused is yet to be arrested.Ludhiana (rural) SSP Vivek Sheel Soni said, “Kulwant was murdered with a sharp-edged weapon. During interrogation, Baljinder revealed that he had a love affair with Kulwant’s daughter. When Kulwant came to know about it, he did not let her meet him. Besides, he had fixed his daughter’s engagement with another man. Therefore, Baljinder along with Kulwant’s daughter and others hatched a conspiracy to kill him.”Sidhwan Bet SHO inspector Rajesh Thakur said, “Kulwant’s daughter called up Baljinder when the former left home in the evening. Then, Baljinder and his accomplices killed Kulwant with a sharp-edged weapon. The accused were arrested near a factory in Bhamal village on Friday. His daughter has been booked under Section 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.” While Baljinder is unemployed, Kulwant’s daughter is a student.Three days ago…After Kulwant was found murdered, Harbans Singh, his brother who worked as a labourer, had told the police, “In the evening, we received a call from a villager that Kulwant was lying unconscious on a motorcycle near a sports stadium close to the village. When we reached the spot, we found blood on the road. There was a wound on the back of his neck inflicted with a sharp-edged weapon. There were multiple injuries on his body too. My brother didn’t have any enmity with anyone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ex-servicemans-murder-solved-with-arrest-of-daughter-her-beau/articleshow/77810771.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Village administrative officer held for accepting bribe from farmer||Coimbatore: The directorate of vigilance and anti -corruption (DVAC) arrested a village administrative officer while accepting a bribe of Rs 4,000 from a farmer at his office at Rasipalayam near Sulur on Friday. M Vijayakumar, 24, a native of Dindigul, joined as VAO at Rasipalayam last year. C Prakash, 40, a farmer from Rasipalayam, approached him to transfer a patta and get a certificate of small and marginal farmer. The VAO demanded Rs 20,000 from Prakash who agreed to provide Rs 12,500. A few days ago, Prakash paid Rs 8,500 and promised to give the remaining amount on Friday. Meanwhile, he approached DVAC who planned a trap and laced the currency notes with phenolphthalein powder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/village-administrative-officer-held-for-accepting-bribe-from-farmer/articleshow/77813381.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Verify 1 person, 2 Aadhaar cards: Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has directed the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) to verify two Aadhaar cards of the same person and sought a report on which of the cards is genuine. The high court has sought the report from UIDAI with regard to ascertaining the age of a woman, who claimed to be an adult, but according to her uncle she was still a minor when she eloped with her boyfriend last year. Since the Vivekanandnagar police station has booked the person for abduction of a minor, the court felt that the verification of the real birth date of the woman would put an end to the FIR itself. This happened when the woman furnished an Aadhaar card claiming that she is an adult with the document reflecting her birth in 1999, but in the Aadhaar card furnished by her uncle, she was shown as born in 2002. In this case, the woman’s uncle had filed a habeas corpus petition in August 2019 complaining that she was a minor and was abducted from his lawful custody by a man from Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh, in June 2019. The woman’s parents and siblings live in Bihar and she was living with her paternal uncle in Ahmedabad. A year later, she was traced and brought to Ahmedabad and presented before the court last week. She flatly refused to meet her uncle and complained that she had left home because her uncle desired to marry her and therefore she ran away with a man of her choice and got married. She insisted on joining her husband. The woman has been sent to the Paldi Vikas Gruh because there was ambiguity about her birth date. The case is being probed by the Anti-Human Trafficking Cell, Ahmedabad (rural) because the allegations were that the minor girl was abducted and might have been forced into prostitution. The cell has forwarded both the Aadhaar cards to UIDAI for verification, but the state government submitted before the HC that its direction would be required for the UIDAI to verify the cards and report to the court. The high court has posted further hearing on September 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/verify-1-person-2-aadhaar-cards-hc/articleshow/77812003.cms||Saeed Khan
August 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Pottery Town artisans say they’re down in dumps||BENGALURU: With summer camps and weddings being put off and a slump in business at restaurants, artisans from Pottery Town, a community of about 40 potters’ families and 110 people, are in acute distress since the ripples felt elsewhere have had a crippling effect on their livelihood. At an interactive session organised by the development commissioner, ministry of textiles, government of India on Friday, artisans aired their woes. Sumitra Chandrashekhar, an artisan from Pottery Town, said, “We usually have a lot of orders for small pots and planters from organisers of summer camps. Children were taught to paint them in art camps. This year, camps were banned and that hit us hard. We had to use funds saved for our daughter’s wedding to survive.” Besides summer camps, orders from plant nurseries, restaurants and kulfi sellers are primary means of income for these artisans. But business has been dull on these fronts too. The next big hit was during Ganesh Chaturthi, when severe restrictions and the gloomy mood dented idol sales. Left with a huge stock of unsold idols, artisans are now looking forward to Diwali. They hope demand will kick in for the lamps they make. These artisans also usually receive a lot of orders for earthen pots at weddings, which is used to make and serve biryani, kulfi and lassi. But demand has dropped on this front too since weddings have become less ostentatious due to curbs. V Anand, secretary, Kumbara Kara-Kushala Kaigharika Sahakara Sangha, said, “Our businesses have been so badly affected that we don’t have any place to store unsold stock. It is another matter that we do not have sufficient funds to begin making new products. Auto drivers have been given Rs 5,000, but the state government has ignored our plight.” The Pottery Town settlement was built during British rule and has been a permanent fixture since. The fourth generation of potters works at the town now. Naveen Kumar, a potter, said, “We have inherited this trade from our elders. We all have degrees but we have also learnt these skills since we were children and we are good at it. It’s been our livelihood for generations. We do not know any alternative means of earning our daily bread.” Rajashekar G, another artisan from Pottery Town, said, “Besides the 40 families, 150 other families who work for us are also suffering. We have had no business, so how do we pay them?” Artisans have been facing problems on another issue too. Potters use a firewood furnace as that works out cheaper, but it causes a lot of smoke pollution and people residing around take objection. The development commissioner told potters loans are available and that they would be more effective if they came together as a community and market their products themselves, eliminating middlemen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pottery-town-artisans-say-pandemic-has-left-them-down-in-the-dumps/articleshow/77811209.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Goa||With streetlights not working, Valpoi motorists face big risk||VALPOI: Motorists have been facing hardship and risk to their lives at night along the main road in Valpoi as many stretches are in pitch darkness for almost three months now. Cattle roaming or squatting on the road has been the cause of several accidents. Two-wheeler riders are the worst hit, with many losing balance after dashing against the cattle and hitting speed-breakers. The locals claim that they have made several complaints requesting the electricity department to replace the non-functioning streetlights but the situation has not changed. Sources at the Valpoi office of the electricity department said that there are no new streetlights in the stock. Samir Shaikh, a resident of Valpoi, “The civic body should take the responsibility of directing the power department regularly to maintain the streetlights, or else there could be fatal accidents.” Imam Shah, another local, said heavy rains make it all the more difficult for motorists. When TOI contacted the electricity department’s assistant engineer at Valpoi, Avelino Rodriguez, he said that the power department has received complaints pertaining to non-functioning of streetlights on the main road near the Government High School. “I will act on the complaints and will look into the matter,” Rodriguez said. He, however, did not comment when asked whether streetlights were in short supply. Valpoi Municipal Council’s chairperson Akhtar Shah said, “I have already spoken to the electricity department regarding the matter. However, the authority concerned has not taken any action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-streetlights-not-working-valpoi-motorists-face-big-risk/articleshow/77813445.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||NID grad’s work qualifies for Oscars in short film category||AHMEDABAD: A film by Nainisha Dedhia, a BDes (FVC) graduate of National Institute of Design (NID), has qualified to enter the Academy Awards as India’s official submission in the live-action short film category. The awards are popularly known as the Oscars. The announcement came after ‘Dhummas,’ the film by Nainisha, won in the ‘Indian Competition Section’ of the Bengaluru International Short Film Festival recently. The short film, which was a graduation project for Nainisha, talks about a day-long encounter between a young girl, Mrinalini, and her almost-bedridden grandmother who has supposedly lost her memory. The conversations, in which Mrinalini compares her present with grandma’s past and touches on grandma’s suppression, form the crux of the narrative. “I took inspiration from my own maternal grandmother’s life, although the film is not based on her experiences,” Nainisha said. “It talks about the oppression of females by females, which is not as talked about as the male gaze or oppression by patriarchy.” The Mumbai girl said that it will be a tough road ahead as she will be sending the film to a few other festivals and will also complete the formalities for the Academy Awards soon. The project was guided by NID faculty members Prahlad Gopakumar and Shilpa Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nid-grads-work-qualifies-for-oscars-in-short-film-category/articleshow/77813380.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Gangster’s interrogation only inside jail’||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked all the investigation agencies of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and UT of Chandigarh to interrogate gangster Lawrence Bishnoi in relation to any FIR registered against him at Rajasthan’s Bharatpur central jail, where Bishnoi is currently confined. The high court also made it clear that any such interrogation could only be carried out with proper permission/ warrant from competent court. These directions shall remain in force only if Bishnoi’s interrogation is needed before September 18, when the HC would hear his main plea apprehending threat to his life. The HC has also asked the Haryana government as to why, especially in view of current Covid-19 situation and considering Lawrence Bishnoi’s antecedents, he cannot be interrogated in Bharatpur jail in relation to a murder case registered against him at Dabwali in Sirsa district recently. “In the meanwhile, if the petitioner is to be interrogated in connection with any FIR registered against him at all, or otherwise, it would only be in the premises of the Central Jail at Bharatpur, after obtaining proper warrants from the competent court and authority, in that regard,” Justice Amol Rattan Singh ordered while hearing a plea filed by the gangster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lawrence-bishnois-interrogation-only-inside-bharatpur-jail-with-court-warrants-hc/articleshow/77813385.cms||Ajay Sura
August 29, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Woman’s plea to quash offensive message FIRs to be heard on Sept 3||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Friday, granting no urgent relief, adjourned to September 3 a quashing petition by a woman accused of posting allegedly offensive messages about Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his son, a minister, Aaditya. The posts between July 25 and 28 included an allegedly offensive caricature of the chief minister. A bench of Justices R D Dhanuka and V G Bisht did not pass any order. Her lawyers Abhinav Chandrachud and Chandansingh Shekhawat sought urgent interim relief to protect her from further arrest pending her plea to quash three FIRs. Chandrachud argued that no case of “hate speech” was made out and defamation required a complaint from the defamed person. She was arrested and granted bail by a magistrate in one of the cases registered by BKC cyber police station. The prosecutors opposed grant of immediate interim protection. Sunaina Holey (38), from Navi Mumbai, petitioned the high court to quash three FIRs registered against her, including one by the BKC cyber police for offences under sections 505(2) and 153A of Indian Penal Code for promoting enmity between groups and under section 500 of IPC for defamation. Her petition said the “FIR is violative of her fundamental right to freedom of speech and her right to life and personal liberty’’. The FIR at BKC was registered by a Yuva Sena functionary, Dharmendra Mishra. She said “no case was made out in the FIR’’ against her and that “section 153 cannot apply to contents of speech when it related to genuine criticism’’. The other cases were registered in Palghar by a contractor Rohan Chavan and Azad Maidan police station, by a sub-inspector Shashikant Pawar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/womans-plea-on-offensive-messages-firs-to-be-heard-on-sept-3/articleshow/77812081.cms||Swati Deshpande
August 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Inspite of pandemic gloom, Karnataka sees 16,700 new business registrations||BENGALURU: Despite lockdowns and lack of demand, Karnataka has seen nearly 17,000 new business registrations under the Shops and Commercial Establishments (S&E) Act and the Factories Act between January and August this year, with most registrations under the S&E Act. From IT/ITeS to retail and from hospitality to garments under the S&E Act, and from metal and alloys to food products under the Factories Act, all major sectors have seen new registrations. As on date there are more than 6.6 lakh businesses registered in the state. Despite the numbers in 2020 being lower than the previous year — 42,270 registrations between Jan-Dec 2019 — both industry and the government say registrations have exceeded expectations given the impact Covid-19 has had. Of all the new registrations this year, only 2.5%, registered between January and July, are under the Factories Act, although data on monthwise and sector-wise breakup was immediately unavailable. However, officials are thrilled as they say most major sectors such as food products, paper and paper products, metal and alloys, manufacturing and use of chemicals, transport and transport equipment, garment and textile, and wood and wood products, have seen registrations. Analysis of registrations under the S&E Act — between February and August — shows that April saw the least number, while February saw the most. Of the remaining five months, two saw more than 3,000 registrations, two had more than 1,000 and one had more than 2,500. Among the sectors, hotels and hospitality have seen the most new registrations, followed by IT-ITes/mobile and IT networking. Garments and retail sectors too have seen new registrations. TR Parasuraman, president, Toyota Industries Engines Pvt Ltd and the Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce, said: “Manufacturing is definitely picking up and I think we’ve come close to 70% of pre-Covid months. Even the supply chain has bounced back. That said, although Covid has become the new normal, quarantine norms and other existing restrictions have led to a huge shortage of skilled labour which is hurting us. Once there’s some basic stability, even these challenges will be overcome, and new registrations are an indication of a recovery.” Officials in the industries department attributed the wave of new businesses to amendments introduced to allow real-time registrations. “This was done in February. Businesses can now apply through a website and the process is instantaneous. There is no inspection before the registration process,” one official said. Also, as reported by TOI earlier the government is in the process of introducing perpetual (no renewal) licences. Currently validity is for five years. Gaurav Gupta, principal secretary (industries), said: “Given that almost all activities had come to a standstill for most of these seven months due to Covid-19, the number of registrations is a positive sign. From our interactions with the business community, we’ve gathered that they are very happy with the reforms. Soon, we will introduce a single digital platform for all registrations just like the S&E Act.” Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association president KB Arasappa, while pointing out that new registrations point to recovery, however said that it will take a while before industry bounces back completely given the gaps in liquidity, labour and demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/despite-pandemic-gloom-ktaka-sees-16-7k-new-biz-registrations-this-year/articleshow/77811246.cms||Chethan Kumar
August 29, 2020||Nagpur||Record 2,383 +ves in a day, Covid cases surpass 50,000 in Vidarbha||NAGPUR: A never before spike of 2,383 Covid-19 cases rocked Vidarbha on August 28. These include 100+ cases in five out of 11 districts of Vidarbha, and first ever spike of 200+ cases in Amravati. With Friday’s major spike, total Covid-19 cases in the region have gone past 50,000 mark to 52,483. It took 170 days for Vidarbha to surpass 50,000 Covid-19 cases. More than 37,000 of these were reported in August alone. Nagpur once again reported highest 1,415 cases on Friday. These include 1,162 from Nagpur city alone, 250 from Nagpur district and three from other parts of the state. Amravati reported its first ever 200+ spike in cases. Both the hotspots are followed by Yavatmal (122), Buldhana (105), Akola (103), Chandrapur (97), Wardha (82), Gondia (81), Gadchiroli (66), Washim (57), and Bhandara (49) new cases. Despite record-breaking surge in cases, recoveries also continued to increase in the region and so the recovery rate. On August 28, total 1,749 patients were discharged. These include Nagpur (1,092), Yavatmal (229), Amravati (157), Buldhana (83), Wardha (47), Chandrapur (36), Akola (28), Bhandara (26), Washim (21), Gondia (18), Gadchiroli (12). With this, total 32,284 patients have recovered for a recovery rate of 61.51%. It’s still less than the state and national average which is above 72%. Deaths continued to remain major cause of concern for Vidarbha. Total 56 Covid-19 patients died in a day. Nagpur saw 42 deaths, followed by Amravati (5), Bhandara (3), Wardha (2), Gondia, Chandrapur, Buldhana and Akola (one each). Case fatality rate is still 2.8%. Districts in Nagpur division, which were having less number of deaths since the beginning, have now started reporting sudden surge in Covid-19 deaths. AMRAVATI: Posting its first double century spike of 206 cases on Friday, the district took its patient count to 5,334 even as five deaths took the toll to 127. With 157 getting discharge today, the number of recovered patients has reached 3,916. This left 1,291 under treatment, including 17 taking treatment in Nagpur and 385 put in home isolation. The spike of 206 reported today is the highest single-day spike recorded thus far, beating the previous high of 180 posted on August 26. This was the sixth successive day of 100-plus cases and 16th of this month and 18th overall. The rural belt accounted for 95 of the cases to take its tally to 1,564. BHANDARA: District witnessed three Covid-19 deaths in a day which is a record for Bhandara. Three men aged 42, 32 and 58 — all from Bhandara — were referred to Nagpur GMCH for advanced treatment. The three died on August 28. This took Bhandara’s Covid-19 death toll to 20. Total 49 new cases came to fore on August 28 and 26 patients recovered. Covid-19 cases in Bhandara surpassed 1,000-mark and reached 1,046. Out of them, 583 have been discharged and 20 deaths. Total 443 patients are under treatment. WARDHA: Total 82 fresh cases and two Covid-19 deaths made a record in district on Friday. Two men aged 45, and 65 years, both residents of Wardha, died during treatment. Total 47 were discharged after they overcame the coronavirus. On Friday, only 105 test reports came while 82 of them tested positive. Now, 323 test reports are awaited. The caseload of the district has now reached 879 while 257 are under treatment and 591 got discharged. The cases reported on Friday are Wardha 35, Selu 16, Hinganghat 10, Karanja 9, Ashti 4, Deoli 4, Samudrapur 2 and Arvi 2. Due to rapid increase in the number of coronavirus patients in Wardha, Selu and Deoli tehsils, sub-divisional officer (SDO) Suresh Bagle has issued an order on Friday and declared a curfew on August 29 and 30. During the curfew, banks, hospitals, drug stores, agricultural centres, dairy services, parcel, bus services, petrol pump will continue to function, while other services along with government, semi-government offices will remain closed. BULDHANA: The district received 641 reports of Covid-19 suspects on August 28 and record 105 of them tested positive. An 82-year-old man from Buldhana city died during treatment on Friday. Total 83 patients recovered and discharged. Now, Buldhana has 2,911 Covid-19 cases, with 2,051 of them recovered and 45 deaths. Recovery rate of Buldhana is 70%. The district has 815 patients under treatment. CHANDRAPUR: The district on Friday registered a fresh spike of 97 Covid cases taking the total number of patients to 1,896. The district also saw discharge of 36 patients in the day. This has taken the number of cured patients to 11,081. At present, there are 756 patients under treatment. One death was recorded on Thursday night. A 68-year-old patient from Kannamwar ward in Ballarpur died of Covid 19. He was admitted for breathing trouble on Thursday, but died the same night. So far, 23 people have died of the coronavirus infection in the district. Newfound patients include 40 from Chandrapur, Ballarpur 12, Bhadrawati 5, Rajura 7, Bramhapuri 4, Mul 9, Korpana 7, Warora 3, Pombhurna 2, Gondpipri 3 and a traveller each from Wani in Yavatmal district and Uttar Pradesh. AKOLA: After almost a month, Akola reported more than 100 Covid-19 cases on August 28. Total 451 reports were received those include rapid antigen tests and RT-PCR out of which 78 were positive. On the other hand, Dr Hedgewar Hospital and Research Institute from Akola had sent more than 100 samples to a Nagpur laboratory from where 25 came positive. Now, Akola has 3,765 total cases, 3,118 discharged and 148 deaths. A woman from Alegaon in Patur tehsil died during treatment on August 28. She was 73 and was admitted on August 22. At present 499 patients are under treatment in Akola. GONDIA: With death of a 73-year-old patient from Amgaon, Gondia’s Covid-19 toll has increased to 17 while 18 patients were given discharge on Friday. As many as 81 new cases surfaced today which include 64 from hotspot Gondia tehsil alone. Now, Gondia has 1,311 total cases, 801 of them recovered, 17 deaths and 493 under treatment. GADCHIROLI: Covid-19 cases surpassed 1,000-mark in district on August 28 with 66 patients reported in a day. Out of these, 43 are from ‘worst-hit’ Chamorshi and 16 from Gadchiroli. On the other hand, 12 patients recovered and discharged. Gadchiroli now has 1,058 patients, and 851 of them recovered. With a death reported earlier, total 206 patients are under treatment. WASHIM: District once again recorded surge of 57 Covid-19 cases in a day on August 28. Now, Washim has 1,623 total cases. Total 21 patients recovered which took total number of recovered patients to 1,182. Recovery rate of Washim is 73%. Washim has reported 30 deaths till date. Now, 411 patients are under treatment. YAVATMAL: Record 229 patients recovered and were discharged on August 28. The district also reported 122 new cases. Yavatmal has tested 46,593 samples till date which is significantly high in Vidarbha region compared to many other districts. The district has total 3,123 Covid-19 cases, 2,219 of them recovered and 77 dead. No death was reported in Yavatmal on August 28. Now, 815 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/record-2383-ves-in-a-day-covid-cases-surpass-50k-in-vid/articleshow/77813415.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 29, 2020||Jaipur||Four arrested for betting in Balotara||JAISALMER: Police arrested four persons betting on cricket matches from a house on Moongda Road in Balotara of Barmer district. Police have recovered about Rs 49.58 lakh along with other items used for betting. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said that a team led by Balotara SHO caught Mehbub Shah (44), Rustom (30), Jitendra (34), Daulatram (45), all residents of Balotara for betting. Police recovered a laptop, five mobile phones, an LED TV, a calculator, five ball pens, four notebooks and cash of more than Rs 49.58 lakh. He said that Mehbub, using his staff, used to bet on cricket matches, by making customers bet from their mobiles. Mehbub maintained a ledger of all accounts of the customers. All bets were updated on the laptop and the next day it was entered in the ledger. All four were arrested under Section 3/4 of RPGO and the case will be put up before the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/four-arrested-for-betting-in-balotara/articleshow/77813418.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Salem||Salem wall collapse: 40-yr-old woman dies||SALEM: One of the 13 people who suffered injuries in a wall collapse at Salem died late on Thursday night. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami offered condolences and sanctioned a solatium of Rs 4 lakh for the family of Kavitha, 40, on Friday. A wall constructed years ago between the railway track and houses at Puthuchampalli near Mettur collapsed on August 26 when workers were digging pits to construct a new wall. The wall, about 40 metres long, crumbled injuring 13 workers of which five identified as Thangaponnu, 30, Lakshmi, 30, Padamraj, 20, Gokila, 32, Srinivasan, 32 and Kavitha, suffered grievous injuries.  Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami ordered the health officials to provide proper treatment for the injured, EPS said Rs 4 lakh would be granted to the family of Kavitha, while Rs 50000 each would be given to the severely injured and Rs 25000 to those who suffered injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/salem-wall-collapse-40-yr-old-woman-dies/articleshow/77813406.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: ‘Finish varsity exams by September 30’||AHMEDABAD: The state education department has directed all universities in the state to complete the final-year exams in all faculties and declare the results by the end of September. Secretary of higher and technical education Anju Sharma said that the state has issued directions to all universities to wrap up the final-year exams of BA, BCom, BSc, MA, MCom, BE, ME, MBA, MCA, BPharm, MPharm and other courses by September 30. “This is to ensure that students do not lose an academic year due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Sharma. “Those planning to study abroad should not suffer either.” Sharma said that the state has recently conducted GujCET and supplementary exams for Classes 10 and 12. She said that the SOPs followed for these exams have proved that if proper care is taken, the state universities can conduct exams which are the top priority for the students. So far only a handful of universities have conducted the final exams. They are GTU, Saurashtra University, and Sardar Patel University. Some other universities, including GU, have repeatedly announced exam dates but have backtracked after facing stiff opposition from student unions. I Vice-chancellor of GU Himanshu Pandya said the university announced the exam schedule on September 3 and then on September 13. The exams will be conducted mostly online while later an offline exam will be held for those who can’t take the online exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/finish-varsity-exams-by-sept-30/articleshow/77812042.cms||Bharat Yagnik
August 29, 2020||Chandigarh||15-year-old pregnant ‘wife’ abandoned||AMBALA: Police have booked the “husband” and other relatives of a 15-year-old pregnant girl on charges of rape and sexual assault after she was thrown her out of her inlaws’ house. A case has been registered under the POCSO Act and the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. On August 13, the girl lodged a police complaint alleging physical harassment and mental torture at the house of her-in-laws. She demanded health facilities for herself and her unborn child and accommodation in a shelter home. On August 20, she lodged a complaint of domestic violence in court against her 20-year-old husband. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/15-yr-old-pregnant-girl-thrown-out-of-house-husband-booked/articleshow/77813410.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Jaipur||Aspiring musician ends life in Rajasthan's Alwar||ALWAR: An aspiring musician committed suicide by drinking poisonous liquid in Alwar on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. Deceased Ravi Nat, a resident of Nagar in Bharatpur, had eloped with a reality show fame singer Renu Nagar in June. He returned last week following which a case of abduction was filed against Nat by the parents of Nagar. Nat was released after Nagar gave statements in favour of him. “On August 27, around 9pm, the tenant informed police about Nat being in inebriated condition at his rented place in Alwar. He was rushed to a private hospital but couldn’t survive,” said a police officer of NEB police station, Alwar. Police further added that Nat used to visit Nagar’s house to learn tabla. “It appears that they fell in love with each other. Both eloped last month and came back a week ago. Prima facie reports say that since then Nat was in depression,” said a police source. Bhim Singh, brother of the deceased, said that his brother was under attack from Nagar’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/aspiring-musician-ends-life/articleshow/77813417.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Civic body in Aurangabad to immerse idols on mandals’ behalf||AURANGABAD/NASHIK: To ensure there is no violation of social distancing norms as well as any further spread of coronavirus, Aurangabad municipal corporation (AMC) authorities have decided to perform immersion of Ganesh idols on behalf of mandals. Police have said that no one will be allowed to get close to water bodies for immersing idols. Aurangabad commissioner of police Chirajeev Prasad said that restrictions will be levied on movement of vehicles as well as people on the day of immersion. Aurangabad municipal administrator Astik Kumar Pandey has sketched out a detailed plan to ensure that people do not gather in large numbers at any place for idol immersion. As per the plan, several points have been earmarked in each of the nine zones of the civic body for collecting Ganesh idols. “This year it is going to be an easy affair to carry out immersion without causing much pollution of the water bodies as most of the Ganesh idols this year have been prepared using clay,” said a senior official. Nashik rural cops tell mandals to avoid big processions Meanwhile, the Nashik rural police conducted a meeting of all office-bearers of Ganesh mandals in Malegoan to sensitize them about the importance of not organizing huge processions during Ganesh immersion on Tuesday. Superintendent of Police Arti Singh said that while there is a significant drop in the number of Ganesh mandals owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, it is important to inform the mandals that immersion processions are not allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/civic-body-in-aurangabad-to-immerse-idols-on-mandals-behalf/articleshow/77810793.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Rape accused hangs self in Baran district jail||KOTA: A 26-year-old man, who was accused of raping a minor, lodged at Baran district jail under judicial custody committed suicide by hanging himself in the toilet on Thursday evening. The reason behind the suicide is yet to be ascertained. However, police suspect the accused ended his life in apprehension of not getting bail as the family members of the rape survivor had left the village. The police handed over the body to family members after postmortem by medical board on Friday morning. They have lodged a case under section 176 of CrPC for magisterial inquiry into the death. “The rape accused, identified as Golu Kushwah (26), a resident of Chabda town of Baran district, allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself with towel to the window of jail toilet on Thursday evening,” said Mohammad Arif Khan, jailer at Baran district jail. “The deceased inmate was lodged at Baran district jail under judicial custody for rape of a minor girl under Section 376 and sections of POCSO Act since July 15 this year,” he added. “After taking evening meal on Thursday, the accused went to the toilet near his barrack where he hanged himself with towel from the window. When a fellow inmate went to the toilet, he found Golu Kushwah hanging,” Khan said. He was immediately rushed to the hospital where doctors declared him brought dead, he added.  The reason behind the extreme step is yet to be ascertained, however, it is suspected that the deceased inmate feared not getting bail as the family members of the rape survivor had reportedly left the village and nobody knew of their whereabouts, he added. “Police have lodged a case under Section 176 of CrPC for magisterial inquiry into the cause of death,” said Mangilal Yadav, circle inspector, Baran city police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rape-accused-hangs-self-in-baran-dist-jail/articleshow/77813430.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Over 4 lakh cases in Andhra Pradesh, recoveries cross 3 lakh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh on Friday became the third state in the country to cross four lakh Covid-19 cases. The cumulative tally of the state stood at 4,03,616 cases with 10,526 fresh cases reported on Friday. Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu are the other states to have crossed the four-lakh cases mark. Meanwhile, the cumulative recoveries crossed the three-lakh mark to reach 3,03,711, translating to a recovery rate of 75%. The toll jumped to 3,714 as 81 more people succumbed to the pandemic on Friday. AP breached the one-lakh case mark on July 27, nearly 135 days after the state reported its first case on March 12. But it took only 11 days for the state to add the next one lakh cases to touch the two-lakh milestone. The third one lakh cases also came in 11 days. But the state recorded the latest one lakh cases in just 10 days. Even though the daily new Covid-19 cases showed some stabilising trend for the last one month by limiting to the 7,000-10,000 range, the growing case positivity rate is a concern for health officials. The state’s case positivity rate stood at 11.4 per cent as of Friday against the national average of 8.57%. The recovery rate in Anantapur, West Godavari and Krishna districts improved to about 85 per cent. Krishna district has only 2,289 active cases, the lowest among all districts. Prakasam district crossed the 20,000 Covid-19 case mark on Friday. Andhra Pradesh has so far tested 35.41 lakh samples, including the 61,331 people tested for Covid-19 on Friday. The mortality remains relatively stable at 0.92%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/over-4l-cases-in-ap-recoveries-cross-3l/articleshow/77815872.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Amaravati||Over 4 lakh cases in Andhra Pradesh, recoveries cross 3 lakh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh on Friday became the third state in the country to cross four lakh Covid-19 cases. The cumulative tally of the state stood at 4,03,616 cases with 10,526 fresh cases reported on Friday. Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu are the other states to have crossed the four-lakh cases mark. Meanwhile, the cumulative recoveries crossed the three-lakh mark to reach 3,03,711, translating to a recovery rate of 75%. The toll jumped to 3,714 as 81 more people succumbed to the pandemic on Friday. AP breached the one-lakh case mark on July 27, nearly 135 days after the state reported its first case on March 12. But it took only 11 days for the state to add the next one lakh cases to touch the two-lakh milestone. The third one lakh cases also came in 11 days. But the state recorded the latest one lakh cases in just 10 days. Even though the daily new Covid-19 cases showed some stabilising trend for the last one month by limiting to the 7,000-10,000 range, the growing case positivity rate is a concern for health officials. The state’s case positivity rate stood at 11.4 per cent as of Friday against the national average of 8.57%. The recovery rate in Anantapur, West Godavari and Krishna districts improved to about 85 per cent. Krishna district has only 2,289 active cases, the lowest among all districts. Prakasam district crossed the 20,000 Covid-19 case mark on Friday. Andhra Pradesh has so far tested 35.41 lakh samples, including the 61,331 people tested for Covid-19 on Friday. The mortality remains relatively stable at 0.92%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/over-4l-cases-in-ap-recoveries-cross-3l/articleshow/77815871.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Jaipur||Goods train gets stuck in platform at Jaisalmer’s Sonu station||JAISALMER: A goods train got stuck in the platform at Sonu railway station in Jaisalmer on Thursday evening. Finally, the edge of the platform was broken after which the train left for its destination around 1:30am. Railways has ordered investigation into the incident. It is the first such incident in India, experts said. Two days back, the goods trains had left from Sonu railway station to ferry limestone from Sonu mines to different parts of the country. For direct loading dock of limestone from Sonu mines, a railway track was laid from Hamira to Sonu. It was formally inaugurated two days back and two trains left for Bhilai and Bokaro. On Thursday, the third goods train was brought to the platform for loading the limestone at 11am. While loading with specially designed loader, the front portion of platform got stuck in the train due to technical reason. Employees tried their best for hours but the train did not move. Finally, in the night it was decided to break some part of the edge of the platform. Two JCB machines were called and a big portion of platform was broken. Jodhpur division DRM Ashutosh Pant said that the train departed at late night around 1.30am after breaking 40-50 metre portion of the platform. The reason will be known after the investigation. Jodhpur rail division spokesperson Gopal Sharma said that after a long wait, the track was inaugurated two days ago. The Sonu-Hamira line was completed in December 2019 but this 58.50km-long track could not be started due to technical reasons and other processes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/goods-train-gets-stuck-in-platform-at-jaisalmers-sonu-stn/articleshow/77813426.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi ramps up tests after recent Covid rise||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal recently said that the number of Covid-19 tests in Delhi would be doubled to 40,000 a day in view of the rise in new cases. Delhi government has prepared the roadmap to ramp up testing and will run an awareness campaign urging people to go for testing. Health minister Satyendar Jain said on Friday that the timing of testing at the nearly 300 Delhi government dispensaries has been extended by two hours and will be from 9am to 2pm to allow more people to get tested comfortably. Jain said that Delhi already had the highest per million testing figures in the country and the state government wanted to ensured not a single person “is left behind”. “Even if the dispensaries conduct on average 100 tests a day and the hospitals, 200, the target of scaling up testing to a daily 40,000 from the current around 20,000 will be met,” Jain said. Aggressive testing in containment zones and at the district level would continue alongside, he said. The minister said that people were delaying tests and, as a result, infecting their families. He said that anyone with even the slightest doubt about their Covid status should opt for testing, which is free. The government had enough kits to double the number of tests, which he said would continue till new cases diminished. Jain also said there cannot be a fixed ratio of rapid tests to the more confirmative RT-PCR tests, the former being used for asymptomatic cases, the latter for symptomatic patients. The health minister insisted there was no second wave of infection in Delhi as claimed by many and that the recent increase in the daily cases was due to various reasons, including patients from outside and migrants who returning to Delhi. “The positivity rate is 6-7%, down from 30% at one point,” Jain said. "Of the 3,700 corona patients in Delhi government hospitals at present, around 30% are from other states.” Testing had reduced because people stayed home during the recent festivals, but they have increased and so have the case numbers. He revealed that hospitals had been directed to refer oxygen concentrators for Covid patients discharged from hospitals, and the government would provide them to people with breathing problems or with low oxygen levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-ramps-up-tests-after-recent-covid-rise/articleshow/77813431.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 29, 2020||Mysuru||Isro may be tasked to track illegal mining at Babybetta||Mandya: The Mandya district administration is mulling about seeking the help of the Indian Space Research Organization (Isro) to curb the menace of illegal quarrying in Babybetta reserved forest area. At a recent meeting, senior officials have decided to use satellite observation imagery to trace illegal mining activities in Babybetta reserved forest area as it would help authorities keep a hawk eye’s vigil on the long-term change of landscape due to illegal mining. “We are trying hard to put an end to illegal mining in the Babybetta reserved forest area. But all our efforts appear to be ineffective given the mining owners are having deeply entrenched political patronage. Though, illegal mining activities are under control as of now due to some stringent measures, we want it to be more fortified by suing scientific means,” said a senior officer. Deputy commissioner MV Venkatesh, who chaired the meeting, said the authorities have already sought technical assistance from Karnataka State Remote Sensing Applications Centre (KSRSAC) for mapping the entire contentious Babybetta area and provide 2D and 3D photos on a weekly basis. “There are continuous allegations that illegal mining is still being carried out in Babybetta despite the district administration banning it. Now we are contemplating to map the entire area with satellite imagery so that we can keep a vigil on illegal mining if any in that area,” Venkatesh said. Meanwhile, farmer leaders welcomed the decision of satellite mapping Babybetta. “Most officials who are responsible for implementing the mining ban are hand-in-glow with influential mining owners. Without employing technology, the illegal mining cannot be stopped,” said a farmer leader. “Had these officials been sincere in their duties, there would be no question of illegal mining being carrying out. The district administration has taken the right decision to map the entire Babybetta area so that scientific evidence should be available in future to prove even slight changes in landscape near KRS reservoir. We urge the state government to take up satellite imaging as early as possible” said Shambunahalli Suresh, district president of Karnataka Rajya Raita Sangha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/isro-may-be-tasked-to-track-illegal-mining-at-babybetta/articleshow/77810812.cms||Rajendrakumar K R
August 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad’s tally crosses 31,000, Gujarat’s 92,000||AHMEDABAD: With 168 new Covid-19 positive cases in 24 hours, Ahmedabad district crossed 31,000 cumulative cases at 31,098. The district currently accounts for 33.6% of the state’s total cases. The rate of addition of cases however has remained the same at six days for the past 1,000 cases. Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Friday recorded 1,272 positive cases — the single-day highest tally so far — taking the total to 92,601. It’s for the third time that the state’s daily tally has crossed 1,200 cases. The new cases include 270 from Surat, 132 from Vadodara, and 112 from Rajkot 53.6% day’s cases. Four major districts – Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot – accounted for 53.6% of these cases. With the update, the cumulative tally for Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot reached 19,796, 7,817, and 4,451 respectively. The state also recorded deaths of 14 positive patients, taking the death toll to 2,978. The death toll in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot reached 1,705, 615, 127, and 88 respectively. A total of 1,050 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 74,551.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabads-tally-crosses-31k-states-92k/articleshow/77812055.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Over 4 lakh cases in Andhra Pradesh, recoveries cross 3 lakh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh on Friday became the third state in the country to cross four lakh Covid-19 cases. The cumulative tally of the state stood at 4,03,616 cases with 10,526 fresh cases reported on Friday. Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu are the other states to have crossed the four-lakh cases mark. Meanwhile, the cumulative recoveries crossed the three-lakh mark to reach 3,03,711, translating to a recovery rate of 75%. The toll jumped to 3,714 as 81 more people succumbed to the pandemic on Friday. AP breached the one-lakh case mark on July 27, nearly 135 days after the state reported its first case on March 12. But it took only 11 days for the state to add the next one lakh cases to touch the two-lakh milestone. The third one lakh cases also came in 11 days. But the state recorded the latest one lakh cases in just 10 days. Even though the daily new Covid-19 cases showed some stabilising trend for the last one month by limiting to the 7,000-10,000 range, the growing case positivity rate is a concern for health officials. The state’s case positivity rate stood at 11.4 per cent as of Friday against the national average of 8.57%. The recovery rate in Anantapur, West Godavari and Krishna districts improved to about 85 per cent. Krishna district has only 2,289 active cases, the lowest among all districts. Prakasam district crossed the 20,000 Covid-19 case mark on Friday. Andhra Pradesh has so far tested 35.41 lakh samples, including the 61,331 people tested for Covid-19 on Friday. The mortality remains relatively stable at 0.92%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/over-4l-cases-in-ap-recoveries-cross-3l/articleshow/77810824.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Salem||437 test positive for virus in Salem||SALEM: After a dip in cases for a few days, Salem district once again logged an alarming 437 fresh cases on Friday, even as the district inched closer to the 10,000 mark. Of the new cases, 289 are from the Salem corporation limits, signalling a second wave of surge in the city. The district has reported 9,815 Covid-19 cases till date. In the wake of six staff of the district administration testing positive for Covid-19, the collectorate building was shut for three days beginning Friday. Only staff of the registration department and the treasury visited the collectorate on Friday as the entire building was fumigated. Officials said that public and staff can start visiting the collectorate from Monday. “We have doubled the number of samples tested from 2,000-odd to upto 4,500 now,’’ said collector S A Raman, who inspected the testing lab at the government hospital. Raman said that they have ramped up the lab infrastructure to speed up tests. Earlier, the lab was equipped to test 3,000 samples a day which has now been upgraded to conduct 4,500 samples, he said. “On Thursday alone, 4,346 tests were done.’’ He said 1.6 lakh people have been tested in the district so far. Erode district recorded 126 cases, followed by Tirupur district, which posted its highest ever surge of 120 new cases, pushing its tally to 2,458 cases. Other districts like Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri appeared to be on a safer side with 29 and 16 cases, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/437-test-positive-for-virus-in-salem/articleshow/77813432.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Nagpur||Three from Nagpur design Covid body sanitizer unit||NAGPUR: Three researchers led by a Nagpur University professor have come up with an innovative design of a mortuary cabinet for disinfecting Covid-19 bodies using ultraviolet (UV) radiation so as to eliminate the risk of infection to handlers like health workers and family members. According to them, this would help in removing the fears in the minds of family members and health workers while touching the bodies and last rites could be performed properly without any stigma. With the number of Covid deaths increasing rapidly in the city, the mortuary box would help in proper disposal of the bodies. “This newly prepared body sanitizer unit is made of stainless steel and equipped with UVC lamps having 200 NM to 280 NM wavelength. A body can be sanitized after switching on the UVC lights for 15 minutes, eliminating SARS-CoV-2 virus. This will bring an end to the social stigma associated with the Covid bodies, as many don’t even perform last rites of their loved ones out of fear,” said Sanjay Dhoble, professor in NU’s department of physics. Professor in Dadasaheb Balpande College of Pharmacy Nilesh Mahajan and lecturer with Sevadal Mahila Mahavidyalaya Nirupama Dhoble are the other members of the team which designed the body sanitizer unit. According to the trio, it is a challenging task for health workers to handle Covid bodies. “All Covid-19 bodies are potentially infectious and need to be handled with utmost care. Most likely violations are not wearing a mask, gloves or not taking proper safety measures. It’s very difficult to educate people or make them aware of proper precautionary measures,” they said. The body sanitizer unit has been patented. The researchers have transferred this technology to Nishad Industries situated in MIDC at Nandgaonpeth in Amravati to manufacture the mortuary cabinet. As they had discussed the basic requirements of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) with superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande, they donated the first unit to GMCH in the presence of NU VC Subhash Chaudhary and dean Dr Sajal Mitra. The trio said there remains several potential threats of accidental contamination to health workers, other patients and family members after receiving the body. “Even though standard disinfectants are effective against SARS-CoV-2, manual disinfection may leave some unexposed areas where the viruses can thrive. This body sanitizer unit can be of immense help in eliminating the virus,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/three-from-nagpur-design-covid-body-sanitizer-unit/articleshow/77813429.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 29, 2020||Jaipur||SC/ST people can apply for loan online||Jaipur: Under Rajasthan Scheduled Caste Scheduled Tribe Finance and Development Cooperative Corporation Limited, people belonging to SC/ST categories, safai karamcharis, persons with disabilities (PwDs) and other backward classes (OBCs) can apply for loan for self-employment online from September 1. They can get loans at a concessional rate of interest. Managing director of Anuja Corporation Parameshwar Lal said, “The applicants can now apply for loan through e-mitra or by creating an SSO ID.” A loan appraisal team has been constituted at the division level for approval of loans. This team will accept or reject the applications by holding a meeting within three months of receipt of the application, he added.  The applicants can apply for loan online from September 1 to November 30. “The loan amount will be transferred by the Corporation to the Jan Aadhaar-linked bank account of the applicant after administrative approval on the basis of the recommendation given by the loan appraisal team,” he added. Lal further said, “Earlier, this process took a lot of time as the applications were accepted offline. This process has been made online since last year. It will make the process easier for applicants who will not have to wait for long.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sc/st-people-can-apply-for-loan-online/articleshow/77813435.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man tries to pay electricity bill, loses Rs 1 lakh in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 49-year-old man, Karan Desai, lodged an FIR at Isanpur police station alleging that cyber criminals who identified themselves as customer care executives of an e-wallet company stole Rs 1 lakh from his bank account. According to the complaint, Desai tried to pay an electricity bill of Rs 2,110 from his e-wallet in July but the payment had not gone through. However, the money had been debited from his bank account. He had received a message that the money would be refunded in a week. Police source said as the refund did not happen, he searched for e-wallet company’s customer care number on a search engine and called the number he found. The person at the other end made him download an application and then disconnected the phone. The FIR states that the complainant then got a call from another number. The caller made him open the application and got its password from him. The caller then got him to divulge a one-time password (OTP) and told him that the money would be refunded the next day but nothing happened. “He then started receiving messages about money being withdrawn from his bank account. Over several transactions, Rs 1 lakh was withdrawn from his account ,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-tries-to-pay-electricity-bill-loses-rs1-lakh/articleshow/77813446.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Udaipur||Grass Carps to boost fish production at Pichhola||UDAIPUR: While ichthyologists (marine biologists) all over the world condemn Grass Carps as ‘eating machines’ that gulp down complete aquatic vegetation from any water body, limnologists in Udaipur suggest urgent release of some 65,000 to 70,000 Grass Carp fingerlings as part of scientific management at Lake Pichhola to improve its water quality and increase fish production here. A latest research done at College of Fisheries of Maharana Pratap University for Agriculture and Technology found a vast area of lake spread over 77.50 hectares infested with obnoxious weeds and thick vegetation, thus, deteriorating the water quality, fostering habitat reduction and reducing number of harvestable fish. The study was carried out by research scholar Amrita Pritam Shivanil to assess the fishery potential of the lake and to establish its relationship with water quality, plankton and macrophyte productivity. The study was purposely selected as Pichhola is facing anthropogenic pressure due to heavy human populations and hotels around it. This has created threat to shift its trophic level and alteration in its important physico-chemical parameters. “We divided the lake into different stations, i.e., the surface, subsurface and bottom water of the lake. The lake is moderately shallow with an average depth of 4.5 metre including weed-choked littoral zone of 77.50 hectare out of total 696 hectare water spread area. Station A was a shallow and isolated site. B was surrounded by maximum human habitation with relatively deeper water, and station C was also surrounded by human habitation, having large littoral zone, whereas station D was at the tail end with considerably large littoral zone,” main advisor and dean, Fisheries College, Subodh Sharma told TOI. “The average water quality parameters of Pichhola indicate that the lake has relatively moderate level of nutrients with additional urban wastes at certain sites, thus, coming under a category of mild eutrophic to eutrophic water, 35 genera of phytoplankton, 31 genera of zooplankton population were recorded here,” Amrita said. Highest organic pollution was recorded at station B and C, posing a threat of eutrophication with solid and liquid waste disposal. The study indicated the lake has medium species diversity and high planktonic diversity. Total 22 species of aquatic macrophytes were found in lake Pichhola. The potential fish production is 1,40,473.96 kg per annum presently, however, the production may be increased up to 2,33,830.46 kg per annum through scientific management of the lake, the research claims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/grass-carps-to-boost-fish-production-at-pichhola/articleshow/77813437.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Three suspended for selling kits in open market||VISAKHAPATNAM: Srikakulam joint collector (ward and village secretariat) K Srinivasulu said three lab technicians were suspended for selling Covid-19 testing kits in the open market. The technicians were identified as G Narayana, S Shyam Kumar and G Venkata Ramana working at Palasa primary health centre. The joint collector said investigations have revealed that the three sold kits at Rs 2,000 each. The three technicians were suspended on the directions of district collector J Nivas and a criminal case initiated against them. The joint collector said the government and the district administration are committed to conducting tests free of cost for those who develop Covid-19 symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/3-suspended-for-selling-kits-in-open-mkt/articleshow/77810843.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Covid doctor pleads for protection||VIJAYAPURA: A doctor at a Covid hospital in Vijayapura has sought protection from district administration via a video clip which went viral on Friday. Dr Tammarao Patil, who claims he has been working continuously for the past two months and even neglecting his family members, said that as a duty doctor at Kote Hospital, he has been harassed by attendees of patients. “A patient with 50% saturation level was admitted last night and we conducted all preliminary tests and explained in detail to the patient’s attendees. But 3-4 attendees were not ready to cooperate and started entering the ICU which is against the norms. Now, they are denying it but we have CCTV footage to prove it. They said they will get medicines from outside instead of purchasing at our hospital. I’ve been away from home for two months. My parents and grandparents are at risk but I’m working in the hospital. We’re being harassed by patients’ attendees on a daily basis and pushing us to depression,” he added. When contacted, he neither received calls nor responded to messages. Vijayapura deputy commissioner P Sunil Kumar said the incident happened on Wednesday. “Our district health officer, deputy superintendent of police and assistant commissioner went to the hospital and assured staff our protection. We’ll ensure an FIR is filed and attendees are prosecuted,” he said. Dr Patil has raised this issue earlier and has uploaded videos to his Facebook account from August 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/covid-doctor-in-vijayapura-pleads-for-protection-as-attendees-barge-in/articleshow/77811111.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
August 29, 2020||Nagpur||Kin feeding, taking care of Covid patients in GMCH||NAGPUR: The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) is allegedly asking and allowing relatives of Covid-19 positive patients to take care of their patients citing lack of staff. One relative has alleged her family member was admitted in Covid-19 Isolation Ward even before swab samples were taken. TOI on August 12 had reported statement of son of a positive patient that he and others were taking care of their admitted patients and stepping in and out of isolation ward due to lack of staff at GMCH. The person had even stayed overnight with his father as the latter was unable to go to washroom. He had sent video to TOI from inside the ward. A woman sent pictures of GMCH Ward 13 on Thursday to TOI. On the entrance it is written, “Covid-19 positive patients are in this ward. Relatives should not go inside without permission.” Pictures clearly show some relatives sitting on beds of patients, standing and talking to patients and some coming out. NGO Together We Can, which is officially appointed to coordinate between administration of Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs) and relatives, confirmed that Ward 13 of GMCH was a Covid-19 Isolation Ward. The woman told TOI, “My grandmother (75) was admitted in this ward on Tuesday. She is unable to stand up and go to washroom as she feels dizzy whenever she stands up. Staff at GMCH advised me to take care of her. A day before, we took her to a private hospital that said she had symptoms and needed to test and get admitted in DCH. My mother is a diabetic. How can I take care of her and go back to my home.” The woman added, “I gave her milk, lunch etc going inside the ward as there was none to take care of her. When we reached the ward on Thursday, we were informed she had died. She should have been admitted in ICU and kept on oxygen or ventilator if she was critical. Other patients in the ward told us she fell down twice from bed and they lifted her and placed her back. No staffer came to her rescue. The patients are on their own or left to relatives.” The woman alleged her grandmother was admitted in Isolation ward after doctor at GMCH saw her X-ray report. “We were time and again asking for her Covid-19 reports but none responded for three days. I received a call from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Friday saying my grandmother was positive and we all should get tested at civic body’s centres,” she said. TOI sent pictures to GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra who said, “We don’t allow relatives inside Covid wards. We will inquire if something of this nature is happening. Also, Ward 13 is a presumptive ward where all suspected patients are admitted and tested and then accordingly shifted to other wards.” The woman also said neither NMC nor GMCH arranged and called for funeral of her grandmother until 9pm on Friday. Earlier, TOI had also highlighted Isolation ward was filled with wastewater of washroom and one of the patient’s mattress was laid on wet floor. As per report of District Civil Surgeon, GMCH was having 357 positive patients against capacity of 500 on Friday. Earlier, guardian minister Nitin Raut had allowed GMCH and IGGMCH to recruit staffers for sanitation etc on contract if required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kin-feeding-taking-care-of-covid-patients-in-gmch/articleshow/77813441.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 29, 2020||Nashik||Adgaon police to return 72 abandoned vehicles to owners||Nashik: The Adgaon police have decided to return 72 abandoned vehicles to their owners after receiving orders about the same from commissioner of police Vishwas Nangare-Patil. The Adgaon police contacted the owners of vehicles and asked them to take their vehicles back after completing all legal formalities. The police also noted down the chassis number of two-wheelers, three-wheelers and four-wheelers whose registration number plate was missing and traced their owners with the help of the regional transport office (RTO). The said vehicles were either recovered by police in theft cases or were found abandoned on city roads. Police said that the vehicles were occupying good amount of space at the Adgaon police station premises.Nangare-Patil had recently instructed officials of all police stations to clear the vehicles lying at the respective premises.According to police, these vehicles include stolen bikes which have been recovered by police. Such vehicles are usually stolen from different parts of the city, district or even state and in some cases, the owners fail to lodge complaints regarding the theft of their vehicles. In such situations, it becomes difficult for police to trace the owners of stolen vehicles. In addition, some vehicles are seized from incident/accident spots or the ones used by suspects while conducting crimes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/adgaon-police-to-return-72-abandoned-vehicles-to-owners/articleshow/77810858.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Coimbatore||BJP entrant Annamalai booked for violating lockdown norms||COIMBATORE: The Kattoor police on Friday booked former IPS officer K Annamalai who joined BJP three days ago, and some party functionaries, for unlawful assembly and violating lockdown restrictions. Several BJP members had gathered at the party office on the VKK Menon Road on Thursday to welcome Annamalai, who delivered a speech from a vehicle. The party cadres also burst crackers on the road. Based on a complaint filed by sub-inspector Suganya, police registered a case against Annamalai, BJP district president R Nandakumar, state general secretary G K S Selvakumar, state treasurer S R Sekar, state vice-president Kanagasabapathy and some other functionaries. They were booked under sections 143 (punishment for unlawful assembly), 269 (whoever unlawfully or negligently does any act which is and which he knows or has reason to believe to be likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life), 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bjp-entrant-annamalai-booked-for-violating-lockdown-norms/articleshow/77813439.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: AAI agrees to pay 40% of property tax dues||AHMEDABAD: Following high drama on Thursday, when the office of Airports Authority of India (AAI) on Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport campus was sealed by the Ahmedabad Cantonment Board, AAI has agreed to pay 40% of the property tax dues that have been pending for over two years. The Ahmedabad Cantonment Board sealed the AAI office on Thursday. However, it was re-opened around 10.30pm after officials agreed to make partial payment of the pending dues of Rs 1.73 crore within a week. Well-placed sources confirmed that AAI has given written assurance to the Ahmedabad Cantonment Board that 40% of the dues, roughly Rs 69 lakh will be cleared in a week. The two organizations reportedly agreed that the remainder would be cleared by the AAI over the next three months. Sources said AAI has seen its revenues slide as the airport remained closed for two months and even after it reopened, there are barely any passengers, given the general reluctance of people to travel. The notice addressed to the airport director of SVPI airport, dated August 27, said that the ground, first, second and third floors of the AAI office building have been seized by the Cantonment Board and AAI has been given seven days to clear the dues besides paying recovery costs. The dues have been pending for two years, from April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2020. It was also learned that the matter was pursued by the Ahmedabad Cantonment Board at least four times by issuing notices in the past, but they elicited no response or action from the airport authorities over a two-year period. Attempts to contact A K Verma, SVPI director, elicited no response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/aai-agrees-to-pay-40-of-property-tax-dues/articleshow/77812061.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Jaipur||‘Give land compensation for NH projects in 15 days’||JAIPUR: Additional Chief Secretary (PWD) Veenu Gupta has instructed the officials to set up camps while following the Covid norms and guidelines in order to complete the process of giving compensation for land acquisition for the National Highway projects within 15 days. She also said that all the disputes with regard to compensation must be resolved by engaging the district collectors.  She said, last month Rs 128 crore has been distributed as a part of compensation to the applicants under the National Highway projects.  “In order to complete the projects in time, the work of land acquisition needs to be further accelerated. The work of distribution of compensation must be completed soon. All pending cases and outstanding compensation must be distributed to the applicants within 15 days,” said Gupta.  “Organize camps by following Covid norms to complete the process. All the disputes with regard to distribution of compensation must be settled by engaging the district collectors,” she added.  Gupta said that patwaris must be engaged in places where fewer applications have been received for the compensation amount. “Also, wherever the process of giving compensation has been completed, the land must be immediately handed over to the agency concerned so that NH development work can be started,” she said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/give-land-compensation-for-nh-projects-in-15-days/articleshow/77813443.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Nashik||Bike-borne couple mowed down by truck||Nashik: A couple died in a road accident after a truck hit the motorcycle they were travelling on and ran them over in Nashik Peth-road on Wednesday night. Dindori police have arrested the truck driver for causing death due to negligence. The deceased, identified as Anil Madhukar Salve (45) and his wife Sarla (40), are residents of Kailasji Society, Jail Road, Nashik Road. The truck driver has been identified as Kailas Pawar (38), a resident of Valsad, Gujarat. Police said the couple was returning home on their bike after meeting their relatives in Nalegaon when the incident took place. While they were passing from near Ashewadi village on the Peth Road at around 8 pm, a speeding truck coming from the opposite side hit their bike and ran over them. The couple suffered serious injuries on their head and other parts of the body, and died on the spot. Dindori police rushed to the spot and detained the truck driver, who was later arrested under Section 304 (A) (causing death due to negligence) and other sections of the IPC and Motor Vehicle Act regarding rash driving. 19-year-old dies in an accident A 19-year-old youth died in an accident when the pick-up truck he was travelling in turned turtle near Vinchur village on Vinchur-Dongargaon road. The deceased has been identified as Vedant Khule, resident of Devgan in Niphad taluka . The deceased’s father lodged a complaint against the pick-up truck driver identified as Wajid Ali Shah, resident of Devgaon, for rash driving and causing the death of his son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bike-borne-couple-mowed-down-by-truck/articleshow/77810839.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Delhi||Pandemic on, no power tariff hike this year in Delhi||NEW DELHI: In a major relief to nearly 62 lakh consumers, Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC) on Friday announced that the power tariff for 2020-21 would not be hiked in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, there would be a slight increase in the monthly power bill due to an increase in the “pension trust surcharge”. The power discoms had petitioned DERC to grant them “relief to mitigate the impact of Covid-19 and lockdown conditions as it may deem fit and proper”. “There is no change in the tariff,” DERC chairman Justice (Retd) SS Chauhan said. “They (discoms) have also faced losses and we have tried to maintain a balance. But we have laid more emphasis on the interest of consumers,” he added. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal congratulated the capital’s residents in a tweet and said that while electricity charges were going up every year in other states, Delhi hadn’t seen an increase in six years. In some cases, rates had been slashed too. “This is historic. This is happening because you have made an honest government in Delhi,” the tweet stated. Power minister Satyendar Jain also welcomed the decision. Electricity tariffs have not witnessed any major increase since AAP came to power in Delhi in 2015. DERC also waived the existing provision of 20% time of day (TOD) surcharge from September to March to give benefit to non-domestic, industrial, public utilities and domestic consumers. Delhi government’s request to increase the pension amount of the erstwhile Delhi Vidyut Board employees from the existing (FY 2019-20) Rs 839 crore to Rs 937 crore (FY 2020-21) was met by increasing the pension trust surcharge from 3.8% to 5%. To promote pollution-free transportation, DERC has continued with subsidised tariffs for e-rickshaws and e-vehicles. Tariffs for charging stations for e-rickshaws and e-vehicles on single-point delivery would also be applicable for charging of batteries at swapping facilities. However, such facilities would have to be used exclusively for swapping batteries of e-rickshaw and e-vehicles only. Energy charges for mushroom cultivation were also reduced from the existing Rs 6.5 per kWh to Rs 3.5 kWh. There are over 51 lakh domestic and one lakh commercial consumers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pandemic-on-no-power-tariff-hike-this-yr/articleshow/77813453.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: New pension scheme for govt medical faculty||BENGALURU: In a shot in the arm for thousands of Covid-19 warriors, the state has approved a new pension scheme for permanent teaching and non-teaching staff working in government medical and dental colleges and hospitals attached to these colleges. Medical education minister K Sudhakar said 5,949 teaching and non-teaching staff — both AICTE and non-AICET — working in 27 medical, dental colleges, teaching hospitals and super-speciality hospitals, will befit from the scheme. It would entail an additional burden of Rs 77 crore every year on the state exchequer, Sudhakar said. “Although the government is under financial stress due to the pandemic-induced economic slowdown, it decided to roll out a pension scheme as it was a long-pending demand and also considering the selfless services of doctors and staff of medical colleges in the fight against Covid-19,” Sudhakar said. The scheme will come into force with immediate effect and is applicable to all permanent employees who have been appointed after April 1, 2006, he said. Under the scheme, an employee will contribute 10% basic salary and dearness allowance and the government will contribute 14% towards pension funds. The Karnataka Government Autonomous Medical Colleges Employees Welfare Association welcomed the decision, but said it would have covered more doctors and staff if the scheme was applicable from the date of joining. “We welcome and thank the government for fulfilling our long pending demand despite the economic constraints owing to Covid-19,” said Dr A A Nadaf, president of the association. He said the association will submit a memorandum soon with a request to make the scheme applicable from the date of joining duty, as it will help more doctors and staff. In April, the government had hiked salaries of teaching staff of medical and dental colleges as per recommendations of the Seventh Pay Commission. The hike ranged from Rs 5,000 to Rs 20,000 on basic salaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-rolls-out-new-pension-scheme-for-staff-in-its-medical-colleges/articleshow/77811275.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Palike’s contract teachers say they haven’t been paid for months||Bengaluru: Over 200 contract teachers of BBMP schools, who haven’t been paid salaries for the past three months, gathered at the civic body’s headquarters in Bengaluru on Friday in a bid to meet officials and get their dues cleared. The teachers say they have been overworked, tasked as they have been with school work, Covid-19 and election duties, and neglected since no official even deigned it necessary to speak to them. A teacher working in a school in Basavanagudi said, “This is not the first time we are facing this issue. We have always had to plead for our pay. The Palike is only using the pandemic as a lame reason this time. We held a strike recently to protest a delay in salaries and to seek a raise. Salary hikes announced in September last year were released only in May this year.” BBMP has over 630 teachers working in nursery, primary, middle, high schools and pre-university colleges on a contract basis. While some teachers have not been paid since April, some have not received their salaries from June. Another teacher said, “I have been a contract-based teacher with BBMP for 13 years now and a delay in salary is not new. When they realise that salaries don’t come on time, many freshers who join lose interest in working. As a consequence, exam results come down and we are targeted. Permanent staffers don’t face any such delays.” J Manjunath, special commissioner (education), said, “We have not only paid all their dues, but also remuneration for April despite their contract ending in March. We did this on humanitarian grounds because the entire country was in lockdown. There are no dues from our side. People who are working as booth level officers will be paid their allowance.” However, in June, BBMP had decided to extend contracts of teachers for the academic year 2020-21 and had asked school principals to take required steps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/palikes-contract-teachers-say-they-havent-been-paid-for-months/articleshow/77810917.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Nashik||Tribal department to give ‘khavti’ grant to tribals||Nashik: The tribal development department has now decided to revive the ‘khavti’ assistance given to tribal families from this year, tribal welfare department minister K C Padvi said.Padvi reviewed the tribal development department’s activities in the Nashik district on Thursday and said that the state government had decided to revive the scheme. The scheme was launched in 1978 as part of providing loans to tribals during the lean period of monsoon on returnable basis.“The loan amount is given to landless tribal families and interest is charged from them. It was stopped in 2013-14 and the state government has now decided to revive the same but on non-returnable basis,” Padvi said after the meeting.He said they would be giving assistance of Rs 4,000 to every tribal family in the state. The number of beneficiaries under the scheme is 11.55 lakh. The government will spend Rs 462 crore on the project, out of which, Rs 231 crore will be given in cash and Rs 231 crore will be given in kind to the beneficiaries. The state government plans to transfer the cash through the banks and post offices.The minister said officials have been asked to carry out the survey of all tribals, especially Bhil and Karkari tribes, who did not have ration cards, and to help them buy foodgrain from the local fair price shops under the public distribution system.On the need to uproot malnourishment among tribal children, the minister said local produce ‘bhagar’ (from millet) and ‘nagli’ could be processed and presented to the children to cut down on the cases and improve their health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/tribal-department-to-give-khavti-grant-to-tribals/articleshow/77810896.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Urban health centres in Guntur to collect swabs||GUNTUR: In an attempt to contain the spread of Covid-19, the Guntur Municipal Corporation (GMC) has decided to launch swab collection centres in all 13 urban health centres (UHCs). The move is likely to ease the burden on Guntur’s Government General Hospital (GGH), the lone swab collection centre in the city. GMC commissioner Ch Anuradha said that around 1,000 people will be able to take the Covid-19 tests at the 13 UHCs in a day. Further, the Veera bus has also been deployed for sample collection, Anuradha said. Anuradha said people can visit UHCs any day of the week except Wednesdays and Saturdays when regular vaccination takes place. She added people should alert health workers or ANMs of their ward if they suffer Covid-19 symptoms. The municipal corporation has already started aggressive surveillance in all wards to identify vulnerable people with the help of health workers, Anuradha said while adding that people above 60 years of age and pregnant women should voluntarily visit the UHCs and get themselves tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/urban-health-centres-in-guntur-to-collect-swabs/articleshow/77810884.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC grants pre-arrest bail to Hiten Vasant, Anita Dua||AHMEDABAD: A month after the Gujarat high court granted anticipatory bail to a trustee of Delhi Public School (East), Manjula Pooja Shroff, another trustee, Hiten Vasant, and a former principal of the school, Anita Dua, have also been granted the relief in conneciton with the complaint of forgery of an NOC to get CBSE affiliation for the school in 2010. Vasant was granted anticipatory bail on Thursday on furnishing bail bond of Rs 25,000 and Dua got the pre-arrest bail on a Rs 10,000 bond. The HC has asked them not to leave the country without prior permission of the court and they will be required to deposit their passports. In granting anticipatory bail, the court noticed that both the accused persons were protected against arrest ever since they had filed anticipatory bail plea in December 2019. These three approached the high court seeking anticipatory bail after a sessions court at the Mirzapur district court campus denied bail to them. The legal protection was sought after the state education department lodged an FIR with Vivekanandnagar police for alleged forgery. The issue came to the fore after a man filed a complaint of illegal detention of his children in an ashram run by Nithyananda, which was operational on DPS (East) campus in Hathijan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-grants-pre-arrest-bail-to-vasant-dua/articleshow/77812067.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pakistan spy in UP: NIA searches Gujarat man’s house||AHMEDABAD: The NIA (National Investigation Agency) conducted a search operation at the house of a man in Mundra late on Thursday in a case involving an Uttar Pradesh resident who allegedly spied for Pakistan. The NIA said in a statement that the operation at the house of Rajak Kumbhar has yielded incriminating documents. The NIA said that the case arose out of an FIR registered on January 1, 2020, in Gomti Nagar in Lucknow. The investigation resulted in the arrest of Mohammed Rashid of Chandauli in Uttar Pradesh. The NIA took up the case in April this year and found that Rashid was in contact with defence and ISI handlers of Pakistan and had visited Pakistan twice. According to the NIA, Rashid had transmitted photographs of some sensitive installations in India to his handlers and had also shared information about the movement of the Indian armed forces. Further investigation revealed that Kumbhar had transferred Rs 5,000 through an e-wallet to a man identified only as Rizwan. The amount was then transferred to Rashid. The NIA said the money was given to Rashid on the directions of ISI agents in lieu of the information he had provided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pak-spy-in-up-nia-searches-guj-mans-house/articleshow/77813455.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Bed scarcity prompts officials to relax home quarantine norms||Coimbatore: Gone are the days when the city corporation or health department would insist on institutional quarantine, if you test positive for Covid-19. With the steady spike in the number of active cases and hospitals starting to run out of beds, the district administration and civic body are now permitting more patients to stay in home care. Unlike earlier, home quarantine wouldn’t be denied if there are children and senior citizens at home. If you are mildly symptomatic without any comorbidities and have a separate room to remain in isolation, you are eligible to stay at home. However, the final call rests with the doctor at your nearest primary health centre. As on Thursday, there were around 444 patients in home quarantine. According to officials, the number is likely to increase exponentially over the weekend. Presently, there are five Covid care centres with 2,120 beds, of which around 1,000 are occupied. Most patients from the city limits only want to be accommodated at the centre at Codissia trade fair complex. “People say there are more doctors and nurses there. We feel safer there,” said a man who was trying to get his wife admitted there after the ESI Hospital turned her away stating she was only mildly symptomatic. A resident of Peedampalli, he preferred the Codissia centre, which added one more exclusive ward for women on Friday after the existing one became full on Thursday, to the one at Karumathampatti. The city corporation and revenue department are working to ready another four Covid care centres in the city. The centres are, however, unlikely to be ready to accommodate patients at least until Monday. Hence, many primary health centre doctors had allowed people who tested positive for the virus on Thursday and Friday to home quarantine. A resident of Selvapuram said, “My father is at the Codissia Covid care centre. He is happy with the food, medicines and monitoring. My mother was not comfortable in a general ward setting. So, doctor allowed her to remain at home. A doctor came and gave her medications for five days and told us that a nurse would check on us daily.” While trying to address the issue of bed shortage, the health department is also ramping up testing to bring down the positivity rate, which was brought down to 9.1% as on August 24 from 11.25% in the first half of the month. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “We have increased the number of samples being tested for Covid-19 to 4,800 a day from 2,700. Besides testing symptomatic patients at fever camps, we also trace contacts of every positive case. Corporation workers are going door to door to identify symptomatic patients and people who entered from other districts and states to test them for Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bed-scarcity-prompts-officials-to-relax-home-quarantine-norms/articleshow/77813449.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand Covid caseload past 35,000-mark, toll nears 400||RANCHI: Jharkhand reported 12 Covid casualties and 1,137 new infections in 24 hours until 10pm on Friday, taking the cumulative caseload to 35,813. Of these, 11,286 are active cases, 24,138 have recovered (including 633 on Friday) and 389 have died. Of the 12 casualties, East Singhbum continued to report the highest number of casualties with seven deaths, Ranchi recorded two and Dhanbad, Giridih, Koderma one each. East Singhbhum also reported a massive spike in number of fresh infections with a total of 313 cases, followed by Bokaro with 147 cases. Ranchi reported 94 cases, Ramgarh 79, Dhanbad 83 and Giridih 62. The state positivity ratio maintained consistency on Friday with 5.69% of 19,967 samples tested returning positive results. As state continued to report a surge in fresh infections with 4,498 cases reported in four days, the seven-day growth rate continued to increase and stood at 3.45% in comparison to the national average of 2.31%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-covid-caseload-past-35k-mark-toll-nears-400/articleshow/77812600.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 29, 2020||Ranchi||Pradeep Balmuchu pays surprise visit to Congress HQ||RANCHI: Two former presidents of the state unit of Congress, who were expelled from the party before the assembly elections of 2019 after they defected to the NDA camp in order to secure tickets to contest from their respective assembly constituencies, are reportedly eyeing a return into the Grand Old Party’s fold. Pradeep Balmuchu, an ex-Rajya Sabha member who served two terms as Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC) president, joined Ajsu Party last November after Congress handed over the Ghtashila seat to Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) as a part of mahagathbandhan’s seat-sharing formula. Balmuchu eventually lost to JMM’s Ramdas Soren by over 67,000 votes. On Friday morning, Balmuchu took everyone by surprise as he walked into Congress headquarters to pay his homage to JPCC’s late working president P N Singh. Balmuchu’s appearance led to murmurs within the party ranks. The matter did not go down well with the AICC leadership as well. So much so, a clarification was sought from state Congress chief Rameshwar Oraon. The state Congress was also asked to ensure that Balmuchu is not allowed entry into their office unless he is taken back into the party’s fold. Balmuchu clarified: “P N Singh was a friend of mine and I came here to pay my respects to his departed soul.” The 63-year-old, however, dodged questions when asked about his speculated return. Like Balmuchu, former JPCC chief Sukhdeo Bhagat had left the Congress boat and joined BJP’s ranks to secure an election ticket from his backyard Lohardaga. Bhagat’s camp had said he defected due to personal differences with Oraon, who was himself eyeing the seat. Bhagat and Oraon eventually locked horns in the battle of ballots. After his defeat, Bhagat found himself out of place in the saffron brigade and got in touch with senior Congress functionaries from February onwards while eyeing a return. Very recently, Bhagat praised the Congress national leadership in a talk show, indicating his intentions. Both Bhagat and Balmuchu were expelled for six years. While refusing to comment on the matter when contacted, a senior functionary in the thick of things said: “It is not right to bring them back within six months of their defection. With Balmuchu’s visit, the general mood in the party camp was that of anger. They deserted the party for personal gains at a time when the party was fighting the NDA tooth and nail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/balmuchu-pays-surprise-visit-to-cong-hq/articleshow/77812370.cms||Dhritiman Ray
August 29, 2020||Ranchi||BGH lab technicians say no to swab collection||BOKARO: Despite shortage of lab technicians who have doubled up as swab sample collectors due to the ongoing pandemic, those at Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) are reluctant to offer their services to collect samples, even at their hospital. The district health department said for the last six months, it is their lab technicians who are collecting samples at BGH. The district sees around 2,000 samples being collected on a daily basis and with the shortage of lab technicians, Electrosteel of Vedanta Group and other private hospitals assured the district administration of help to expedite the process and a speedy containment of the virus. Till Thursday, Bokaro recorded 1,150 cases of coronavirus of which, 350 are active, 786 have cured and 14 have died. The BGH has 13 lab technicians and 15 X-ray technicians. Of them, four are above 55-year-old. Though the BGH management tried to deploy the technicians for swab collection and testing to expedite the screening process, majority of them denied to pitch in. Bokaro Steel Limited spokesperson Mainkant Dhan said, “Lab technicians in BGH have already been assigned Covid duty. Even though some services have been temporarily scaled down, the hospital is also regularly catering to other patients apart from Covid and best efforts are being made to cater all requirements within the available resources.” According to hospital authoritis, at present only two lab technicians and two X-ray technicians are testing samples as a part of Covid duty. BGH has a Truenat Testing machine in which the two lab technicians are engaged along with a doctor while the two X-ray technicians are conducting CT Scans and X-rays on Covid positive patients. District epidemiologist officer Pawan Kumar Srivastava, who is monitoring swab collection across the district, said, “Since Covid-19 cases surfaced here, lab technicians and multipurpose workers of the health department are collecting swab samples at BGH every day. No BGH technician ever supported in swab collection.” General secretary of Bokaro Steel Workers Union (INTUC), Birenderanath Choubey said, “There is an acute shortage of lab technicians and X-ray technicians at BGH. In other hospitals of the Steel Authority of India Limited, lab technicians are not spared for Covid duty. There are no incentives for lab technicians for performing Covid duty. They are also not being provided adequate PPEs, masks and other safety gears for which they have resisted to collect samples. I have written a letter to executive director, personnel and administration requesting for discussion, but have received no response so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bgh-lab-technicians-say-no-to-swab-collection/articleshow/77813168.cms||Divy Khare
August 29, 2020||Ranchi||Former Bihar MP’s life term in murder case upheld by HC||RANCHI: The Jharkhand high court has upheld the lower court’s verdict awarding life imprisonment to former Bihar MP Prabhu Nath Singh and his brother Dina Nath Singh here on Friday. The court of Justices Amitav K Gupta and Rajesh Kumar pronounced their order through video conferencing. The Singh brothers were convicted by a Hazaribag sessions court for the murder of Mashrak legislator Ashok Singh about two decades ago. Ritesh Singh, another convict in the case and an aide of Prabhu Nath Singh, has, however, been acquitted in the case by the high court owing to lack of evidence. Both Prabhu Nath Singh and his brother are in custody serving out their sentence since May 2017. They had moved the high court in 2017 after being convicted for murder and sentenced to serve life imprisonment by the Hazaribag court. The incident dates back to July 3, 1995 when Ashok Singh, who had won the Mashrak seat under the Rashtriya Janata Dal ticket, was killed in his government residential quarters. An FIR was lodged by Ashok Singh’s widow Chandni Devi stating that a bomb was hurled and it claimed the life of her husband. She had also alleged that Prabhu Nath Singh, his brother Dina Nath Singh and Ritesh Singh had conspired to kill her husband. Singh’s counsel H K Shikarwar argued that his client has been purposely framed in a false case due to political rivalry. “There is no direct evidence on record to link Prabhu Nath Singh with the death of Ashok Singh. The factum of conspiracy has not been established,” Shikarwar had argued. On the other hand, Chandni Singh’s counsel Vandana Singh objected to the appeal and said that the evidence is clinching in nature to establish the guilt of Prabhu Nath Singh in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/former-bihar-mps-life-term-in-murder-case-upheld-by-hc/articleshow/77812275.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ranchi||5 killed, 2 injured after truck falls into 150m deep gorge||GUMLA: Five persons, including four women, were killed and two others were critically injured after the driver of a bauxite-laden truck lost control and the vehicle fell into a 150-metre deep gorge near Luti More in Netarhat valley under Gurdari police limits in the district on Friday morning, police said. The deceased have been identified as Asha Thithio (22), Sarita Munda (30), Phagne Ursain (55), Lucia Munda (62) and Basant Aind (21) while the injured are Sangeeta Ursain (20) and Roshan Chorath (22). All of them were hail from Kathupani village under Gurdari police station area. The injured are currently admitted in the community health centre in Bishunpur. Officer-in-charge of Bishunpur police station Mohan Kumar, who visited the accident site, said, “We were informed about the accident around 8.30am by a person who was passing through the same route just behind the truck. We immediately rushed to the spot and rescued Sarita Munda who was stuck under the vehicle.” He added, “When we pulled her out, Sarita was fine and was even talking to us. But later she collapsed during treatment at the community health centre.” Speaking on the frequency of accidents of people travelling on the bauxite-laden trucks in the area, Kumar said, “Those who don't have their own vehicle usually travel on the bauxite-laden trucks from the mine areas to Bishunpur block, Ghaghra block and to Lohardaga district town on the Netarhat-Ranchi state highway.” After the restrictions on mine operation were lifted in June as part of Unlock 1.0, mineral excavation and its transportation have resumed in the state’s richest bauxite mines on the hill tops of Netarhat plateau. Hundreds of such ore carrying trucks ply every day on the two bauxite route - Upper Pat (remote Gurdari and surrounding mines) and Serengdag mines under Ghaghra block. These trucks carry aluminium ore to Chandwa railway station yard from where it is transported to Renukoot and some other places, the locals said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/5-killed-2-injured-after-truck-falls-into-150m-deep-gorge/articleshow/77813224.cms||K A Gupta
August 29, 2020||Ranchi||Out to relieve herself, 13-year-old gets gang raped in Dumka forest||DUMKA: Three men were arrested on Thursday for gang raping a 13-year-old girl in a forest under Kathikund police station in Dumka district. On Wednesday evening, when the girl had gone out to relieve herself, the three accused kidnapped her and took her to the forest. Later in the night, when the girl narrated her ordeal to her parents, locals caught the three, beat them up and kept them hostage before handing them over to the cops on Thursday morning. The arrested were identified as Somay Marandi and Naresh Murmu, both belonging to the Makdapahadi village in Dumka district while the third accused, Sandeep Murmu, hails from Pakudiya area of Pakur district. “The complainant was medically examined at sadar hospital. An FIR has been lodged at Kathikund police station on Thursday,” DSP (headquarters) Noor Mustafa Ansari said. He added empty bottles of beer were recovered from the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/out-to-relieve-herself-13-yr-old-gets-gang-raped-in-dumka-forest/articleshow/77813183.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ranchi||Dhanbad’s woman doctor is first frontline casualty in coal belt||SINDRI: A senior woman doctor, who contracted Covid-19 while treating patients at Pataliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), succumbed to the viral infection on Friday, becoming the second frontline doctor in the state and the first in the coal belt to fall victim to the new virus. Dr Venu Choudhary (62), who was with the hospital’s preventive and social medicine (PSM), tested positive for the virus about 10 ago and was admitted to a private hospital in Ranchi. She was put on a ventilator two days ago after developing a lung infection and she died at 4am on Friday. On Thursday, Dr J P Lal, a 53-year-old posted at a community health centre in Jugsalai, Jamshedpur, became the first doctor to die of coronavirus in the state. Although Choudhary was not on Covid duty, the Dhanbad chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) said that the state government should be more considerate towards elderly doctors while deploying them on duty as they are more vulnerable to the virus. Dr Shushil Kumar, secretary of IMA’s district unit, said her demise is a cruel reminder for other doctors that they should take all precautions while treating patients. “We want the state government to make special arrangement for the treatment of doctors, nurses and other healthcare staff at the district level itself. Their presence is crucial for the treatment of others infected with the virus,” Kumar added. He also demanded that the government sponsor the treatment of health workers in super-specialty private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dhanbads-woman-doc-is-first-frontline-casualty-in-coal-belt/articleshow/77812673.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ranchi||Data mismatch as many give dubious details for virus test||RANCHI: A 38-year-old woman in Ranchi got herself tested twice for Covid-19 at Rims and at a private lab in a span of three days by providing two different contact numbers. Similarly, a 54-year-old man gave two different addresses — one in Pandra and another in Kadru — to get himself tested twice in a span of two days. In another instance, a 41-year-old security personnel gave his son’s mobile number to get himself tested again. When TOI got in touch with the one of the patients, he on condition of anonymity said he’s undergoing the test twice as he is wary of the report given by the lab and he wanted to get a confirmation that he is Covid negative from two different facilities. In their quest for confirmation, such people are adding to the woes of an overburdened district administration and the hospitals for now they have to screen the reports to rule out any anomalies. Sources in Rims said that on a daily basis, they detect around three to four cases where the persons have got themselves tested twice in a span of few days. Such anomalies are often eliminated only after the details are uploaded on the Government of India website. In addition, there are those who belong to other states/districts but they are also getting themselves tested in Ranchi, leading to a mismatch in data. According to the state unit of National Health mission, as of Friday morning, Ranchi had 6,912 cases but the total number of Covid-19 reports received by the district health authorities is over 7,400. “I have received 500 Covid reports which were either of repeat tests done by people at various locations or of those belonging to other districts but they got themselves tested in Ranchi. This adding to the caseload of the state capital,” said Ashish Ranjan, an analyst at the civil surgeon’s office. Ranjan added that soon after they started detecting such anomalies, they started screening the reports and tried filtering the data. “We started filtering the reports on the basis of name, age and mobile number of the patients and once we detected that a person got himself/herself tested twice or thrice and has a data mismatch, we got it confirmed by calling them from our control room and eliminated such cases from the database,” added Ranjan. Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad on Friday appealed to the people to not provide different data while getting themselves tested. “I would urge everyone to provide the correct details while getting themselves tested at any facility, be it state-run or private lab. We have come across cases where the patients have got themselves tested at a private lab and after two days, they are getting themselves tested at a state-run facility by providing different mobile numbers and addresses which leads to mistake in data reporting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/data-mismatch-as-many-give-dubious-details-for-virus-test/articleshow/77812115.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 29, 2020||Ranchi||Bokaro airport expansion hit by pandemic roadblock||BOKARO: Construction work for the Bokaro airport expansion project, which was launched two years ago, has hit another roadblock because of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The airport was originally expected to begin flight operations in July this year. State civil aviation director captain S P Sinha said, “Initially, land acquisition and encroachments around the project site were the main reasons for the delay. Now, the pandemic has hit the construction work.” However, only 40% construction is left, Sinha said but admitted that several key areas of work are pending. He said, “Almost 60% work has been completed but there are many which are pending. Construction of ATC tower, terminal building, isolated bay, periphery roads and others are on. The work got stalled during the lockdown but it has gradually resumed. Once these are completed, we will have to obtain a licence from the DGCA to begin flight operations.” Sinha added, “The fencing work of the airport is also almost done.” The central and state governments launched the Bokaro airport expansion plan for operation of commercial flights under Phase-II of Udan, the regional connectivity scheme of the Centre. It is one of the four airports developed in Jharkhand under the scheme. Former chief minister Raghubar Das and former minister of state for civil aviation, Jayant Sinha, jointly laid foundation for the expansion project on August 25, 2018. The airport is owned and maintained by Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL), a unit of the Steel Authority of India. BSL is jointly upgrading the airport with the Airport Authority of India (AAI).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bokaro-airport-expansion-hit-by-pandemic-roadblock/articleshow/77812145.cms||Divy Khare
August 29, 2020||Delhi||Man killed for asking about missing son in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Seeking two strangers' help to find his missing son cost a truck driver his life within hours of arriving in Delhi on Thursday evening. Krishan Meena (40) had brought cargo from Rajasthan and planned to drive on to Barabanki, to drop his son and wife at her parents' place. But the family's trip took a tragic turn when the seven-year-old boy, Rahul, went missing. Meena's wife, Pappi Devi, told police that while he was away unloading the truck, Rahul strayed away from where he was playing. The couple started looking for him along Ma Anandmayee Marg in the Okhla area and reached a secluded spot where they met the two men, later identified as brothers Dheeraj and Rakesh Arora who are Gramin Sewa drivers. They ignored Meena's question about seeing Rahul on the road. When he asked again, they abused him and told him to move on. Meena objected, saying he was seeking help to find his child. At this, the duo flew into a rage and allegedly rained blows with a rod on his head and face. They also hit Devi when she tried to stop them. The brothers fled leaving Meena in a pool of blood and Devi crying for help. A police patrol found them on the road and rushed Meena to hospital, but he died of internal injuries and excessive bleeding. DCP (southeast) R P Meena said they registered an FIR for murder and sent a team to find the killers based on the description Devi had provided them. A guard had seen one of the fleeing men sleeping in parked Gramin Sewa autos earlier, and this information proved useful in narrowing the search. Rakesh Arora was caught first at night and led police to Dheeraj. PCR staff also found Rahul in the Pul Prahladpur area. During questioning, the accused told police they had been drinking in their auto when Meana approached them. They got irritated, they said, when he asked them about Rahul again as they felt he was accusing them of kidnapping him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-killed-for-asking-about-missing-son-in-delhi/articleshow/77814816.cms||---
August 29, 2020||India||India now No.3 in Covid toll; 1,000+ deaths for 4 days running||NEW DELHI: India’s Covid-19 death toll surged to the third highest in the world after overtaking Mexico on Friday, even as the pandemic numbers continued to swell in the country with the daily count of fresh cases staying above 76,000 for third day running and fatalities over 1,000 for the fourth straight day. With 1,015 fatalities reported on Friday, the death toll from the virus rose to 62,635, going past Mexico’s Covid-19 toll of 62,594, as per worldometers.info data at 11pm. Only the US, with 1,85,272 deaths recorded so far, and Brazil (1,18,988) have a higher toll than India. However, India’s mortality rate from the infection, at 1.8%, remains the lowest among these three countries. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesHowever, deaths from the virus are on the rise in India. Friday was the fourth consecutive day when more than 1,000 fatalities were reported. Cases too have been surging at the highest rate in the world. With 76,464 fresh infections on Friday, India has recorded 2,28,967 new cases in the past three days alone, as per data collated by TOI from state governments. This is the highest number of Covid-19 cases reported in a three-day period by any country. The US had reported 2,16,141 cases on July 16-18, during the peak phase of the pandemic in the country. Coronavirus: Track latest numbersIndia’s total Covid-19 caseload stood at 34,57,720 late on Friday, with 26,42,180 recoveries and 7,52,905 active cases. With the most recent spurt in infections, active cases have risen nearly 45,000 in three days. Read AlsoPositivity rate down for three fortnights in a rowHolding out hope amid rising Covid-19 cases, the all-India positivity rate, total confirmed cases per 100 tests, measured over a 14-days, showed a declining trend for three consecutive fortnights — from a high of 11.23% between July 15-28 to 8.84% during Aug 1-14 and now at 7.87% (Aug 14-27) thoughOn Friday, Andhra Pradesh became the third state in the country to record a total caseload of over four lakh. The state reported over 10,000 fresh cases for the third day running. Six states reported their highest single-day spike in cases on Friday — Odisha (3,682), Kerala (2,543), Gujarat (1,272), Jharkhand (1,365), Puducherry (604) and Tripura (509). Maharashtra, for the third consecutive day, added over 14,000 new Covid cases and 300-plus deaths, taking the tally to 7,47,995, close to 7.5 lakh. Given the steep increase in cases in August, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced that people over 55 years of age with comorbidities would be actively screened to check the virus’s spread. Read Also87k health staff infected with Covid, 573 dead; 74% cases from six statesMore than 87,000 healthcare workers have been infected with Covid-19, with just six states — Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, West Bengal and Gujarat — accounting for three-fourths (around 74%) of the case burden and over 86% of the 573 deaths due to the infection. Maharashtra aloneThe state public health department’s Covid update on Friday said 14,361 new cases were reported. With 331 deaths, the toll in Maharashtra rose to 23,775. There are 1,80,718 active Covid cases in the state. Andhra Pradesh, where the total cases crossed 4 lakh on Friday, had breached the one-lakh case mark on July 27, nearly 135 days after the state reported its first case. But it took only 11 days for the state to add the next one lakh cases to touch the two-lakh milestone. The third one lakh cases also came in 11 days. But the state recorded the latest one lakh cases in just 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-now-no-3-in-covid-toll-1000-deaths-for-4-days-running/articleshow/77814778.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Noida||Completion certificates of 7,000 flats face meter hurdle||NOIDA: More than 7,000 buyers of nine residential projects in the city and Ghaziabad are still waiting to move into their flats, which are ready, but are not able to occupy as the projects have not been able to install multipoint meters, stated Credai (west UP). “The projects were completed two years ago when the Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board changed the policy of meters from single point to multipoint. However, as the buildings were already complete and electric lines were laid with single-point meters, we are not able to install multi-point devices. We had requested the power department to make applicable the new policy for only new buildings. “However, there was no response on that so far and the builders for all this while have been waiting for completion certificates,” Subodh Goel, secretary, Credai, said. The projects which are stuck because of this are Apex Athena, Sector 75; Apex the Kremlin, Siddharth VIhar Noida; Civitech Stadia, Sector 79, Noida, Gaur Atulayam, Greater Noida; La Solara, Greater Noida (west); Panchsheel Pebbles, Sector 3 Vaishali, Ghaziabad; Rudra Aquacasa, Sector 16, Greater Noida west; MCC Signature Height in Rajnagar Extension and Glory 46, Noida. The total number of flats stuck at these nine projects are ready for handover. As many as 7,879 flats can be transferred to buyers. “We have not found a way out since the power department has refused to allow us to go ahead with the single-point meters and the buildings are already wired in a certain way. We are facilitating procurement of meters which can read supplies from both PVVNL and power backup separately. Once we get these, the apartments would finally be eligible for completion certificates,” Goyal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/completion-certificates-of-7000-flats-face-meter-hurdle/articleshow/77813696.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Mumbai||Final year exams: Maharashtra govt will respect SC verdict, says education minister||MUMBAI: The state government will respect the Supreme Court verdict on the conduct of final year exams, said higher and technical education minister Uday Samant on Friday. Samant said he would consult with vice-chancellors and decide the course of action, taking into account the health and safety of around nine lakh students. Different modes of exams such as online, offline or open book will be explored, he said. Meanwhile, revenue minister and state Congress president Balasaheb Thorat has demanded immediate postponement of NEET and JEE exams in the larger interest of students. Congress activists, led by Thorat, staged a massive protest to press for their demand and said since public transport is suspended due to the lockdown, it won’t be possible for students to reach exam centres. Welcoming the verdict on final-year exams, Shiv Sena minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted: ‘The Hon’ble SC has reiterated that it is up to the respective state governments to decide on when and how to hold examinations, not at the insistence of the September 30 deadline of the UGC.” Samant has said students need not panic as they will be given adequate notice to prepare for exams. He said the SC has relaxed the September 30 deadline and, therefore, they will work out a new schedule in consultation with the UGC. The state will read the order, speak to the advocate general, academicians and other experts before coming out with a decision in a few days, he said. “We will have to ensure the safety of everyone involved in the exam process, including students, teachers, police, college and university staff.” A team of experts, including vice-chancellors, will be formed to decide on the schedule and exam mode, based on their local conditions. Samant said he would visit all universities for feedback.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-govt-will-respect-sc-verdict-says-education-minister/articleshow/77814818.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana to shut malls & markets on Monday-Tuesday, not weekends||CHANDIGARH/GURUGRAM: Protests from traders and mall owners have forced the Haryana government to backtrack from its weekend lockdown order. It will still, however, be a five-day week for malls and markets, but the days of closure have been shifted to Monday and Tuesday instead of Saturday and Sunday. The restrictions don't apply to those dealing in essential goods and services. The revised order, issued on Friday, also does not apply to government or private offices, which will continue to remain open on Monday and Tuesday. A decision in this regard was taken by the state's executive committee under the State Disaster Management Authority and the order was issued by the chief secretary. On August 21, the state had issued an order on closure of all public and private offices (except essential services) and shopping malls and shops in market areas (again exempting essential goods & services) on weekends. Many traders welcome shift in lockdown days in GgnThe Haryana government's earlier decision to shut offices and markets on weekend was taken to contain the spread of Covid-19 pandemic in the state. “The SDMA has reconsidered the matter… Malls and shops, except those dealing with essential goods and services, shall remain closed on Monday and Tuesday in the marketplaces or urban areas of Haryana. Accordingly, there is no bar on opening of shops and shopping malls on Saturday and Sunday in these areas,” states the order, adding that the guidelines will be applicable till further orders. The government’s decision has been welcomed by traders. “Customers refrain from stepping out through the week and only go out during the weekends. That’s the time when we can earn any profits. The previous decision of the government to close shops and shopping malls on Saturday and Sunday would have affected us badly. We had also written to the chief minister to reconsider it. It is a welcome move for the traders’ community,” said Neeraj Yadav, president, Galleria Market Association. A section of traders, however, said the decision should have been taken after convening a meeting of all stakeholders. “The decision is in favour of small-scale traders. However, most of the manufacturing units are already closed on Sunday, and on top of that, we have been told to close our shops on Monday and Tuesday as well. The state government should sit with shop owners and traders and devise a strategy that is feasible for everyone,” said Kanhaiya Lal Pahwa, president, Haryana Vyapar Mandal, Gurugram. Some shop owners also questioned the need to close shops at all when they are following safety guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-to-shut-malls-markets-on-monday-tuesday-not-weekends/articleshow/77814838.cms||---
August 29, 2020||World||Laura victims may go weeks without power; deaths climb to 14||LAKE CHARLES: The Louisiana coastline devastated by Hurricane Laura began a long and gloomy recovery Friday as hundreds of thousands of people still without water and power confronted the possibility that basic services may not return for weeks or even longer. The number of dead climbed to at least 14. A day after the Category 4 storm hit, more bodies emerged in the aftermath in Louisiana and neighboring Texas. The deaths included five people killed by fallen trees and one person who drowned in a boat. Eight people died from carbon monoxide poisoning due to unsafe operation of generators, including three inside a Texas pool hall, where authorities say the owner had let seven Vietnamese shrimp boat laborers and homeless men take shelter. The other four were in critical condition. The lack of essential resources was grim for the many evacuated residents eager to return. Chad Peterson planned to board up a window and head to Florida. ``There's no power. There's no water. There's no utilities," he said. Thousands of people who heeded dire warnings and fled the Gulf Coast returned to homes without roofs, roads littered with debris and the likelihood of a harsh recovery that could take months. Lawrence "Lee" Faulk came back to a home with no roof in hard-hit Cameron Parish, which was littered with downed power lines. His metal storage building, 24 feet square, was thrown into a neighbor's oak trees. "We need help," Faulk said. "We need ice, water, blue tarps _ everything that you would associate with the storm, we need it. Like two hours ago." The White House said President Donald Trump would visit the region Saturday and survey the damage. Simply driving in Lake Charles, a city of 80,000 residents that sustained some of the worst damage, was a feat. Power lines and trees blocked paths or created one-lane roads that drivers had to navigate with oncoming traffic. Street signs were snapped off their perches or dangled, and no stoplights worked, making it a trust exercise with those sharing the roads. Mayor Nic Hunter cautioned that there was no timetable for restoring electricity and that water-treatment plants "took a beating," resulting in barely a trickle of water coming out of most faucets. "If you come back to Lake Charles to stay, make sure you understand the above reality and are prepared to live in it for many days, probably weeks," Hunter wrote on Facebook. Caravans of utility trucks were met Friday by thunderstorms in the sizzling heat, complicating recovery efforts. Forty nursing homes were also relying on generators, and assessments were underway to determine if more than 860 residents in 11 facilities that had been evacuated could return. Water outages remained a major problem in evacuated facilities, the Louisiana Department of Health said. Meanwhile, the hurricane's remnants threatened to bring flooding and tornadoes to Tennessee as the storm, now a tropical depression, drifted north. Forecasters warned that the system could strengthen into a tropical storm again upon returning to the Atlantic Ocean this weekend. In the storm's wake, more than 600,000 homes and businesses were without power in Louisiana, Texas and Arkansas, according to poweroutage.us, which tracks utility reports. The Louisiana Department of Health estimated that more than 220,000 people were without water. Restoration of those services could take weeks or months, and full rebuilding could take years. Ira Lyles returned to find that his downtown Lake Charles salon called The Parlor House survived with little damage, but his home was destroyed. "It tore the front off, tore the front of the roof off, picked up my camper trailer and hit the side wall, and the side wall buckled and cracked inside," he said. "I think it's going to be a wash." Edwards called Laura, which packed a top wind speed of 150 mph (241 kph), the most powerful hurricane to strike Louisiana, meaning it surpassed even Katrina, which was a Category 3 storm when it hit in 2005. He said Friday that officials now believe the surge was as high as 15 feet. More than 580,000 coastal residents were put under evacuation as the hurricane gained strength in the Gulf of Mexico. Laura was the seventh named storm to strike the U.S. this year, setting a new record for US landfalls by the end of August. Laura hit the US after killing nearly two dozen people in Haiti and the Dominican Republic. In Lake Charles, chainsaws buzzed and heavy machinery hauled tree limbs in the front lawn of Stanley and Dominique Hazelton, who rode out the storm on a bathroom floor. A tree punctured the roof just a few feet from where the couple was taking cover. They regretted staying. "There's people without homes," Stanley Hazelton said. "So it was dumb. We'll never do it again. We'll never stay through another hurricane again."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/laura-victims-may-go-weeks-without-power-deaths-climb-to-14/articleshow/77814841.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray seeks new site for Aarey Metro car shed||MUMBAI: CM Uddhav Thackeray on Friday exhorted various government departments to find an alternative site for the controversial Metro line 3 car shed being planned in Aarey Colony. The two plausible sites discussed were Kanjurmarg and Pahadi-Goregaon (east), a village spread across Goregaon east and west, including parts of Aarey Colony. At Kanjurmarg, the government has identified a 41-hectare plot to be used for a car shed for Metro 6. The stay on construction at Aarey, imposed in December 2019, will continue until a new spot is fixed. With no land yet finalized, Phase 1 of Metro 3 delayedAt a meeting attended by urban development minister Eknath Shinde, environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, MMRDA commissioner R A Rajeev, MMRCL chief Ranjit Singh Deol and urban development secretary Bhushan Gagarani, Thackeray indicated he was keen to move the car shed out of Aarey Colony. The city has witnessed an agitation by a section of citizens to save Aarey and shift the car shed out. The estimated Rs 23,000 crore Metro Line 3 is a 33.5 km underground line from Colaba to Andheri Seepz, which will have an estimated daily ridership of 17 lakh. A Metro station has also been proposed at the car shed. Phase I of the line was to be commissioned by June 2021. However, without the land for the car shed being finalised, it is now indefinitely delayed. Thackeray had not only stayed construction at the car shed site in December, but set up a committee under additional chief secretary Manoj Saunik to find an alternative site. The committee strongly recommended continuing with the car shed at the same site as a lot of development work had already been done and the MMRCL, that is executing the project, had already spent Rs 450 crore on developing the site. The state government has simply put the committee’s report on the backburner. It, however, has not taken a formal decision to scrap the car shed at Aarey Colony. No deadline has been set for finalising another site for the car shed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-seeks-new-site-for-aarey-metro-car-shed/articleshow/77814855.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
August 29, 2020||Mumbai||As 5 more die, Maharashtra police toll 150; this month worst with 47 fatalities||MUMBAI/ THANE: The deaths of five police personnel between Wednesday and Thursday took the Covid-19 toll to 150 in the state force. It has been a bad August for the police with 47 deaths so far, the worst count for any month since the outbreak in March. “In July, 43 personnel had died, in June 33 had died, and 27 deaths were reported in April and May together,” an IPS officer said. Constable Samir Pawar from the city and assistant sub-inspector Dinesh Kuvar of the Tulinj police station in Nalasopara were the latest to succumb to the virus on Thursday. Two policemen from Nagpur and one from Kolhapur died on Wednesday. A month-old death of a Kalyan policeman was accounted for by the department only now. Pawar, 45, who is survived by his wife and teenaged son, was attached to Charkop police station and had no comorbidities. With his death, the Mumbai Police's toll has reached 69. On August 6, Pawar's antigen test report came positive following which he was admitted to a Kandivali hospital. "He was not showing any symptoms for a week and was about to get discharged on the eighth day of his hospital stay, but his condition suddenly dipped," a relative said.  Pawar was moved to the Seven Hills Hospital in Marol where he tested positive for Covid-19. "He developed pneumonia and was moved to the ICCU on August 19. Doctors tried their best but he couldn't make it," said the relative, adding that Pawar's family has tested negative for the virus. Colleagues said he used to take all precautions and it's not clear how he got infected on the frontline. Kuvar, 49, the fourth cop to succumb to Covid from the Palghar district, had been hospitalised for multiple organ failure earlier this week. Constable Sanjid Jagtap, 50, became Kolhapur police's first Covid casualty. Jagtap had completed night duty early on August 24. He was supposed to report for his next shift the same day at 4 pm. But he started to complain of breathlessness. He was rushed home and then to a hospital. "Around 8.30pm on Wednesday, he passed away. Jagtap had no comorbidities," said his brother, Sandeep, also a policeman. Jagtap is survived by his wife, a daughter who is in HSC, a school going son and an elderly mother. He was the sole breadwinner. Nagpur police's constable Pratap Gupta, 53, was on ventilator at a private hospital. He had shown some improvement a day before he died and was supposed to be discharged. But his condition deteriorated drastically and he died. Gupta was attached to the State Intelligence Department.  Another Nagpur policeman, constable Suresh Pal from Pardi police station, developed breathing difficulties and died. Kalyan police's constable Ghanshyam Salgaokar, 55, died on July 27 and his report which came two days later stated that he was Covid positive. But the police department included him among Covid casualties only on Wednesday. At least 346 personnel across Maharashtra tested positive for the virus on Thursday. The silver lining for the Mumbai force is that 72% personnel, out of those who had tested positive, have resumed working after full recovery. (Inputs from Sandhya Nair & Pradeep Gupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/as-5-more-die-maharashtra-police-toll-150-this-month-worst-with-47-fatalities/articleshow/77814877.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
August 29, 2020||Nagpur||SC exam verdict earns bouquets and brickbats||Nagpur: Much-awaited verdict of Supreme Court on final year university examinations evoked mixed reactions from academics, students, politicians and social workers. Many associated with the ABVP and other students’ organizations hailed the verdict while those owing allegiance to NSUI and others flayed it while highlighting risk factors due to Covid-19 pandemic. Maharashtra tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray, who had challenged UGC’s circular as a Yuva Sena chief in SC, told TOI that apex court had agreed with their most important point of upholding the decision of Maharashtra State Disaster Management Authority. “SC reiterated that it was up to respective states to decide on when and how to hold exams and not follow the UGC’s September 30 deadline. Yuva Sena stands firmly for the well-being and good health of the students, teachers, non-teaching staff and their families,” he said. Others like city-based lawyer Siddharth Dharmadhikari, who pleaded for the interveners, said the court had made it clear that students can’t be promoted without exams and UGC was the final authority on the issue. “SC has also clarified that states don’t have the powers under the Disaster Management Act to cancel exams. However, they were granted liberty to approach the UGC to defer the exams beyond September 30 in view of pandemic,” he said. Expressing displeasure with the top court’s judgment, NSUI activist and final year MA (Sociology) student Ajit Singh said, it would put the lives of lakhs of students in peril. “We never opposed the exams, but in view of coronavirus cases multiplying and casualties jumping each passing day, how would the examinees be protected? Who will take their responsibility if they’re infected? We have proved ourselves in previous semesters by clearing three exams. Why do we need to prove again by risking lives? The Maharashtra government has granted an option to those who want to appear in exams,” he said. Some like Nagpur University Management Council member Vishnu Changde, who had filed an intervention against a plea filed by Yuva Sena, said the SC decision had reaffirmed autonomy of universities across India. “I request chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and education minister Uday Samant to immediately declare exams schedule to avoid further confusion among students, but keeping in view the pandemic situation in the state,” he said. Terming the verdict a slap for those wanting to pass the students without exams, social activist and family court judge Avinash Prabhune said the apex court had shown the right way to all stakeholders. “Populist demands appear emotionally correct for a moment but long term loss to society and culture is enormous and sometimes irreversible,” he said. Students like Prathamesh Ghadole from Hislop College are not convinced about the SC’s decision stating that many residing in containment zones would find it difficult to appear in the exams. “The outstation students have travelled to their respective hometowns a week before the lockdown was imposed without carrying study materials with them. They would be facing a lot of physical as well as mental pressure now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sc-exam-verdict-earns-bouquets-and-brickbats/articleshow/77811657.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 29, 2020||---||SC declines plea for postponement of Bihar elections||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain a PIL which had sought postponement of assembly elections in Bihar till the grim situation caused by floods and Covid-19 eased to facilitate smooth voting by people. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah told petitioner Avinsha Thakur's counsel, "Covid-19 is not a valid ground to stop elections in Bihar. The Election Commission is aware of the ground situation and will take care of difficulties posed by these. It is bound to take care." When the counsel Neeraj Shekhar said Representation of the People Act provided for deferment of elections during extraordinary situations, the bench said, "How can we ask the EC not to hold elections? It is for the EC to take a decision on the matter and not for the court to direct holding or not holding of elections." The SC acceded to the petitioner's request to withdraw the plea and approach the EC. It dismissed the petition as withdrawn. The EC on August 11 had said assembly polls in Bihar would be held as per schedule. The petitioner had said, "By deciding to hold elections during a pandemic, the EC has ignored the fact that Bihar has over 9.9 crore population and that it can't adopt measures for aged voters who are more vulnerable to Covid-19. Options like proxy voters under a well-established legal framework, postal voting and mobile ballot boxes cannot be explored and implemented in such a short span of time." He said Covid-19 cases in Bihar were rising and holding elections would increase the rate of infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/sc-declines-plea-for-postponement-of-bihar-elections/articleshow/78101572.cms||---
August 29, 2020||India||SC declines plea for postponement of Bihar elections||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain a PIL which had sought postponement of assembly elections in Bihar till the grim situation caused by floods and Covid-19 eased to facilitate smooth voting by people. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah told petitioner Avinsha Thakur's counsel, "Covid-19 is not a valid ground to stop elections in Bihar. The Election Commission is aware of the ground situation and will take care of difficulties posed by these. It is bound to take care." When the counsel Neeraj Shekhar said Representation of the People Act provided for deferment of elections during extraordinary situations, the bench said, "How can we ask the EC not to hold elections? It is for the EC to take a decision on the matter and not for the court to direct holding or not holding of elections." The SC acceded to the petitioner's request to withdraw the plea and approach the EC. It dismissed the petition as withdrawn. The EC on August 11 had said assembly polls in Bihar would be held as per schedule. The petitioner had said, "By deciding to hold elections during a pandemic, the EC has ignored the fact that Bihar has over 9.9 crore population and that it can't adopt measures for aged voters who are more vulnerable to Covid-19. Options like proxy voters under a well-established legal framework, postal voting and mobile ballot boxes cannot be explored and implemented in such a short span of time." He said Covid-19 cases in Bihar were rising and holding elections would increase the rate of infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-declines-plea-for-postponement-of-bihar-elections/articleshow/77814874.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Nagpur||Experts: Stay calm, avoid distractions||Nagpur: With the stage set for conduct of JEE (Main) exam from September 1 onwards, experts advise students to stay calm and not get distracted by the controversy surrounding the exams. Dr. Rajiv Mohta, a medical practitioner and adolescent counsellor, said students should first cut off distractions. “No point in continuously scanning news sites about developments regarding exam. It is meaningless to worry about things that are not in our hands. Whether exam will be held or postponed is not a decision in students’ hands. Hence, focus should be on studies,” he said. Dr. Suleman Virani, consulting psychiatrist, said students must openly talk about anxiety. “Talking about it helps and eases the anxiety,” he said. “The brain is incapable of producing anxious thoughts while it is producing positive thoughts stemming from gratitude. If you can trigger a positive train of thought, you can sometimes derail the anxiety,” said Dr Virani. Rowena Phillips, a counsellor and psychologist, said positivity was the key to handling the situation. “Under the premise that mind cannot understand difference between imagination and reality, imagine the best possible outcomes form the exams. This will lead to positive vibes. Build strong mental resilience by saying ‘I can do this’, thus creating a healthy atmosphere all around,” she said Phillips. From academic point of view, experts said not only do students have to remain calm but also approach the exam from a practical point of view. Tanjit Chhabra, admissions head, Resonance, said, “Do not study anything new now, go for retrospective point revision. Practise only shortcut techniques now and clear doubts with teachers only. Also it is best to stay away from any coronavirus related news as it will again bring in negativity.” Yogesh Sharma, a coaching institute owner, said this was a unique situation and students must adapt. “Students who are diligent are bound to succeed. Those who are in dilemma, should focus only on their stengths,” said Sharma. Since these exams are held twice a year, Sharma feels students should have taken the first one seriously. “The second attempt (September exam) should have been only for improving upon the earlier score. Unfortunately, 90% appear for first attempt only as trial, and they will be in a fix. Hence it is wise to stick to your strong points in the subject and focus on that,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/experts-stay-calm-avoid-distractions/articleshow/77811667.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 29, 2020||India||SC sets aside NGT order to deny fuel to vehicles without pollution certificate||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday quashed the National Green Tribunal order that vehicles not having pollution certificate be not be given fuel at fuelling stations, saying such a provision doesn’t exit in law. Agreeing that air pollution is one of the most serious problems in the country, a bench of Justices Arun MIshra and Indira Banerjee, however, said it has to be dealt with as per the present law. The court noted that there is already provision in law as per which driving a vehicle without a pollution certificate (PUC) entails suspension of registration certificate or imprisonment which may extend to three months or fine which may extend to Rs.10,000 or both. "It is well settled that when a statute or statutory rules prescribed a penalty for any act or omission, no other penalty not contemplated in the statute or statutory rules can be imposed. It is well settled that when statute requires a thing to be done in a particular manner, it is to be done only in that manner," the bench said. "There can be no doubt that strong measures must be taken to protect the environment and improve air quality whenever there is contravention of statutory rules causing environmental pollution. Stringent action has to be taken, but in accordance with law," it said. The court passed the order on an appeal filed by Madhya Pradesh government which was directed by NGT Central Zonal Bench (Bhopal) to ensure that fuel outlets not supply fuel to vehicles which did not have a valid PUC. The tribunal had also directed the state to deposit Rs 25 crore as security to secure compliance of its order. Agreeing with the contention of the state, the apex court set aside the order of the tribunal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-sets-aside-ngt-order-to-deny-fuel-to-vehicles-without-pollution-certificate/articleshow/77814895.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Tourism minister dismisses row over state guest house||Visakhapatnam: The proposed state guest house on a hilltop area close to Thotlakonda hill has become a bone of contention as opposition parties and environmentalists are raising their voice against the project. Many allege that the government is attempting to construct a guest house close to the Buddhist monuments site, Thotlakonda, but the district authorities say that the proposed state guest house is far away from Thotlakonda. There were reports that government officials had conducted Bhoomipooja at the site on the hilltop of Greyhounds base a week ago. The government had also issued a GO and asked Vizag Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) to take up the construction, sources said. The state guest house will be built on a hill opposite to Thotlakonda, home to centuries-old Buddhist monuments. Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, minister for tourism, said that Thotlakonda in Kapuluppada area has been recognised as a Buddhist site and a tourist attraction. “There are many hills within the radius of two to five kilometers. The proposed guest house would be built on the hill opposite to Thotlakonda and not at Thotlakonda area or besides it,” he said. The minister said that opposition was unnecessarily blaming the government. All the hills surrounding Thotlakonda come under survey number 314, which has more than 3100 acre land. The previous government had tried to allot land to the tourism department, but a few persons had approached the high court. The HC in 2019 ruled that 120.88 acres should be treated as archeological site. “When the case was in the court, the previous government had given land to a few government departments and private firms on the surrounding hills,” said Gudivada Amaranath, MLA and YSRC spokesperson.  District collector V Vinaychand said the state guest house would be constructed on the hill where the land was allotted to elite anti-Naxal force Greyhounds earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tourism-minister-dismisses-row-over-state-guest-house/articleshow/77810550.cms||Siva G
August 29, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Spread in non-urban Maharashtra areas a big worry||MUMBAI: In a worrying progression of the pandemic, Covid -19 transmission in Maharashtra is rapidly growing in rural and semi-urban areas that have limited access to adequate healthcare. State data has revealed nearly a quarter of coronavirus deaths and 28% of cases are now from villages and non-urban areas. Of the 7.3 lakh cases analysed on Friday, a little over 2 lakh were from villages and taluka places. The remaining nearly 5.3 lakh cases were distributed in 27 urban civic bodies. TimesViewThe state government can still arrest the increase in cases in the rural parts by initiating a massive awareness campaign, by asking those with symptoms to come forward immediately and by increasing testing in these areas. Morevoer, it must look at permanently bolstering health infrastructure in villages and rural areas where basic medcines too are often not available.Over 5,500 (23%) of the 23,444 deaths studied were from rural areas, while the remaining 17,944 were from corporations. Districts that have seen this trend are Solapur, Jalgaon, Osmanabad, Beed and Nanded, among others. In Kolhapur, the areas outside municipal corporation have more than double the cases compared to the city. While the corporation area had 6,064 cases as on Friday, the areas outside had 14,255. As many as 841 out of the 1,024 villages in the district now have Covid cases. ‘25% of patients brought dead to med colleges, many died on way to hosps’A senior doctor from the Indian Medical Association said the massive shift of the pandemic to rural areas has made management of critical cases difficult and ill-timed referrals have increased. A doctor in Government Medical College, Nagpur, concurred that up to 25% of patients were brought dead to medical colleges and several passed away on the way to the hospitals. “Some travelled all the way from Akola, a distance of 5 hours,” he said. In several districts such as Nanded and Beed, the private sector has been roped in a big way to supplement the state’s facilities. Public health expert Dr Abhay Bang, who is based in Gadchiroli, said a spread in rural areas was anticipated but a surge in serious cases could be problematic. Gadchiroli currently has fewer than 800 cases, but sporadic infections have started coming from villages. “Public health officials have done a good job so far, but testing numbers are far from ideal. Hence, if there is a spike, both cases and deaths could go underreported,” he said, adding that a lot of local deaths are not reported and that anyway shows an inaccurate disease burden in these areas. Since 60-70% of India’s population lives in rural areas, Dr Bang said ASHA and community health workers must be urgently equipped with adequate screening and detection tools. State officials denied any surge in deaths due to inadequacy of health infrastructure in rural areas. “While cases are there, the number of critical ones are not very high,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, who added that a referral system has been evolved. “The local ASHA or community workers have been roped in for home visits and oxygen checks. Patients under home isolation are registered with Covid Care Centres who monitor them for ten days,” he said. In places like Beed, he said, entire private hospitals have been made into Covid centres. “In rural places, the primary health infrastructure is stronger, while in corporation areas we have a good private set-up. We are trying to use both to tackle cases now,”Awate said. A gynaecologist from Beed, currently into Covid work, however, said a study of fatality rate in rural areas will give an accurate picture about the extent of the problem. Maharashtra’s fatality rate currently is 3.18%. A senior doctor from Mumbai’s Sion Hospital said that over 40% of the city’s ICU beds are catering to patients from other parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. “Some have come from as far as Raigad and Alibaug, where there is neither good primary nor tertiary care facilities,” the doctor said, adding that the massive gap in public health infrastructure is hurting. Public health analyst Ravi Duggal had previously told TOI that the state spends only 0.5% of its GDP on health, which is half the national average. Mumbai, with 1.42 lakh cases, is the worst affected among the municipal corporations in the state, followed by Pune (96,692) and Pimpri-Chinchwad (45,093).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-spread-in-non-urban-maharashtra-areas-a-big-worry/articleshow/77814908.cms||Sumitra Debroy
August 29, 2020||Pune||Constable injured in axe attack by kin in Pune||PUNE: The Chikhali police have launched a search for a Dehu Road resident, who is on the run after assaulting his sister-in-law, a constable with the Government Railway Police, with an axe. The incident occurred on Thursday evening at the Krishnagar police colony in Chinchwad. Sindhu Mohite (26) suffered injuries on her head, neck and wrist. “She is undergoing treatment in a hospital and is out of danger,” SS Ubale, sub-inspector, Chikhali police, told TOI. Ubale said that the suspect is the husband of the complainant's brother. Recently, when the complainant had gone to meet her sister in Dehu Road, she came to know that the suspect had been beating his wife daily after consuming liquor. “The complainant then took her sister to their mother's house,” Ubale said. Furious over this, the suspect went to Mohite's house around 6.30 pm on Thursday when the constable had just returned home from duty. “When Mohite told him to leave the house, the suspect suddenly attacked her with an axe, " Ubale said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/constable-injured-in-axe-attack-by-kin-in-pune/articleshow/77814912.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh hotels offer ‘quarantine’ for families of Covid-19 patients||VISAKHAPATNAM: For family members of Covid-19 patients, especially those in home isolation, there’s an alternative to keep themselves away from the patients — they now have an option to pick a quarantine package from many business-starved hotels in their home towns or cities. After the state government allowed treatment at home for patients with mild symptoms, many hotels across the state have floated such packages. The response has been good in the last one month and it has turned out to be a viable alternative after the government stopped institutional quarantine for symptomatic persons entering AP from high-risk states. “Around 30 hotels in Visakhapatnam and many more in cities like Vijayawada and other major towns in Andhra are offering such packages. We are receiving a lot of enquiries. Many residents are actually availing such packages,” Pavan Kartheek, state vice-president of Hotels and Restaurants Association of Andhra Pradesh, told TOI. In Visakhapatnam, no less than 20 to 25 families have opted for these packages and have isolated themselves in the hotel rooms while their family members undergo treatment at home. When Sagarnagar resident M Srinivas was diagnosed with Covid-19 recently, he decided to get treatment in home isolation. Srinivas stays in a three-bedroom flat with his wife and two children. His parents and sister also stay in the same flat. To keep his family members away from him while undergoing treatment at home, he decided to avail one such quarantine package from a city hotel. “We booked two rooms and got shifted to the hotel with my parents and brother’s kids. Only my sister-in-law (brother’s wife) is there at home with my brother to take care of him as and when he needs any assistance. We returned only after my brother tested negative after the end of his isolation period,” said M Puspha (name changed), Srinivas’s sister. There have also been instances where even Covid-19 patients shifted to hotels with their family members after recovering and stayed for a few days till their buildings were sanitised. “One only needs to have a negative report to avail such packages. The packages are of different types and are priced as per the budget of their targeted guests. At our hotel the minimum rate is more or less at par with government approved rate for paid institutional quarantine. We charge Rs 3,500 per person,” said a senior official from a star hotel on Beach Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/hotels-offer-quarantine-for-families-of-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77810577.cms||Arpit Basu
August 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Mangalagiri MLA takes TDP land allocation issue to SC||Vijayawada: Mangalagiri MLA Alla Ramakrishna Reddy has moved the Supreme Court, challenging the allocation of land to construct the TDP’s central office at Atmakuru in Guntur district. Reddy alleged in his petition that the land was allotted to TDP by flouting norms in the ecologically sensitive area and urged the apex court for orders to demolish the illegal construction. Reddy had earlier moved the high court on the same issue, contending that the allocated land is part of ‘vagu poramboku’ (catchment area of rivulet). However, the HC dismissed his petition on technical grounds. The land was allotted to TDP on June 22, 2017 through GO 228 when the party was in power in the state. An extent of 3.65 acres was allotted for construction of TDP’s central office on lease basis for 99 years. The YSRC legislator, in his petition, argued that no constructions should be made on lands adjacent to water bodies. He also alleged that the TDP office was constructed by encroaching additional land, as the building plan submitted to the Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA) shows that the construction area is in excess to the actual allotted land. The Supreme Court is yet to take up the petition for hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mangalagiri-mla-takes-tdp-land-allocation-issue-to-sc/articleshow/77810608.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Vijayawada||High court grants bail to former labour minister Atchannaidu in ESI scam case||Vijayawada: The Andhra Pradesh High Court granted bail to former minister K Atchannaidu on Friday. Atchannaidu had been arrested by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) for his alleged involvement in the ESI scam. The high court directed Atchannaidu to furnish Rs 2 lakh worth of personal bond and imposed strictures on not leaving the country without the court’s permission. Atchannaidu was further directed to be available for investigation and to not indulge in any action that might influence or tamper with evidence. The ACB had arrested Atchannaidu on June 12 for his alleged involvement in the ESI scam. The ACB has alleged that Atchannaidu, the then labour minister, had misused his position to do undue favours to some private companies by giving them telemedicine and other contracts. The former labour minister was arrested in Srikakulam and brought to Vijayawada to be produced before the ACB court. Since Atchannaidu had recently undergone a surgery, he was admitted to Guntur Government General Hospital at first and subsequently shifted to Vijayawada sub-jail. Atchannaidu first moved the ACB court and then the high court requesting permission to be shifted to a private hospital for treatment. The high court allowed him to get admitted to a private hospital in Guntur. While undergoing treatment, the former minister contracted Covid-19 and was shifted to another private hospital for Covid-19 treatment, a hospital which the government had declared a Covid care centre. Upon being admitted to the hospital, Atchannaidu moved ACB court seeking bail but the court rejected his plea. Subsequently, he moved the high court which granted him bail on Friday with conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/high-court-grants-bail-to-former-labour-minister-atchannaidu-in-esi-scam-case/articleshow/77810625.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Every word on the street cannot be turned into a PIL, advocate general tells high court||Vijayawada: Advocate general S Sriram told the Andhra Pradesh High Court on Friday that every word on the street against the state government cannot be turned into a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) and that such PILs should not be entertained. Arguing on behalf of the state government on a PIL challenging a government order (GO) issued by the endowments department alleging illegal diversion of Brahmin Welfare Corporation funds into Amma Vodi scheme, the advocate general said that the petition has no merit and is not eligible to be taken up as a PIL. S Sriram told the court that no fund diversion has taken place and the GO was issued according to norms. He further said that the petition did not mention the earlier GO issued by the finance department on budgetary allocations and the only contention in the PIL was on the GO issued by the endowments department. The advocate general further said that the Brahmin Welfare Corporation is not part of the endowments department but under the administrative control of the commissioner of endowments because the commissioner is also the head of department of the corporation. Without mentioning the budgetary grant, contending that the GO is a diversion of endowment funds has no basis, he said. The high court asked the counsel for the petitioner Chalasani Ajay Kumar whether he had any evidence to prove diversion of funds. He sought time to file additional documents. The court posted the matter for further hearing next Friday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/every-word-on-the-street-cannot-be-turned-into-a-pil-advocate-general-tells-high-court/articleshow/77810640.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Short supply leads to rise in veggie prices||Visakhapatnam: Vegetables prices in Visakhapatnam have shot through the roof. Tomatoes, onions, potatoes and other vegetables of common use are being sold at exorbitant prices at the city’s retail markets. While consumers are a worried lot as the steep prices are burning a hole in their pocket, traders say that fall in production coupled with the floods have caused this price rise. This is the first time that vegetable prices have been so high in August in many years. Tomatoes, in retail markets, are being sold for Rs 60 per kg. The price of onions has gone up from Rs 15 per kg to Rs 30 per kg. Potatoes are selling for Rs 35 per kg. Traders warn that the price of onions may increase further has supply from Maharashtra is seeing a gradual decline. Visakhapatnam’s deputy director of horticulture, K Gopi Kumar said that around 600 to 800 tonnes of vegetables are used in the city and nearby areas every day. Vizag city and nearby parts depend on Vizianagaram and East Godavari districts for vegetables which supply nearly 400 to 500 tonnes of the required amount, said Gopi Kumar. He further said that while Vizag requires 16-20 tonnes of tomatoes per day, the city is currently receiving just around 6-10 tonnes. Similarly, the supply of onions has also taken a hit. According to Gopi Kumar, damage to the onion crop in Maharashtra and other parts due to rains means that it will take a few months for the price to stabilise. Besides tomatoes and onions, the prices of green chillies, ridge gourd and ginger have also witnessed a rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/short-supply-leads-to-rise-in-veggie-prices/articleshow/77810652.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Tribals carry pregnant woman on ‘doli’ in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: The fact that proper road connectivity remains a far cry in tribal areas has come to light once again after a 21-year-old pregnant woman had to be moved in a makeshift stretcher (‘doli’ in local parlance) from Chowdepalli tribal hamlet in Visakhapatnam district to Rajendrapalem primary health centre. The incident took place on Thursday but came to light only on Friday after some tribal youngsters shared heart wrenching pictures of the young woman writhing in pain being moved atop a stretcher on shoulders through a narrow and slippery road. The 21-year-old Venkata Kumari had to be carried for over two kilometres before an ambulance picked her up and took her to the primary health centre. Locals said that people in tribal areas still continue to take pregnant women to health centres in these ‘dolis’. They have to trek long distances to reach a road where ambulances can reach, they say. Speaking to TOI, Dr Leela Prasad, the additional district medical and health officer said that the pregnant woman was carried on a ‘doli’ from Chowdepalli to Pakalapalem from where the woman was moved to the Rajendrapalem PHC in an ambulance. She is currently stable, said Dr Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tribals-carry-pregnant-woman-on-doli/articleshow/77810674.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 29, 2020||India||Positivity rate down for three fortnights in a row||NEW DELHI: Holding out hope amid rising Covid-19 cases, the all-India positivity rate, total confirmed cases per 100 tests, measured over a 14-day period, showed a declining trend for three consecutive fortnights — from a high of 11.23% between July 15-28 to 8.84% during August 1-14 and now at 7.87% (between August 14-27) though states like Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Chhattisgarh remain worries. Maharashtra, accounting for almost 22% of India’s 34 lakh confirmed cases till Friday, continued to show a positivity rate of 20% over the last 14-day period, between August 14-27. After briefly moderating at 16.5% between August 1-14, Maharashtra's positivity rate has risen, indicating a worrying spread of the disease. Barring the first half of August, the state's positivity rate has been over 20% since June 5. A positivity rate of 5% or below over a 14-day period is considered a ‘green zone’ where a state can safely relax lockdown measures. Anything above that mark is considered a 'red zone'. Also, higher the positivity rate, more likely that only the sickest are being tested and a large infected population remains untested and points to the disease spreading. In the latest TOI study, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Delhi, in that order, had the highest positivity rates. Andhra Pradesh had a positivity rate of 17% in the August 14-27 period, followed by Karnataka with 14%, Chhattisgarh and West Bengal with 9% each, Tamil Nadu with 8% and Delhi with 7%. Delhi again seems to be slipping back into the red zone with its positivity rate climbing for the first time after remaining at around 6% for two consecutive fortnights till August 14. Chhattisgarh has emerged as a new hotspot with its positivity rate in the latest fortnight reaching 9%. In the previous two fortnights, the state had a positivity rate between 5% and 6%. Tamil Nadu has shown some promise with its positivity rate declining for three successive fortnights from a high of 10% during July 15-28 to 9% between August 1-14 and down to 8% during August 14-27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/positivity-rate-down-for-three-fortnights-in-a-row/articleshow/77814914.cms||Pradeep Thakur
August 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||12-year-old boy found dead||Visakhapatnam: A 12-year-old boy was found dead near a water body near Kothavalasa area under Parvathipuram police station limits in Vizianagaram on Friday. The deceased has been identified as K Sai Kumar. Police have registered a case and investigation is on to ascertain the cause of death. The body has been handed over the the boy’s parents following post mortem. Inquiry against two constables Vijayawada: Guntur rural police launched an inquiry on Friday against two constables and a home guard attached to Piduguralla police station for allegedly killing a man on August 14. Sources said that the constables and a home guard were returning home drunk from Damaracherla village in Telangana when their auto-rickshaw rammed into a bike killing the rider, Babavalli, a mechanic. Farmer attempts suicide Vijayawada: A farmer attempted suicide in front on the tehsildar’s office at Reddigulem village in Krishna district on Friday. According to sources, the farmer identified as Suvarna Raju consumed pesticide as he was upset over delay in acting against his complaint about land records. Police rushed him to the hospital and managed to save him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/12-year-old-boy-found-dead/articleshow/77810696.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Business||CIL to buy 96 dumpers from Belarus co||Kolkata: Coal India (CIL) is purchasing 96 dumpers of 240 tonne capacity from Belaz of Belarus for Rs 2,900 crore. An official said that CIL is endeavouring to ramp up its production and modernising its equipment is a step in that direction. The Maharatna company has already issued a letter awarding the contract and its board has given the nod to close the deal. “The amount for the purchase of the dumpers would be met out of the company’s own finances,” an official said. Dumpers are primarily used in opencast mines and aid in the transport of bulk materials like overburden, which is an important performance criterion. The purchase package comprises the cost of the dumpers and spares for eight years, including a one-year warranty period. Belaz bagged the contract through a global tender process. “This move is in line with improving our production and productivity in opencast mines,” stated a senior company executive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cil-to-buy-96-dumpers-from-belarus-co/articleshow/77813275.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Business||Prasoon Mukherjee in Sicci advisory panel||Kolkata: Bengali industrialist and the chairman of Singapore-based Universal Success Enterprises (USEL), Prasoon Mukherjee, has been selected in the advisory panel of Singapore Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Sicci). Established in 1924, Sicci is the premier association for Indian businesses in Singapore and serves its members through an array of business support services. Besides Mukherjee, other members in the panel of advisors include Indranee Rajah, minister, Prime Minister’s office, Lawrence Leow, group chairman & CEO, Crescendas Group and Shahzad Nasim, group chairman, Meinhardt Group. Mukherjee also was selected as the chairman of International Business Division (IBD) of Sicci. “My vision is to re-establish Sicci as the primary channel for all opportunities between Singapore and India,” he said. Mukherjee is also the vice-chairman of the South Asia Business Group under the Singapore Business Federation (SBF) — an apex business chamber of Singapore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/prasoon-mukherjee-in-sicci-advisory-panel/articleshow/77813289.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Unions oppose pvt goods shed move||Guntur: The decision of Railway Board to rope in private developers for modernization of goods sheds is creating ripples among employees of the biggest public transporter of the country. The railway board has already cleared decks for the entry of private players in operating passenger trains in select routes. Employees are worried that the decision to take private contractors on board to develop goods sheds might take the cream away from the railways as the goods sheds, the freight operating points are the biggest revenue generating source for the department. According to information, about 800 to 1000 key freight operating points are likely to be developed under Public Private Partnership Mode. Following instructions from the railway board, all railway divisions across the country have started notifying the goods sheds for development under PPP mode. Different railway divisions have invited Expression of Interest (EoI) from interested individuals, companies, multinational companies, and other entities for infrastructural development goods sheds. The railway board has left the entire development plans including design, construction and operation ideas to the private firms for filing of EoI.  “The field has been left open to the bidders because we wanted to tap the best among the bids. Since it is only EoI, the final call will be taken only keeping in view of the benefits to the railways,” said a senior railway divisional official. However, employees’ unions raised objections over the manner in which the development of goods sheds is being taken up. “It is nothing but giving away the keys of treasury to the private by allowing them to quote whatever they want,” railway mazdoor union leader Hanumantha Rao said. For instance, the Guntur railway division has invited EoI for development of seven top revenue earning goods sheds including Miryalaguda, Reddipalem, Nandyal, Nadikudi, Nalgonda, Narasaraopet and Chityala. In the notification, the railways said that parties can also propose the same for any other goods shed across the Guntur division also if it suits their requirement. “EoI has been sought under the Public-Private Partnership (PPP) model of infrastructural development. The objective is to develop goods sheds as transportation hubs with world-class facilities for facilitating storage and transport of goods using the railway network,” said senior divisional commercial manager Narendra Varma. He said that the bidding is not limited to loading/unloading facilities (preferably mechanized), but also for making lighting arrangements, approach roads, covered sheds. In lieu of the development, based on business dimensions (not limited to) like revenue, tonnage, the developer may be given incentives by the railway, said Varma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/unions-oppose-pvt-goods-shed-move/articleshow/77810724.cms||Samdani MN
August 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada Railway Division sees 21% dip in revenue||VIJAYAWADA: Owing to Covid-19 pandemic and disturbed state economy, the Vijayawada Railway Division witnessed a 21% slip in overall revenue during the 2019-20 financial year compared to the previous one. Addressing a virtual press conference, divisional railway manager P Srinivas on Friday said that the impending crisis caused by the pandemic resulted in significant drop in earnings this year compared with the previous one. However, it is pertinent to note that the railway division achieved a major milestone of reaching Rs 5,000 crore mark by December 2018 thanks to the extensive activity at the Krishnapatnam and Kakinada ports. The DRM said that in spite of Covid-19 crisis, the division loaded 2,001 rakes till 31st July, 2020 with an earning of Rs 684.70 crore. Krishnapatnam and Kakinada ports still played a vital role during lockdown by transportation of coal, food grains, fertilizers and other essential goods to different parts of the country. Food grains loading has increased by 14% and fertilizer loading increased by 6% compared to corresponding period of previous year. “Many new streams of traffic were captured this year through regular negotiations and discussion with merchants and cargo aggregators at field level. For instance, two rakes of dry chillies were transported to Bangladesh from Tadepalligudem during the month of June, 2020,” the DRM said. In terms of handling the Covid-19 crisis, railways played a crucial role in transporting stranded migrant workers. Vijayawada Division operated 31 Shramik Specials carrying more than 42,992 stranded guest workers to their destination states from Rayanapadu, Kovvur, Rajahmundry, Ongole, Narasapur and Gudur stations. Starting from 2nd April, 2020 more than 5,626 tonnes of essential commodities were loaded through time-tabled special parcel trains and special trains through which Rs 1.67 crore earnings was achieved during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vij-rly-division-sees-21-dip-in-revenue/articleshow/77810741.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
August 29, 2020||India||Court justifies UGC deadline for exams||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday justified the UGC’s insistence on final examinations for undergraduate and postgraduate courses for award of degrees and said this was an important process to seek evidence of students’ knowledge and evaluate it. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah said, “Final year/terminal semester examinations are important because the learning process is a dynamic interaction where the only way to figure out what students know is to seek evidence of their knowledge and to evaluate it. Performance in examination, especially final year/terminal semester examination, are a reflection of competence of the students.” “Terminal semester/final year examination also provides an opportunity to students to improve upon their overall score/marks which are very crucial for academic excellence and opportunities of employment. Final year/terminal semester examination of undergraduate or postgraduate is an opportunity for a student to show his optimum calibre which paves his future career both in academics and employment,” the bench added. Maharashtra government, drawing support from West Bengal and Delhi, had questioned the rationale behind UGC fixing a September 30 deadline for completion of final examinations without taking into account the Covid-19 situation in different states. The bench said, “UGC had rightly fixed a date for completion of terminal semester/final year examination throughout the country to maintain uniformity in the academic calendar.” The court said UGC fixed a uniform deadline as students, who look forward to admission in higher courses or take employment, require final degree for their career prospects and for this, there has to be to uniformity in dates by which final examinations are over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/court-justifies-ugc-deadline-for-exams/articleshow/77814944.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 29, 2020||Kolkata||Mamata exhorts students to fight BJP’s ‘political pandemic’||Kolkata: Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee on Friday gave the “karenge ya marenge” call to students against the Narendra Modi government, exhorting them to fight against what she called was the “political pandemic”. The clarion call came as Banerjee addressed a virtual rally on the foundation day of the Trinamool Chhatra Parishad. “This government has done nothing for youths other than by adding to their mental agony. I have nothing against the Supreme Court. I accuse the Centre and UGC for imposing public examinations on students during this pandemic. I would urge you to fight and tear off the BJP’s mask,” she said. Upping the ante against the Modi government to a new high — a day after Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi urged her to take the lead at a virtual meeting of seven non-BJP CMs — Banerjee announced that TMC will observe Students’ Day on August 9 every year along with International Adivasi Day. The Bengal CM blamed the BJP government for turning the Corona pandemic into a “political pandemic”. Blasting the party’s “doublespeak”, she said: “They (BJP) say one thing when elections come near and do something else during the rest of the year. We will tackle the pandemic, but you (students) have to tackle the political pandemic. People are not allowed to speak. Draconian laws are being slapped on the opposition.” Banerjee urged students not to worry about their future, pointing to the host of projects lined up for the state. “We have already acquired 100 acres in Rajarhat to set up a Silicon Valley-type IT hub that will employ thousands of professionals. Work is in progress. We are going to acquire another 100 acres. JIO is setting up a cable landing station in Digha that will connect Bengal professionals with Singapore and parts of Europe. Investors from across the country are coming to Bantala Leather Complex. This has huge employment potential. These apart, small manufacturing units are coming up in Howrah. Our coal reserves in Deocha Pachami will take care of the state’s power demand for the next 100 years,” she said. Banerjee also lashed out over the growing unemployment figures. “Unemployment figures have grown by 42% in India while in Bengal it has gone down by 40%. We could do this because we generated opportunities, particularly in the farming sector,” she said. The Trinamool chief iterated the “deprivation” complaint against the Centre, saying Bengal was being denied the compulsory GST compensation for four to five months. “The Centre takes away 70% of the money from states as GST. But it doesn’t pay the compensation even after the GST Council decided to continue with the compensation for five years from the introduction of the new tax regime,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mamata-exhorts-students-to-fight-bjps-political-pandemic/articleshow/77814147.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Kolkata||VB ready for Pous Mela with support from stakeholders||Santiniketan: Visva-Bharati is willing to take a relook at the university’s “no-Pous Mela” stance provided it gets support from stakeholders. The university, in an affidavit to the National Green Tribunal, had expressed its inability to hold the fair. “Visva-Bharati and Santiniketan Trust never wanted to stop Pous Mela. Fact is, we don’t have enough financial and logistics wherewithal to hold such a big event following NGT directives. We could do it last year when our employees themselves cleared the ground after the Mela. But despite our efforts, the state environment department slapped a Rs 10 lakh fine on us,” a VB press release said. The development comes two days after BJP Rajya Sabha member and member of Visva-Bharati court Swapan Dasgupta wanted Pous Mela to be held this year under the supervision of the central government. Dasgupta, speaking at a webinar, said: “The Pous Mela has become a huge event in course of time. It is beyond the capacity of a university to manage around two and half lakh crowd, waste management etc. A university is not an event management company.” But VB isn’t making any amends to its earlier decision to fence off the Pous Mela ground. In its release, it said in no uncertain terms that the university will continue with the fencing activity. “Both security and aesthetics of the campus are important to us. We are in the process of such boundary walls to protect Tagore’s land from land sharks,” it said. VB also regretted the “outsider” tag vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty had used in his open letter on Tagore himself days after the campus mayhem on August 17. The release said Chakrabarty’s words had been twisted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vb-ready-for-pous-mela-with-support-from-stakeholders/articleshow/77814165.cms||Someswar Boral
August 29, 2020||Kolkata||Students will miss the bus: Dilip||Kolkata: Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh has accused the Trinamool government of “playing with the future” of meritorious students set to write the JEE (Main) and NEET (UG) examinations from the first week of September. “Who will lose other than these students? They will miss the bus this year when other states are ready to conduct the examinations. As many as 20 lakh students are taking examinations all over India. Now if students from Bengal do not write the examinations, they will face fierce competition next year. They will have to sit with another 20 lakh or more students next year,” Ghosh said on Friday. Ghosh instead wanted the state government to approach the Centre over ways to help students reach exam centres in view of the Covid pandemic. He termed the state’s stance an ideal instance of “negative politics”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/students-will-miss-the-bus-dilip/articleshow/77814152.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ranchi||Lalu’s son Tej booked for quarantine violation, hotel owner, manager in soup for giving him a room||RANCHI: The Ranchi district administration has lodged an FIR against former Bihar minister Tej Pratap for violating quarantine norms during his visit to Ranchi to meet his father, RJD president Lalu Prasad, on Thursday. The owner and manager of a city-based luxury hotel have also been booked for accommodating Tej Pratap Yadav in violation of the Covid-19 restrictions in the state. Hotel, lodges and dharamshalas have not been allowed to reopen in the state yet. Tej met Lalu at the director’s bungalow at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), where the former Bihar chief minister has been staying for the last couple of weeks since he was shifted form the hospital’s paying ward in view of the pandemic. Lalu is serving prison terms after being conviced in fodder scam cases and has been admitted to Rims for some ailments. Sadar circle officer Prakash Kumar, who lodged the complaint, said, “The administration has complained that Tej Pratap has violated the pandemic rules and he should have gone into 14-day home quarantine after entering the state. He also entered and left Jharkhand without permission of the administration.” Sadar SDO Lokesh Mishra said the administration was tracing Tej Pratap’s movements and a person reaching Jharkhand by flight and returning within 72 hours are exempted from quarantine, but he had travelled to Ranchi from Patna by road. The administration had also lodged an FIR against the owner and manager of a prominent hotel for allegedly giving accommodation to Tej Pratap during his stay in Ranchi. In his complaint, Kumar said he checked the Capital Residency hotel around 9pm on Thursday and found Tej Pratap in room number 507. The hotel is being used as quarantine centre and a few officials from Central Coalfields Limited are staying in the rooms here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lalus-son-booked-for-quarantine-violation-hotel-owner-manager-in-soup-for-giving-him-a-room/articleshow/77812044.cms||Sanjay Sahay
August 29, 2020||Ranchi||Congress protests against NEET, JEE exams; BJP smells rat||RANCHI: Congress on Friday hit the streets of Ranchi to demand the postponement of the examinations while BJP accused the ruling alliance of demanding postponement in order to provide financial benefits to private coaching institutes. Led by its president Rameshwar Oraon, Congress functionaries sat on a dharna outside the Raj Bhawan on Friday morning. Oraon said, “Conducting the exams at a time when thousands of cases are being reported is not a wise decision. It exposes the aspirants and their parents to the risk of becoming infected. The exams should be postponed.” Oraon said former AICC chief Rahul Gandhi also demanded deferment of the exams along with chief ministers of various BJP-ruled states also expressed their concern. Congress’ dharna came a day after Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) threatened to lodge a criminal case against Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal “Nishank” if any aspirant gets infected with Covid-19 while appearing for the NEET exams, scheduled between September 6 and September 13 and JEE (Advanced), scheduled on September 27. Late on Thursday night, CM Hemant Soren had written an open letter to Pokhriyal requesting postponement of the exams citing logistic issues and the health risks. Hemant on Wednesday had also suggested non-Congress CMs to make a plea to President Ram Nath Kovind in this regard. Meanwhile, BJP on Friday attacked JMM and Congress for their stance over NEET and JEE (Advanced) exams. BJP’s state spokesperson and former Baharagora MLA Kunal Sarangi said, “While majority of the aspirants are willing to take the tests, JMM and Congress are seeking postponement at the provocation of a handling of private coaching institutes. If the exams are postponed, the careers of these students will suffer.” Sarangi also claimed the state government was adopting dual standards. “While state varsities are determined to conduct their exams, the state government is flagging the issue of transportation. Instead of complaining, the government must make all arrangements,” Sarangi said. BJP’s Rajya Sabha member Mahesh Poddar also wrote to chief secretary Sukhdev Singh on Friday. Stating the government had arranged transport for lakhs of migrants during lockdown, Poddar said the arrangement for the movement and lodging of aspirants and their parents, which is anywhere between 25-30,000 in number, will be relatively easier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cong-protests-against-neet-jee-exams-bjp-smells-rat/articleshow/77812051.cms||---
August 29, 2020||Ranchi||In East Singhbhum, teams to inspect homes that have Covid patients in isolation||JAMSHEDPUR: In order to ensure Covid patients in home isolation are complying with the Union health ministry guidelines, East Singhbhum district has formed a team of incident commanders (IC) to conduct physical inspection of the accommodations. Sources in the district health department said that in the last three weeks they came across a few cases wherein the houses preferred by patients did not match up to the guidelines. Officials sais said the teams will visit homes to check if there is a separate room and a toilet for asymptomatic patients. Upon satisfaction, the team will recommend the Integrated Disease Surveillance Project (IDSP) team to grant permission to the patient for home isolation. Currently, over 1,000 asymptomatic patients are undergoing treatment under home isolation in the district. Till Thursday, the district saw 5,817 cases of which, 2,213 are still active while 3,439 have recovered. The district has recorded 165 deaths till date. “Considering the steady rise, the number of patients in home isolation will go up,” said civil surgeon Dr R N Jha. Meanwhile, aInteractive Voice Response System (IVRS) will be utilised for monitoring and communication with patients staying in home isolation, officials informed. Approved by the state health department, the IVRS technology is efficient in communicating with several people at the same time from a distance. “The technology is effective for communicating with a person in home isolation to know about his condition on a regular basis,” said a health official. The administration has also approved three private laboratories — SRL Diagnostic, Pathkind labs and Dr Lal Pathlabs — in the city for testing of patients in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/in-e-sbhum-teams-to-inspect-homes-that-have-covid-patients-in-isolation/articleshow/77812063.cms||B Sridhar
August 29, 2020||Kolkata||Will hold college & varsity finals, but in Oct: Mamata||Kolkata: After Friday’s Supreme Court order, Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said her government would hold final-year college and university examinations, but not in September. She said the exams would be held in October, before Durga Puja. The chief minister, however, reserved her stand on the JEE (Main) and NEET (UG) exams, scheduled to begin from September 1. Six states, including Bengal, have filed a review petition in the Supreme Court, urging it to defer the exams in view of the raging pandemic. “I will tell the education minister to consult the universities and come up with a decision to hold online tests and offline tests in the neighbourhood,” Banerjee said at a virtual rally held on the occasion of the Trinamool Chhatra Parishad’s foundation day on Friday. “The decision”, she added, “has to be announced in three days. Examinations can’t be held in September. They will be held sometime in October before the Pujas.” Banerjee said she failed to understand the Centre’s tearing hurry to hold public examinations during the pandemic, at a time it was not being able to hold Parliament sessions. “Things have been far from normal for the last five months. Students and their parents are stuck at home, public transport is not back to normal. How will students from the districts and other states reach the examination centres? Who will take the responsibility if any of these examinees catch the virus?” she said, citing the plight of students in the US, where thousands contracted the virus after they were asked to attend schools and colleges and write examinations. Apart from Bengal, Friday’s review plea has been filed by Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Punjab and Maharashtra. Banerjee took note of the “uncertainty” faced by students but squarely blamed the Centre for adding to their “mental agony”. She referred to the “flip-flop” by the University Grants Commission (UGC), which sent contradictory advisories to states over the holding of final examinations. “The UGC, in its advisory to state universities on April 29, didn’t insist on holding the final year/semester examinations. The body, instead, allowed universities to assess students internally, giving weightage to their performance in previous semesters. The same UGC, in its July 11 missive, directed state universities to not issue certificates to students without holding examinations,” she said. The chief minister wondered what would happen to those students who have received certificates based on the UGC’s April 29 directive. “I want to know whether the IITs — the country’s premier technology institutes — could conduct final-semester examinations,” she said. Banerjee also reassured school students and their parents, saying they need not worry about examinations. “Schools in the state won’t be holding examinations except for Class X and Class XII. There is no question of holding these examinations now because Madhyamik and HS results have been published recently,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/will-hold-college-varsity-finals-but-in-oct-mamata/articleshow/77814235.cms||---
